@@707453

txt WASBINGTON , Dec. 10 ? Broader responsibility for the clearance of war news to the newspapers and radio was assumed by the Office of Censorship today , while Byron Price , the Censorship Director , simultaneously asserted that war information was being suppressed by unauthorized agencies . Issuing revised codes of wartime practices for the papers and radio , Mr. Price pointed out at a press conference that whereas the former rules urged withholding of information except when it was made available for publication " by appropriate authority , " the new documents added " or is specifically cleared by the Office of Censorship , " and this added language gave the censorship agency fuller control than it had heretofore exercised . Urging editors and broadcasters to appeal directly to censorship where there was a question of the propriety of using war news , Mr. Price said that unauthorized persons , including publicity agents , had tried to interfere . " Unquestionably news is being suppressed needlessly by newspapers and broadcasters , " he stated , " because of miscellaneous requests from totally unauthorized // CENSORSHIP OFFICE @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even publicity agents . " The end we all desire can best be served by following the codes and refusing to make unnecessary suppressions at the behest of censors without portfolio . " Informally , it was learned that many public relations officers of the military and Government services had been attempting to hamper the newspapers and radio in the way of news . In some instances , local chambers of commerce have tried to intervene in a similar manner . " All newspapers resist suppression of news in peacetime , and I hope that resistance will not be broken down in wartime , " Mr. Price declared . " It would be a very dangerous thing if the psychology was otherwise . " For No Curb When Fighting Ends Incidentally , the director expressed a strong personal hope that all censorship would cease when " the shooting stops . " There was already a trend in this direction , he added , in explaining that almost all Government departments held that censorship would be needless when the war ended . The matter is being given close study at the present @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the rules first laid down on Jan. 15 , 1942 , have been drafted , in consultation with the military services , Mr. Price stated , and constitute the Government 's guide to security in the press and on the air . " They list all that the Government is asking on the side of restraint , " he added , " and they have been drawn with full recognition of the affirmative wartime responsibilities of newspapers and broadcasters to keep the American public as fully informed as security will permit . " No new requests for suppression have been made in the codes . On the other hand , numerous restrictive barriers of the Government have been eliminated , and others have been modified . " The suggestion that APO or FPO addresses be used for service men at sea or overseas is elimMated , " Mr. Price said . " The Army mail system is undergoing changes , so that APO and FPO addresses , without unit identifications , are no longer effective for the delivery of mail . The codes continue to ask that unit identifications and ship @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ overseas . " The request to withhold unit identifications for service men on duty on anti-aircraft , coastal or invasion defense within the United States is eliminated as no longer necessary . " The Navy will not henceforth be the only appropriate authority for information on sinking and damaging of ships , for the War Shipping Administration can likewise tell the story . Many Restrictions Are Lifted Restrictions on information about civilian defense communications control centers are elimi ' nated . The language relating to military installations outside the United States is clarified . Restriclions against country-wide summerles on war production , progress of production , plant details and capacity and movements of lendlease material are stricken out . A new production clause restricts only secret weapons and detailed breakdowns for specific types . The prohibitions against printing news of critical materials are reduced by nearly one-half . The sabotage clause is short . ened . Relaxations on weather news announced some weeks ago are repeated . The " Notes on Rumors " clause is eliminated , and the " Military Intelligence " clause is shortened . News gapers may print @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Federal Bureau of Investigation , as well as the War Department , may give out news about escaped prisoners-of-war . " The request against premature disclosure of diplomatic discussions is amended and harrowed to conform more closely to the administrative interpretation which has been applied heretofore in actual practice , " Mr. Price stated . " This clause has been coupled with the request concerning war plans so that the new version reads : ( No disclosure of ) ' secret war plans , or diplomatic negotiations or conversations which concern military operations . ' "                     