@@710784

txt In their broadcasts of Sunday evening , the President , the Secretary of State , the Secretary of Agriculture , the Secretary of Commerce and the chairman of the newly appointed Citizens Food Committee , Charles Luckman , laid a solid foundation for a national ' food conservation program . They did this , first , by making clear to millions who heard them the nature of the problem that confronts the nation ; second , by setting forth for the first time in concrete , specific terms what is expected in the way of cooperation from each citizen and each family . Secretaries Anderson and Harriman told from their personal observations of the plight of Western Europe and the acute need of its population for food . These people , Mr. Harriman observed , have been living on " pitifully low " rations and have little reserve strength to endure a winter with further drastic cuts . " Without food , " said he , " they can not do their share of work . Without food , the enormous job of industrial and agricultural reconstruction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Anderson put it , food is the cornerstone of Europe and recovery . It was highly appropriate that Secretary Marshall should have been selected to drive home the facts of the relationship between European recovery and American foreign policy . The attitude of Americans toward'food , said the Secretary of State , " can make or break our efforts to achieve peace and security throughout the world . " Our foreign policy , . he told his listeners , " has entered the American home and taken a seat at the family table . " Mr. Luckman 's role was to outline the problem of adjusting American food consumption to the needs of European recovery and our foreign policy . The heart of the problem , as he pointed out , is grain , and especially wheat . Grain , as he explained , enters into consumption through three channels ? through feeding by farmers to livestock and poultry ; through processing by industry into hundreds of products , and in the form of direct human consumption by 140 million Americans . He discussed plans for dealing with each of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ specific recommendations to the individual American , namely : ( 1 ) to use no meat on Tuesdays , (  | ) to use no poultry or eggs on Thursdays , and ( 3 ) to save a slice of bread a day . Since Thanksgiving , Christmas and New Years all fall on Thursday this year the rule for that day will be observed on the preceding Monday . If the program for the individual consumer is now definite and clear , however , the same can not yet be said of that pertaining to the feeding of grain to animals . And this , in a very real sense , represents the most important segment of the problem . It has been estimated that if farmers will send their hogs to market at the pre-war average weight ( around 240 pounds ) this would mean a saving of 140 million bushels of grain . Another 6() million can be saved by correspondingly less intensive feeding of cattle . Here is a potential saving of 200 millions in grain , or enough to permit raising our exports from the 470 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This is the aspect of the task ahead on which the Administration clearly must now concentrate its attention and its resourcefulness . Needless to say , this fact in no way relieves the American consumer of his responsibility to make the plan a success . For it is his particular responsibility to lift the pressure from prices which alone would make this and every other phase of the program practically effective .                     