@@710963

txt With newspapers in at least eight cities hit by printers ' strikes , and others threatened , the general counsel of the National Labor Relations Board was reported preparing today to appeal to the courts for temporary restraints against the AFL International Typographical Union . The general counsel has issued four complaints against the ITU under the Taft-Hartley Law out of fourteen charges filed against the union by employers . Many months will be required to conduct trials , hear arguments , and write board decisions , which will be appealed to the courts . Because of the unusual number of strikes and the threat of others before the legal issues can be disposed of , the general counsel was reported to feel that the broad public interest at stake called for unusual procedure in temporary court relief . Robert N. Denham , general counsel , greeted the report with " no comment . " His plan , it was reliably understood , is to ask a Federal Court in Indianapolis or Washington to order the ITU to cease committing the acts which publishers ' spokesmen contend @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ law . " The order would direct the union Ito cease demanding contracts alleged to be illegal and would direct the international officers to cease all interference in the freedom of local unions to bargain with their employers . Section 10 ( J ) of the Taft-Hartley Law provides for such appeals to the courts after issuance of a // complaint . The court procedure and trial of the complaint before the NLRB would be parallel - actions . The court restraints finally would stand or fall according to the results of the NLRB action . . Delay in Labor Board . Case The chief NLRB ease - against the Typographical Unioneis based on charges of the American Newspaper Publishers Association . It is the first case of unfair labor practice to be tried on a national basis . About twenty members of the general counsel's. staff , lawyers and others , helped in the investigation and preparation of the case . Trial began in Indianapolis on Dec. 9 but was quickly sidetracked by legal objections . The.union 's lawyer , . Gerhard P. 1 Van Arkel , has filed several /notions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of these legal issues will be argued here on Friday and the trial may be resumed early in January . Tea1 timony may take four to six weeks . Complaints also have been issued against the union in Los Angeles and in New York , where the charge was made by The Nassau Review-Star of Rockville Centre , which is suing the union for $200 , - 000 damages . Fifteen dailies in the following cities , all publishing , are affected by printers ' strikes : Chicago , Hammond , Ind. ; Rockville Centre and Jamestown , N. Y. ; Allentown and Norristown , Pa. ; Abilene , Tex. , and Bartlesville , Okla . Similar strikes at Kenosha , Wis. , and Knoxville , Term. , have terminated . In six other large cities ITU contracts have expired or will expire In the next thirty days . These are Washington , Detroit , Baltimore , Pittsburgh , St. Louis and San Francisco .. New York contracts expire in April . Talk of a Strike Assessment - To support the strikes , includi the payment of benefits , the rm. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the question of assessing members ' earnings 4% per cent , in addition to the half per cent approved in 1946 . The union 's policy of meeting the prohibitions imposed by the TaftHartley Law was set ? at the August convention ' under the leadership of Woodruff Randolph , president . In recent weeks the opposition party in the union has contested the policy , which was overwhelmingly approved by the annual convention in August . A group styling itself the ProUnion Committee , headed by Robert Taub of Washington , is critical of the Randolph policy . Jesse Manbeck , a member ? of the committee and a former Washington local union president , said that the ProUnion Committee is non-political but believes the union 's policy should have been submitted to a referendum . Union officers will be selected by referendum in the spring. -                     