@@711785

txt President Truman 's nomination of Dean G. Acheson to succeed George C. Marshall as Secretary of State was approved unanimously by the thirteen-member Senate Foreign Relations Committee today . The vote of the Senate itself on confirmation was scheduled for early next week . It was predicted widely that the parent body would second the committee 's approval almost unanimously , if not entirely so . The zommittee 's action came after it had spent two hours in closed session discussing foreign policy with Mr. Acheson and , as Senator Tom Connally , the chairman , put it , taking up " intimate and delicate " situations throughout the world which the new Secretary will face . Afterward an unusual thing occurred . The committee released " an excerpt " from Mr. Acheson 's testimony taken in a session so guarded from publicity that members said they had been " pledged to secrecy . " This excerpt concerned Mr. Acheson 's views on communism . He said : " It is my view that communism as a doctrine is economically fatal to a free society and to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ factor in world conquest is fatal to independent governments and to free peoples . " Such a statement , it was learned , was sought yesterday when Mr. Acheson spent hours before the Foreign Relations group in open hearing . At that session Mr. Acheson had classed as " incredible " charges that he was of the " appeaser " type . He challenged bitingly the testimony by a former colleague , Adolf A. Berle Jr. , former Assistant Secretary of State , that as UnderSecretary in 1944 he had favored a " soft " policy toward Russia . Members of the Senate committee , it appeared , wanted something more definite as to Mr. Acheson 's attitude toward communism . Mr. Acheson , it was reported after the closed session today , was glad to oblige and let it be made public . In yesterday 's public hearing there was concededly a problem of sounding for the views and attitudes Mr. Acheson might carry into the Secretaryship of State without causing him later embarrassment at that post . Today 's so-called on-the-line expression of attitudg toward communism was viewed widely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Arthur H. Vandenberg , Republican , of Michigan , former chairman of the committee . With cautious approach , Senator Vandenberg said : " I do not know whether it is pos-I sible to answer this question or not , appropriately . I agree with the chairman 's initial injunction that matters of foreign policy obviously ' can not be discussed in a forum of this character in any detail . " Yet , you are aware of the fact that underlying this whole discussion is a rather universal debate respecting .. our policies toward Russia . I would like to hear you orally emphasize anything that you think ought to be emphasized in order to understand your current attitude . " Committee members seemed to feel that this mission had now ben carried out through the publicizing of the " excerpt " from Mr. Acheson 's testimony . Reaction to ? this " excerpt " appeared also to have satisfied Many in the Senate as a whole . Senator Claude Pepper , Democrat , of Florida , a committee member , held that this was not necessary . " This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what Mr. Acheson has , been saying for years . However , it probably will satisfy those who want to hear deprecations of ' these Communists ' weekly , daily or hourly , and suspect anybody who does not keep up with these timetables . " Senator Karl E. Mundt , Republican , of South Dakota , who until last week as a member of the House was acting chairman of the Cozonittee- on Un-American Activities , pronounced the Acheson statement on communism " satisfactory . "                     