@@711709

txt The bitter feud between the Justice Department and the House Un-American Activities Committee over Whittaker Chambers ' pumpkin papers is producing a curious " double image " investigation of prewar espionage activity . As fast as'a witness is interrogated in secret by the New York grand jury he is put on the stand by the House committee in Washington . This was the role of Henry Julian Wadleigh , former State Department employee and so-called " missing " witness , who was charged by Mr. Chambers with being one of his , steady sources " of pilfered government documents for transmission to Russia . On the other hand . where a witness is called first to be investigated in public by the House committee , he is booked for later confidential appearance by the grand jury . This seems to be the prospect for the latest mystery figure in the sensational inqUiry , William Ward Pigman of Appleton , Wis. , a former'employee of the United States Bureau of Standards . He is another man cited by Mr. Chambers as an alleged source . Charge Echoes Charge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Interna tional Peace , is the principal figure accused by Mr. Chambers . Mr. Hiss has brought a $75,000 slander suit against Mr. Chambers . The House Committee charges the Justice Department with indifference to the spy investigation . The Justice Department , like President Truman , charges the House Committee with headline hunting . Committee and Justice Department each charge the other with obstructing the course of justice by their individual procedure . Meanwhile , the incontrovertible fact remains that State Department documents actually were surreptitiously taken in 1937 and 1938 from files and photographed , and that ? some of these documents were of such secrecy that the State Department is withholding their publication even now because they would embarrass or jeopardize American policy . Furthermore , from the stolen cables , it has been testified by a high State Department official , the means existed for the whole State Department code to be broken , making innermost diplomatic secrets potentially available to foreign powers at a time of gathering world crisis . Good Faith Challenged The House committee , now manned by Republican and southern congressmen hostile to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ good faith . It imputes to the Justice Departinent the intention of bringing an indictment for perjury against Mr. Chambers in the grand jury procedure . It asserts this would be premature because it would damage Mr. Chambers ' weight as a witness against other spy figures Mr. Chambers has accused . The Justice Department , ' on the other hand , formally asserts that public pretrial testimony taken from witnesses by the House committee damages the legal case it is trying to build up . This was the essence of statements issued here by Attorney General Tom C. Clark and Assistant Attorney General Alexander M. Campbell . Mr. Campbell deplored " premature publicity , " and specifically asked the committee to forgo interrogating witnesses till they appeared before the grand jury . Mr. Clark announced that " we will present and try any violations of laws of the United States in the proper forms and not in the newspapers . " Missing ' Witness ? ? Sh ! Representative Karl E. Mundt ( R ) of South Dakota , acting chairman of the House Committee , responded for a unanimous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an " utterly unreasonable attack on ' the perogatives of the United States Congress . ' Some of the consequences of this mix-up in authority have ap-peared : 1 . Although the committee put Mr. Wadleigh on the stand in an open hearing summoned at 10 minutes ' notice and xnembers previously had referred to him as a " missing " witness , it developed that he already had testified in executive session before the New York grand jury and that he also had been interrogated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation . Mr. Wadleigh did n't say much to the committee , refusing repeatedly to comment on the constitutional ground that it might tend to incriminate him . 2 . The house committee already has made public parts of the deposition of Mr. Chambers before the pretrial slander-suit hearing in Baltimore , contrary to court rules that these matters are in secret . Committee Blares News . 3 . Publication of the name of the latest witness , William Ward Pigman , is an example of the rival methods of the two inquiries . To a small college town the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the spy case is like an earthquake . Under normal judicial procedure , Mr. Pigman 's name would not appear until interrogation was concluded . The Grand Jury then would decide whether to make an indictment following the established theory that a man . is innocent until proved guilty . The House Un-American Activities Committee , however , always has proceeded on the theory that maximum publicity is the best method of meeting Communist activities . It has accused the Justice Department of slackness and has publicly challenged its motives . In this case , it is triumphantly following a hot scent . It must be stated also that statements made by members of the House committee indicate that its members have reached their own conclusion in the Chambers . Hiss case  --  namely , that they believe Mr. Hiss is guilty . The procedure of the Justice Department seems to them therefore cumbersome and slow .                     