@@705091

txt All thru the campaign Waldemar J. Roehler , Republican candidate for representative in the 3d congressional district , which takes In most of Cook county south of 51st street , has been telling audiences that Edward A. Kelly , tile Democratic incumbent , has made a poor attendance record ill congress . Last night Rochler journeyed out to Flossmoor to deliver that message to the Woman Voters ' league in the grade school auditorium . Be walked into the hall and was surprised to find that Kelly 's attendance , for the evening at least , was almost too good . Kelly was up on the platform making a speech of his own to the women . Opponent Walks Out . Roehler sat out the rest of his opponent 's speech , then was introduced by the chairwoman . As he started ' to speak Kelly walked out the front door , apparently headed for his home near by in Flossmoor. - Roehler , warming up to his speech , began criticizing the Roosevelt administration and his opponent with impartial relish . " My opponent , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about 50 per cent or the time in congress . Then Hobs Up Again . " What this district needs Is n rep. resentativc who will represent it . The nation needs men of constitutional mind in congress , not rubber stamps . Why , my friends ? " He got no further , for Kelly , reentering the school , poked ids head thru the curtains on the platform and then advanced toward Roehler . This made Kelly 's attendance record 200 per cent perfect for the night . I do n't like what you 're saying about me , " interrupted Kelly . " You 've been talking about my record . " Proposes Debate on Spot . " That 's right , " said Roehler . " You 're not on the job in Washington , whatever your attendance record is for the meeting here , and I 'm telling the ladies about it . I 've been wanting to debate you for a long time , and now that you 're right here we might have it out . " " Fine , fine , " interposed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But not right now . I 've got to get back to Washington right away to attend to my official duties In congress . " And , with dignity , the congressman walked out . , ? Xelly xeached later at his homer said he had intended to debate Reeh-1 icr at once , but that the latter seemed " in a trance " and did n't accept his offer . " On June 9 I suffered a ruptured appendix and was in the hospital until July 11 , as hospital records will show , " he said . " I 'm lucky I 'm alive . As for the rest of my attendance record , I 've sent for It . It should be here soon , perhaps tomorrow . " " Someone came out after I left and told me Roehler was attacking my , record , Sp X returned . "                     