@@705436

txt A strike by C. I. 0 . die casting workers which closed the Harvill Aircraft Die Casting corporation plant at nearby Inglewood today was described by aviation interests as the most staggering blow yet to fall on national armaments production on the west coast . Aitho the plant is a relatively small cne , employing only 425 persons , it is known as a " bottleneck " plant . This , company officials said , is because without some 30,000 vital airplane parts which it has been working night and day to produce not a single military airplane can be turned out by any Pacific coast manufacturer . The Harvill firm makes all sorts of aluminum ruslAngs for planes . The union threw a picket line across the plant 's entrances , halting all production activity . The pickets then refused to permit trucks to leave the plant with parts intended for the Douglas Aircraft company plant in Santa Monica and for the North American Aviation plant In Inglewood , where large numbers of war planes are being built . Trucks Finally Get Thru . A second @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American plants also met with rebuff , but later the union 's international representative , : Kenneth Eggert , parted his picket line and permitted the trucks to pass . The walkout was precipitated , both sides said , over inability to agree on term : of a collective bargaining contract . Principally in disagreement are wages . The company now IS paying beginners 50 cents an hour . The union asks 55 cents now , 62% cents in three months , 70 cents in six months , and other increases . The company offered the union a blanket 5 cent raise to all who have received no increase since Jan . I. The strikers are members of the National Association of Die Casters . U. S. Conditions on Way . Representatives of the United States conciliation service hastened to the plant to attempt mediation of the dispute so that vital armaments production could be resumed , President H. L. Harvill of the corporation said that it has $750,000 of contracts at fixed prices which are not subject to increases because of strike forced wage changes . 