@@712300

txt On the eve of British-American talks here on England 's dollar crisis these developments can be reported : Neither party to the conversations is going in with preconceived inflexible ideas as to what can or can not be done to help Britain out of its economic difficulties ; Both parties , however , are expected to offer a variety of schemes by which the situation can be improved ; Whatever is agreed to will be more in the nature of short  --  rather than long  --  term solutions  --  measures for easing the immediate drain on London 's dollar holdings ; Basic solutions will have to he worked out over the coming months through some kind of joint Anglo-American trade and currency council and via agencies such as the International Monetary Fund . Criticism Eases There has been a noticeable lessening here of press and public recriminations stemming from Britain 's dollar crisis which have threatened to complicate talks already difficult enough . Part of this improved atmosphere comes from the fact that London press accounts indicate the British leaders are now ready , however reluctantly , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consider paramount . These are devaluation of the pound , and reduction in the social services provided by the British labor government . A report from this newspaper 's London office this week stated that " responsible opinion here is veering to the conclusion that devaluation of the pound is inevitable , " though not a cure-all for present troubles . Washington officials hold this view rather strongly , and are , therefore , pleased to see that the British delegates with whom they soon will he negotiating may accept sterling devaluation as one of the first steps toward meeting the crisis . hind Session It was pointed out Aug. 24 by Secretary of the Treasury John W. Snyder that the question of realignment of currencies is properly a subject for the International Monetary Fund . But as the fund is holding is annual meeting here in Washington during September , it could well be that the Anglo-American discussions might agree in substance to support British devaluAtion  --  or even some broader devaluation program for European currencies  --  which would then be spelled out by the fund . At the same @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would oppose any suggeStions that the dollar be devalued by increasing the price of gold . At present . the price is set at $35 an ounce by congressional act . Proposals to raise ' the buying price of gold , while Britain devalues the pound , have been put forward with the thought of creating a " gold profit " to be turned into a fund to guarantee the stability of the devalued pound . For both economic andopolitical reasons , however , the secretary shuns such a step . He fights any cheapening of what he calls the only sound currency left in the world . He also knows that he could not get a majority of Congress to accept any such scheme . Social Services The prospect that the British Government may be prepared to curtail some of its social services has only appeared recently . In what appear to be inspired press stories out of London it is reported that " British Socialist leaders are beginning to think in terms of trimming the sails of the welfare state as a bold courageous gesture to save it from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American leaders who will take part in the coming fiscal talks that under its present financial stresses the Labor government has little choice but to trim its social services . They recognize full well the political dangers this brings to a government that must shortly go to the polls , but feel that the new austerity Britain faces requires it . While nothing is being arbitrarily and definitely ruled in4or ruled out of the coming talks , it can be said discussions will at least cover the following matters : Devaluation of the pound and of other European currencies ; Curtailment of British Govern ? ment spending for social services , not as an attack on the welfare state but because of its addition to the cost of production ; Improved Methods improvement of production methods , techniques , and competitive selling practices ; Greater aid to Britain through ECA assistance , such as Washington support of London 's plea for a larger slice of this year 's total ; Simplification of American customs regulations and some lowering of United States tariffs to benefit British exporters ; Relaxation of past Anglo-American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ British trading possibilities ; Formulation of a program for greater American buying of Brit . ish Empire commodities , particularly tin , rubber , tea , and wool .                     