@@708637

txt Egg shortages loom in New England , with heavy purchases and " black market " in poultry combining to bring about scarcity which will not be alleviated until spring chicks start laying this summer . Page 2 . James E. Agnew , former State Director of Fisheries and Game , will become Corporation Counsel of the City of Boston at ** a year on June 1 . He succeeds Frank J. Murray , who today tendered his resignation to Mayor Kerrigan , effective June 1 . ( Page 2.1 Seventy-two men of the Air Force , 27 of them New Englanders , were on their way to separation centers as Westover Field released its first batch of " 85-point " G. L 's . Commissioning of ire light cruiser Providence . at the South Boston Annex of the Boston Navy Yard , was announced by the First Naval District . Fourth American war craft to bear the name , the Providence is a vessel of the 10,000-ton flush-deck Cleveland class . Europe : Goring Put on First War Crimes List R eichmarshal Hermanfi Gfiring 's name was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ drawn up by the United Nations War Crimes Commission , it was announced in London . First Romanian war crimes trials have begun in Bucharest before a people 's tribunal , a radiocast from the Romanian capital said . Pierre Laval will be sent to France shortly aboard a British warcraft to be tried as a war criminal , the Paris Radio said . The former Vichy Chief of Government is at present interned in Spain . A new North Pole expedition to collect scientific , navigational , and aeronautical information has set out in the British Lancaster bomber Aries , the plane which flew around the world on a navigational mission last autumn , the British Air Ministry announced . Washington : Supreme Food Administrator Urged A supreme administrator for food was recommended by the Senate Agricultural Committee in a report sharply critical of OPA 's Administration . The Committee approved the report by a 13-to-2 vote . Page 16 . A week 's vacation this year for war workers was urged by Chairman J. A. Krug of the WPB . He said this would permit workers " to relax @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Allies have obtained complete victory.r National : China Gets Heavy Supplies Via ATC Approximately 50,000 tons of supplies are being moved monthly into China from India by the Air Transport Command , Harold L. George , Army ATC Commanding General , announced in New York . Up to March ' 31 , 1944 , the ATC had flown 100,000 planes , transported 1,500,000 passengers , and carried more than 800,000 tons of supplies , he said . 