@@712562

txt The cautious communiqu ? issued Dec. 17 after the preliminary three-day Ukiscan economic meeting here suggests the British proposals aroused little enthusiasm in the Scandinavian camp . What exactly the British proposals were still is not disclosed . There has been a strong feeling here all along , however , that the move was a political maneuver rather than a sound economic proposit ion . The delegates ' recommendations as expressed in the communique in any case , boil down to a ntunber of possibilities , both immediate and long range . Both the communique and the manner of presentation suggest the Scandinavians made a polite but definite disengaging movement . Open to Others , Whether any kind of union was discussed ' was not stated . The communique says the British proposals concerned primarily removal of restrictions on payments between the four countries . Interesting . however , is the definite statement that any measures taken should not be exclusive but should permit . other countries to join the group . The statement about nonexclusiveness can . of course . cut two ways . It could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the basis of real European integration  --  or it might be the means of splitting off . say . ' the Netherlands from a Belgo-French grouping , - This is the point where the dif- ferences in the British and Scandinavian viewpoints become evident . While the Scandinavians emphasize the nonexclusive aspect of any collaborative measures that may be taken , the British appear to regard the admission of other countries to the group as a very distant possibility . Split . Press Talks , Perhaps significantly , the British and Scandinavian delegations held separate press conferences after the meeting . Language difficulties hardly are a valid reason for this , Only British correspond . ents appear to have been invited to the British conference . too . Admittedly , only two American dailies have correspondents in Stockholm , but it seemed a little odd both should turn up at the Swedish press conference . It was at the conferences , at any rate , that the differences in attitude came out . What the Scandinavians want , of course . is German competition in their home markets to bring down @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ present they feel they are supplying Britain valuable commodities like pulp , lumber , iron ore , and agricultural produce , in return having to pay overly high prices for coal and petroleum products . Many things they would like to buy , Britain refuses to export to them . One result of this is that Sweden . for instance , has piled up a frozen credit of ? 41,000,000 with England  --  and the sum tends to grow rather than diminish , But the British market is a natural for Scandinavian products . Before the war , Sweden , Norway , and Denmark could sell more to England than they bought . convert the surplus into dollars. , lire , and pesetas to buy whatever they needed elsewhere , This can not be done today . As bankers here pointed out . the Scandinavian countries could make sterling convertible among themselves without any special agreements with Britain ? what they want is to be . alVe to convert it into non-Scandinavian currencies . Or buy what they want from England instead of what they have to take . Unless these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ little enthusiasm in Scandinavia for closer integration with Britain . But with Britain their biggest customer . the Scandinavians obviously : are going to play along as far a , ; possible  --  while keeping the door open to possibilities of wider international trading on a free basis :                     