@@709409

txt Capital funds that finance urban construction of all types are drawn from a pool of savings to which half the population of the country ' contributes , it is shown by data furnished by insurance companies and other savings institutions . It is this pool of capital , fed by the savings of millions of persons of limited means , that will furnish most of the money to finance the vast construction foreseen in next few years . Financed by Millions It is thru the medium of the large mutual insurance companies , savings is n d loan associations , mutual savings banks , and similar institutions that the funds of individuals are made available for the construction of office ' buildings , hotels , commercial , industrial , and residential buildings . As a result millions of persons who do not consider themselves Investors have an Interest in vast physical properties sometimes represented as belonging to a small class of wealthy investors . How many savers there are in the United States is shown by a few statistics . There are 71 million insurance policy holders @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ associations ; 9 million shareholders in commercial corporations ; 44 million savings bank deposit accounts . These groups are overlapping . The shareholder in a corporation is ' likely to have an insurance policy ; the bank depositor may be a shareholder in a savings and loan association . Half the Population Saves Using as a measure only the number of life insurance piney holders , as estimated by the Institute of Life Insurance , it is clear that at least half the population has savings of some torm . Earlier investigations have-shown that there are at least 15 million individuals who have a direct ownership stake in risk enterprises . They include farmers , individual business men , corporation shareholders , and others . They take the first risks of economic enterprise , and take their financial rewards or absorb losses as the case may be . The economic tie between this group and the larger group of savers who seek primarily safety for their funds is apparent . The life insurance companies and other savings institutions invest their funds by lending money for the construction of new homes and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and railroads. 30 Billions in Urban Mortgages The importance of the big savings institutions in the construction field is shown by the ownership of the present , urban mortgage debt . This debt is estimated at about 30 billion dollars . It represents funds advanced to build office buildings , hotels , commercial and residential structures of all types , and is secured by those properties . More than half this mortgage debt is held by insurance companies , savings and loan associations , and mutual savings banks . The rest of the debt is held by commercial banks , char. itable and educational foundations , fraternal associations , fiduciaries , individuals , and others . New construction of all types in the United States will average , by some estimates , 10 billion dollars a year for several years . Some of this construction will be financed out of accumulated funds of corporations or by sale of new securities . The bulk of the money , however , is expected to come from the reservoir of capital formed by the pooling of the savings of millions of individuals . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , is unable to function without drawing on this pool of savings . Simple to Get Loan For the average citizen in normal times it is relatively simple to arrange a federal housing administration guaranteed loan with a bank to build a house . This is the procedure : The citizen fills out a bank loan application in which he sets forth his credit position . He submits to the bank his plans and drawings , how much of his own moneyequity  --  he is putting into the house , his contractor 's building costs and an appraisal of the value of the land . The bank submits all this inform . tion to the FHA and the latter then approves or disapproves the loan . Under the law the FHA may ' guar ? antee to the bank up to 80 per cent of the loan .                     