@@709604

txt Letters to The Times ZEADER.BESSIE NOE.ROBERT W. KING.ERNEST FLAGG.L.F . JAHNKE.FREDERIC HAINBACH . T. 20 Letters to The Times Indonesia in Transition Despite Errors of Allies , Natives Do Not Support Rebels , It Is Held Painted Lines Suggested on Streets To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : I was in Indonesia during the Japanese occupation and lived there thirty years before the invasion . Until three weeks after the occupation more than 99 per cent of the population in Java wanted the Dutch Government back . From the end of September until Jan. 1 , about eight thousand people , mostly Dutch women and children , were slaughtered by the rebels . The majority of the victims fell in Eastern Java . There are still 35,000 people in camps . The Dutch had formed a very dependable espionage system which gave British headquarters full information about murders and abductions planned and actions to come . The Dutch people who were in Java during the occupation by the Japanese knew the collaborators in the different towns . We know that the Allied forces were not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ certainly had the responsibility to keep order and they knew very well that people who had been in concentration camps for many years were not looking for more trouble after they were released . By letting the rebels go free and again closing the camps , the British animated the unrest and made Java a trouble spot for many years to come . Our Government until now has been so much under the influence of British politics that our papers in Holland never mentioned anything really important about the goings on in Java . Since the last elections this has been altered and the information we receive now is fairly complete . It has been our fault that the natives have not been educated sufficiently , although there certainly are excuses for this . We had universities at Batavia and Bandoeng , but they were attended principally by Chinese . The result is that at present there would not be sufficient educated Indonesians to govern a tenth part of Java . Our friend Sjahrir knows that very well and only invited a few friends around him to take part in his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Japanese occupation Soekarno called on the Indonesians to follow the Japanese until the bitter end . His broadcasts always ended with the cry : " English must be killed with a crowbar " ; " Americans must be wiped out " ; " the Allies must be killed . " It is certainly astonishing now to see the British open negotiations with Soekarno immediately after their arrival in Java . One thing is certain , that as soon as peace has been restored in Java , the population will at least 99 per cent vote for the return of the Dutch Government . As I have been among the Javanese for thirty-six years I can assure you that the majority of the Dutch in these parts of the globe have been working harder than the average European or American at salaries that have been in many cases inadequate . The opinion that we treated the natives like slaves would apply to any laborer working under supervision and is absolutely wrong . The Dutch have an outspoken sympathy for the Allies and they had that long before the war and not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the war . We will always be on the side of the Englishspeaking peoples . We have many interests in common . Even if the British treated us badly we know that we will always fight with them against any force that might try to threaten our liberty . READER . Heimsted , Holland , June 20 , 1946 . To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : May I suggest that lines for pedestrians be painted at all dangerous crossings ? Yellow chalk is considered easier on children 's eyes for blackboard use , therefore yellow lines would be better than white ones for street crossings . The crossings at schools , playgrounds , parks and business sections are particularly dangerous . The lines would help children to establish right habits of crossing streets at corners . Many adults are careless and should avoid jaywalking because children imitate their elders . The lines would prevent jaywalking and be an aid to safety . BESSIE NOE . New York , June 29 , 1946 . Commemoration of Leibnitz Birth TO THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : One surmises @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will take little note of an anniversary that , under more normal conditions , would be the occasion of speechmaking in scientific circles the world round . One of the great men of science was born in Leipzig on July 1 , 1646 . A contemporary of Sir Isaac Newton , Gottfried Wilhelm Leibnitz will always rank as his peer . The present year will witness an extended and appropriate commemoration of Newton 's birth , although it actually occurred 304 years ago . This suggests that it may still not be too late to observe in some fitting manner the anniversary of Leibnitz 's birth . While a most unusual activity for military organizations to engage in , one can see it as appropriate , and one would like to see it as practicable , for the four occupying forces in Germany to lead the way in a plan to pay respect to this outstanding figure in German scholarship . Such action and such a tribute would have more than ephemeral significance . The world 's debt to German scholarship is very great indeed . In spite of the vicissitudes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their scholarship will continue to stand forth in undiminished splendor . Could there , then , be a more impressive occasion than for armies of occupation , victorious over German militarism , to initiate a commemorative observance of the birth of this genius of German learning ? ROBERT W. KING New York , June 28 , 1946 . Staten Island Discussed Emphasis on Building a Tunnel Now From Manhattan Is Urged To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The announcement is made that twelve million dollars are to be spent on a new Staten Island ferry terminal . This seems a foolish thing to do , in view of the fact that the time will soon come when there must be a tunnel direct from St. George to the Battery . It would seem wise now , if there are twelve million available , to use most of it for the tunnel and to erect a temporary structure for the ferry . If it was possible to make a tunnel through rock to the Catskills for water , it certainly ought to be possible to make one through rock @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . With a tunnel , Staten Island could be brought within ten or twelve minutes of Manhattan . The city needs room for expansion , and it could be had that way . Some day there will be artificial islands at either side of the AM brta : ; Channel between Sandy Hook are ; Rockaway Point , like the one at San Francisco , forming a breakwater converting the lower bay into a magnificent harbor . There ships could dock , head on , at piers from Staten Island , without hindrance from tides or swift currents , as in the rivers , and at a considerable saving in time . The only hindrance is lack of quick transit . No matter what the cost of a tunnel might be , the return in increased values on Staten Island would offset it manyfold . ERNEST FLAGG . New York , July 1 , 1946 . Ferry Service Deemed Inadequate To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The emergency ferry service being provided Staten Island is totally inadequate . The use of a single landing point , together with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an hour and a half to board a boat . Today this waiting is being done in long lines exposed to a broiling sun . Tomorrow it may be in a pouring rain . Thp hazard to health demands action . This takes no account of the hundreds of thousands of man-hours wasted , which is a direct loss to the city . It will be months if not years before a new terminal can he completed . I urge that immediate action be taken to : 1 . Increase the points at which boats dock to at least four in number . This is necessary because of the unavoidable slowness of emergency docking and loading . 2 . Detail additional city employes handle the emergency passenger gangways . 3 . Make arrangements to use t he vast interior of Pier 6 , or adjacent piers , as a waiting room to get people out of the weather . 4 . Immediately plan and construct temporary docking and loading facilities that will efficiently take care of the period that must elapse before a new terminal can be constructed . This plan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the necessary immediate emergency provisions . L. F. JAHNKE . New York . , Tune 28. 1946 . Waste of Milk and Eggs To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIDIES : In your June 29 issue you ran two pictures showing Ohio farmers throwing away milk and eggs , thus manifesting their rancor against OPA . The two pictures cast an interesting sidelight on present United States economic conditions . THE NEW YORK TIMES being considered the gospel of American journalism , they will no doubt reach Europe . It is safe to predict that , the discussions they will give rise to will not enhance our prestige in the Old World . Starving Europeans might understand ( though they wo n't approve of it ) why America is not sending as much food as it could if it made a greater effort . But , OPA or no OPA , it will be difficult to explain to them the attitude reflected in the two pictures . Long a battleground of steel , Europe has now become a battlegroundi of ideas and ideologies , and we have a great stake @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political fence . Unfortunately , a cursory examination of the American way of life as evidenced in the above-mentioned pictures will push many of them into antiAmerican camps . FREDERIC HAINBACH . New York , June 29 , 1946.                     