@@704784

txt The time has come when , in the interest of self-protection , the American people should at once adopt a national system of universal compulsory military training . We say this as a newspaper which has never before believed in the wisdom of such a policy in time of peace . We say it because the logic of events drives us remorselessly to this conclusion . The most powerful mechanized army that the world has ever seen is now striking at Paris . We must consider realistically the consequences of that army 's victory . If we are not to be caught without warning , we must face in all frankness the worst that can possibly happen . That worst is France defeated and knocked out of the war ; England in no position to defend herself in 1940 owing to the loss of her supplies in Flanders ; Hitler becoming the master of all Europe , either in possession of the British fleet or in possession of shipbuilding facilities which are many times our own , in Germany , Norway , Belgium , Britain , Holland @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but we are bound to recognize that the chance of their happening is great . We must recognize that Hitler has always shown an overvaulting ambition , great daring and an amazing sense of timing . We must recognize that he has declared himself the sworn enemy of the " pluto-democracies , " of which we are the largest , the richest and the softest . We must recognize that his whole strategy has been to strike before his opponents were prepared . And we must admit that , except for a navy which we now want to put in two oceans simultaneously and which we can not divide without weakening disastrously , we are in no position to resist such an attack as Hitler 's air force and his armies are capable of making . A victorious Germany in close alliance with Japan , a victorious Germany in possession either of the British fleet or Europe 's shipyards , would be an immediate threat to our security . We have no possible alternative but to take advantage of such time as is given us to strengthen our defenses . Congress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the acquisition of materiel ; but materiel is of no value without men who are trained to use it . We talk of an air defense of fifty thousand planes . Such a defense would require a ground force alone of at least half a million men . There are not half that many men in our entire Regular Army . We could not keep our planes in the air even if we abandoned every other measure of protection . The same Congress which has voted overwhelmingly for defense appropriations  --  unanimously in the Senate , with a single dissenting vote in the House of Representatives ? is under a moral obligation to the kmerican people to complete the task which it has started . With England 's example before us , we can not afford halfway measures or the luxury of hesitation . We should proceed at once to establish a genuinely democratic system of military service which will give us an adequate defense force and give the men who constitute that force adequate training . We believe that such a system of service ought to be introduced as an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ present danger has passel . We believe that it should be so drafted as to provide training not only for young men , but for older men as well . We believe that it should be accompanied by a well-considered but drastic kind of taxation , designed to prevent a single penny of excess profit from accruing to those manufacturers who fill our Government 's defense orders . This is a time for universal service . If it be said that this is an election year , that politicians must be wary , and that Congress is not yet in a mood for straightforward action of this kind , let Congress go to the American people and let it ask them whether they are not ready to defend against all possible risks and all possible challengers the only way of life which they believe to be worth living .                     