@@709656

txt Edwin W. Pauley , personal representative of President Truman on reparations , stated today that unless the Soviet Union changed its attitude on reparations as indicated by Soviet Foreign Minister Vyacheslav M. Molotov in Paris , United States reparations plans must be " materially revised . " Russia 's continued practice of taking curr4ht production from her zone as reparations , Mr. Pauley said , " is certainly a violation of the Potsdam Agreement , inasmuch as the agreement says exports from Germany must be used first to pay for imports of essential goods . " The United States has requested , but has not received an account of such deliveries , he said . As for Mr. Molotov 's insistence at Paris on $10,000,000,000 worth of reparations from Germany for the Soviet Union , Mr. Pauley recalled that the late President Roosevelt and Winston Churchill from the beginning of the discussions at Yalta had regarded the figure as unrealistic and never had agreed to it , although they were willing to use it as basis for discussion . Calls Clay Move " Stop-Gap " While unwilling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reparations policy , on which he will report to the President , Mr. Pauley described the move of Lieut . Gen. Lucius D. Clay , deputy United States Military Governor in Germany , in halting removals of capital equipment from the United States zone , as " a stop gap until we see whether Germany will be dealt with as an economic unit . " He added that we also were reviewing the level of industry plan in case no agreement was reached on treating the country as a unit . " We will not violate the Potsdam Agreement unless forced to by other governments ' failure to comply , " he declared . Mr. Pauley arrived this afternoon from . Berlin to complete his survey of the reparations problems . While six members of his staff are visiting the Ruhr he will fly to Vienna in the next few days to consult with Gen. Mark W. Clark on the Russian claim to all German property , including that acquired by Nazis , in the Russianoccupied zone of Austria . Calls Reparations Chief Issue After that he will proceed to London @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with a study of reparations problems in Japan , Manchuria and Korea . In Mr. Pauley 's opinion , the dominant issue that prevented an agreement on Germany at the Paris conference was reparations . To illustrate the long-standing disagreement with the Russians on reparations he made public two letters . They were written to Russian Ambassador Ivan M. Maisky , chairman of the Allied Reparations Commission in Moscow on July 3 and 13 , 1945 . In the second Mr. Pauley wrote : " When we say essential imports are a prior charge on exports . This is not because we think that imports are more important than reparations . Quite the contrary . All we are saying is that you must feed the cow to get the milk . The food is a prior charge ; it comes first in time but it is not more important . " Without carrying this simile too far , we could say that you want a plan which will give lots of milk . We both expect that the cow will lose both horns and will get mighty thin . We want @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be paid for with some of the milk . Last time we put up the fodder . " It is on this question of " fodder " that the Americans and Russians are at odds . United States representatives have pointed out that after World War I the United States paid for Germany 's essential imports while other countries collected the reparations . This time they insist that Germany 's imports must h. : paid for out of exports from current production before any reparations are given to other countries .                     