@@705981

txt German soldiers are provided with ample amounts of this , paper which the local inhabitants , ' peasants and shopkeepers are Weed to accept as " legal tender , though its only basis is Nazi brutality and it is worthless in Germany proper or German-controlled territory . Entire Economy Seized This currency swindle is only one item of the heavy ground- rent the Baltic peoples have to pay Sur , the doubtful privilege of living in , the path of invasion . The whole of their economic resources both industrial and agricultural have been placed under the absolute control of the Wirtschafts Kommando Nord , or Northern Economic Command , which has unlimited powers to requisition , confiscate or expropriate . The first measures of the Wirtschafts Kqmmando included seizure of motorcars end other means of transport , house to house collections of ribber goods and metal fixtures , including ? fences , confiscation , of al all wooloniclothing , , furs , boots and shoei above a certain very thin minimum . Even cab or droshky horses have been taken from the citiesmeans the inhabitants with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have not been resumed owing to damage to equipment and power shortage . Peasants Become Serfs The droshky horses have mainly been requisitioned for agricultural work since few of the original draught animals survived the blitzkrieg . No - move has been made by the Germans to divide up the collective and state farms that were formed under the Soviet occupation and to restore the land to the peasantry . On the contrary these large units are now to be operated under Naii overseers while the native peasants are reduced to the status of serfs . in the cities , too , apartment houses and other real propertrnationalized by the Soviets are to be re- WASHINGTON , Oct. 25 ? Nazi reprisal executions were vigorously assailed today by President Roosevelt In an unexpected fdienal statement released by the White House . Pointing to the Nazis- " new order " tactics of shooting hostages as " acts of desperate men who know in their hearts that they can not win , " the President termed the situation as revolting to a world already inured to suffering and brutality . The President 's statement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recent days that have brought the United States nearer to Europe 's total war than at any time since Germany invaded Poland in Sept. , 1939 . This opinion is the frank judgment of high Government officials with respect to latest developments in the Far East , on the high seas , and at home It is a judgment widely shared by other Washington observers . Four specific developments , now rapidly coming to a head , paint the picture of difficult position  --  the position of a powerful country openly and earnestly seeking to win a war without actually participating in it . Whether the United States will participate in it  --  totally  --  may well he resolved as these events are themselves resolved : 1 . Relations between Japan and the United States are so uncertain that a member of the Cabinet views a collision between the two countries as " inevitable " and is likey to come on very short notice . Knox 's Statement When Frank Knox , Secretary of the Navy , said that the situation in the Far East was " extremely strained " and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policy of forceful expansion , he is simply stating more bluntly what has been known to be the view of the White House and the State Department for some months . The United States does not Want war with Japan but it is not likely to view with complacency any action by Tokyo to take advantage of Russia 's grapple with Germany to gain control of the Pacific Coast ' of Siberia . It is only candid to state that the issue of peace or war is at stake in what transpires in the Far East in the near future and Washington is awaiting Tokyo 's move . Neutrality Act 2 . Virtual repeal of the neutrality act is now considered to be imminent . Whether or not the Senate Foreign Relations Committee stops at recommending only part revision , namely , the arming of merchant ships , the issue of further revision to permit American vessels to ignore so-called combat zones will come to the floor of the Senate for a decisive test and latest polls of senatorial opinion show that all-out repeal can have 53 to 56 votes . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ heir : it does mean fuller participation in the war and the acceptance of greater risks of war . Certainly repeal or radical revision of the law will symbolize an end to " neutrality " which has existed in name only . While the issue of war or peace is not directly at stake in the neutrality revision , the repeal of the Act would mean that Congress has fully joined the executive in placing the winning of the war ahead of staying out of it . Sweeping Arms Expansion 3 . President Roosevelt 's announcement of plans to double the tank production of the United States for its own armed forces is only the beginning of a sweeping expansion of the whole armament program . The intention is not to double merely one item of ordContinued on Pape 10 , Column 7                     