@@706773

txt President Roosevelt tonight signed and wrote into law the anti-inflation program which Congress had completed only three hours before . Executive orders carrying out the directed stabilization of farm prices and industrial wages and levels existing as of Sept. 15 , and any Presidential statement that might accompany them , the White House announced , will be issued tomorrow morning . Advisers who conferred with the Chief Executive tonight drew from what he had said a possibility that he might create " an economic czar , " with powers superseding those of Leon Henderson , Price Administrator , and other head men of the various agencies combating inflationary spirals , to take general command of the program .. There was no confirmation from White House sources , however , of this version of the President 's possible plans . Mr. Roosevelt , they asserted , indicated also that he believed the legislation provided the necessary authorities " to do the job . " Bill Is Received at 9 P. M. The President received the completed legislation shortly after 9 P. M. and went at once into conference @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Congress and officials of the departments and agencies likely to administer much of the war against threats of inflation . At 10:15 o'clock he signed the bill . He accepted a measure which , since his " you do it or I will " ultimatum of Sept. 7 had provoked the bitterest of Congressional battles on home front issues . Nevertheless it was adopted a day after the President 's deadline of Oct. 1 , amid scenes of factional harmony on Capitol Hill . Some sore spots showed , however , from the criticisms which the Chief Executive unleashed yesterday . The bill , its sponsors held , would preserve the directive prerogatives of the legislative branch and at the same time give the President all of the statutory powers for which he asked and more . In final text it followed , with few exceptions , that of the measure which the Senate adopted by a vote of 82-0 on Wednesday night . Broad Powers Are Voted The bill was approved by the House on a vote of 257 to 22 soon after 6 P. M. , in the form @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ completed Congressional action with a voice vote which appeared to be unanimous . Congress sent to the President a general directive to stabilize prices and wages , but gave him wide latitude in making adjustments later to correct gross inequities and aid in the effective prosecution of the war . It told him to issue his first general order on or before Nov. 1 . Among those at the White House meeting were Attorney General Biddle , - Secretary Jones , Herbert Gaston , Assistant Secretary of the Treasury ; Harold D. Smith , director of the Bureau of the Budget ; Leon Henderson , price administrator ; William H. Davis , chairman of the War Labor Board ; Samuel Bledsoe , assistant to the Secretary of Agriculture ; Justice Byrnes , Harry Hopkins and Judge Samuel Rosenman . Congressional leaders included Senator Barkley , Senator Brown of Michigan , who handled the legislation in the upper branch . and Representative McCormack , House majority leader . Even before the Senate , last to act , took its ratification vote with a roar that bespoke general relief , the measure was printed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Speaker of the House . Although speed was much in the Congressional mind , the closing half hour of Senatorial debate turned toward harmony and goodwill . A few sharp notes , however , were sounded . Senator Danaher of Connecticut , a member of the Banking Committee which handled the legislation , extended congratulations generally to those who had taken part in devising and adopting the bill " while the defense inspector was touring the country for two weeks . " " All this time there has been an impression in the country , " Mr. Danaher added . " that there has been a life and death struggle going on between the President and the Congress , and he has not even been here . " Under direction of the Democratic majority , the Connecticut Republican alleged , the Congres- I sional authorization and direction to the Chief Executive to control farm prices and industrial wages . was " fixed " so that when the war was over agricultural commodities would be bought up by the government without consideration of the general consumer . Says Loan Plan Is President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under which mandatory nonrecourse loans on six basic crops would rise from 85 to 90 per cent of parity , thus putting floors under prices at that level , had been " suggested by the President . " Senator Barkley , the majority leader , remarked that , regardless of what any one might say , Congress , in view of the problems and difficulties confronting it in charting this program , had done " a marvelous job . " Most of the adjustments of differences between the House and Senate versions , as passed , were ironed out before the managers for the lower branch had been named officially as conferees . They went back to work , soon after noon , when the appointments were officially made and adjustments were completed by mid-afternoon . No member of the House or Senate , except those directly in charge of the legislation , has yet seen the complete text of the conference agreement . Axplanations were given orally , in the Senate by Senator Brown of Michigan and in the House by Representative Steagall , chairman of the Banking Committee . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ explanation had not been made sufficiently clear as to labor 's position under the final agreement . " The protection is still in the bill , " retorted Mr. Steagall , " with all of its enormous possibilities for inflation . " Representatives Eberharter and Bradley of Pennsylvania pressed for more definite information and the provisions were read to the House . No protest was made . " Is this measure now acceptable to the Administration ? " asked Representative Martin , minority leader . " There is no reason whatever to answer except in the affirmative , " Mr. Steagall said . " I think I am safe in saying that it will be accepted . " This was as far as the leaders would go . Says Directive Is Definite The completed legislation . Representative Wolcott , ranking minority member of the banking group , told the House , provided " very definitely " that the President " freeze " all farm prices and wages and salaries at their levels as of Sept. 15 . " Any adjustments made later are his responsibility , " he added . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into inflationary spirals , it is his responsibility . " The amendment of Senator Norris . which sought to bring the rates of common carriers and other public utilities under firm control , became one of the principal issues raised in debate as it had been in conference . The compromise , under which the Office of Price Administration would become a participant on behalf of the public in rate cases , I prompted Representative Rankin to attempt to send the entire program back to conference to reinsert the Norris proposal . A voice vote downed this proposal . Later Senator Norris agreed to the compromise . Could Lower Floor for Feed Crops While the Senate and House conferees agreed to recommend the 90 per cent of parity loans on basic crops and for nonbasic commodities where increased production ' s required for war , they took steps designed to prevent the addition , through such loans , of an estimated $650,000,000 a year to the consumers ' food bill . They authorized the President to adjust loans on wheat and corn , grains used for feeding livestock and poultry and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , between the present 85 per cent level and the new 90 per cent , as necessity in the public interest dictates . As sent to the White House , the President is authorized and directed in adjusting prices , wages or salaries from the levels at which the general " freezing- was effected , to consider not only the correction of " gross inequities " but the extent to which such modifications are necessary to aid the effective prosecution of the war . The House had provided for stabilization around the levels obtaining Aug. 15 . This was moved up a month in conference , and the Senate 's directive for Presidential issuance of a general order on or before Nov. 1 was retained . No limitation was put upon the President as to the extent to which he could delegate the powers granted him to carry on the war against inflation . The bill emphasizes , however , that agricultural prices shall not be cut below 100 per cent of parity , or below the highest prices existing between Jan. 1 and Sept. 15 of this year unless to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prosecution of the war . With the President finally victorious in his determination that the present parity formula remain unchanged , the farm bloc won its long fight for official recognition of rising farm labor costs as a factor in the establishment of ceilings on prices . The increased farmer labor costs thus recognized , ' were dated through compromise , back to Jan. 1 , 1941 , covering a period in which agricultural wages , on a national average , have virtually doubled , and quadrupled in some sections of the country . In the wage section of the bill the regulation is extended both to employe and employer . Penalties up to $1,000 fines are provided for violation of Presidential orders and regulations . Salaries in higher brackets , ranging from *5,000 a year upward , may be reduced where gross inequities are found to necessitate such action .                     