@@707148

txt WASHINGTON , May 22 ? Rarely has there been a more striking demonstration of the vitality of democracy , or of what some would call its recklessness , than was given on Wednesday at the Capitol when the Prime Minister of Great Britain virtually took part in al Congressional debate by discuss-1 ing publicly the military strategy of the Allies , while much of the world , including the enemies of the Allies , listened by radio . It was almost as if Winston Churchill were rising from the front benches of the House of Commons to reply for the Government to the arguments of its opponents . He spoke to a foreign Parliament , and his speech was in 1 the only possible form of an invited address , yet in reality he replied under the same roof to criticisms of Allied strategy that had been made in the Senate two days earlier . Moreover , just as he does when reporting to the House of Commons on the war , he gave his ' hearers new information in the shape of military facts and figures @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  the Prime Minister of one country reporting to , and arguing with , the Parliament of another coun try . Mr. Churchill spoke not for a , government , as he does in London , ' but for the military policy of two governments which he defended against criticisms voiced in this country , in China and in the British Dominion of Australia . In this , sense he was addressing the United , Nations in general and those , touching the Pacific in particular , in an effort to justify official strategy even to those countries whose nearest enemy has not received A-1 priority . Scores a Success It was one of Mr. Churchill 's greatest parliamentary efforts in a long parliamentary career , and though there was no call for a vote of confidence , it was widely regarded here as one of his greatest successes . He did not silence the critics or put an end to the debate , , but he made out a skillful case for the strategy he defended . He frankly faced the division of views within Allied countries and the fears @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and he met , if he did not dispose of , certain suspicions toward our allies which crop up in every argument on strategy , inside and outside Congress . It is not a new debate or a local one . It has been going on since the entry of the United States , into the war , and , like the war , it is " global . " Because it was Japan that attacked American territory there ! has long been greater animosity in many American circles against Tokyo than against the European end of the Axis . While to Britain the nearest and most dangerous enemy is Germany , China and Australia have naturally emphasized ' the importance of the Pacific theatre and have inclined at times to challenge the decision , made on broad strategic grounds , to concentrate Allied fire on Germany first . In this country opinion has been divided , the highest authorities agreeing to defeat Hitler first , the isolationists tending to join - the opposition pro-Pacific school of strategy which receives support from Army and Navy officers assigned to the Pacific with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Conflicting Views Those coming from London have been surprised by the emphasis placed here upon the Pacific , while those coming from China or Australia have complained that we think too much of Europe . This was the complaint of Mme. Chiang Kai-shek , whose mission to this country was frankly that of convincing us that the Pacific war was more urgent than the defeat of Hitler ; that is , that the strategic decision taken by President Roosevelt and Mr. Churchill and announced at Casablanca was wrong and should be revised . Dr. Herbert V. Evatt , Australian Minister for External Affairs , who came here in April , did not go so far , though some Australians share Madame Chiang 's views , but Mr. Evatt , urging greater supplies for the Pacific theatre , likewise argued that too little attention was paid he - to the Southwestern Pacific and even to the American exploits on Guadalcanal . These foreign critics of Allied strategy and the American critics like Senator Chandler of Kentucky , whose speech last Monday was in effect answered by Mr. Churchill on Wednesday , raise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and challenge the basic policy adopted by Mr. Churchill and Mr. Roosevelt . The criticism of military policy merges with expressed suspicion of our allies , and inthe Senate this week the view was expressed that the United States would eventually find herself fighting alone against Japan , with Russia and Britain declining to aid . Russia 's non-participation in the Pacific war is cited as a grievance , some asking why she does not open a second f  --  " t in Asia even while she fights in Europe against Germany . When Mr. Churchill arrived in Washington there were reports that he came to prevent an offensive in the Pacific , which some thought should be the American strategy as opposed to the BritishRussian strategy of defeating Hitler first . The arguments made for a major effort in the Pacific without delay are that China may not hold otrt unless greater aid reaches her , that Japan is rapidly consolidating her position in the regions she has conquered and that time works in her favor as she exploits vast new resources , that it was Japan whose attack brought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ principal enemy . The pro-Pacific school argues that Russia is neutral in the Pacific conflict and can not be counted on to fight Japan , and hence that we had better write off the hope of bases in Kamchatka or Siberia and concentrate upon supporting 1China , from whose soil we shall have to attack Japan . Some , like Senator Chandler , contend that Germany can not beat Britain or Russia , anyhow , and that if we help defeat Germany before defeating Japa , the European peace will be on Russia 's terms , which Americans would not accept . Hitler-First Arguments For the beat-Hitler-first strategy , which is the official policy , it is contended that the greatest of the Axis powers is Germany , and that her defeat will insure the defeat of her two lesser partners , while the defeat of Japan would not necessarily involve the defeat of Germany . Moreover , on the basis of this strategy , three great powers  --  Britain , Russia and the United States  --  are fighting Germany , while only the Unite 'd States and a handicapped and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is pointed out , has been fighting for nearly four years , while Japan has been at war with America and Britain for one and one-half years ; hence it is argued that Germany is much farther advanced toward her doom than Japan is and can be finished off sooner . Britain can now do little against Japan , but she is a well-equipped base for the air attacks which some think will defeat Germany . The U-Boat Problem Mr. Churchill sees the " prime problem " as that of sea transport : that is , the conquest of the submarine . This is chiefly a German weapon , and it is contended that once it is mastered the seas will be opened for Allied naval and land forces to move against either enemy at any point they choose . The opening- of the Mediterranean to Allied shipping , which will be completed when Axis air bases in Sicily , Sardinia and Crete are neutralized or conquered , will shorten the route to the Far East for supplies needed for the conquest of Burma , which is necessary to reopen the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some observers this fact justifies the policy of winning in Europe first . The division of strategic effort so far has been this : Russia has borne the brunt of the power of the Germany Army , Britain has borne the chief responsibility and the heaviest losses in holding the Atlantic supply line , while the United States has taken the leading role in the Pacific . Mr. Churchill recapitulated the truits of this arrangement thus far . It is expected here that the next great Axis blow will be a German offensive against Russia this Summer , and that this will justify the Hitler-first strategy by compelling an Allied concentration of power in Europe to ease the burden on Russia . The Chinese , meanwhile , fear a new Japanese offensive against them . This would increase the urgency of further assistance to China by means of additional transport planes or by new Allied thrusts against Japan at other Pacific points , like that at Attu . Greater supplies for the Pacific theatre would tend to disarm some of the Pacific-first critics , while further signs of German weakness under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ .. cy , which seems unlikely to be basically changed .                     