@@705115

txt Thought was given in two quarters yesterday to assuring reasonable supplies of basic materials for normal uses when defense work begins to absorb a substantial percentage of industrial capacity Republic Steel Chairman Girdler warned civilian consumers not to create an artificial shortage of steel by buying beyond their current needs as , he said . some interests are now doing . He declared the nation 's steel capacity was sufficient for all purposes if orderly purchasing is conducted . Meanwhile . the Defense Commission 's newly formed priorities board studied the possible use of price controls to protect the public if rationing of specific products threatens unnecessary price advances . CLEVELAND  --  The steel industry 's present high rate of output is accounted for , not only by growing defense requirements , export demand and regular commercial uses , but " there is a great deal of speculative buying , " Tom M. Girdler , chairman of the board of Republic Steel Corp. , said yesterday in a radio interview in connection with the National Metal Congress in session here this week . " Some steel users @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shortage . and they are buying beyond their current needs . That kind of buying could in itself create a shortage but it would be an artificial shortage . There is no reason for anything but orderly buying by steel consumers , " Mr. Girdler said . Capacity Sufficient for All Needs Currently , the steel industry has sufficient productive capacity for both national defense and normal commercial needs . be pointed ou United States has a rated productive capacity of nearly 83.000.000 net tons of steel ingots a year , " Mr. Girdler said . " We are exporting at the rate of nearly 12,000,000 tons and using another 8,000,000 tons for defense purposes . The highest estimate I have seen for probable domestic consumption is 62,000,000 tons . This would be 25,000,000 tons more than the annual average of domestic use of the last ten years . The figures of commercial and domestic consumption and of exports add up to about 82,000.000 net tons which is still 1,000,000 tons less than our rated productive capacity . There is nothing in that picture which points to any real shortage of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would create a new set of conditions , Mr. Girdler pointed out . " Undoubtedly there would be a speeding up of arms production and a call for quicker deliveries of steel . " Even in that event there would probably be no necessity for an increase in basic steelmaking facilities . he said . " The practical way to deal with a war emergency would be to allocate to military purposes all the steel production required , temporarily curtailing other less vital uses of steel , " he said . However , he pointed out , " there is a limit to the volume of steel that can be converted into armaments , " because of the non-existence of plants and equipment to turn this steel into military equipment . Big Difference in Safety Factor While there are no essential differences between steels used in national defense work and those used in everyday pursuits , Mr. Girdler said there was a big difference in the factor of safety applied in the use of the steel . He pointed out that in building military equipment . quality and uniformity were of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to have been learned from the first world war is that there is no substitute for time in making preparations for national defense . This applies not only to the making of plans and letting of contracts . It applies also to the production schedules which follow the orders , " he said .                     