@@710051

txt In a small candle lighted cave In this little town , the birth long ago of one who taught there should be peace on earth and good will among men was remembered again last night . Bells pealed over the narrow , twisted streets of Bethlehem and over the wasteland to the east , which was the wilderness of Judea , as the 1946 celebration of the anniversary of the birth of Christ began at midnight . Thousands Stand in Silence Several hundred persons crowded the Latin church of St. Catherine , adjoining the ancient Church of the Nativity , to take part in the Christmas worship . Among them were visiting clergymen , diplomats and high ranking government and military officials . In the , street outside and in the famous Square of the Manger in front of the Church of the Nativity , thousands of other persons stood silently in the frosty night as the bells sang their message to the world . Under bright lights which illuminated the square , the worshiping throng made a strange picture . All the faces of the world @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fur coated Christian ladies , from the villas of Cairo and Beirut , arrow-straight Bedouin Christians from the desert , humble and ragged poor folk from towns and cities of , Palestine . All were there with one thought , castes and differences forgotten for the moment . The midnight ceremony was the climax of a celebration which had begun 12 hours earlier . Shortly after noon yesterday , the Rev. Louis Barlassina , Roman Catholic patriarch , who has been a high cleric of the Roman Catholic church In Palestine for 28 of his 75 years , left the old city of Jerusalem thrti the historic Jaffa gate on the annual pro . cession to Bethlehem . Fast Iffount Zion Escorted by mounted police out . riders , the saintly faced patriarch slowly traversed the route sacred in the memories of Christendom . The road skirts Mount Zion and the Armenian monastery built on the traditional site of the house of Caiaphas , the high priest , where Christ was questioned and condemned . Farther on the patriarch reached the ridge on which stands the monastery of St. Elias , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Judea Is first unfolded to the traveler from Jerusalem . But in this ride the patriarch saw other things indicative of tile fact that the Holy Land still is not at peace . Early in. the ride , his car carried him by what Is left of Jerusalem 's railroad station , gutted by Jewish terrorist bombs not long ago . A few minutes ? later , if lie had looked out of the window to the left . he would have seen high atop the hill overlooking Jerusalem the heavily fortified mansion which is the residence of Alan Cunningham , high commissioner for Palestine , and symbol of British authority over the Holy Land . Conducted lo St. Catherine 's Near Bethlelient , At the tomb of Rachel , the patriarch met the mayor of Bethlehem , and British government officials , and was conducted to St. Catherine 's . There he initiated the formal worship by which . Christ . rims is celebrated . Other ceremonies continued thruout the afternoon and evening . Promptly at the stroke of mid . night , the bells of Bethlehem came to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Christmas day worship began . Ninety minutes later came the age old ceremony which thousands had been awaiting . As the old , old Latin words of " Gloria in Exceisis Deo " rang thru the church , the silken drape high above the altar , slowly opened to reveal an Image of the Christ Child . Over the infan ) Jesus a huge Mar tamed slowly into light  --  his star , the star of Bethlehem . Tenderly carrying the image In his aid arms , the patriarch slowly led the way thru the dimly lighted um derground passages into the Grotto of Nativity . There , the high pitched voices of 100 small boys sang , " And they wrapped him in swaddling clothes and laid him in the manger . " The image of the infant was first touched for a moment to the silver star which marks the site of the Nativity , then put to rest in the little cavern a few feet away , which so long ago held the child who was to be called Jesus . Taking part in the Christmas worship was a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 16 years ago the Bedouins in the Jordan valley often decorated their huts with pictures clipped from THE CHICAGO TRIBUNE . In Palestine ? 18 Years He is Father Sylvester Sailer of Petoskey , Mich. , who has been in the Holy Land for 18 years . A member of the Franciscan brotherhood spe. cializing in archaeology , Father Sylvester ' was engaged in 1933 in excavations on Mt . Nebo , where Moses reportedly was burled . " While there THE TRtatmiE was sent to me regularly and many a Bedouin who visited my camp be . came interested in the pictures , " he said . " Aitho unable to read and write , they used to beg pictures which they would carefully stow away in robes and carry off to their homes . " Father Sylvester at 1:30 a. m. tomorrow will celebrate private mass in the Grotto of the Nativity . The mass will mark his 21st anniversary as a Franciscan priest .                     