@@705809

txt Carrying conscription of women far beyond anything approached in the last war , Britain not only is putting them into many front-line positions beside men , but is manning many essential war industries almost entirely with women . By Christmas of this year , all women under 30 years of age must be able to show that they are engaged in work assisting the na tional war effort , according to Mr. Ralph Assheton , Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Labor , who recently announced the new plan . Women are not to be compulsorily drafted into various auxiliaries of the armed services such as ATS ( Auxiliary Territorial Service ) , WAAFS ( Women 's Auxiliary Air Force Services ) , WRENS ( Women 's Royal Naval Service ) , whose duties recently have been extended to ' include many jobs on active service hitherto performed only by men . But women can be forced , unless they have conscientious objections , into various important noncombatant occupations . These include nursing and domestic work in hospitals , work in tank , aircraft , and engineering @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in the Navy , Army and Air Force institutes , and in ordnance factories . Older women are asked to volunteer their services . More than 25,000 women are expected to answer this appeal in London alone . Small Unemployed Reserve There is almost no reserve of unemployed labor from which the demands of the war industries can be filled , Mr. Assheton disclosed . The number of unemployed persons registered in Britain at the middle of this year was less than 250,000 . Of these , 88,852 were women , but not all of these women are available for war work . Nearly 4,000 are unsuitable and another 4,658 are unable to transfer to districts where war work is waiting . In these circumstances , the Ministry of Labor is making a close survey of women available . Inquiries are being made into the number of domestic servants in the country . It is expected that one servant will be allowed to a household consisting of a man , his wife , and one child , or , if there is no child , where the wife as well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ large houses should meet the situation by closing down part of their home , advises the Ministry . Many large houses , of course , already have been surrendered by their owners to the war services . Chatsworth House , for example , the home of the Duke of Devonshire and one of the most palatial private residences in Britain , now offers refuge to a girls ' school evacuated from Wales . Generally speaking , says the Ministry , women already in full-time employment will not be called up . In any case , women running households , if wanted for war service at all , will not be drafted until after the single women are absorbed . Some anxiety is felt in theatrical and film circles , where a large proportion of the women workers are young , as to the effect of the Government policy on them . It is probable that special arrangements will be made , the Ministry says . Several Plans in Operation Several schemes already are in operation to make full use of women in war activities . Nearly 40 Government training centers where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and 43 employers ' works , women are being trained beside men to do more or less skilled work . Women also are replacing male gardeners called into the military services . Arrangements by whiCh women between the ages of 16 and 40 are apprenticed to head gardeners of approved private gardens for six months ' training has been approved by the Ministry of Agriculture and the Royal Horticultural Society . The extensive use of women in the war services is expected to have wide repercussions on their position in postwar society . Many will not be willing to slip back quietly into their old positions in homes . As Mr. Herbert Morrison , Home Secretary , declared not long ago , it is by no means unlikely that when the war has been won , women will demand statutory wages in their capacity as wives . The last war advanced the status of women enormously . This war already seems certain to repeat that experience . Australians Ready MELBOURNE , Australia , Aug. 20 ( in  --  Australia will shortly send overseas its first army of women for noncombatant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ women will act as auxiliaries to existing nursing services and will wear the regular uniforms , but with Australian insignia on the shoulders . Thousands of girls across Australia are registering for service in the new women 's army . Members of this women 's army take on work as transport drivers , signalers , clerks , storekeepers , te legraphers , ambulance drivers , " anti-panic " squads in air raids , and other duties to release men for more active service . In the Army Now OTTAWA , Aug. 20 ( CP ) ? These are a few of the things barred in the new Canadian Women 's Army Corps ? " conspicuous " make-up , highly colored nail polish , bracelets , earrings , or " trinkets . " Hand bags , umbrellas , and canes also are prohibited under C. W. A. C. regulations recenty made public by Defense Minister J. L. Ralston . The only rings allowed will be wedding and signet rings , or engagement rings after an officer or volunteer has received permission to marry from her district officer commanding . Here are a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well above the collar . Gloves when not worn must be carried and not tucked into belt or shoulder strap . Jackets must not be worn unbuttoned , and can be taken off only on informal occasions such as working in an office . The haversack which will replace a handbag will be worn with a sling over the right shoulder , with sling for the water bottle over the left . Uniforms for officers and other ranks will be similar in design and detail . As in the Army , officers on appointment or promotion will receive an allowance for uniform and equipment . Wife Aids Marshal MONTREAL , Aug. 20 ( CP ) ? Lady Bowhill , wife of Air Chief Marshal Sir Frederick Bowhill , has arrived in Canada to take up a post under her husband in the Royal Air Force Ferry Command . Lady Bowhill , who has the rank of Flight Officer , will be in command of three other members of the Women 's Auxiliary Air Force , working in the code office of Sir Frederick 's command , which he assumed recently . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lady Bowhill said women were facing up to their immediate problems splendidly . " They have an opportunity for service , have accepted that , and have not been found wanting . "                     