@@709835

txt ' Round and ' round the " gloomygo-round " of livestock producers , slaughterers , packers , wholesalers , retailers , restaurants , and consumers  --  with pressure mounting rapidly , and officials grabbing for that " hard-to-resich ring " of OPA ceiling prices  --  but with everyone feeling he 's ' getting nowhere fast . ; That about summed up the meat situation in New England today . Latest official move came from Governor Tobin who today advocated Federal seizure of meat slaughtering plants and the Government purchase of hogs and cattle . Quick Action Vital He further warned that unless such action was taken at once , he would call for immediate abolition of all ceilings on meat products . Describing conditions as " intolerable , " the Governor added that " there are strong indications that forces are at work against the interests of the general public . " At the same time , Representative John W. McCoimack ( D ) of Massachusetts wired Paul A. Porter , OPA Administrator , urging that " price control on meats and scarce food items should be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the heels of the calling of an official hearing of the Committee of the House of Representatives to Investigate Food Shortages in the Gardner Auditorium at the State House next Monday by Representative Christian A. Herter ( R ) of Massachusetts . All Federal agencies which have anything to do with the meat situation will be directed to send official representatives to the hearing , Representative Herter stated . Meat packers , slaughterers , wholesalers , retailers , hotelmen , and leather dealers also will be invited to testify , he added . Packing Plants Close Meantime , several Greater Boston packing plants had closed down entirely today . Officials were gloomy about prospects of early openings . Other plants and scores of wholesalers and retailers were reported to be operating on drastically curtailed schedules . As a result , hundreds of workers already have been thrown out of work . Prospects were that more will follow shortly if meat is not forthcoming quickly . Idle workers today were facing the same Government which has forced them out of jobs with the prospect of paying them unemployment compensation  --  another @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now out of jobs .                     