@@709499

txt With the coal industry and railroads passing through a series of strike crises and last-minute reprieves , and with new strikes and organizational drives threatening , the American labor movement . is viewed here as standing at a cntical crossroads . Here are the alternatives : The miners , rail workers , and other unionists in industries " affected with the . public interest " can heed the President 's pleas that they keep working , after Government seizure , until labor-management mediation produces a satisfactory settlement . In that case , labor will avoid the penalties of drastic congressional curbing legislation . Other Alternative Or  --  the miners , the rail workers , the maritime unionists now threatening to tie up the nation 's shipping , and ether labor groups can refuse to work until demands are met fully , thus disorganizing production and transportation and stifling recovery . In this situation , the nation will have before it the proportions of a general strike such as Britain underwent after World War I. And in this situation , labor will call down upon itself the sternest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now indicated in the Lucas bill before Congress . The bill introduced by Senator Scott W. Lucas ( D ) of Illinois would penalize heavily any labor leader or unionist who brought about a strike in any industry which the President had proclaimed as " essential " to public health , safety , or security . Hopeful Outlook Currently , there is hopefulness on one front : the railroads . Presidential advisers today continued separate conferences with leaders of the brotherhoods and carriers anticipating bringing the two " very soon " into direct negotiations . Eben Ayers , assistant White House Press Secretary said he did not think joint conferences ? designed to reach a settlement prior to Thursday 's strike deadline  --  could be resumed before to . morrow , A virtual presidential promise of better wage terms than the emergency fact-finding boards originally authorized , seems to have assured that the rail unions wo n't walk out again while unionoperator negotiations are under way . The rail unions are conservative in temper . They have a general record of strike abstinence under the model Railway Labor Act . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wage fact-finding pay increase under the Act seemed insufficient , a threat of strike brought a concession of higher wages . President Roosevelt " upped " the rail wages after a fact-finding survey under the Act during the war . President Truman as much as indicated he would back a similar increase of the engineers and trainmen returned to work . The second point of the rail dispute  --  rules of train operation to which the unions object  --  can , it is felt , be settled easily by negotiation once the wage question is harmonized . A rail union high official has declared the strike never would have beert threatened if the rail- roads had been willing to grant an increase of 181z cents an hour ? such as the auto workers won ? instead of the 16 cents recommended by the Government fact-finding board . As for the bituminous coal strike , some Administration officials felt the coal operators should be asked to resume negotiations by presenting a counterproposal to John L. Lewis ' demand for a union-administered welfare fund . This counterproposal , it was declared , should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ previous suggestion that they would agree to a union-management fund to fit only " hardship cases , " and to be administered by some such agency as the Red Cross . A Government labor official , who asked to remain anonymous , said Mr. Lewis and the soft coal operators now feel that further efforts to negotiate a contract would be fruitless . Seizure action depends , however . he said , on the willingness of both sides to co-operate in running the mines and eventually working out a contract with Government help , the Associated Press reported . Basically , Mr. Lewis and the operators still are locking horns over two issues : the welfare fund , and unionization of mine foremen . Both issues seem to the operators and to Mr. Lewis to be more fundamental  --  for future control of the coal industry  --  than the question o ; wages , which can be settled by simply passing the higher wage costs on to the public in the form of higher coal costs . forces in the Senate , which have been conducting a semifilibuster against labor legislation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ legislation would dissipate . What Congress May Do Secondly , if strikes continue to be an issue , sane congressional viewpoints may consider that it is high time , even though it is an election year , to balance up the Wagner Act by legislation requiring employees as well as employers to bargain collectively , and by improving the quality of Government mediation and conciliation services . Finally , if strikes and disputes further disrupt production until the nation is in the grip of what approaches closely the proportions of a " general strike , " Congress may move to affix stern penalties upon unionists who resort to strikes instead of continued mediation in enterprises affected with the public interest . In this direction , the Lucas bill ( or amendment to the Case bill ) would direct the President  --  whenever any kind of work stoppage resulting from a labor dispute interrupted " the supply of goods or services essential to the public health , safety , or security to such an extent as to impair the public interest to proclaim this fact and call upon disputants to resume operations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the properties and operate them , while negotiations continued . Workers who then struck would lose their status as employees under the Wagner Act , and their seniority rights . Union leaders who then encouraged or abetted a strike would be fined $5,000 or one year in prison . Lewis Silent on Wages Mr. Lewis has refrained from stating what wage increases he would demand , but reports are that he would ask an increase in hourly wages sufficient to bring miners ' pay for 36 hours ' work up somewhere near the $63 they received for 54 hours during wartime . Basic hourly rate in the mines is now $1 . The operators ' offer of $1.1814 presumably does not meet Mi . Lewis ' demand . With the current trend of strikes and labor-management crises threatening to continue , Congress remains in a mood of ready determination to pass corrective legislation . A shipping tie-up by Congress of Industrial Organization unions on both seacoasts is likely by the middle of June . Both the C. I. 0 . and the American Federation of Labor may disrupt production further in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in textiles , chemicals , lumber , and office employees . Congress seems ready to go in one of three ways , depending on the severity of labor strife . First , if all strikes should be settled soon ? an unlikely outcome , as viewed from here  --  the pro-labor                     