@@709076

txt Bound for Europe with its flight deck transformed into a football gridiron and its lockers bulging with food , the U. S. aircraft carrier Enterprise left Boston for Southampton on its first voyage as a converted troop carrier to bring G. I. 's home from the European theater . Two and one half hours ahead of schedule , the American Airlines System flagship London landed at Hanscom Field , Bedford at 12:38 p. m. , inward bound from England , with one passenger for Boston . Requests from Maine and New Hampshire civic organizations that the submarine U. S. S. Sailfish , formerly the Squalus. be retained as a war memorial are being considered by the Navy , James V. Forrestal , Secretary of the Navy , stated . National : Ford Asks C. I. 0 . Work Guarantee The Ford Motor Company asked the C. I. 0 . United Automobile Workers Union for a guarantee of security against work stoppages and declared that this is not the time to settle upon a general wage increase . Page 11.1 In Europe : 40 Top Dachau Nazis Go @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Camp went on trial before a United States Military Government General Court in Dachau . Finland 's war crimes trial of eight accused men , headed by former President Ryti. opened in Helsinki . Hjalmar Procope , former Finnish Minister to Washington . is chief defense counsel . Basil O'Connor , Chairman of the American Red Cross . was unanimously elected President of the Board of Governors of the League of Red Cross Societies by delegates from 52 nations meeting in Paris . Lucila Godoy Y Alcayaga , Chilean poet who writes under the name of Gabriella Mistral , has been awarded the 1945 Nobel Prize in literature , it was officially announced in Stockholm . Washington : Delay in USES Shift Is Urged Secretary of Commerce Wallace declared it " would be particularly unfortunate " to over-hasten the return of the United States Employment Service to the states . He spoke to a Senate labor subcommittee which ' is considering a bill to return the service to the states by June 30 , 1947 . The Office of Censorship closed its doors for the last time as Byron Price , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to make a final report . At its wartime peak the office had 14,500 employees . Americas : Coalition Against Perim Is Voted Argentine 's radical party voted to join a coalition , against the presidential campaign of former Vice-President Juan ** The action , alignihg the radicals  --  the country 's largest old-line party  --  with the Socialists and the Communists , was considered a jolt to PerOn 's presidential hopes .                     