@@705438

txt German bombers carried out new heavy raids on the British Isles last night and early today . The Clydeside , which embraces Glasgow , was attacked for the second successive night , but a communique this morning said the raid had not been so heavy as the preceding one , although damage to homes and business premises was reported . The night 's raids were officially said to have been " on a considerable scale " and " spread over most parts of the country . " Several places in Southern Scotland were attacked and raiders were also reported in force along the south coast of England . London received only light , sporadic attacks . The air-raid warning in London sounded shortly after dusk last evening and the alert lasted for many hours . Anti-aircraft guns boomed frequently , drowning out the noise of the occasional bombs . It was officially reported this morning that four German planes had been destroyed during the night . German Losses Increase In this connection it is interesting to note that the number of German night bombers being shot down @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ night and yesterday morning thirteen German planes were destroyed , according to the Air Ministry . Eleven were credited to British fighter machines , one to antiaircraft fire and one to " other means . " What was meant by " other means " was not revealed . In Berlin the Germans reported " startling " new British defenses , including night fighters equipped with individual searchlights , The United Press said , but nevertheless " successful " new attacks on Scotland and the Midlands were announced . D. N. B. , the official news agency , threatened that " not one stone will remain upon another " at Glasgow . Industrial Damage in Glasgow In the Thursday night . attackS , Air Ministry officials reported , the Germans damaged " some " industrial buildings and many houses in the Glasgow area . " Several " fires were started , but they were quickly extinguished , it was said here . Yesterday morning German raiders lit fires in a certain town in Northeastern England , but they were soon brought under control . There were several daylight raids over Britain yesterday @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , seemingly being for reconnaissance rather than bombing . Yesterday one German bombing plane was destroyed off the Welsh coast by a British fighter . Last night a German bomber crashed in Western England and all four members of its crew were killed . Whether the plane was a victim of Royal Air Force night fighters or of the increasingly accurate anti-aircraft fire was not divulged . It was known , however , that night fighters were patrolling the skies in that region and elsewhere . A tabulation of German bombers shot down over this country in the last few weeks provides interesting speculation for those who wonder about the problem of combating night bombing . According to the official count , one German plane was destroyed on the night of March 1 , one on March 3 , three on March 4 , eight on March 10 , nine on March 12 and thirteen ( and possibly fourteen ) on March 13 . The monthly German airplane losses since last Fall were given as follows : October , twenty - seven ; November , twenty-four ; December , ten ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ raiding weather was good last night over the Strait of Dover . Over that short stretch of water there was a clear starry sky and a brisk northeast wind , with a thin mist in mid-Channel .                     