@@709719

txt llides and leathers moving into New England tanneries and shoe plants apparently have averted crisis which already had affected 20,000 of the area 's 80,000 shoe workers . Page 21 A recount of votes cast in New Hampshire 's gubernatorial Republican primary appeared certain as the official tabulation shOwed that Gov . Charles M. Dale was renominated over Representative Sherman Adams ( R ) of New Hampshire by only 185 votes . Washington : House Group on Trip to Pacific Members of the House Military Affairs Committee took off for a six-week trip to Alaska , the Pacific , and the Far East to study surplus war , property disposition , demobilization , military goyernment.in occupied areas , Army morale , and sites for permanent military bases . A wholesale shake-up of an entire division of the War Assets Administration , including the dismissal of 52 paid consultants , was made public by WAA . Director Robert M. Littlejohn announced that he had ordered " drastic changes " and a reorganization of the electronics division , which handles sales of surplus radio and radar equipment . National @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scarce in the United States " long before there is a comparable scarcity in other important producing areas , " Secretary of the Interior J. A. Krug told the Interstate Oil Compact Commission at Grand Rapids , Mich . This will come about , he said , because while the United States has about one sixth of the world 's resources , it is producing and using about two thirds of the world ' oil . " The Tears of St. Lawrence , " known to astronomers as the Perseids meteors , will flash across the sky during a week-end performance which is expected to reach its maximum brilliance Sunday night , Dr. Roy K. Marshall of the Franklin Institute , reported . The best time for amateurs and professional astronomers to view them will be between midnight ( E. S. T. ) Sunday night and 4 a. m . Monday , he said . in Europe : Berlin Election Set for Oct. 20 The Allied Kommandantur gave its approval to a temporary constitution for Berlin and adopted procedure for the city 's first postwar election to be held Oct. 20 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Four U. S. Marines held off an attack by approximately 50 Chinese on a coal train , 60 miles northeast of Tientsin , Marine headquarters in Peiping said . There were no U. S. casualties . 