@@706080

txt The Victory Program is now unfolding with a vengeance . President Roosevelt himself within the next 30 days will announce some aspects of it , especially those bearing on the armament production requited of this country if Hitler is to be defeated Officials who have been assisting in preparation of this aspect of the program are talking in terms of spending $3t2 billion a month for munitions or of using 40 , ; - of the national income for this purpose . These statements indicate an annual outlay of $40 billion to $50 billion Military Strategy Aspect Dlselo ' . ed Another aspect of the Victory Program ? the whole military strategy aspect  --  was unceremoniously unfolded for the Administration yesterday by the Chicago Tribune , the New York Daily News and the Washington TimesHerald . These newspapers printed an exchange of correspondence between President Roosevelt and the Joint Army-Navy Board . highest planning agency in the military departments . This correspondence , as quoted in the story , copyrighted by the Chicago Tribune and the New York Daily News , showed that : President Roosevelt on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " in exploring with the Navy " the over-all production requirements required to defeat our potential enemies . " The Joint Board in its reply declared that Japan must be held in check , " that militarily Russia will be impotent by the second half of 1942 , " that " Germany and her European satellites can not be defeated by the European powers now fighting against her , " and that " it will be necessary for the United States to enter the war .. . offensively in the Eastern Atlantic and in Europe and Africa . " To perform its mission the United States , according to the Joint Board , will need armed forces totaling 10.045,658 men divided as follows : 1,100.000 in the Navy . 150,000 in the Marine Corps , 6.745,658 in the Army ground force , and 2,050,000 in the Army air force . Air and ground forces can not be prepared " for ultimate decisive modern combat before July 1 , 1943 due to shortages of essential equipment . " In a section on shipping , the Joint Board estimated that 5 million men @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ million gross tons would be necessary of which 7 million tons would be employed for one year in taking the men abroad To maintain this force would require 10 million tons of shipping . This news story drew from the White House no denial but accusations of unpatriotic disclosure of military information . On the floor of the House of Representatives the chairman of the Appropriations Committee , its ranking Re , publican member and the chairman of the Military Affairs Committee conceded the accuracy of the facts reported in the news story . President sident to Supply Details The ViCtoty ? gram now being divulged follows roughly the outlines sketched in The Wall Street Journal on September 13 . October 20 and October 29 Some portions of that sketch have not yet been filled in officially , but the President himself is expected to supply them . Some of President Roosevelt 's advisers have expected him to divulge at least a part of the Victory Program before this . They believe he would have done so if the Japanese situation had not diverted his attention and his energies . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very soon . " He must give the word . He must say , ' This is what we are going to do ' , " one high official explained . If he does not make this kind of statement before , he certainly will in his annual message to Congress early next month . What he will reveal at that time will be the portion of the Victory Program which was most lightly touched upon in yesterday 's news . It will be the munitions-making , rather than the manpower side , of the problem of beating Hitler . Emphasis Still on Munitions Although the Joint Army-Navy Board apparently has concentrated on telling the President how large an Army and Navy the United States would have to raise to beat Hitler , the President himself seems most absorbed in making the munitions for this Army . He still appears to believe that Rilissians , Britons or Chinese , rather than Americans , will use these munitions against Germany . The munitions-making part of the Victory Program has been planned without any allowance for an increase in the manpower in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ high officials are emphatic . Architects of the Victory Program have counted upon an ample labor supply throughout the performance of the program . This basic assumption would be untenable . they admit , if the armed forces of the United States were to be increased in size much beyond their present limits . About 37,100 tanks and upwards of 50,000 planes annually are among the items in the Victory Program . Ships guns . ammunition . vehicles and a wide array of other munitions are covered . Shortly atter its reply to the President 's letter of July P. the Joint Board evidently sub mitted a list of the specific munitions which defeat of Hitlei would require This was called by officials is ho saw it " a dream list . " In collabia ation with the Army and Navy they have now won ked it down to t ealizahle size , and it is " the goal " which the President is expected to proclaim . Program Mnj Bring Inflation Its size and its impact on civilian life are t elle ( ted cn official predictions that it will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more of the nation 's industrial capacity A progearn of this size may bring Inflation even though present high taxes are doubled , and it would leave something less than the 1032 volume of goods for support 01 civilian life If on top of this program the United States must raise an armed force of 10 million , other react C11- ' , S10/IS nov. considered i emote , would be inevitable , officials admitted yesterday Vinous officials yesterday foresaw these possibilities Food rationing would follow because manpower would he diverted from farms to factories and military set vice . Labor registration and compulsory service in net essary industries as is now practiced : r Eegland would be probable Taxes would be at least double , but the Tren-ut y a ould be lot ( ed to turn to outright borrowing from the banks in an inflatior. , n y manner Such a strict system of rationing would be necessary , however . that monetary inflation might be of little significance A system of rationing capital and of scrutinizing the uses to which corporation and private savings are put probably would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Secretary Stimson , as quoted in the copyrighted story . asked merely for a production goal . He wrote " I wish that you , or appropriate representatives designated by you , would join with the Secretary of the Navy a Frank Knox 1 and his representatives in exploring at once the over all production requirements required to defeat our potential enemies . " 1 realize that this report involves the making of appropriate assumptions as to our probable friends and enemies and the conceivable theaters of operation which will be required . I wish you would explore the munitions and mechanical equipment of all types , which , in your opinion , would be required to exceed by an appropriate amount that which is available to our potential enemies . " From your report we should be able to establish a munitions objective indicating the industrial capacity which this nation will require . I am not suggesting a detailed report but one that . while general in scope would cover the most critical items in our defense . and which could then be translated by the O.P.I. into practical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Outlook In reply the Joint Board gave him an elaoorate estimate of the military and political outlook which said in part-The Joint Board is convinced that the first major objective of the ' United States and its associates should be the complete military defeat of Germany " An inconclusive peace between Germany-and her present active military enemies would be likely to give Germany an opportunity to reorganize Continental Europe and replenish her strength . Ei.en though the Si lush Commonwealth and Russia were completely defeated . there would be important reasons for the United States to continue the war against Germany in spite of the gi eatly um:teased difficulty of obtaining final victory . " Flom this it follows that the principal strategic method employed by the United Stitt% in the immediate future should be the material support of the present military opexations against . Germany and their reenforcemen by active participation in the war by the United States , while holding Japan in check pending future developments . Necessarily only small Army contingents are now sufficiently equipped and trained for immediate participation in offensive operations " Except in the case @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in naves ' and air categories . Naval and air power may prevent wars from being lobt and by weakening the enemy 's strength may greatly contribute to victory By themselves . however , naval and air forces seldom , if ever , win important wars It should be recognized as an almost invariable rule that only land armies can likely win wars Economic Blockade Important " It is out of the question to expect the United States and its associates to undertake in the near future a substantial and successful land offensive against the center of the German power . It being obvious that the associated powers can not defeat Germany by defensive operations . effective strategic offensive methods other than an early land offensive in Europe must be employed . " These methods may be found in a continuation of the economic blockade : the prosecution of land offensives in distant regions where German troops can excel only with a fraction of their total strength ; air and sea offensives against Germany 's military , economic and industrial resources : and the support of subversive activity in the conquered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ air and ground , will not be prepared for ultimate decisive modern ' combat before July 1 , 1943. due to the shortage of essential equipment . " The report also discusses the number of airplanes which would be necessary to attack Germany . the number and location of appropriate air bases for the attack , the means for holding Japan in check , the progressive military steps to defeat of Germany . the number of American troops needed to garrison overseas bases and the estimated strength of the German armed forces . The air intelligence section appended a sort of dissenting opinion in which it indicated that air attack might be sufficient to win the war , according to the copyrighted story .                     