@@708754

txt INDIANS IN ACCORD ON WAVELL BASIS Viceroy 's Plan for a Regime Almost Entirely Native --  Is Accepted by Conferees By TILLMAN DURDIN By Wireless to Trios Nzw YORE TIMES . SIMLA , India , June 26 ? Today 's conference between the Viceroy , Field Marshal Viscount Wavell , and Indian political leaders is authoritatively understood to have agreed to the overall acceptance of , the Wavell plan for the formation of a new central government for India almost entirely Indian in composition . This acceptance of the main principle of the Wavell proposals represents a big stride toward a successful outcome for the " little round table " sessions here and hopes are high that full accord will be reached . Difficult problems remain to be settled , however , and these may still wreck the conference . Probably the main unsolved problem is the allocation of posts in the new government among the various political and religious groups . In accepting the Wavell proposals , the conference members agreed on parity between caste Hindus and Moslems in the new government , but it is still @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Mohammed Ali Jinnah 's Moslem League or whether all caste Hindus will be representatives of the Congress party . Other Problems Canvassed After assembling at 11 o'clock this morning , the conference ad- ' journed at 12:30 and issued a brief statement saying provisional agreement had been reached on certain main principles and that the conference had adjourned to enable the delegates to consider the rem-ining problems in private discussions outside the conference chamber . It was decided to meet again tomorrow morning . This afternoon the Congress party delegates conferred with Mohandas K. Gandhi and Moslem League leaders held separate talks . Later Pandit Govind Vallabh Pant , one of the Congress party delegates , visited Mr. Jinnah in the latter 's hotel room , where it is assumed the problem of apportioning posts in the new government was discussed . In addition to accepting the Wavell plan providing for equal numbers of caste Hindus and Moslems among the Ministers of the proposed new Government , it was ( learned , the conference agreed on other important points , all stated outright or implied in Viscount , Wavell 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the new Government 's Cabinet or Executive Council , as it is called , would // make a declaration on assuming office , asserting its determination to prosecute the war against Japan with all possible energy . It was agreed that full attention and cooperation would be given to the tasks of post-war development and the problem of working out a long-term solution of India 's political problems and creating a new permanent Constitution . Party Ties Are Modified It was determined that , if a new government were formed , its members would be responsible to the Viceroy and not to their respective parties or their working committees . This means that , even if the Ministers should take actions not approved by their parties , they could continue to hold their posts as long as they had the confidence of the Viceroy . To mollify Congress party opposition to the use of the term caste Hindus , it was said , the Viceroy had agreed to the use of the words " Hindus other than representatives of scheduled classes " in the Government 's references to Hindus classed above @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ party representing Untouchables , Moslems , Sikhs and other communities , as well as Hindus , and the term caste Hindus tends to identify it with the upper stratum of Hindus only . The prospect now is good that the Waxen conference will succeed and that the sessions will end soon , perhaps tomorrow . All will depend on the political horse-trading now going on with regard to the apportionment of ministry jobs . - The Congress party leaders appear anxious for agreement and are likely to go a long way to satisfy the Moslem League . Indian industrialists with Congress party leanings are strongly urging a settlement . They are interested in insuring peaceful political and social conditions under a central Government with a considerable Indian complexion that would facilitate their going ahead with plans for post-war industrial developments in India in concert with British business and finance . Congress party leaders also realize that their position in the country now is weak and they seem to feel that participation in an interim Government  --  even one in which final power still remains completely with the British  --  is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the conference delegates said Congress party representatives were asking for the full release of political prisoners , thousands of whom are still in jail , and particularly the lifting of all bans on the activities of the AllIndia Congress Committee . It is possible that the Congress party leaders will submit any agreements reached at Simla to the All-India Committee for approval before entering the new Government .                     