@@708224

txt It was just hard slugging again today along the whole American First Army front , with gains of varying depths , none of them spectacular . Today , however , the sun shone brightly all day , and our air force made up for yester- ' day 's almost ? total blank with , terrific onslaughts on every sort , of target from assemblies of German infantry to moving railroad trains . Our aircraft did especially deadly work against enemy artillery with the aid of the teamwork technique that now has been brought to perfection . Again and again our artillery observers , riding in spotting planes low over the battlefield , located enemmy batteries as the flashes of their guns betrayed them . Our observers radioed the positions to our guns , which then fired a burst of colored smoke on the enemy batteries . That marked them for our fighter bombers circling overhead , and they dived down and bombed them to glory . Teamwork Perfected The effect of this strafing became apparent late in the day . The volume of German artillery fire slackened @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ active of any day on this front . Various infantry units under Lieut . Gen. Courtney H. Hodges ' command crept through the woods in Indian style or fought street by street through villages . They added a few more square miles of woodland and a few more wrecked hamlets to the ground we have taken from the Germans . And these places now falling to our troops are almost as badly bat- ' tered as the Normandy villages . We are finding them entirely evacuated by the civilian population . Germans are still living in the villages that we overran earlier , however , and that now are in or just behind our front line . It was interesting to watch them today in one village flanked and backed by our artillery . Our guns were roaring so the civilians stuffed their fingers in their ears . At the same time our aircraft were circling and peeling off , one by one , to dive down and bomb German positions just over the next ridge in full view of the villagers . They watched this destruction of their own countrymen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Troops Inferior The greatest advance today was in the same area around Gressenich where some of our infantry lunged ahead 2,000 yards yesterday . Those troops , " buttoned up " to hold their gains , were joined today by another unit under a husky young captain , Edward R. Crawford of Sommerworth , N. H. , who only two days ago took the place of an injured major . With the verve equal to that of the entomologist ? the lieutenant colonel who was the leader of yesterday 's best advance ? Captain Crawford took his men farther into stiff enemy defenses today . Every hundred yards that our men push forward shows more clearly the Germans had hoped to hold us up and tie us down here for the winter . Every advance brings our men up against more mines and barbed wire and pillboxes . But the Germans manning these positions are inferior troops  --  the better-grade ones probably are in reserve positions if the Germans are following their usual practice . These troops began surrendering more easily today and there may be ground for hope that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ There was another interesting discovery today . American doughboys fighting into the pillboxes in a region that can roughly be located south of Wuerselen found them manned by only three or four men each instead of the usual twenty to thirty . This made the soldiers wonder whether the Germans were preparing to withdraw . Such armor as we have employed has functioned well despite the soggy ground . The Germans have hardly shown their armor . Today they sent out their armor twice , however , each time unsuccessfully . German tanks sent to counterattack troops on the left of our line were stopped cold and forced by infantry to withdraw . This morning five enemy tanks ventured out to support one of the Germans ' rare counter-attacks against our infantry in the vicinity of Stolberg . Our artillery opened up on them and at the same time fighter bombers were summoned . All five tanks were knocked out and the German infantrymen were put to flight .                     