@@710727

txt Members of the Joint Congressional Committee on the Economic Report , opening a nation-wide inquiry into the high cost of living , heard consumer and labor spokesmen here criticize the suggested remedy that the country eat less . First of three Congressional subcommittee 's getting to work on the living cost problem from coast to coast , the eastern group headed by Senator Ralph E. Flanders ( R ) of Vermont was told by left-wing groups including the Congress of Industrial Organizations and American Veterans Committee that Federal price controls should be immediatley reinstalled . The more moderate local American Federation of Labor , with 35,000 members in this area , : ecornmended a Congressional investigation into the Robinson-Patman Anti-Discrimination Act , which an AFL spokesman said , " lends itself to price manipulation : ' The AFL witness reserved his judgment on the advisability of reviving price control . No Prime Factors Most witnesses said they did not think wages . retail prices , or overseas competition for food were prime factors in the present high cost of food . Mrs. James D. Hedges . President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the price picture had been too chaotic for housewives strikes to have much effect . " But buyers strikes , " she said , " probably have value in focusing public attention on the need for action , although they offer no semblance of a solution to the problem we are facing . " Besides asking investigation of the Patman Act , Arthur P. Patt , Secretary of the Providence AFL Central Federated Union , said management should pass along to the consumer savings in services curtailed by the war and not yet restored . Evidence that the country already is complying with Senator Taft 's admonition to eat less was presented by Frank J. Benti , President of the Rhode Island CIO , who said that factory earnings in Rhode Island had risen 7 per cent since June , 1946 , against a 16 per cent increase in food prices , Consumption of milk , he said , is declining steadily . Evictions are up one third since the end of rent controls and department store sales have fallen 10 per cent in the last year . Not the Answer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said Edward Mandell of the AVC , who described mass production and low prices as the only answer to the nation 's present economic dilemma . From Providence , the subcommittee moves to Boston tomorrow , and will hold hearings for four days next week in New York .                     