@@710031

txt The National Planning Association called today for an end to " blind industrial warfare " and the formation of " a new code of economic group behavior . " This was one of the goals proposed in a " declaration of interdependence " made by the association 's agriculture , business and labor committees at the conclusion of a two-day meeting here with its board of trustees and international committee . The declaration , approved by the trustees of the non-profit , nonpolitical organization , did not go into proposals for legislative action on the labor-management question but emphasized the necessity for increased mutual respect and cooperation to remove the danger of " group conflict . " " The kind of peace we want , " the planners stated , " is peace consistent with the dignity of men . We do not want Government to go beyond the establishment of the rules of the game . " We seek to maximize our settlement of industrial disputes as members of a free society and to minimize Government interference or coercion . " The basis for a new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ separate reports of the business , labor and agricultural committees , incorporated in the general statement . The business representatives ' were : Frank W. Abrams , board chairman of the Standard Oil Company of New Jersey ; Thomas Roy , Jones , president of American Type Founders , Inc. , of Elizabeth , N. J. , and Elmo Roper , marketing con3ultant of New York City . They declared that the major object of management was to operate in the public interest . This , they asserted , involves inContinued creased productivity and consumption and " the greatest possible achievement of employe satisfaction . " " Accordingly , " they stated , " we reject the old master and servant concept of industrial relations . We believe that institutions for promoting workers ' interests must be developed in which they can fully and democratically participate . " We consider it our responsibil , ity to cooperate with the union if and when designated by the work1 ers to represent them and to take I no action to detract from its ' integrity . " Understanding Is Asked Both the business @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for an understanding about the division of functions and responsibilities between management and labor . The labor representatives , Marion H. Hedges , research director of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers and chairman of the joint subcommittee which prepared the report ; Clinton S. Golden , assistant to the president of the United Steel Workers of America , and Solomon Barkin , research director of the Textile Workers Union of America , also emphasized the position of the union " as a real part of the enterprise . " They asserted : The union leader should promote the welfare of the business as well as that of the employes and be prepared to encourage employer am : employe practices which will increase productivity and imf rove the competitive position of the company . The labor representative declared further that " contracts mutually entered into should be mutually binding " and " both parties should seek to administer the contract in a spirit of cooperative understanding of its effects on each other , rather than on a narrow legalistic basis . " Agriculture Declaration The agriculture representatives , in their separate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ six million units , is by its nature committed to full production . " They were Joseph Fichter , master of the Ohio State Grange ; Quentin Reynolds , president of the National Council of Farmer Cooperatives , and Donald R. Murphy , editor of Wallace 's Farmer and Iowa Homestead . The declaration issued jointly by the three groups called for imposition of " the will to peace with freedom " by removal of " that slag of suspicion which fouls up industrial relationships " ; " teamwork in dealing with day-to-day problems " through application of " the concept of the continuous conference table , " and promotion of joint responsibility with the proceeds of greater production at lower unit cost " so distributed that consuming power will remain high and that plant additions and improvements will be made . " " Any management or any union which conceives its responsibilities toward a business or society to extend no further than its own narrow interest is an anachronism and has lost its social usefulness , the planners asserted . The proposal , approved by the trustees , involves the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in discussing the distribution of increased profits among management , labor and stockholders.                     