@@707447

txt The long-desired and long-awaited conference of President Roosevelt , Prime Minister Churchill and Premier Stalin has now taken place , and it has presented us with a new climax to the crowded drama of our days . This conference will have its place " in history because it brought together for the first time the heads of state of the three most powerful nations in the world , which once thought themselves strong enough to pursue independent policies of isolation , but which have now disc covered that in the face of anarchic forces these policies no longer meet either the realities of the situation or the requirements of their own security . If the conference had done nothing more than bring Premier Stalin out of the seclusion a the Kremlin to meet Messrs . Roosevelt and Churchill , who traveled thousands of hazardous miles to clasp hands with him , it would have accomplished much . For , as the conference communiqu ? itself suggests , on these three rests a supreme responsibility for the fate a the world , and their mere meeting becomes a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the meeting has had results which far exceed its token value . It has produced a Declaration of Teheran which is sharp and emphatic in what it says about the war and reassuring in what it says about the peace . The three heads of state declare that they and their military staffs have " concerted plans for the destruction of the German forces " ; that they have " reached complete agreement as to the scope and timing of operations which will be undertaken from the east , west and south , " and that " no power on earth " can prevent the destruction of " the German armies by land , their U-boats by sea and their war plants from the air . " No declaration of warto-the-hilt could be more solemn or categoric . It may be assumed that this emphasis on the military aspect meets the special wishes of Marshal Stalin , who has long pressed for a new front in Europe . But it also meets the wishes and ideas of both Mr. Roosevelt and Mr. Churchill , who have been preparing for a " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , subject to the military possibilities and to the exigencies of the sea and air fronts which are specifically recognized in the Teheran Declaration . Now the issue of a new front has been settled as regards both scope and timing , in addition to which there is mention of a front in the south . This may refer to the Italian front , but it may also mean a new front in the Balkans . And this gives special significance to the conference of President Roosevelt and Prime Minister Churchill with the Turkish resident and Foreign Minister , and to the reported massing of German troops along the Turkish border . It is also noteworthy that the Teheran Declaration goes far beyond the previous Russian stand , as expressed by Premier Stalin and by the " Free Germany " Committee in Moscow , and calls for the " destruction " of the German armies . In short , the Teheran Declaration reaffirms the Casablanca ultimatum of unconditional military surrender . Until this comes the Germans will face only " relentless and increasing attacks " by land , sea and air @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the new concord in military operations will provide the basis for an " enduring peace , " commanding " good-will from the overwhelming masses of the peoples of the world . " It promises that this peace will not be a dictatorship of the Big Powers . For it specifically reaffirms the principles already agreed upon in the Atlantic Charter and the Declara- tions of Moscow  --  the principles which provide for the cooperation and active participation of all , peace-loving nations , large and small , in the establishment of a " world family of democratic nations " and the safeguarding and promotion of international security . That is the one hope which the Declaration holds out to a German people purged of their madmen and their madness , and willing to live in peace and comity with their neighbors and the world .                     