@@709495

txt THE INFLATIONARY SPIRAL was given another twist last week by the rise in prices of automobiles and utility clothing . Railroad rates , according to reports . may also be increased shortly . bringing higher costs throughout industry . If this happens , the pressure for higher wages would be difficult to resist . Already in the first quarter of this year the wages of 2,300.000 working people were increased by some $3,300,000 a week , according to the Ministry of Labor .. If the productive effort were expanding equally with wages , there would be no threat to price stability , but that is not evident . Competition for the limited labor supply is causing maldistribution of workers . The capital goods , building and export industries are absorbing the largest number of workers , leaving a short supply for consumption goods manufacturers . There is also a tendency for labor to drift into such unessential industries as distribution . The working population . at present rates of demobilization , drafting and retirement. , is likely to fall below the 1939 total of 20 million by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ peak . The decrease is largely due to women workers who are retiring from industry at a rate of 100,000 a month . The government continues to rely on pegging the cost of living index with subsidies but even in these austere times there are many goods which are uncontrolled and their cost is rising . If the price spiral is not to get out of hand , the government will be obliged to grasp the nettle of wage control along with price control But so far it balks at this unpopular action . ? BRITAIN ' S ? UNSEASONABLY cold weather is adversely affecting the already precarious coal situation . The Central Electricity Board is unable to build urgently needed stocks of coal for the winter because housewives are using electricity for heating in order to conserve their own small stocks of coal for the winter . Unless coal output increases , many factories may be compelled to close down next winter , causing ' unemployment and slowing down the national recovery , warns Sir Guy Nott-Bower , deputy secretary of the Ministry of Fuel . ? ? ? THE @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ second chamber whose Joh is to revise legislation introduced in Commons when Lord Merthyr could find no one to second his motion to amend the Trade Disputes Repeal Bill. - He wanted to revise the method of taxing unions for the Labor Party 's political fund . Moat ConservatiNes and Liberals feel that this was neither the time nor the occasion for such a gesture by the Lords But , though the noble lords are unwilling to risk a constitutional crisis by challenging the Labor government 's legislative program at this juncture , they continue to perform an educational function . They guide the electorate by the high standard of debate and the wealth of talent and experience always available among the elder statesmen in their ranks . Last week the Lords debated the government 's nationalization policy Against the weight of informed criticism the government spokesman , Lord Winster , was hard pressed to justify nationalization on the grounds that it will produce greater efficiency in industry and transport and is n't merely political dogmatism . There was no satisfactory answer to the query of how the change in ownership @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be employed . ? ? ? THE BRITISH ARE HAVING more trouble liquidating the Empire than they had building up . The Labor government must be given full credit for trying to apply the principles of self-determination to the peoples of the British Empire . Though this policy would make the imperialists of the 1890 's turn in their graves , it must .. be recognized that Britain 's resources today are insufficient to hold the Empire by bayonets even if she wished to do so . From the day Britain began to educate India , Egypt and other parts of the Empire in democratic institutions , it was inevitable that they would ultimately claim the freedom of self-government . The fundamental difficulty in handing India back to self-government is that there never has been a united Indian nation except under the rule of conquerors who invaded India . Today unity between the Moslems and Hindus is completely lacking . If the necessary statesmanship among the Indian leaders is not found , the inevitable sequel will be civil war with some new conqueror ultimately imposing a " Pax Romana " on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 'S STAKE . financially , in India has been much reduced since the war and is estimated today by the Financial Times at between $1 billion and $1.2 billion . Of this $400 million represents pensions to British civil and military services personnel . The rest is British interest in Indian industry and commerce . India 's sterling debt to Britain on public account in 1938 was $1,440,000,000 , which was practically liquidated during the war . Britain 's sterling debt on public account to India today amounts to some $6 billion . The future economic relationships between an independent India and Britain are difficult to assess . If the new government has an anti-British bias . it could discriminate against British goods and capital , but oldestablished trade connections would overcome such bias . India is an enormous potential market for both capital and consumption goods , and there is no reason Britain should not continue to be her main supplier if good will can be established .                     