@@708705

txt Buses of the Fifth Avenue Coach Company were still running from an hour to an hour and a half behind schedules yesterday as drivers continued their slowdown strike in the dispute between the management and the Transport ' Workers Union over the proposed elimination of conductors from double-deck buses . Passengers who hoped to make any time in reaching their destinations were shunning the buses and turning to subways and taxicabs as the bus drivers maintained their snail-like pace up and down the avenue . At Washington Square , southern terminus of the line , buses were arriving in groups of three or four with lapses of more than an hour at times between arrivals . John E. McCarthy , president of the company , said that 295 conductors and approximately as many drivers were participating in the slowdown but added that " I do not know what the cause is . " Harry Sacher , attorney for the union , said the union had not authorized the slowdown . A member of the company 's operating staff said that since the slowdown began buses had run @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ turned back at Fifty-seventh Street for the trip downtown rather than continuing on to the Medical Center at Broadway and 168th Street , Fort Tryon Park and other normal terminals . Traffic patrolmen reported no congestion along Fifth Avenue . This was understandable , despite the slowdown , because of the much lighter automobile traffic on the Avenue on Sunday as compared to weekdays and the fact that only one-fourth as many buses are operated on Sundays as on weekdays , according to a company spokesman . At Washington Square , a woman carrying two heavy bags asked . the driver if she would be able to make Fifth Avenue and Forty-second Street in twenty minutes to catch a train at Grand Central Station . The average time for this run on Sundays is about fifteen minutes . " No , not today , lady , " the driver informed her . As an indication of the effects // of the slowdown on the riding public , a check at Washington Square showed that the bus due at 4:50 P. M. arrived 46 minutes late ; that at 5:40 P. M. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 73 minutes late . While the rainy weather lightened the normal Sunday passenger travel , riders waiting at Washing ! . ton Square stood in the drizzle as much as thirty minutes before they could catch a bus uptown . At the offices of the company queries as to the seriousness of the slowdown were referred to the union office , 153 West Sixty-fourth Street , but no official was reached there . A group of ten buses in bumperto-bumper formation plodded slowly down Fifth Avenue at one time last night , including five No. 5 buses , three No. 3 's and four No. 4 's . In the meantime passengers had been lined up patiently awaiting the arrival of even one bus . Three buses took off from Twenty-third Street and Fifth Avenue at practically the same time for Jackson Heights ignoring the required eight-minute headway on Sunday schedules . Some drivers were stopping at blocks that are not specified bus stops , which according to the police is contrary to Office of Defense Transportation regulations . One driver insisted that the dispute did not hinge entirely on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ although this was one of the main issues . Another , he said , was a demand by drivers that the company stick to an eight-hour day instead of compelling drivers to work overtime , although they are paid for it . The company , he said , has refused consistently to employ additional drivers to eliminate the overtime . Other drivers , when questioned , said they did not know what the slowdown was about . Both management and union were ordered last April by the War Labor-Board to make some sort of a settlement in their argument - over the elimination of conductors . Unless the union agrees to oneman operation of the double-deckers , the company has declared itself as prepared to operate only single-deck coaches . Conductors more than 60 years of age would be pensioned , it is understood , and other berths found for those taken off as fare collectors .                     