@@706103

txt This city begins to look and art like any European city under attack . Trenches hate been due in parks and along beaches . Barbed wire barricades have been erected in many places , Sentries with fixed bayonets are everywhere . Army trucks race through the streets with machine guns and rifles poking over the sides . Sandbagged posts guard important buildings and intersections . Night life has been more thoroughly blacked out than in any European city , including London , Paris and Berlin , that this writer l  --  as seen . Actually the blackout is ? , 0 complete that civilian life ends with nightfall . People cat dinner about 5 p. m. and spend the balance of the evening in their houses . Complete Blackout In London and Berlin blackouts and night regulations have been adjusted to permit the continuance of relatively normal night life . But here the use of a pocket flashlight or a match is likely to bring a bullet . The movies all close be , fore clark as also do public meeting places such as restaurants . Only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at all times here equals what happens in Berlin only when an actual raid is in progress . A dinner invitation must include sleeping accommodations for the night to be acceptable This is likely to be moderated eventually , but i ight now here is a large American city more fully protected at night than anything in Europe . The impact of war on daily civilian life can be seen everywhere . There are lines before food stores already , but this is due rather to the process of the civilian adjustment rationing system , which prohibits buying more than the normal quantity of supplies from your regular grocer than to any real shortage . So far only hoarding and multiple store food shopping are prohibited . Cars are still being used extensively by civilians but gasoline stations are already limited to providing only half-full tanks and further restrictions on civilian driving is inevitable when gas stations exhaust their present supplies . Lamps on most cars already have been painted black . Repeated exhortations have been made over the radio to cut driving to the absolute minimum . Some plantations already @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for a shift to food staples in recognition of the obvious necessity for the revision of the whole agriculture of the Islands . The Mends are capable of meeting most of their domestic food needs if the arable land is planted with staples instead of with crops for mainland sale . Until now most of the food consumed here has been imported and most of the Island 's agricultural products exported . Most people naturally expected a repetition of last Sunday 's attack but as yet it has not been repeated . No one as yet is indulging in the repetition of the prewar assumption that Hawaii is unattackable btit there is also a general confidence that the enemy must pay a tar heavier price if he tries an ' other attack here . The civilian morale is realy excellent , while morale of the military forces makes one proud of being an American . It is superlative .                     