@@710845

txt Mayor O'Dwyer made public yesterday a letter from Dr. Edward M. Bernecker , Commissioner of Hospitals , declaring that a serious shortage of personnel for care of patients required the filling of 7,608 positions in the near future at an estimated annual cost of $13,740 , - 1950 . The letter , dated last Thursday , was made public only a week after the Mayor had released Dr. Ber1 necker 's letter reporting " desperately overcrowded " conditions in the city 's hospitals and other municipal institutions under jurisdiction of the department . On Thursday the City Planning Commission , in making public its proposed 1948 capital budget , also stressed the need for new hospital buildings and suggested that legislation be sought at Albany to permit the city to issue $150,000,000 of bonds outside the debt limit to finance a " must " program . New Drive for Fare Rise Seen . Dr. Bernecker 's second letter was seen as confirmation of reports that the Mayor was planningl a renewed campaign for a higher fare on the municipal transit lines to help the city finance both @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ severely handicapped by constitutional limitations upon municipal borrowing power and power to levy upon real estate for expense budget purposes other than debt service . It was reliably reported that the Mayor would seek within the next month or two the united support of all important political parties for a plan to increase the transit fare in order to remove from the expense budget the burden of transit operating deficits and perhaps release for general capital purposes some or all of the $416,000,000 of additional borrowing power now tied up by the transit debt service deficit of $57,000,0000 . Persons in close touch with the situation predicted that the Mayor would take a hand in the situation soon on the basis of the Bernecker letters and data showing the strangling effect of the five-cent fare bottleneck upon other essential city services . As reported on Friday , the leaders of the Liberal and American Labor parties are prepared soon after Election Day to " re-examine " their stand against a fare rise if so requested by the Mayor . The reexamination , which would not be a commitment , would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when the Mayor and the Board of Estimate dropped temporarily a move to get a fare rise referendum on tomorrow 's ballot . Publication of the report drew from Ben Davidson , executive director of the Liberal party , a declaration that " reports that the Liberal party has reconsidered its position on the five-cent fare are completely untrue . " In the face of rising costs of living , the statement said , " it would take the most serious and detailed evidence for a change of our views on the fivecent fare . " No such evidence has been submitted to the party leadership , he said . A representative of Mr. Davidson deplored publication of the report a few days before election . At state headquarters of the ALP it was said that there was no foundation for reports that the party leadership was ready to reexamine its position on the fare . The problem would be dealt with , an unidentifed spokesman declared , " if and when it arises . " A recheck disclosed , however , that leaders in both the Liberal arid Labor parties @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Mayor 's request , and with it their own stand on the five-cent ; fare . No representative of either party has as yet taken the stand that a fare rise would be opposed regardless of the effect of a continued nickel fare upon the city 's ability to meet demands for justified pay rises , sorely-needed additional personnel and vital new capital projects , such as schools , hospitals , health centers and the like . While it is not yet known whether the Mayor will go along with the City Planning Commis ; sion 's view that a completely self ; sustaining fare is " imperative , " it : is known that he agrees with its ; general finding that the city must choose between getting desperately ; needed new hospitals and retaining the five-cent fare with its heavy demands on city funds . Dr. Bernecker 's most recent letter informed the Mayor that it was " a matter of gravest concern that our patients can not receive with our present nurse limitations the nursing care that they should have to make them comfortable and to hasten @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the letter declared , causes a further ratiorting of nurses ' time , so that patients are receiving less and less nursing care in city institutions . To make matters worse , Dr. Bernecker declared , the inadequate force of nurses is required to give increasing detailed attention to patients undergoing treatment involving technical procedures unknown a decade ago . The abbreviated nursing care now being given , he cautioned , must not be misinterpreted as a sign of neglect on the part of ? physicians and nurses . The nurses , he warned , must soon be relieved of the many extraneous activities now forced upon them by the lack of clerical and other non-professional- employe . " We now have 6,071 authorized professional nurse positions " the letter declared . " Actually only 3,866 of these are filled by nurses . There are 1,768 hospital attendants on nurse lines and 437 actual nurse line vacancies . There are 761 authorized jobs for practical nurse and 2,029 for hospital attendant . ' " The Hospitals Department , according to the letter , must soon have 750 practical nurses and , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 421 ward clerks , 854 full-time and 120 part-time hospital helpers for Ward housekeeping and 329 chief and head nurses to reduce supervisory load and improve supervision of workers assigned to patient care . " This adds up to a total of 7,608 additional jobs for patient care , supplementary service and supervision , " the letter declared . " This is estimated to cost $13,740,950 annually . " I realize that particularly in view of the city 's stringent financial circumstances these figures May seem astronomical , but because of the very grave situation , may I strongly urge upon you the early consideration of these recommendations . Only in this way can we insure our patients a standard of nursing care consonant with the high quality of medical practice in our hospitals . "                     