@@708253

txt A halfbillion-dollar building program to increase facilities for mortar ammunition production was disclosed today by J. A. Krug , chairman of the War Production Board , who told reporters that " excellent progress " was being made in overcoming the lag in production of critical items for the armed services . He added that the trend among workers to go from war plants to peace-time jobs had been halted in key centers of production in the East and Midwest , and that hundreds of employes who had left were returning to their war jobs in response to Government pleas . The present tempo of the war , particularly the speeding up of the campaign against Japan , Mr. Krug ' added , forced a reconsideration of plans for reconversion after Germany 's defeat . Under the revised program , which he said should be ready for announcement late this month , resumption of construction as well as the production of consumers ' durable goods , particularly automobiles , will be delayed " for some time " after Germany 's collapse . " Top " Needs Are Listed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cotton duck as the three " top urgency " production programs at the present time . Output of heavy artillery shells , he said , had shown satisfactory gains , as a result of the WPB 's efforts to expand such production . Conferences held this week with representatives of the tire industry , Mr. Krug said , had resulted in programs which should increase tire output in the first quarter of the corning year by 179,000 units with the use of the present labor supply and facilities . He added that the industry could produce 800,000 additional tires if it could recruit 3,500 additional male workers and a larger number of women work , ers for major plants . If the extra workers could be obtained , he said , military tire production in the first quarter of 11945 could be brought within 200 , - 000 of the 3,000,000-tire require-1 ment set by the armed services . The 179,000 increase , he continued , was being obtained through more efficient use of facilities and by arranging for overtime and Sunday work on the part of tirecompany employes . Cotton-Duck @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a group of representatives of the cotton-duck industry trying to solve the labor , pricing and yarn-price problems which have handicapped production of materials for Army tents which are critically needed . Mr. Krug said that the war agency was also completing arrangements for using textile mills in liberated areas of France and Belgium to produce quantities of duck for the armed services . An output of six million yards of duck a month was expected from the European plants when they got into operation , he said . In addition , Mr. Krug said , the Army was now experimenting with portable steel structures as substitutes for tents and if these were found to be feasible some of the pressure for duck would be lifted . No other solution than the building of additional facilities had been found for solving the infantry mortar ammunition problem , the WPB chairman said , and his agency therefore had approved the $500 , - 000,000 building program which would be started at once . Expressing gratification at the response which former war workers were making to Government requests that they return to war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Detroit , Philadelphia and Cleveland areas the trek back to war jobs had reached proportions sufficient " to revitalize war production in those areas . " The WPB chairman revealed that he planned to go to the West Coast next week , visiting Los Angeles , San Francisco and San Diego . to carry a plea to workers to help step up war production to the same extent as those in the East had done . November 's output of heavyartillery shells , Mr. Krug said , should show a substantial increase . " As long as the ' big push ' on the Westwall continues , " he added , " each day 's shell production will add one more day to the sustained attack on the Westwall and make more certain the eventual breakthrough there . " Aircraft production figures , which would be announced soon , Mr. Krug stated , would disclose an output of some 6,800 aircraft , 200 below the 7,000 scheduled for production in November . " The decline was due to changes in design , " he explained , " and not to any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Referring to yesterday 's order slowing up the WPB program for issuance of " spot " authorizations putting segments of industry back into civilian production , Mr. Krug said that conditions had changed so radically since the program was announced last summer that yesterday 's order was necessary . " It should be made clear , " he added , " that WPB has not changed its policy with regard to ' spot ' authorizations or reconversions , but is merely adapting the policy to the changes which the quickened tempo of the war , particularly in the Pacific , makes necessary . " Mr. Krug went on to say that the Army was now at work on a new plan for cutbacks following the collapse of Germany and that the plan called for a much smaller slash in war production than the 46 per cent originally outlined by the Army for V-E Day . The Maritime ' Commission and the Navy Department , he said , had not revised their figures as to cutbacks . " Even the Army 's plan is entirely tentative , " he continued . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ actualiy arrives . The speeding up of the war in the Pacific , however , would seem to make it clear that there will be a much heavier demand for war goods than was expected after Germany quits . " For this and other reasons , he continued , the plans to permit industry to start construction programs in the coming months would undoubtedly have to be modified . This and the delays which may have to be imposed upon reconversion programs of the automobile and other consumer durable-goods industries will forestall production in these lines for much longer than was originally expected .                     