@@709753

txt Boston : Vets Take Advantage of Building Loans Massachusetts war veterans are taking advantage of the G. 1 . Bill of Rights loan provision to finance home building at the rate of 125 a day , the Boston Regional Office of the Veterans Administration announced . Page 21 Recruitment or cotton textile mills in Massachusetts has shown considerable improvement since Aug. 1 , when a general wage increase of eight cents an hour became effective , the United States Employment Service reported to Governor Tobin . Protest against plans to lower standards for admitting refugees into the United States was made in a telegram to President Truman from James F. Reynolds . Massachusetts Department Commander of the Veterans of Foreign Wars . Washington : Soviet Advised of U. S. Opposition Russia was advised formally by the United States . in a note handed to its charge d'affaires in Washington . that the United States opposes Soviet demands for a voice in military control of the Dardanelles , the Straits affording passage from the Black to the Mediterranean Sea . Further comment : Editorial Page . The Price @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meats , milk , butter , Page 13 . Plans for a united , nation-wide drive against crime by a co-ordinated effort to prevent juvenile delinquency were reported gaining momentum by the Department of Justice , which will sponsor a a national conference on the problem in Washington in October . Europe : British ' to Observe Greek Plebiscite British members of the Allied electoral reglistration mission in Greece will " unofficially " observe the monarchy plebiscite Sept. 1 . the London Foreign Office announced . Yesterday . Britain and the United States said they were unable to " supervise " the conduct of the voting . New British proposals on the revision of the 1936 Anglo-Egyptian treaty have been unanimously ! ejected by the Egyptian delegates , it was announced in Alexandria . Half Russia 's grain acreage is harvested , a Moscow dispatch said . Soviet bread rationing is scheduled to end in the fall . Bela Tuka , Nazi puppet premier of Slovakia , was hanged at Bratislava prison for treason . Jacques Menard , wartime political editor of Le Matin , has been arrested after a two-year @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Britain 's iron and steel industry will be supervised by a general control board to be appointed by the Attlee Government , it was announced in London . Lieut . Gen. Sir Frederick Morgan has been released as Chief of the United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Administration 's displaced operations in Germany . the London War Office announced . National : Another Earthquake in Caribbean Another earthquake in the Caribbean area was reported at Miami , Fla. , by Lieut . W. E. Hubert , Navy rnicroseisroologi.st , who described it as " heavy to severe . " He was unable to define in detail the location of the tremors . Dr. Floyd M. Reeves urged the 400 delegates to the American Federation of Teachers convention in St , Paul , Minn. , to throw the full weight of their support behind the 10-year Federal educational program , proposed in a bill introduced in Congress July 31 . Far East : British to Quit Dutch East Indies All British troops throughout the Netherlands East Indies are expected to be replaced by Dutch troops before the end of the year , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ report from The Hague said that the Dutch army and navy plan a major offensive in and around Java to halt Indonesian resistance . King of Siam , Phummiphon Aduldet , accompanied by his mother , has left Bangkok for a visit in Switzerland . The King and his older brother , the late King Ananda Mahidol , who was fatally shot last June , were educated in Swiss schools .                     