@@711980

txt Rugged Chase S. Osborn , farther Michigan governor who was seriously ill two days ago became a bridegroom today at the age of 89 . His bride is his longtime assistant and adopted daughter , Stellanova Osborn . They were married at his Georgia home , Possum Poke , less than an hour after the adoption was dissolved . For Sentimental Purposes The adoption was set aside in Superior court at nearby Sylvester . The Rev. W. C. Smith performed the ceremony at Osborn 's bedside shortly afterwards . The bride said the wiping out of the adoption was for sentimental purposes . She added that such action leading to marriage was not without precedent . Mrs. Osborn is 55 years old . She was Stella Lee Brunt of Hamilton , Ontario , Canada , until the ex-governor adopted her in 1931 . Her first name at that time was changed to Stellanova . The former governor fell and broke his hip four years , ago and has spent much time since in a wheel chair . Earlier this week he was stricken with pneumonia and lapsed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ announcement from his home yesterday , however , said he had thrown off a stubborn high lever and partly regained his strength . Plans for the wedding ceremony followed . Only a few close friends were pre sent at the marriage . The bride , standing by the bridegroom 's bedside , wore a twopiece , sky blue linen suit . The Rev. Mr. Smith quoted Osborn as turning to Stellanova after the rites and saying softly ; " Now you are my beloved wife , are n't you ? " The bride smiled and gently caressed her husband . The Presbyterian church mar tinge form was used with a single ring ceremony . The minister said he did not remember whether the word " obey " was recited . Nursed Thru Illness Mrs. Osborn has nursed the former governor hera all his illnesses , including a two month stay in Albany , Ga. , hospital late last year for a clot on the lung . She pledged herself as a wife to continue to care for him in his " fight for full recovery of health . " The bride @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coauthor with him of many books . They have written more than 20 volumes on national resources , especially in the midwest , as well as several on south Georgia natural history . One book , woven around his Georgia home , is ' Possum Poke in Possum Lane . " Mrs. usbom is a summa cum laude ( highest honor ) graduate of the University of Michigan where Osborn met her in 1925 . She is a ? member of the scholarship fraternity , Phi Beta Kappa , and the still more exclusive group , Phi Beta associates . She is staff editor of the New International Encyclopedia , and an author and poet in her own tight Born In Log Cabin Osborn , a staunch Republican , was born in a log cabin in Huntington county , Ind. , and rose to be Michigan 's governor from 1911 to 1913 . His administration was marked by reform in legislation and taxation and government reorganization . He called on seven other governors to draft Theodore Roosevelt for President in the unsuccessful Bull Moose campaign of 1912 . After his term @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ During his long adventurous years he has been , in addition to a political reformer , a newspaper publisher , dock hand , ore prospector , foreign correspondent , and lumberjack . Gives Money Away He made two great fortunes in timber and iron ore . In recent years , however , he has given most of his money away , chiefly to schools , charitable institutions , and friends . In 1881 he was married to Lillian G. Jones , who is now dead . They had two sons and adaughter . The ex-governor first came to Georgia in 1890 to hunt and soon decided to make the state his part time home .                     