@@705422

txt The continuance of strikes on defense projects and the absence of executive action to prevent or reduce them has resulted in a revival of consideration in the House Judiciary Committee of legislation to draft labor during the emergency , it was disclosed today by Representative Hobbs of Alabama , chairman of the subcommittee considering legislation on the subject . Mr. Hobbs said that the committee had taken up proposals to deal with the situation , " from one extreme to the other , " but that the pendulum was swinging back to radical action because of the " startling number " of man-days lost through strikes during January and February . This loss was put by MI* . II Hobbs at 591,000 man-days , or enough , he said , to build a battleship or 2,000 fighter planes . The proposal has been made , ilthough not through the medium of bills , that the Selective Service Act of 1940 under which 17,000,000 men between 21 and 35 were registered for military service be amended to put labor under the same discipline . Draft of Capital Related @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , although the Judiciary Committee does not have jurisdiction over this subject . Members of Congress have reported privately an increasing number of letters from fathers , mothers , wives and sweethearts of those registered for military service inquiring why these men are being forced to serve for $30 a month when labor is allowed to strike on the very projects designed to put arms and materials of war into their hands for training . Mr. Hobbs said that drafting of labor was probably the most radical proposal before his group . He added that the continued defense strikes were becoming alarming to Congress and . that pressure for legislative solution of the problem was becoming increasingly greater . Early this month , he stated , the expressions in his group indicated that a majority were for a " middle of the road " policy , probably expressed by the Smith bill to outlaw the closed shop and to adapt the principles of the Railway Mediation Act of 1926 to the general labor field . This act provides a thirtyday " cooling off " period before strikes . But the recurrence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ revision of opinion in the committee toward more radical steps . The group decided to explore every phase of the defense-labor situation and acted to call in the authors of all bills dealing with the subject , as well as fifty or more other witnesses , including industrial and labor executives who have figured in recent strikes . Bulllt Cites Fate of France The decision to broaden the inquiry followed the appearance before the committee of William C. Bullitt , former Ambassador to France , who warned that America was treading much the same path that led France to disaster . He testified that there was a " striking analogy " between the attitude of the United States now and that of France when she was preparing for the war . Not until the Germany Army had stormed her frontier defense did France take the war seriously , he said , adding : " France had a wonderful war production program set up for 1942 . But France was destroyed in 1940 . The plane production during the month that Germans were inside her borders was approximately two and one-half times @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Long overdue " labor reforms , strikes and Communist sabotage slowed down French production at the time France should have been producing with every energy to meet the German threat , Mr. Bullitt declared . " The analogy between that attitude and the attitude of this country is striking , " he added . " We 're producing well and producing honestly , but we are building a twentyfoot rope to do a thirty-foot job . " Arming Seriously Hampered I Not only did Communists , especially near Paris , " skip " work even under the shorter hours but loyal Frenchmen as well were involved in strikes which seriously hampered the French preparedness effort , he said , adding that the entire French populace had the " very natural . reaction " to the annoyance of hard " work , high taxes and the derangement of their normal lives . " It is the duty , " he declared , " of , every patriotic American right now to think at every moment , for the sake- of . his ' home , : family and ' church , of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . his country- can do for . him . " After ? he had : : offered some-details of the defeat , Mr. Bullitt said that . 5,000 planes would have saved France . If the.French. had displayed two years earlier the same . spirit they displayed a month before the armistice with the Germans , : he asserted , " Germany never on earth would have conquered France . " " Even the Communists , following the orders of a foreign dictator , realized at the last moment that they had been sold down the river , " he said .. In reply to questions ; Mr. Bullitt declared that " America now Is in the greatest danger she has ever faced , and I do n't think the people appreciate it . " I think this realization will be aroused more in the next few weeks when the German air and submarine attacks begin in force , " he added . Dies Would Purge Rolls President Roosevelt was asked today by Representative Dies , chairman of the House Committee to Investigate un-American activities , to rid the government immediately @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , he said , he would introduce legislation to accomplish the purpose . Such a course was necessary , he declared , " to save the national defense program from sabotage- and to avoid mistakes which led to the downfall of France and other : democracies . " He announced that he planned to present his plea to the President either in person or by letter . His statement said : " I shall make an urgent plea to the President to immediately take the initiative in a nation-wide drive to discharge from government service and from all national defense industries every person who has been active in political organizations under the control of the totalitarian powers unless such person can give satisfactory assurances that he or she has been duped . " The President can use the power of letting contracts and of spending public funds so as to secure the general cooperation of industry . "                     