@@711364

txt Gen. Sir Brian Robertson , British Military Governor , demanded the lifting of the Soviet land blockade of Berlin in a letter to Marshal Vassily D. Sokolovsky , Soviet commander , early today . The letter , written after General Robertson had held a long conference with Gen. Lucius D. Clay , United States Military Governor , and a representative of the French Military Government , declared that the first objective of any further negotiations or discussion must be the restoration of land and waterway traffic facilities between Berlin and the Western zones and " the resumption of the full flow of trade enabling the peoples of Berlin to be adequately sustained . " The note was delivered to Marshal Sokolovsky just after 1 o'clock this morning . It was a reply to the Soviet commander 's letter of June 29 . General Robertson repeated his willingness to discuss ' with Marshal Sokolovsky , General Clay and Lieut . Gen. Joseph-Pierre Koenig , French Military Governor , a single currency in Berlin under fourpower control , but only after the Soviet Military Administration had lifted its blockade @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the city . Early Conference Proposed This blockade , imposed two weeks ago , has cut all rail , highway and barge traffic into the city . Were it not for the herculean efforts of the United States and British Air Forces , the people of the Western sectors ' of the city would be faced with starvation . General Robertson declared that to speed the lifting of the blockade " I should be ready to meet you forthwith to discuss terms . " He noted " with satisfaction " Marshal Sokolovsky 's assurance that the limitations placed on the movement of the German populace across the border was " temporary " to protect the Soviet currency reform . He then reminded Marshal Sokolovsky of the Russian 's statement that everything was being done to remove the supposed " technic &; difficulties " preventing rail traffv4 between Helmstedt and Berle Refeering to the blockade on highway traffic the British commander said : " I do not believe you have any cause to fear that your currency will be exposed to any risks on this account and I ask that the movement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Emphasis in the letter toward further negotiations led observers here to believe that the East and West , after two weeks of mutual defiance , were moving toward a settlement of the Berlin crisis . Germans Resist Communists Aroused by a blunt threat of government by a Russian " diktat , " the people of Berlin poured out into the ruined squares of the city yesterday to join the political battle with the Communists , while overhead United States and British transport planes roared through lowering skies to sustain the city with the largest peacetime supply operation in history . A threat made by Berlin Com munist leader Hermann Matern at a meeting of the People 's Council was that the Russians would order Acting Mayor Frau Louise Schroeder to take all her instructions from the Soviet Military Administration . Herr Matern later said he had made a mistake . From the temper of the crowds at three mast meetings in the Western sectors that mistake was a big one . German sources close to the Soviet Military Administration reported late last night that it was expected Marshal Sokolovsky @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ month . The Russian Commander in Chief is chairman in July . The Germans predict Marshal Sokolovsky will present two questions to the Council : Summoning of the Council of Foreign Ministers to consider the Western " dismemberment " of Germany and the Council 's consideration of the referendum recently held in the Soviet zone and Eastern Berlin on a unified Germany . If the Russian commander does not win Western agreement on these two points , the German sources said , he will declare the Council , which has not met since March , dissolved just as the Russians did the Allied Kommandatura for Berlin Thursday . Meanwhile the United States and British air supply operation , which is the ultimate basis for the Germans ' resistance to the Communists , is moving toward new records . It is estimated that by July ? 15 transport planes will have flown in enough food to maintain the German populace of the three Western sectors for the entire month , a United States Air Force spokesman said . Moreover , beginning Wednesday United States planes will fly in between 500 and 600 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ operation will meet the demands of the utilities in the Western sectors of the city and replenish existing fuel stocks . Although United States pilots are being warned of the presence of " occasional " Soviet fighter patrols ' along the air corridor from Frankfort on the Main , the attitude of both the United States Air Force and the Royal Air Force is one of assuming whatever risks are necessary , as General Robertson said . Beam Interference Denied Reports that the Soviet Military Administration was tampering with the beam on which the Western powers ' transport planes are riding , were termed " nonsense " by both United States and British Air Forces . There was no direct Soviet action toward alleviating the blockade of . the city yesterday . The.Soviet Military Administration appears to be sitting back and taking stock of what , for it , must be an increasingly unsatisfactory situation . - William H. Draper , under-secretary of the Army , underlined the cardinal point of the United States policy , when he said at a press conference that " any negotiations " in which the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and highway traffic into Berlin must be directed toward a permanent settlement of the right of untrammeled freight and passenger traffic into Berlin from the west . With the mar of heeNr. trans , gprts beating an accompaniment , the people of the city fought their I own political struggle and their party slogans and fiery speeches ushered in a new phase of the battle for the city . First to speak were the Communists . Through the People 's Council they , presented to the Western powers a new set of demands . Next in importance to Herr Matern 's statement , probably truthful but definitely premature from the Soviet point of view , was one by Otto Nuschke , president of the City Assembly . He demanded an " immediate meeting of the Council of Foreign Ministers to discuss a German peace treaty . " Thus for the first time and through the mouth of a dupe , the Communists have divulged their ovmall strategic objective in the battle near Berlin : a reopening of the entire German ? question and a renewal of the Kremlin 's drive to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the People 's Council " demanded " a people 's referendum on the withdrawal of the occupation forces and the restoration of German sovereignty . By 6 o'clock last night eightyfour transports had landed at the United States air base at Tempelhow , among them two ** one with a load of nine tons and the other with a load of nine and onehalf tons . One of the minor mysteries of an otherwise admirable operation is why the United States Air Force is not using its airfield at Bremen or seeking the use of the British airfields at Brunswick , Buckeburg and Hanover as the Western terminal of the air shuttle service . ? Military Government officers here point out that the use of airfields in these areas would cut the cost of the operation , increase the number of round trips that could be flown daily and put transport planes closer to the railheads and points where food and fuel are stored .                     