@@705843

txt The much publicized threat of a gasoline shortage in eastern states , which administration sources have pushed to the point of rationing of motorists ' supplies , promised to be blown sky high tonight . On the heels of the petroleum Industry 's pledge to use every available railroad tank car to haul supplies to the seaboard , offsetting the pinch in transportation resulting front the diversion of American ocean tankers to British service , the railroads were reported to have offered to cut their tank car rates by as much as 50 per cent . The Eastern 011 Bogie . These developments followed the bombshell announcements in two days of a senate committee investigation of the eastern oil bogie that the rail . roads could fill the gaps In transportation overnight . The investigation had been fought by assistants of Harold L. Ickes , sec. retary ' of the Interior and defense petroleum coordinator , and the results of the quiz appeared just as devastating110 ? 4 ' , 5n111111113401PS , as opponents of Ickes had forecast . Ralph Budd of Chicago , who Is directing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ senate group today that the railroads were able and eager to deliver enough petroleum to the Atlantic coast to offset what some interests have claimed , to be a shortage of 174,000 barrels daily . John J. Pelley , president of tile Association of American Railroads , testified yesterday that the shortage was needless , asserting the carriers could press 20,000 cars into service on a moment 's notice . Budd asserted these cars , most of them now lying idle , could carry 200,000 barrels of petroleum products every 24 hours , more than overcoming the , claimed shortage . ? O'Daniel Quizzes Budd . Senator W. Lee O'Daniel ED. , Tex. asked Budd whether he believed the administration had advanced claims of an east coast oil shortage threat merely to obtain legislation  --  already passed  --  to expedite new pipe line construction . Budd replied that he did not think " any one would do that . " The committee chairman , Senator Francis Maloney D. , Conn. commented : " There seemed a real need for new pipelines until Pelley dropped his bombshell yesterday . " Later , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eastern refineries , Ralph K. Davies , acting defense petroleum coordinator , announced the oil men ? had signed pledges " to ask for and utilize in petroleum transportation all available railroad tank cars . " Would Cut Freight Charges . The reported agreement on a reduction in railroad rates would cut the . cost of transporting gasoline by 1 to 11/2 cents a gallon , it was said . Varying reductions would be applied to fuel oil and other products , altho the railroad men did not announce details . Along with these major develop . ments came hints that oil men would atk for higher retail prices to apply later . A statement issued on behalf of tile 11 companies said they " will not ask for the sanction of any price increase until appropriate showing has been made in justification thereof , " but added : " It is our expectation that when required to make some price adjustment as a reasonable off . set to the added and abnormal expense that our application will have fair consideration by theOffice of Price Administration and Civilian Supply . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tile failure to utilize the railroad tank cars thus far . One was said to be the ' difference in transportation costs between rail and water carriage . The fleet of ocean tankers which until a few months ago carried gasoline to the east coast from gulf ports charged an average of half a cent a gallon on gasoline . The average cost of transporting gasoline to New York by rail was said to be 3 cents a gallon .                     