@@709723

txt A new behindthe-scenes division now appears to be shaping up at the Conference of Paris . Various delegations have started quiet maneuvers for the strategical posts of committee chairmanships . The pace of deliberations , already greatly retarded by vociferous Soviet objections to procedural rules and the tedious discussion on Albania 's status , may well be governed by the eventual decision on who will preside over the general commission ( or steering committee ) and over the Italian Commission . The steering committee chairmanship is considered extremely important in connection with any efforts to speed up the conference so it can conclude its work in time for the United Nations Genera Assembly meeting next month . When United Nations General Secretary Trygve Lie was here he // told Belgian Foreign Minister PaulHenri Spaak that he feared the Paris conference would not terminate in time . This early impression seems to be still more justified new . Certain experienced diplomatists , such as M. Speak , are considering the possibility that the conference might have to adjourn and reconvene if many personages desire to go to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up of representatives of each delegation . It will be instructed to assist the plenary conference and coordinate the work of other commissions . On the ability of its chairman to push things along and avoid delays the pace of the conference may well depend . /watt Suggests Spaak yesterday Herbert V. Evatt , Australian Minister for External Affairs , privately suggested to M. Spaak Wit in , iew of the latter 's long experience he would be best qualified for the steering committee chairman . M. Spaak declared , however , that no delegation from the seventeen smaller powers could hold more than one chairmanship . Since M. Spaak presides over the rules committee he is automatically excluded from the steering committee post . However , there has been some informal talk about the possibility that , now that its work seems to have been accomplished , the rules committee could be legally disbanded . Even so , it is unlikely that M. Spaak could technically be made eligible for a chairmanship and it is certain the Slavic group would vigorously resist any such suggestion . Certainly United States Secretary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a competent man take his post . He desires one who would sincerely avoid unnecessary tangles and thus perhaps shorten the duration of the conference . However , it is by no means so certain that Soviet Foreign Minister Vyacheslav M. Molotov wishes to accelerate the conference . Indeed , the filibustering tactics he , his deputy . Andrei Y. Vishinsky and White Russian Foreign Minister K. V. Kisselev have employed in the last few days would tend to indicate the contrary . States Secretary of State is talking so tough and using such blunt language . He also is furious with Mr. Evatt . Various Russians , who are aware the Australian is engaged in a political campaign back home , express the conviction that , although he is likely to succeed this time , he will not be a permanent luminary in the international constellation . On the other hand the Englishspeaking delegation , as well as many smaller Western countries , are simply astonished by Mr. Molotov 's tactics and irritated by them . One very important conference figure expressed bewilderment , because he said this conference was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the Big Four Council comprising bread at the top and bottom . deleted 60 lines It is a matter of great prestige , not only to Belgrade but also to Moscow , to get Albania seated in this conference . This would be a defeat for Greece and , therefore , Britain ? in a propaganda sense . But certainly efforts would be made by Communist propagandists to demonstrate that when a little nation is really backed by the U. S. S. R. it means something . Furthermore , a Soviet success in bringing Albania to Paris will certainly be played up in those parts of the Moslem world where Russian propaganda is active , as Albania has a considerable . Moslem population . All this is building up for an effect on the Greek plebiscite and future Greek political developments . The plain disfavor shown by the Soviet delegation to Greek toward delaying tactics . Both the Chinese and Netherland delegations already have been informally sounded out as to their willingness to assume the Italian commission chairmanship . In each case a negative answer was received . This is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be a tough argument over the assignment . Neither the Chinese nor the Netherland delegation wants to get caught in an oratorical meatehopp'r . It is almost certain that the cleavage between Western and Slavic powers will be sharply reflected in the maneuvers concerning these chairmanship selections . Mr. Molotov is known to be entirely angry with Mr. Byrnes . He can not understand w ? hy the United Premier Constantin Tsaldaris helps in this game . One important subject has been carefully dodged so far by virtually all delegates and may very likely not arise at all in the conference . That is the subject of machinery ) for treaty revision . Mr. Evatt has been discussing with his delegation ' , the possibility of suggesting pre- ' cise means of permitting eventual revision , if necessary , under Article XII of the United Nations Charter . But he has decided nothing on this matter . Mr. Byrnes still has an open mind on the matter . Greece and most . other states that have gained anything at all from the war or fear somebody else may later ask @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ specific revision machinery in the treaties . They contend this , would be only an invitation to the ' losers to start right away on revisionist campaigns that would endanger the peace . M. Spaak is known to be of the opinion that the Court of International Settlements should be called ' upon much more often to assist adjudicating any such issues .                     