@@711213

txt BOTH PARTIES FACE PRESIDENCY TESTS IN KEY PRIMARIES Republicans Elect Delegates for Taft , Stassen or Dewey in Ohio and Florida Tomorrow VOTE IN SOUTH ON TRUMAN Democrats Will Provide in Alabama and Florida the First Sign of Revolt 's Extent By JAMBS A. HAGERTY Important primary elections in the race for Presidential nominations will be held tomorrow in Ohio , Florida and Alabama . Contests for delegates to the Re ' publican National Convention will be between Senator Robert A. Taft and Harold E. Stassen in Ohio and between Senator Taft , Mr. Stassen and Gov . Thomas E. Dewey in Florida . The Democratic primaries in Florida and , Alabama will furnish the first test of the strength of the Southern revolt against President Truman . Public interest centers in the Ohio contest . Mr. Stassen , whose candidacy received a lift by his victories in Wisconsin and Nebraska , is seeking to elect twenty-three of Ohio 's fifty-three convention delegates in Senator Taft 's home state . The former Minnesota Governor has predicted that he will win twelve delegates and his supporters claim fifteen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all the contests with the possible exception of the one Stassen candidate for delegate-at-large , but his supporters have indicated that they will be satisfied if they hold the number of Stassen delegates elected to six . Mr. Stassen , who conferred here yesterday with friends after campaigning in New Jersey and Rhode Island , departed at midnight for Cleveland ; where he is scheduled to speak tonight . He was accompanied by Mrs. Stassen , his aide , Edward Larsen , and several newspaper reporters . Senator Taft will continue his speaking campaign in Ohio today . In Florida four candidates for delegates favorable to the nomination of Governor Dewey are unopposed . The contested places on the delegation are expected to be divided , with Mr. Stassen having what is believed to be rising support . Division Over Southern Bolt Although Alabama has only twenty-six votes in the Democratic National Convention , there are eighty-four candidates for delegates and they are split on a proposal to bolt the convention if the Truman civil rights program goes into the party platform . Twenty-nine have said that they would walk out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and twenty-five that they oppose the plank but would remain in the party . The others have taken no public position . None of the candidates has publicly favored the nomination of President Truman . Senator John J. Sparkman , seeking renomination , has five opponents , among them Phillip J. Hamm , who has the backing of Governor James E. Folsom . Eight of the State 's nine Representatives have opposition . The delegates to the Republican National Convention will be named at a state convention on May 20 . Opposition to the nomination of President Truman also is a factor in the Florida Democratic primary , with 112 candidates for the twenty-eight delegates who will cast twenty votes in the convention . Eighty candidates are running unpledged . Gov . Millard F. Caldwell heads a middle-of-the-road group which is opposed to the Truman civil rights policy but probably would not bolt . Of the others , twenty-eight are pledged to Gov . Fielding L. Wright of Mississippi and are definitely opposed to President Truman .. Twelve favor the , nomination of Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower . The Southern defection @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of delegates favorable to his nomination in Northstates . The Missouri State Convention , which will complete a thirty-four-vote delegation today , is expected to endorse Mr. Truman . The Ohio delegation , with fifty votes , to be elected tomorrow , wit be pledged to W. A. Julian , treas-1 urer of the United States , who will hold them for the President . Maryland will have a primary election today and Indiana willi // have one tomorrow to elect delegates to State conventions to name national convention delegates , with the probability that the Republican delegation from each state will be divided . In Georgia , a Republican group will elect sixteen Taft delegates today at a State convention . On May 18 another Republican group , headed by Wilson Williams , National Committeeman , will elect a delegation favorable to Governor Dewey , insuring a contest at the National Convention . Nevada Republicans will elect nine national convention delegates on Saturday . With 701 delegates out of 1,094 to the Republican National Convention already elected , Governor Dewey , with the support of New York 's ninety-seven delegates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with about 230 votes . His chance for the nomination may depend on the result of the Oregon preference primary on May 21 , in which he is opposed by Mr. Stassen . The nominee of the convention , however , will be determined by the group of states which will present " favorite son " candidates . Among these are Pennsylvania with seventy-three delegates , Illinois with fifty-six , California with fiftythree and Massachusetts and New . Jersey with thirty-five each . The prospect of the emergence of Senator Arthur H. Vandenberg , who so far is assured of only the forty-one votes of his home state , Michigan , continues likely . During the past week a definite movement has been started to get first and second choice votes for Speaker Joseph W. Martin Jr . for the Presidential nomination , although Massachusetts is expected to cast a first-ballot vote for Senator Leverett Saltonstall . Mr. Stassen gained slightly as the result of delegates elected during the past week . He probably will have the support of two and Governor Dewey of four of the eight delegates from Rhode @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from Denver , Mr. Stassen appears to have the support of a bare majority of Colorado 's fifteen delegates , although the delegation may cast a first-ballot vote for Senator Eugene D " . Milliken , who is for Senator Taft . Supporters of Governor Dewey claimed five delegates . The delegation is unpledged . An Albuquerque dispatch reported that four and possibly five of the New Mexico delegates favored the nomination of Mr. Stassen , with supporters of Governor Dewey disputing this claim and claiming four or five . The delegation will go uninstructed with no unit rule . At least one is believed to favor Senator Taft . Delaware 's nine delegates will go to the convention uninstructed and present plans call for a firstballot vote for former Senator John G. Townsend Jr . An informal poll conducted by The Wilmington Morning News showed four preferences for Senator Taft , one each for Senator Vandenberg , Mr. Stamen and Speaker Martin and two undecided . The delegation , however , will vote as a unit . The Dewey forces apparently suffered a defeat at the Missouri State Convention when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bring about the election of the man he favored for his successor and Howard V. Stephens of St. Louis was elected by acclamation . The result was attributed to a demand for new blood and new faces in the party organization following the Stassen victories in Wisconsin and Nebraska . A dispatch to The Times from St. Louis said that this did not mean that Mr Stassen " had the edge " among the delegates elected but did show that the trend in other states had reached into Missouri . Although Stassen supporters have claimed a majority of the thirty-three Missouri delegates , supporters of Governor Dewey continued to claim support of as many as twenty-five delegates .                     