@@712203

txt Dewey Criticizes Countries That Take Aid , Balk Unity Governor Dewey with Eugene S. Briggs , retiring president of the Lions , at 111uslison Square Garden . The New York Times Sy .108-9 , R7- =E3 Governor Dewey spoke out bluntly yesterday against European nations that accept United States aid and push " pet projects of socialism or nationalism " that might stand in the way of ' economic unity among the Marshall Plan countries . Addressing the opening session of the Lions International convention at Madison Square Garden , the titular head of the Republican party said it was to be hoped that " from now on Marshall Plan money will be used primarily to help nations which are willing to help themselves by cooperating in bringing about a united Europe . " Although he did not mention any of the aided nations by name , the Governor left no doubt among his hearers that his major criticism was of the Labor Government of Britain . Mr. Dewey:s talk , heard in the Garden by 19,000 persons from twenty-six nations and broadcast coast-to-coast , was his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ since he returned last month from a sixweeks tour of seven West European countries . of foreign policy and a talk by Admiral W. H. P. Blandy , Commander in Chief of the Atlantic Fleet , on the atom bomb were the serious notes on a program that had generous interludes of entertainment that overflowed from the Garden into many parts of the city . The big spectacle of the day was the Lions parade down Fifth Avenue , replete with bands , floats , mummers , flags of many nations , and marching units dressed as Seminoles , Canadian Northwest mounties and in other uniforms of geographic symbolism . Admiral Blandy , challenging the view that there was no defense against the atom bomb , said that the effectiveness of the bomb in any future war had been exaggerated in some quarters . He said it would not be enough to develop an air arm to drop the bomb on an enemy but the Navy and Army must also be built up to make a team of this country 's fighting forces . Mr. Dewey reiterated his advoConlinued on Page @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a United States of Europe and said that all the sacrifices the American people had made for aid to Europe would become worth while if Western Europe were made into one large area for the free exchange of goods and services . Asserting that " some individuals and nations in Europe " were resisting the economic unity necessary for survival of Western Europe , he declared : " We have made enormous sacrifices in the cause of peace . We are entitled to know that no doctrinaire group can sacrifice the peace either to pet projects of socialism or nationalism . " Urging Senatorial ratification of the North Atlantic Treaty , Mr. Dewey said that the pact and " our own Congressional enactments " called for progress towards European economic unity , as well as mutual defense , and implied a " clear necessity for a free and developing Africa . " If Africa were abandoned to the Communists , whom Governor Dewey described as " waking there very busily right now , " the free world would lose a source of raw materials without which it could not survive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ratifies that Atlantic Treaty " with real enthusiasm " it would appear , he said , that this country was " starting all over again down the same road we followed after World War I which led to World War II . " He said that the Soviet Union was continuing relentlessly to wage a " cold war " even though " sometimes it gets hot and other times it cools off . " Governor Dewey told the delegates they were giving a wonderful demonstration of the ability of men and women to represent the best in their communities from all over the world and to get together to work for the common good . He drew applause with the remark that the delegates from twentysix nations might " fight over a resolution " but when they adopted it there would " be no vetoes . " The thirty-second annual convention of the Lions Clubs got under way officially in the Garden at 9 A. M. with a concert by high school bands from Sebring , Fla. , and , Pa . An unofficial program of social events had been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Memphis , Tenn. , past international president , called the assembly to order , International President Eugene S. Briggs , of Enid , Okla. , was escorted to the platform , and the invocation was made by the Most Rev. Stephen J. Donahue , Roman , Catholic Archbishop of the New York Archdiocese . Gimbel Welcomes Delegates The delegates were welcomed to this city  --  chosen for two successive Lions conventions ? by Bernard F. Gimbel , chairman of the New York Convention and Visitors Bureau . Admiral Blandy , who had commanded the joint task force at the Bikini atom bomb tests , told the convention that the time to organize civilian as well as military defenses against atom bombing was " now and in the years immediately ahead , before we are actually liable to atomic attack . " He expressed the belief , however , that the atom bomb would not destory civilization nor would it be " the absolute weapon of decision " in a ' war . He said this country 's possession of the bomb was a major deterrent to war but it would not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last reason , " said the Admiral , " that the United States is placing its military reHance for preserving world peace lupon a team of fighting forces , comprising the Army , the Air Force , and the Navy . " In a dramatic finale to the morning session , the flags of the countries in the Lions family were carried to the platform by United States Marines in dress uniform . Each of the twenty-six colorbearers was flanked by Marines with rifles and preceded by a girl in a different national costume . Norway Leads Procession The anthem of each country was played as its colors were presented . Norway , which has had a Lions Club only since last May , led the procession . In succession came the Philippines , Bolivia , France , Chile , Switzerland , Sweden , Australia , Ecuador , Bermuda , the Netherlands West Indies , Peru , British Honduras , Venezuela , Nicaragua , Honduras , El Salvador , Guatemala , Colombia , Costa Rica , Panama , Cuba , China , Mexico , Canada and the United States . When @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was played , ' the large delegation from Canada sang . Then the entire crowd sang the " Star Spangled Banner . " Melvin Jones of Chicago , inter- , national secretary general , reported at the afternoon session that there were 381,426 members in 7,427 clubs as of June 30 . During the fiscal year that ended on that date , 757 new clubs had been formed , 638 of them in this country . Bolivia , France and the Philippines , in addition to Norway , joined the organization 's family within the last year . There were concerts by bands , glee clubs and choirs from many parts of the country spaced through both sessions . The music was ' not limited to the Garden and the parade . A blue and gold jacketed band of Alabama Lions serenaded lobby crowds in the Commodore Hotel , convention staff headquarters , and music emanated from other hotels housing state delegations . After the parade last night , the Canadian contingent played host at a concert in the Garden . The forty-girl Leslie Bell Choir ? of Toronto and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ came here in two airplanes to last night 's show , at which Guy Lombardo 's band also played . The girl choristers and pipers were met at LaGuardia Airport , where the kilted bagpipers put on an impromptu concert , by Walter C. Fisher , international first vice president , who will be elected Thursday as the new international president . Earlier the Canadian delegation chose 17-year-old Joan Lennox of Clarkson , Ont. , as " Queen of Canada . " Miss Lennox will compete today with Janice Harvell , " Queers of the United States , " and the " Queens " of Cuba , Mexico , Peru and Colombia for the title of " Queen of the Lions . " The winner will be crowned tonight in the Garda/I . The President 's Ball will be held tonight at the Garden , the Commodore and the Waldorf-Astoria Hotels because no one assembly place is large enough for all the dancers .                     