@@711307

txt This week saw the joining of the biggest single issue of the whole power struggle between East and West . In London , the delegates of Britain , France , Holland . Belgium , Luxemburg , and the United States agreed among themselves on the terms under which western Germany will be given a German government of its own . They did not agree happily or easily . It took them more than three months . The moment it was announced agreement had been reached . right- and left-wing political forces in France served notice that they would attempt to bring down the center Government of Premier Robert Schumann and Foreign Minister Georges Bidault over the issue of a revived Germany . But they did agree . And they thereby launched a western effort to solve the German problem by establishing a German government which the western designers hope will align itself permanently with the West  --  and thereby prevent all of Germany from swinging toward Soviet Russia . Soviet Co ti n termoves Russia 's countermeasures are in the making . Russia also will set up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Germany . Russia will try to make its German government more attractive to all Germans than the western-sponsored western German government will be . This is likely to result in a gigantic tug-of-war over Germany . Obviously , the Germans will benefit most . Western Germans at once will become participants in the Marshall Plan . Their industrial production levels will be raised . They will get more food . They will be encouraged to rebuild their factories . Eastern Germans will become the object of greater Russian solicitude . They may not be given self-importance . They will be political freedom as the West understands it . But they certainly will be given the trappings of told that they are the government of a reunited Germany . They will be given to understand that if they can attract western Germany to them , then they can hope to regain the lost eastern provinces , and be permitted to have an army . Germany Benefits In fact , it is not beyond the bounds of possibility that the next 12 months will see the rival German governments in existence . each @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at least the nucleus of a German army . The Russians accuse the West of cradling such a future German army . Russian propaganda frequently accuses the West of precisely what it is itself doing . Thus the old story repeats itself . The Allies who joined so successfully in the military defeat of Germany are now competing with each other for the affections of that same former enemy . Each is trying to see if it can do more than the other to woo Germany to its side in this new alignment of the powers . And Germany , which lost the war when East and West were united , may win the peace now that they are divided . Germany is laying the victors off against each other . It can only be recorded as a historic fact that at this moment , when western diplomacy has undertaken such a hazardous venture , the American Congress was acting as though the struggle to win the peace were well on the way to being won . The House of Representatives in Washington voted to cut the European Recovery Program by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the western power grouping which must succeed if Germany is to be attracted westwards rather than eastwards . And the House voted to shackle the power of the American Government to tie the bonds of the western coalition more closely together with trade agreements  --  although increasing trade among all the western states , Germany included , is part of the same foundation on which it is hoped to attract Germany westwards . The trend of congressional thinking was well indicated by the stated assumption behind the House Appropriations Committee propbsal to reduce the amount of money provided for Greek aid . The Committee report thinks that the Greek guerillas may be overcome this summer . They may be . But to assume that they will be , and to reduce funds for the effort to overcome them on that assumption , is to risk giving the Greek guerillas a new lease on life . Russia Sits Tight Congress , in short , spent the week whittling down the resources of the western coalition just at the time when western diplomacy was accepting battle on the biggest single issue of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ might do little harm if it could be assumed that Germany would be more attracted by the West than by Russia . But that is an assumptnon of dubious validity . It would appear that the Kremlin .. was aware of the value to its purposes of the prevailing mood of Congress . For once , Moscow failed to produce a new crisis . It even went so far to cut Finland 's reparations ount in half and grant Finlan a $5,000,000 loan . Harriman sees emphasis shifting toward peace : Page 9.                     