@@706540

txt Mai . Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower , new commander of United States Army forces in the European theater of operations , is believed to have assumed the task of working out details for an Allied invasion of the Continent . His arrival at London headquarters was announced simultaneously today here and in Washington . By a Staff Correspondent of The Christian Science Monitor WASHINGTON , June 25 ? As President Roosevelt and Prime Minister Winston Churchill neared final decisions today affecting the world-wide conduct of the war by the United Nations , the War Department  --  with significant timing ? announced the establishment of a " European theater of operations for United States forces . " It is evident in the Capital that the conferences between the President and the Prime Minister are reaching their concluding stages and the whole series of developments today pointed to the fact that far-reaching conclusions have been achieved and will soon be put into operation . During the day ; I. Both Democratic and Republican congressional leaders conferred with Mr. Churchill and Mr. Roosevelt and later informed correspondents that they received @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Immediately afterward Mr. Churchill and Mr. Roosevelt , together with W. L. Mackenzie King , Canadian Prime Minister , and Eelco van Kleffens , Netherlands Foreign Minister from London , met with the entire membership of the Pacific War Council  --  a meeting which emphasized that the military decisions which have now been reached apply in all likelihood to global strategy , not merely to the European theater of the war . 3 . Later the heads of the British and American Governments were joined by Cordell Hull , Secretary of State , and Viscount Lord Halifax , the British Ambassador , for a final conference on broader phases of postwar problems , undoubtedly dealing with both peace settlement and reconstruction issues . 4 . Almost simultaneously with the disclosure that Maj. Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower , formerly Assistant Chig of Staff in // Nazis smile at Allied threat of invasion : Charge of the War Operations Division , had been appointed commanding general of the European theater , with headquarters in London , the Berlin radio blazoned a report that 11,000 American troops , comprising an entire motorized division @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , to Palestine , and will soon see duty on the Egyptian front against Field Marshal Erwin Rommel . Either the Nazis are admitting important news or they are fishing for important information  --  and either way the report is suggestive . New European Theater Indicating that the opening of a European theater of operations for American forces is related to the Roosevelt-Churchill conferences , at least in timing , and may be part of the preparations for a second front on the continent , is the fact that the War Department 's communique itself makes reference to the previous and the present White House meetings between the two leaders . Major General Eisenhower has already arrived in London and the War Department issued the following statement in his behalf : " I have been assigned to command the European theater for United States forces . The formal establishment of a European theater is a logical step in co-ordinating the efforts of Great Britain and the United States . " Six months ago the Prime Minister of Great Britain and the President of the United States heartened the people of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economic strength of Britain and the United States for a common effort . At that Washington conference , they set a more effective pattern for unqualified partnership than has ever before been envisaged by Allied nations in pursuit of a common purpose . " Only recently they have met again to bring combined action into even closer co-operation . " The presence here in the British Isles of American soldiers and pilots in rapidly increasing numbers is evidence that we are hewing to the line of that pattern . " Leaders Are Encouraged After leaving the White House this noon Representative Sam Rayburn , ( D ) Speaker of the House of Representatives , said that the meeting " was a review of the world situation by the President and the Prime Minister and made in a fashion that was very pleasing to all of us . " Representative Joseph W. Mar- Assoc inted Pi ess Maj. Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower New commander of United States Army forces in the European theater of war operations . tin , Jr. , of Massachusetts , Republican leader of the House , declared that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and described it as " very encouraging . " Later at a joint press conference at which both he and Speaker Rayburn were present , Mr. Martin told correspondents that Mr. Churchill had given the conferees considerable encouragement on the African situation . " He indicated that Britain will hold and that there is no danger of losing Egypt , " Mr. Martin said . Mr. Rayburn and Majority Leader John W. McCormack ( D ) , of Massachusetts , agreed that they too were greatly encouraged by the presentation of the situation on the war fronts . In Defensive Positions Mr. . Churchill explained , Mr. Rayburn said , that the British have withdrawn to defensive positions that lie across 400 miles of desert from the Suez Canal . The legislative leaders also disclosed that the Prime Minister had offered encouragement on the fighting on the Russian front . The Russian positions against Germany on all fronts are satisfactory at the present time , the conferees quoted Mr. Churchill as reporting . The United Nations shipping losses and the prospects for keep ing the sea lanes open were also discussed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had been asked some " critical " questions regarding Britain 's reasons for keeping the bulk of its army at home on the British Isles . This conferee said that the Prime Minister fenced with his questioners on that point but had assured them of Britain 's ability to hold Egypt . Leaders at Conference The Congressional leaders . rep ? resentatives of both parties , who met with Mr. Churchill and Mr , Roosevelt were : Vice President Wallace , Speaker Rayburn , Senator Charles L : , Minority Leader . Senator Tom Connally ( D ) of Texas , Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee . Rep. John W. McCormack ( D ) of Massachusetts , Minority Leader of the House . Representative Joseph W. Martin , Jr. , ( R ) of Massachusetts , Minority Leader of the House . Representative Sol Bloom ( D ) of New York , Chairman of the House Foreign Aairs Committee . Representative Charles A. Eaton ( R ) of New Jersey . minority member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee . Attending the session of the Pacific War Council @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ participate in these consultations . Besides the President , the British Prime Minister , the Canadian Prime Minister and the Dutch Foreign Minister , were : Lord Halifax , Manuel Quezon , Philippine President ; T. V. Soong , Chinese Foreign Minister ; Leighton McCarthy , Canadian Minister ; Walter Nash , New Zealand Minister ; Sir Owen Dixon , Australian Minister : Harry Hopkins , and Capt . John L. McCrea , Naval Aide to the President . Later Secretary of State Cordell Hull and Sumner Welles , Undersecretary of State , joined the Pacific War Council for lunch at the White House . Mr. Churchill alone had scheduled meetings today with Sir Girja Shankar Bajpai , Indian Agent General to the United States , and Ralph Close , the South African Minister .                     