@@712235

txt North Korean Communist invaders have been driven back , but are still holding areas in South Korea . Four to six thousand troops are said to have attacked , and over 100 South Korean soldiers were killed in the defense . Australian soldiers are to dig coal in underground mines as well as open-strip fields , Fuel Minister . William Ashley announced- The troops have delivered 16,000 tons of coal since they began in the strip mines four days ago . Reuters reports industries are reopening , with work for more than 100,000 men . Boston : Stand Against Slave Laboi Urged Members of the Massachusetts Federation of Labor were called on to stand firm in their opposition to the slave labor of Russia by the Most Reverend Richard J. Cushing , Roman Catholic Archbishop of Boston , at the annual convention . Page 2 . ) California-grown alfalfa was delivered at the Army Base in Boston to augment New England dairy farm hay crops , critically curtailed because of the long summer 's drought . Page 4 . Dollar value of sales in New England department @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the corresponding week in 1948 , according to the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston . Truman ; the formation of a welfare department of cabinet rank , and the transfer of the government 's employment service and unemployment compensation system from the Federal Security Agency to the Labor Department . National : Bridges Flies to Dock-Struck Hawaii Harry Bridges , president of the CIO Longshoremen 's Union and George Hillenbrand of the Federal Conciliation Service emplaned in San Francisco bound for dock-struck Hawaii . The island ports have been closed for 97 days ! In Europe : Stoppage of Finnish Ports.Looms Complete stoppage of Finnish ports , railroads , and warehouses may result from the Communist-led transport workers strike called for Aug. 18 . The union , which moves materials for Finland 's vital timber industry , asks a 10 per cent wage increase . Washington : Truman Urges Aid-to-Education Bill Calling Democratic congressional leaders to the White House , President Truman urged them strongly to enact a federal aid to education bill as a fulfillment of one of the 1948 campaign pledges . Representative John W. McCormack ( D @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ action . Page 16 . An adverse vote has be  --  n redommended by the Senate Expenditures Committee for two reorganization plans proposed by President                     