@@704907

txt Fortysix civilians officially were reported killed and 88 wounded today when 10 Italian planes dropped 80 to 100 bombs into the harbor and streets of Haifa , port City of the British mandated Holy Land and terminus of the pipeline from the Mosul oil fields . Among the victims were five policemen . One of the bombs struck a fishing boat and killed two Arabs . The planes , roaring over the eastern section of the city from the southeast , finally were driven off by antiaircraft fire . Haifa was raided once before , on July 15 . See page 2 for details of other British and Italian fighting in the Mediterranean and Africa . ) NAZIS USE U. S. PLANES 1 LONDON , July 25 , Thursday OP ) . ? An American made dive bomber seized by the Germans from the French was shot down yesterday and another wits damaged , by , British Spitfire fighter planes in fierce bomb raid battles which cost the Nazis 12 planes . At least two raiders were brought down by coastal antiaircraft guns and the rest by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and sea lanes all day long . Counterpunching British air and sea forces smashed back at ships , boats , and take-off points the Germans are spreading hastily along the eastern North sea in readiness for invasion of England . German air raiders left Britain 's Island fortress alone during the night for only the second time since they began large scale bombing attacks June 17 . German planes attempted two attacks this morning on several ships in convoy in the North sea , but were driven off . The ships and their escorting vessels met the raiders with heavy fire . British fighter planes then appeared and drove the raiders out to ' sea . So far as the shore spectators could see . neither the convoyed vessels or their escort were damaged . Seen In Two Formattons . The British air ministry , claiming success , often against heavy odds , for Britain 's fast little Spitfires , said that American made planes , identified 83 " ' Chance Vought 156 's , " were encountered at least twice in the German raiding formations yesterday . The American planes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seen in action against England . ? The British claimed that at least three of the German fighter escort planes were downed in the attacks to get at the bombing planes . The first American plane was described as swirling into a spin and plunging into the sea . The second 's wing was damaged badly by gunfire . Again and again thruout the day the " barrier line " of high flying British defense planes dived into dog . fights to drive waves of German Heinkel , Dornier and Junkers bombers , and Messerschmitt fighters from attacks on ship convoys . Many Attacks on Ships . " Since the small hours of the morning Wednesday , " the air ministry said , " Spitfires and antiaircraft guns have been beating off the attacks of German bombers , fighters , and mine laying aircraft on ships and shipping . Up to the early evening they were still successfully destroying and beating off the enemy . " Flying and fighting conditions were poor . Planes dodged in and out of heavy clouds and struck thru heavy wind and thunderstorms . One Messerschmitt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Messerschmitt burst into flames in the fighting and the pilot para . chilled Into the water . The British last saw him swimming toward his rubber boat . In the day 's biggest air battle a patroling squadron of Spitfires , 7,000 feet up , saw a flight of raiders head . ing toward the Thames estuary , water gate to London . Eighteen bombers In " V " forma. tions of three with a large escort of fighters came into view thru a heavy rain . The Spitfires dived on them from the rear and tangled in an engage , ment of at least 60 planes . At least six of the German planes were downed , it was claimed , and the rest chased back across the channel . The German raiders , it was said , were attempting to repeat an earlier attack in which they had directed 100 or more bombs at a merchant convoy . The convoy , it was claimed , escaped damage . The German high command , in a communique relayed here , said , however , that five merchant ships In the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nazi Sea Forces . While planes of the bomber and coastal commands roared home from Tuesday night blanket raids on the Hitler held continent , British planes and ships yesterday struck these blows at the sea borne forces which Nazi Germany is massing in the waters facing England : 1 . A lone British motor torpedo boat picked a fight with six German torpedo boats in the channel , put them to flight , and , in the darkness before dawn , put one out of action . 2 . Swordfish torpedo carrying " spotter " planes of the fleet air arm , flying far into the eastern North sea , located a German naval concentration guarding an auxiliary vessel . in the dawn the planes sent torpedoes screaming at the group . The admiralty said an escort vessel of the 600 ton Konigin Luise type , of which Ger . many has 10 , was hit by one torpedo . There were no British casualties in either engagement , it was reported . British Claims of Successes . Accounts of Tuesday night 's raids on Germany and the neighboring nations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ airplane factories Gotha , Kassel , Wenzendorf . ' Three oil depots Hamburg , Gelsenktrchen. and Flushing . Twelve airdromes and numerous railways , antiaircraft positions , and freight yards . Patrol boats in Dunkirk harbor . Docks at Amsterdam . A German flying boat was shot dawn off Scotland . Only one British plane was acknowledged lost . At home several houses were shattered when a raider , pursued by fight ' ers , dumped its bombs over a town on the southeast coast , but no serious casualties were reported .                     