@@706566

txt Turn to the graphic section for a reproduction of John Trunthull 's famous painting of the signing of the Declaration of Independence and the text of the famous document . In less than 600 words , Col. Robert R. McCormick , editor and publisher of THE TRIBUNE , last night summarized the background and the social and political factors which caused " The Americans " to create that Immortal document  --  the Declaration of Independence . He spoke on the America Loves a Melody hour over W59C , and the Mutual Broadcasting system . The text follows : " One hundred and sixty-six years ago today our forefathers finally became free men . " The transition from subjects to citizens had been a long one . It had begun 169 years before , when the first dissatisfied Englishmen left the island and made their settlement at Jamestown . " Thereafter a steady stream of men and women of the governed ? not the governing  --  class , fleeing political persecution , religious oppression , and social discrimination , came to this continent . " In their new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ government . The instruments set up to guide them In the thirteen colonies varied from the bylaws of commercial companies to absolute autocracy and included every form of administration known to man , excepting that of a republic . No Aristocratic Forefathers . " The essential difference between our forefathers and the peoples of Europe was that all of the former were common people . No aristocrats came from the old country to lord It over them . Efforts to form local titled aristocracies broke down in the face of hostile public opinion . " They owed allegiance to that oriental functionary , the king , but for generations they never saw him : they ceased to worship ' his majesty ' and his mysticism , and what they came to think of him is set down in the Declaration . " In spite of boundary disputes and colonial rivalries , there grew a similarity of interests evidenced by efforts at colonial union . There developed a distinctive character which led Edmund Burke in 1774 to call them collectively ' the Americans . ' Rift in French-Indian Wars . " The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the inevitable separation . The colonials thought they were the better soldiers and bitterly resented the arrogance of officers holding the king 's commission . " After that war they were injured by being denied possession of lands they owned and had helped to conquer . They were apprehensive that a state church was to be forced upon them . They were taxed without their consent and their trade injured by unfair restrictions . " The great political philosophers in Virginia raised to sublimity the dreams of generations of thinkers , while practical politicians in Massachusetts plotted and planned to give political effect to these dreams . " With the closing of the port of Boston and Its occupation by British troops the colonies came together In a first and then a second Continental congress . " They petitioned for redress of injuries ; then resolved to resist ag- I gression by force of arms . The frequent disclaimer of a desire for independence evidenced the persistence of the idea . " When aggression and resistance broke into open and organized warfare , the move for independence became an irresistible flood @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the inexorable logic of the situation . " The representatives of nine colonies voted for independence on the 2d of July , the very clay that Howe 's fleet and army entered New York herbor . " The next day three more colonies joined the majority and on July 4 was adopted and issued to the world the most famous document In human history  --  the Declaration of Independence . "                     