@@711437

txt Gov . Thomas E. Dewey , Republican presidential nominee , will campaign on his own program and not that of the 80th Congress , That was the word passed around Capitol Hill by his spokesmen at the end of what Senator Alben W. Barkley of Kentucky , Democratic vice-presidential nominee , termed the " plenty of nothing " Congress . Governor Dewey 's campaign strategy was hinted in a statement from Sehator Irving M. Ives ( R ) of ' New . York , member of the Dewey inner circle , but Democratic leaders are insisting publicly that ' they will not allow the voting public to overlook big discrepancies between the achievements of the 13-day session just closed and Republican platform promises , made in Philadelphia . Pepper Twits GOP ? Only once during the extra session did Mr. Dewey make a personal appeal to the Republicans . That was when he telephoned Senator Chapman Revercomb ( R ) of West Virginia and asked his Senate judiciary subcommittee to liberalize the displaced persons admission law in favor of Jews and Roman Catholics . Republican leaders ignored @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at this session . On the final day of Congress , Senator Claude Pepper ( D ) of Florida twitted the Republicans for failing to follow their leader . " Has it not been often publicized that the able governor of New York , the Republican nominee , believes in team play between the executive and his legislative or congressional counterpart ? " he asked . " If that be ' true , then is it not already evident that in this case , when the captain of the team called upon the team to perform , the team did not perform very well ? " There was little doubt among Capitol Hill observers that the real leader of the session just closed was Senator Robert A. Taft ( R ) of Ohio , who competed with Governor Dewey for the presidential nomination . In order to get Congress off the political hot spot where President Truman had placed it by calling it into a precampaign extra session , Senator Taft even voted to temporarily shelve his own long-range housing bill , with - public housing provisions , in faVor of , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more lenient government loans . The Ohio senator has announced that he will introduce his bill early in the next session . Even some Republicans in the Senate were confused as to whether they were at any point sup- posed to . be following the ' leadership of Governor Dewey . When he announced his intention of voting for the substitute housing bill Senator Ives was asked by Senator Harry P. Cain ( R ) of Washington if he was speaking for Governor Dewey . Senator Ives said he was speaking only for himself , but hastened to add that " the ' record of the governor of New York on public housing speaks for itself . ' In the House , Representative Herman P. Eberharter ( D ) of Pennsylvania cqntrasted Republican platform promises with the lack of action by . Congress and asked , " Where is Governor Dewey ? Why has n't he spoken out on behalf of his views at this special session ? " Senator J. Howard , chairman of the Democratic national committee , went so far as to say , in a public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the antiinfiation program or the housing fight before Congress , Governor Dewey had disqualified-himself to . discuss these issues during the campaign . But Senator Ives complacently observed , " I do n't think the special session will affect the presidential campaign much . Governor Dewey will unfold his own program as his campaign goes on . Before it is over , it is my judgment that most of the candidates for Congress will be running on the position that he takes on major issues and not on Congress ' record .                     