@@709657

txt WASHINGTON , July 18 ? The executive board of the Congress of Industrial Organizations urged President Truman today to call a labor-industry conference so that the need for " immediate wage increases " may be officially recognized in view of " the crisis created by the drive to cripple and destroy price control . " Lack of adequate price control it was stated , should be met " through adequate guarantees for a stabilized national economy . " While Philip Murray , CIO president , did not explain what was meant by " a stabilized nationa economy , " other than that prices should be controlled while wage adjustments should be allowed to catch up with rising prices , he supplemented the resolution by explaining that it was his board 's desire to have the Government play an important role in the proposed labor-management meeting . Taft 's Actions Assailed At the same time the executive board , in the same resolution excoriating the willingness of some members of Congress , naming Senator Robert A. Taft , of Ohio , " to gamble with the fate ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ buyers ' strikes . Demand also was made for upward adjustment of pensions and social ' security payments to those with fixed incomes and for wage adjustments for white collar workers . " God forbid , " remarks Mr. Murray at a press conference when asked if the CIO board 's idea was to have a meeting like the one convened by President Truman last Winter . " The Government should heir not only in guiding the ? discussions but in steering them to a satisfactory conclusion , " he replied to one question . He added that he was not averse to having agriculture represented at the meeting . While the CIO would honor its . contracts , said Mr. Murray , he would not say it was prepared to give a no-strike pledge at the proposed conference but would be willing to consider the idea . Not would he say what wage increase his organization would propose at the conference if one was called . The CIO chief told reporters that his organization had little faith of any . workable OPA extension bill becoming law or even that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The board 's statement on price control charged that in the last wo months there has been a rise of 40 per cent in essenial living costs and that 25 per cent of this rise has been noted in the last fortnight . The statement added : " In the scandalous exhibition of log-rolling unequaled in its depths of betrayal of public interest the Senate has removed control on product after product in a manner which would leave the most important portions of the Artierican pantry without even the pretense of price protection . " In the contracts made by the CIO early this year , according to the resolution , amounts were accepted which " fell far short of the drastic cuts in earnings which American workers had suffered since the war . " In the interests of " a stabilized economy , " the resolution continued , labor accepted contracts which do not expire until well into 1947 under " the pledge and assurance of the present Administration that the price line would be held . " Asserting that this " pledge has clearly not been kept , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with a fast-gathering crisis of appallingly destructive potentiality . " With " a final plea " to Congress for a price control bill that would keep prices down , the board urged the President to veto any measure " which would be a fraud on the American people . " Voicing ' the view that prompt and vigorous emergency action was called for " to . protect the people of this country against the ravages of the inflationary onslaught , " the board asked " the consuming public , the housewives of America , the members of labor organizations , the white collar workers and pension holders , through their organizations and individually , " to " mobilize for nation-wide defensive action to refrain where possible , individually and in organized fashion , from avoidable purchases , to protect by local and national action and by every available weapon their right to food , clothing and shelter for their families . "                     