@@705010

txt Four German air raids on London by the ( lark of night were beaten back last night and early today , three of them by British fighter planes alone and the fot . th by a thundering antiaircraft b ; . rrage . Scattered bombs fell , but the clear signal came at 3:27 a. m. , when the noise of plane motors died away after a 2 hour ant , 11 minute alarm . It was the seventh raid since ' yesterday morning . The guns blazed away for 20 minutes before this seventh alarm was sounded . Heavy barrages front the Thames estuary direction and from north London Indicated the Germans attempted to break Into the heart of London from two directions : . Creeps Toward North . The gunfire along the Thames crept toward the north , apparently tracing the course of the raiders . It grew heavier as the drone of plane engines increased by the minute . Guns in the southwest burst into action , and shell fragments fell on roofs and streets . When the clouds rolled back the main London @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intensity of the barrage 118 the planes passed over , but It was the lightest attack In more than a week . The successive night alarms , with their prolonged clear intervals , constituted-a departure from the week long German tactics of all night The British defense by tighter planes alone against the first three German after dark raids was without precedent since the start Sept. 7 of the almost continuous German air offensive . . Clouds Help Raiders . The air ministry news service said that despite help of the clouds " only a few bombers managed to penetrate to central London " in Saturday 's raids . The authoritative British Press association estimated that 300 bombers had been thrown back by early evening in a " huge battle " over the southeast coast which watchers described as " the biggest ever . " The raiders ' first evening appear . ance here  --  after three forays made by late afternoon  --  was at 6:17 p. m. , their second at 7:47 p. m. , their third at 9:36 p. m . This third alarm was the shortest of all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a week that had seemed endless , London 's people had gone to their accustomed stir raid shelters , and the unexpected freedom astonished them . Church Crypt Structc . All this time , the royal air force had been defending the metropolis alone , and only an occasional searchlight beam crept about in the sky . The antiaircraft gunners , who night after night had been throwing steel all about the horizon , idled thru it all , only to spring into action during the attack early this morning . In the fourth raid  --  the first evening alarm  --  one bomb ploughed into the crypt of a Roman Catholic church In a London district and killed and injured an unannounced number sheltered there . The bomb fell just outside the church and went straight thru the ground into the crypt . The church was not damaged  --  even the windows were not broken . German raiders appeared elsewhere over England , attacking Brighton and Eastbourne and killing an undbtermined number of persons in each city . High explosive bombs were dropped in a town in northwest England , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ipswich a church was reported demolished . The air ministry announced that 11 German planes were shot down dun ing the day to 4 British craft lost . Feel Out Defenses . Saturday 's daylight attacks on the southeast area seemed to be intended principally to feel out the state of the English coastal defenses  --  a significant detail in the light of the declaration of neutral military observers that this week-end would be one of " intense danger of invasion . " Britain was ready and some Englishmen said simply that they hoped the Germans would try invasion " so we can wipe their eye . " The government took steps to free telephonic and telegraphic communications  --  vital in any military emergency  --  from as much of the civilian load as was possible . It asked the public to confine their use to urgent messages . Methodically , the bombers of the royal air force , the country 's first line of defense against any German attempt to cross the channel with troops , carried on their mission of destruction , against Nazi bases . Attacks Continue . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ French coast suffering " an even fiercer assault than that which ceased at daybreak . " as the press association described it . " Endless " explosions In France shook the Kentish coast of England , the association said , and German searchlights and British flares lit the waterfront for many miles . This new bombardment came on the heels of one thruout Friday night which the British said had wrecked barge concentrations on the French and Belgian coasts , and left German dock facilities aflame at Boulogne , Calais , Dunkirk , Ostend , and Antwerp . Face of London Scarred . After more than a week 's bombing , he old face of London Is pocked and battered by a score of heavy raids . In the western part of the city , those buildings damaged include Buckingham palace , Mme. Tussaud 's waxworks , the house of lords , the quadrant of fine shops on Regent street , exclusive Berkeley square , and even Westminster abbey , where an 18th century window depicting biblical prophets was damaged slightly during a recent raid . At Buckingham palace Saturday a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ palace exploded in front of the building , demolishing a gatepost and a section of iron fencing . The east end ? as stark a contrast to Berkeley square as could be imagined  --  has suffered the greatest loss of life and the most homes demolished , because of its proximity to the docks and large industrial plants . The docks themselves have been repeatedly damaged , as have utilities and communications . But the city 's food situation is described as " good " by the government , which emphasized that there are adequate reserves . The west end business houses , catering to the luxury trade , have suffered heavily . So have the fashionable restaurants and night clubs .                     