@@711672

txt Max Eastman , representing The New Leader of New York City , unsparingly condemned the Government 's Far . Eastern policy today in an address to the convention of the American Federation of Labor . He said that this policy was based on the " Moscow-manufactured hoax " that the Chinese Communists " were some kind of the middle-ofthe-road agrarian liberals , who had no connection whatever with the Comintern . " Mr. Eastman said he was not sure that tile truth had sunk into Secretary Marshall 's mind although last week . Mao Tse-tung , leader of the Chinese Communists , proclaimed in an international broadcast his absolute solidarity with Stalin in the " world revolutionary united front , headed by the Soviet Union . " Mr. Eastman asserted that . " ig : norance at Washington " was . . responsible for what he termed " this planetary mess into which American foreign policy has fallen . " The snow-haired speaker kept the audience enthralled for more than three quarters of an hour . When he ended , the delegates stood and applauded for several @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of American foreign policy was that our highest Government officials had failed to read and heed the principle enunciated by Joseph Stalin to this effect : " It is inconceivable that the Soviet Republic should continue to exist for a long period side by side with imperialist states ; ultimately one or the other must conquer . " This and other Stalin quotations , according to Mr. Eastman , was not something said in the 1920 's or before the war , or after the war - or last week or yesterday . " It is what he is saying right now in thirty languages to huti dreds of millions of people , " said Mr. Eastman . " The book containing this notification of our down is being shipped about our country in an excellent English translation that sells for 25 cents a copy . He s Secretary Marshall read it ? Has President Truman read it ? -I see no sign in their speeches that they , even ever heard of it . " ? Describing what he called " thee slave empire of 14,000,000 people ruled by the Soviet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of this police state were fanatically determined to seize power throughout the world and make over all human society in the image of their - state . " Our Statesmen " Deluded " There is not and never has been the slightest doubt about this fact , " he continued . " And yet , for three years after the war , our statesmen continue to delude themselves that there was something mysterious and enigmatic about Stalin 's intentions . Senator Vandenberg described the Soviet foreign policy as the supreme conundrum of our times . ' " And I was amazed to see in THE NEW YORK TIMES Magazine only two weeks ago the statement that Stalin differs from Hitler in that Hitler frankly wrote down ' and published his plans arid Stalin did not . " The truth is that Stalin 's plans were written down long before Hitler 's , " said Mr. Eastman . " Only a man who ca n't read has any excuse for not knowing what they are . " Here the speaker quoted several extracts from Stalin 's writings indicating that dictatorship must follow violent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a world policy , Mr. Eastman said , that Republicans joined with Democrats " in what has been mistakenly called a non-partisan foreign policy . " He called it " a bi-partisan no-foreign policy . " Mr. Eastman also declared that Stalin , " one of the master dupesters in all history , " was now sitting in the Kremlin " pulling a big fracas in Berlin " in order to distract everbody 'S mind " while he consolidates his hold in Manchuria and builds his own impregnable Ruhr in the Far East . " Japan Occupation Criticized James Killen , former labor adviser to Gen. Douglas , and vice president of the Paper and Sulphite Workers , said " restrictions placed on Japanese Government workers by occupational authorities had played into Communist hands . " He resigned his Tokyo post recently because he - ? disagreed with American military policy in Japan . Serafino ROmualdi , Latin American representative of the AFL , told the convention that at every conference Where Latin American , ec.onomic progress was planned by economists and career diplomats there should be heard " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Daniel J. Tobin , president of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters , presented to the Labor League for Political Education a check for . $62,500 , representing his union's. ; contribution to the league 's 1 " educationar program for the next fourteen months . This was the first contribution as a result . of the comprehensive policy adopted yesterday by AFL leaders : The check was handed to the president , William Green , on the convention platform after J. Albert Wall , general counsel , had informed the teamsters ' chief that , in his opinion , the union contribution was within the law . Russell B. Long , ' United States Senator-elect from Louisiana , who was on the platform and witnessed the incident , later told the convention that the question of the legality of this action would soon be a matter of the past . He maintained that the provision regarding such contributions contained in the Taft-Hartley Act would be ended by repeal of the , act itself thirty days after Congress convened . This declaration by the eon of the late Senator Huey Long @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ secretary of the . Workmen 's Circle , ' a Jewish fraternal organization , presented . to Mr. Green a plaque and flowers , saying that it ' was a tribute to his tireless effort on behalf of suffering . Jews in Europe .                     