@@711856

txt The way the negotiations are progressing there seems to be no reason to believe the strident Soviet objections will prevent the North Atlantic Security Pact from coming into being . The diplomatic representatives of eight Atlantic Ocean countries ? Britain , France , Belgium . the Netherlands . Luxembourg . Norway , Canada , and the United States  --  are in session in Washington , and , despite the mounting pressure from Moscow to head off the mutual defense treaty , agreement is at hand . It seems clear that there are three purposes behind the hot words which Russia is using to condemn the pact . It would like to block it altogether if possible If the Kremlin ca n't block the pact , it would like to scare off as many signatories as possible -- and immediately Norwa ) . And if unsuccessful in blocking the pact or in par-rowing its membership , Russia hopes to implant the idea in the minds of as many people as possible everywhere that the pact is imperialist and has world domination as its purpose . If the Soviet arguments are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what they say . it is. honestly . pretty difficult for Americans to comprehend the Russian theory that , in promoting the widest possible agreement to an together in common defense if aggression takes place , the United States is , thereby . promoting war This kind of commitment , to defend the commot. peace , is exactly what the Unites States declined to accept after World War I. when it refused to join the League of Nations and it is exactly the kind of international commitment which Maxim Litvinov and other Soviet spokesmen urged the United States to accept during the long Geneva debates . The specific objections which the Russians say they have to the Norrh Atlantic Pact and which they are using to " persuade " Norway to stay out are : That it violates the United Nations Charter . That it is aimed against the Soviet Union . That it is an instrument for preparing fog war rather than for securing the peace ? is aggressive , imnerialist . A A A If there is any chance that anyone anywhere is going to take these arguments seriously @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Americans , ought to be put down . They are these : I. Does the North Atlantic Pact violate the UN Charter ? Article 52 provides that " nothing in the present cliarter precludes . ? ? regional arrangements .. . dealing with . . . the maintenance of international peace and security " provided the regional arrangement has no provision or purpoSe contrary to the charter . One purpose of the charter is to enable its members to act in common against any " breach of the peace or aggreesion . " That is the purpose of the North Atlantic Pact . 2 . Is it aimed against the Soviet Union ? The central provision of the pact is that each signatory will treat an attack upon any one of its members as an attack upon itself . Why does the Kremlin consider such a commitment directed against Russia ? The pact pledges its signatories to act in common against any aggression . Why does the Kremlin consider such a pledge directed against Russia ? 3 . Is the pact " aggressive , " " imperialist " ? Primarily , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States is already a signatory to exactly the same kind of regional security pact in the Western Hemisphere as is now being proposed among the North Atlantis nations . The small Latin-American countries , understandably alert to any sign of imperialism , do not find the pact aggressive or imperialist . The Western Hemisphere Security Pact and the proposed North Atlantic Pact are needful only because the abuse of the veto reduces to nearly zero all prospect of the UN Security Council acting against any foreseeable aggression . Where is there imperialism in a sincere effort to carry out the security guarantees of the United Nations in behalf of part of the world when the United Nations is not itself in a position to carry them out for all the world ? Every prospective signatory of the North Atlantic Pact is pledged under the charter not to resort to force or the threat of force in the settlement of international disputes . In the treaty they are now negotiating , they are not departing from this pledge ; they stand by it and further pledge to resist the use of force @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They seek to impose no condition ? no imperialist conditio ? ? upon any other country , unless defense of the peace is imperialistic ! A A The North Atlantic Security Pact is not directed against the Soviet Communist world ; it is directed in behalf of the free world , and its vision is that the free world shall begin to ' have a peace which is indivisible .                     