@@709607

txt Letters to The Times PHILIP CORTNEY.GEORGE H. COHEN.THOMAS OLLTVE MABBOTT.MAX YERGAN , Letters to The Times Arbitrating Labor Disputes Review and Decision by Appropriate Body Is Advocated To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : The discussions on the settlement of wage questions appear to have a certain air of unreality . It is not surprising , therefore , that the advocacy of settling labor disputes by way of judicial review should have become more and more articulate , particularly in Washington circles . Compulsory arbitration regarding lwages may have become a necessity in the face of economic and chiefly political realities . However , the great question is , arbitration by whom ? In view of the nature of the problems involved , it can not be a judicial review by ordinary courts . One feels strongly that it has become necessary to bring about a change in our thinking on some economic problems , among these the question of the settlement of wage questions . Wage Problems I submit that economic and political realities probably make it necessary to have recourse to arbitration in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these questions should be arbitrated . The basic conflict is not between the employers and labor , but between the minority of organized labor on one hand and the majority of all unorganized labor on the other hand , and between the labor unions themselves . It is my contention that in an economy where prices are allowed to move freely in accordance with competition , arbitration should be rendered by a body constituted of representatives of all the unions , including perhaps representatives of farmers and the Government for the groups that are not organized . It has been abundantly proven that out of the total national income from 70 to 72 per cent goes to wages and salaries . This percentage seems to hold true in prosperity or depression . At a given level of national income , the higher the average wage rate the lower the number of people employed . The increase of the real national income , and therefore the real wages , depends on productivity , which determines their size ( and not on wage rates ) . Governing Principles The question arises whether labor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in various industries which would also take into account wage differentials for skill , labor conditions , etc . I believe that the experience of industry with the question of job evaluation methods proves that there are already criteria and governing principles which permit the establishment of wages according to the kind of job , and other conditions of work . I know of one factory where there are twelve different labor classifications , each having its wage range . On theoretical grounds , two main objectives might be raised , among others : ( 1 ) That this method of settling wage questions would result in a greater leveling of wages than actually results from present collective bargaining and inter-union conflicts . Its inconvenience would probably be a greater difficulty in breaking labor bottlenecks . However , more leveling would be conducive to a stabler economic equilibrium . ( V ) The geographical and occupational mobility of labor may be diminished by such a leveling . I doubt , however , that facts in the actual world show a great mobility of labor between geographical areas . It is possible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would create new problems . If , however , we succeed in solving the thorniest of all  --  namely , that of wages , I feel confident we shall find enough wits to meet and solve them as they arise . PHILIP CORTNEY . New York , June 26 , 1946 . Press Release Criticized To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Recently a prominent press association of this country brought the news of the criminal attack by three individuals upon an 18-year-old girl . In telling about the incident the report mentioned her name . It seems to me that if society is unable to protect an individual like this from such an attack , the least that can be done for her is to keep her name from being circulated in the press and from being brought to public attention . I do not believe that such identification , which merely adds shame to injury , helps to strengthen the story . As a matter of fact , I believe that wherever the law permits it the name of the victim should be kept from even indictments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , July 1 , 1946 . Antique Vase Acquired by Museum To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMES : Only slight attention has been given in the press to an event of interest to all lovers of art , The famous Portland vase on loan to the British Museum for more than a century has been acquired by the Museum as the result of a bequest . The vase is familiar to almost every one from illustrations in textbooks . The decoration is a series of pictures in white glass against a background of dark blue glass . It has long been probably the favorite exhibit at the British Museum . Almost everyone has heard how , in the nineteenth century , the vase , shown without the protection of a case , was smashed by a spectator , and put together by the devoted patience of the staff of the British Museum . It may be added that the technique of the vase is not thoroughly understood . It is supposed that a body of blue glass was covered with a slip of white glass , and the figures @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such means as a diamond . Fragments of similar vases are known , but are of great rarity . There is a legend that it was found in a sarcophagus and was actually the funeral urn of the emperor Alexander Severus and his mother , the Empress Julia Mammea . All American scholars , all lovers.of art , will rejoice that the beautiful vase has at last become a permanent part of the British Museum collections . THOMAS OLLIVE MARROW . New York , June 29 , 1946 . Functioning of the U. N. Statements on Petitions Criticized and Human Rights Bodies Upheld To THE EDITOR OF THE NEW YORK TIMEs : Your editorial of June 25 entitled " India and the U. N. " raises two specific issues which deserve comment . The editorial states inferentially that petitions to the United Nations presented by private organizations ( the National Negro Congress was mentioned as an example ) may well be ignored by that body . The editorial also contends that although the United Nations is obligated to honor the protest of the Indian Government against South Africa 's discriminatory treatment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proper , matter for the international organization 's consideration , since the question at issue is one of " domestic jurisdiction . " In regard to the first point , it would appear to be obvious that tha United Nations can not function in a democratic fashion or with the goals set forth in its Charter , unless provision is made for petitions to be presented to it by peoples acting in their own interest when it is impossible to obtain representation of their demands through the official government channels . Unless this principle is acknowledged , minority groups in various countries who can not obtain redress of their grievances from their governments will be left without any recourse whatsoever . Interpretation of Charter The second issue is much more portant . The view expressed by THE NEW YORK TIMES as to the domestic character of the case at issue happens to coincide with the position taken by the Government of the Union of South Africa . It also coincides with the timeworn argument of " the inviolability of States ' rights " advanced by reactionary interests in those backward sections @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in solving their problems . I can not agree with the interpretation of the United Nations Charter given by your editorial in arriving at the judgment in this matter . Article 11 of the Charter , upon Which the Indian Government 's protest is in part based ; states that " the General Assembly may recommend measures for the peaceful adjustment of any situation , regardless of origin , which it deems likely to intpair the general welfare or friendly relations among nations . " The language here is perfectly clear and can in no sense be interpreted to rule out consideration of the Indian Government 's petition . Your editorial states that the United Nations " has no right to interfere in the domestic affairs of any state in any matter not connected with aggress sion or the threat of it . " What constitutes " interference " it is difficult : Us say , but the terms of the Indian Gds '  - -  ernment 's request do not necessarily imply interference in the affairs of the Union of South Africa . Dangerous Doctrine There is a far more important sense @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ editorial represents , in my opinion , dangerous doctrine . Strict adherence to the policy set forth would mean that the Economic and Social . Council and the various commissions established under it , dealing with hu- : man rights , economic and social wels fare , are without meaning or functiori ? These agencies of the General Assembly are concerned not with aggressititt or threats of aggression . These purposes , as has been often declared , represent an even more important function of the United Nations than the prevention of aggression : . Aggression thrives only where humeri : rights and freedom are denied . Opening the United States argumentagainst the Nazi war criminals at Nuremberg , Justice Robert H. Jackson stated : " How a government treats itS " own inhabitants generally is thought to he no concern of other governments or of international society . Certainly few oppressions or cruelties would warrant intervention of foreign pow ; ers. , But the German mistreatrnentiif : Germans is now known to pass in , magnitude and savagery any limit of what is tolerable by modern civilization . Other nations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such crimeS . " : In this same way the United Nations must be held guilty of taking a con-. senting part in the criminal treatment of the Jewish people of Palestine , Of the non-white majority of the Smith . African population , or even of the . Negro minority of thirteen millions , in the United States , if these question are construed as matters solely of " domestic jurisdiction . " MAX YERGAN , President , National Negro Congress-a .. New York , June 28 , 1946.                     