@@710819

txt American businessmen were called upon to demonstrate the workability of their traditional system of free enterprise on world-wide markets in the present critical era of the world 's history by speakers at the opening session of the Boston Conference on Distribution . Page 4 . A WW1 official in New Haven , Conn. , said that on the basis of early voting returns there was " no question " but that the Brotherhood of Railroad Trainmen will call a strike against the New York , New Haven &; Hartford Railroad . Europe : Germans Tied to Himmler Plan on Trial ! Trial of 13 men and one woman , charged with promoting Gestapo chieftain Heinrich Himmler 's " ethnic Germanizing ' ' program , opened in Nuremberg with American war crimes prosecutors demanding harsh judgment for the accused . London dock strike is scheduled to end tomorrow by vote of 4,000 transport workers and 580 cold storage workers who have agreed to await union negotiation of their wage dispute . Two employees of the United States and Blitish embassies in Warsaw are reported to have been arrested @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be still imprisoned . Week-old strike of Paris transport - workers , which immobilized the city 's subway and bus services , has ended under Government and transport workers ' union agreement . This action precludes an immediate general strike threatened by trade-unions if the transport workers ' demands were not met . Washington : Railroads Deny Wartime Overcharge The nation 's railroads in a brief filed with the Interstate Commerce Commission , denied that they overcharged the Government for wartime movement of freight . The United States has formally rejected Russia 's proposal that Soviet and American occupation troops withdraw simultaneously from Korea . National : Temperatures Still Range Above Normal iemperatures ranging from 10 to 20 degrees above October normals were in prospect again today for virtually the entire nation . Bermuda : Winds Reach 90 MPH Along Coast Winds estimated at 90 miles an hour beat against Bermuda and churned heavy seas as the center of a tropical hurricane moved north , 75 miles off the British colony . Palestine : Wallace Arrives for Jerusalem Tom Former Vice-President Henry A. Wallace has arrived in Jerusalem . Reason : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ peace . " More than 1,100 Armenians are in Haifa awaiting arrival tomorrow of a Russian ship to return them to their homeland in Soviet Armenia . This group is reportedly the first to return to Russia from Palestine under auspices of the Soviet Government . India : Discrimination Banned in Delhi Province Discrimination against Untouchables in Delhi Province is ordered removed effective immediately by the Government of India in New Delhi .                     