@@711623

txt At 6 A. M. today , after a night in which his political fortunes . waxed and waned with every passing hour , President Harry S. Trik. man took an impressive lead over his Republican opponent , Gov . Thomas E. Dewey of New York , in both the popular and electoral vote of the nation which went to the polls yesterday in the forty-eight states of the Union to choose a President , a Vice President , the Eeighty-first Congress and thirty : two Governors . Ahead in the popular vote at all times during the counting , the President gained the electoral lead when Illinois was conceded to him at 5 M. and his chance of gaining Ohio steadily improved . At 6 A. M. the division of electoral votes between him and Governor Dewey that appeared to be estab ? lished wan as follows : Truman , 227 ; Dewey , 176 ; doubt , ful , 88 . The remaining 40 of the total of 531 electoral votes apparently had been won by the Presidential candidate of the Democratic States ! Rights party @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Truman Needs 89 More Only thirty-nine electoral votes were needed by the President to attain the majority of 266 that would give him , a full term in the White House in his own right . And fifty-three were in sight ? in the doubtful states of Iowa , Montana , Nevada , Washington , Iowa and . California . However , in the la it named , with a block of twentyfive , Governor Dewey was holding the lead . If California ends with a Dewey victory , Ohio , with twenty-five elec. tors , can overcome that loss , and Ohio went definitely into the doubtful column in the early hours of today . Therefore the possibility that the election would end with= out a decision , and the choice of a President would devolve on the House of Representatives in the Eighty-first Congress , remained within the area of strong possibill ity , with the Senate empowered tO choose the next Vice President . But Governor Dewey 's Chances to win the election were fading fast at dawn today . The possibility of an election by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the South by the States ' Rights Democratic party , whose nominees were Govs . J. Strom Thurmond of South Carolina and Fielding , Wright of Mississippi . And , if this is the eventual outcome , the President will have been defeated bill . the revolt of Southern Democrats against his " civil rights " program , of Federal laws to enforce anti . segregation and a " fair employ , ment practices " act in the states The returns at 6 A. M. how , ever , further upset the earlier int dication that the Progressive party Candidacy of Henry A. Wallace had not proved as costly to the Pres1.4. , dent , or more so , than the Southern Democratic insurrection . For if Mr. Dewey 's pluralities in New ; York and in Ohio are as narrovi as was indicated early today , Mr ; Truman can attribute his failure to carry them both to the Wallace vote that was subtracted from the , normal Democratic following . The Congressional returns were more definite . Democratic candi. dates for the Senate appear cer. tain to win @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the party a numerical Senate majority over the Republicans // the Eighty-first Congress . And the new House was moving toward a Democratic majority also . But with ' late returns from Republican counties in New York adjacent to the metropolis , Governor Dewey was assured of the ! forty-seven electoral votes of the Empire State and those of New Jersey , Indiana and Maryland , in which the President had been leading . These developments halted Mr. Truman short of the goal of 266 electoral votes which any candidate must have to be elected President . In these states and many others the President confounded the forecasters by the size of his popular vote , attained over a party split in two directions and the public attempts of party leaders to deny him the nomination on the ground that he was the weakest candidate that could be chosen . But even if they fail to regain majorities in Congress the Demo crats are sure to be a powerful minority in Congress on those occasions when their sections can come together to make a party front . And they may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would provide difficulties for either a Republican or a Democratic President despite the deep division in the Democratic ranks . The States which seemed at 6 A. M. certain or likely to be carried by Mr. Dewey were : Connecticut , Kansas , Indiana , Maine , Maryland , Michigan , Nebraska , New Hampshire , New Jers. , , - , New York , North Dakota , Oregon , Pennsylvania a- : Vermont ? a total of 186 . The States in a similar category for Mr. Truman were : Arizona , ! Arkansas , Florida , Georgia , Illilnois , Kentucky , Massachusetts , 1Minnesota , Missouri , New Mexico , North Carolina , Oklahoma , Rhode Island , Tennessee , Texas , Utah , Virginia , West Virginia . and Wisconsin ? a total of 221 . The States ' Rights Democrats carried Alabama , Louisiana , Mississippi , South Carolina and two of Tennessee 's twelve electors  --  a total of 40 . In doubt were California , Colorado , Idaho , Iowa , Montana , Nevada , Ohio , Washington , Delaware and Wyoming , with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hours of today it was apparent that , whatever the decision would prove to be , the President had confounded all the ! forecasters and demonstrated that there was real foundation to his ! conviction that he had a " good fighting chance " to win despite the effort of Democratic party bosses in the East , Mid-West , Pacific Coast and the South to deny him the nomination on the ground that he would be overwhelmingly defeated . Also , organized labor , it was clear , had demonstrated tremendous power at the polls and would wield it effectively in the next Congress and administration no matter what party controls the one , or the other , or both . Not for twelve years has the outcome of a Presidential election been so confidently forecast by so many trained observers and sample poll-takers arriving at the same conclusion . And even in 1936 the general expectation that Franklin D. Roosevelt would be overwhelmingly re - elected over Alf M. Landon was somewhat restrained by a Literary Digest poll , which , up to the end of the campaign , indicated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ himself , and some devoted persons around him who were infected by his certainty that he could overcome the reported trend , almost no politicians in either party at any point in the campaign believed he could do so . The voters went to the polls yesterday in an atmosphere resembling that in 1 ' 912 . In 1912 , the Republican split that produced the independent candidacy of Theodore Rooseveltade Woodrow Wilson 's first elec'ion a mathematical certainty , and yesterday the Democratic national ticket was weakened by two independent parties that splintered off from it  --  the States ' Rights party of the South , under Govs . J. Strom Thurmond of South Carolina and Fielding Wright of Mississippi , and the Progressives , whose standard-bearers were Henry A. Wallace , elected as Vice President on the Democratic ticket in 1940 , and Glen Taylor , an incumbent Democratic Senator from Idaho . Historically , since the end of the Reconstruction period in the South the percentages by which the two major parties have divided the popular vote have been so close that very seldom did the result merit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1904 , 1920 , 1936 and 1928 ( in this latter year the defection of the Democratic South from that party 's Presidential candidate also assured a large margin of Republican victory ) , the division has been such that if an average of a dozen voters per - precinct changed their intentions because of some campaign developments , the winner would have been the loser . There have been in the same period , of course , many . " landslides " in terms of electoral votes , the reason being that , no matter , how small the margin of popular votes by which any state is won , its entire bloc of electoral votes is delivered by that margin . Yesterday , therefore , while the forecasters were generally agreed on an electoral landslide for Governor Dewey , few expected it to be reflected in the division of the popular vote , calculated to reach a point between 51,000,000 and 52 , - 000,000 . If the victor , , however , attains a popular majority of 3,000 , - 000 and , a plurality of 4,000,000 to 5,000,000 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ result . At stake were the offices of President and Vice President ; of thirty-two Senators in thirty-one states ( Maine filled its vacancy in September by electing Mrs. Margaret Smith , Republican , to succeed Wallace H. White Jr. , Republican ) ; of 432 Representatives in Congress out of a total of 435 ; and of thirty-two Governors . In eight states various types of referenda on how to deal with the liquor traffic , including a proposal for outright prohibition repeeal in Kansas , were at issue ; new labor laws were before the ? people in three more ; GI benefits were to be settled by eight more ; and Massachusetts voters were passing on legalizing birth control in certain circumstances . The campaign was put down by reporters and other observers as one of the dullest in history , and various reasons for this were assigned by analysts . Among them were : Apathy was the direct consequence of a foregone conclusion . It was the result of Mr. Dewey 's tactics in declining to be drawn out by the President 's personal and political attacks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lead . Mr. Truman 's lack of personal color in contrast with that of the late President Roosevelt and his ' lack of fire in delivering fiery speeches were responsible . The American people are becoming more and more cynical about the fate predicted for them by one set of politicians if the other takes office , and about the promises each makes to them contingent on the victory of that side . But for whatever reason the campaign was listless from the end of the extra session of Congress which President Truman called last Summer . The defiant and angry - speech of acceptance to the convention that nominated him , in which Mr. Truman announced his plan for the call , created popular excitement , and the extra session became an arena of sharp party combat . But after that adjourned the campaign soon resembled a debating society where opposing academic positions were asserted and defended before a yawning audience . Mr. Wallace 's ' experience with barrages , of eggs and tomatoes in the South , and the brief turmoil which followed the revelation that Mr. Truman wanted to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as his personal peace intermediary with Marshal Stalin , were about the only incidents of the campaign that created any stir at all . The President assailed the Republicans as a party , and their majority in the Eightieth Congress in terms of unusual harshness , and he spoke scornfully of his opponent 's unwillingness to debate with him on specific charges . But only once did Mr. Truman indulge-in personalities of a disagreeable character , and that was when he said that there was always ? a personable " front man " for . groups in evil conspiracy against . ! the people and , by using Hitler and the Fuehrer 's original backers for his comparilsdn , deliberately left the inference that this history was repeating itself with Mr. Dewey . But the President , despite efforts to persuade him to do so , declined to discuss his opponent 's draft status during World War II and those of some of his principal assistants in Albany . And he refused to attack the Governor on the report that in 1944 he planned to make it known that the Navy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whether or not that fact was still unknown to the Japanese . ( In two letters , Gen. George C. Marshall informed Mr. Dewey that it was and successfully appealed to him not to make the revelation . ) Though Mr. Dewey generally maintained his strategy of saying little that was controversial and concentrating on generalities with popular appeal , he breached this strategy toward the end of the campaign in the East . Apparently fearing that Mr. Truman had made some headway in that region , the Governor at Boston repeated most of his Los Angeles speech of 1944 in endorsing the social security thesis of the New Deal . This  --  and a kind of matching game with the President on Palestine  --  was the the only concession he made to an appearance of political necessity . . Mr. Truman , I however , shifted his major strategy fundamentally toward the end of the campaign by reiterating his ten-point Federal program to enforce " civil rights " which , after he offered it to Congress ' Feb. 2 , 1948 , cost him the support of the States ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attempted to soft-pedal this issue , avoiding all mention of the program in the platform and of Mr. Truman 's relation to it . Until he spoke in Harlem last week the President made only vague and casual references to the subject , vaguer and even more casual during his trips through Texas and North Carolina . But last week he and his managers apparently concluded they could not keep the South unbroken by this means and might lose essential support in the East and Mid-West . Accordingly the President specifically repeated his message to Congress in an area where Mr. Wallace made much of the issue . Aside from the two obvious goals of active forces in yesterday 's election  --  the Republicans to gain The Presidency and hold control of Congress , the National Democrats to hold the Presidency and regain a majority in Congress ? there were three others . Organized labor was out to demonstrate that its opposition can be fatal to national and local candidates . Mr. Wallace was intent on showing such strength for his American-Russian policy and his domestic program that the Democratic party @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an important voice in its future . And the States ' Rights Democrats were determined to defeat the major items in the " civil rights " program as well as to re-establish the influence of the Southern Democracy in the national party . 