@@711620

txt NEW HAVEN , Conn. , Nov. 2 ? With only one town unreported , Chester A. Bowles , Democrat , leading by 1,322 votes , is certain of election as Governor of Connecticut over the incumbent , James C. I Shannon . Governor Dewey , the first Republican to carry the state since Herbert Hoover won it in 1932 , has carried the state over President Truman by about 15,000 votes . The Democrats also disrupted the Republican domination in Congress , which included all six Representatives in the last House . Abraham A. Ribicoff , a lawyer of Hartford , and John A. , both Democrats , upset the Republican incumbents in the First and Third Districts . Representatives John Davis Lodge and James T. Patterson of the Fourth and Fifth Districts , respectively , are the only Republicans assured of re-election . Both candidates of the party trail in close contests for the Second District seat and Congressman-atLarge . In the large cities of New Haven , Hartford and Waterbury , Mr. Bowles piled up a majority of 40 , - // 500 votes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ polls closed at 8 o'clock , unreported at that hour , the total vote in New Haven , Hartford and Waterbury gave Mr. Truman an early advantage of almost 39,0004votes . In 1944 these cities gave the late President Franklin D. Roosevelt a plurality of 45,500 votes in a Democratic landslide . Unofficial returns from Bridgeport added to Mr. Truman 's advantage . He received 33,643 votes to 26,853 for Governor Dewey , sending another of the large cities into the Truman column . In Bridgeport , home town of Governor Shannon , Mr. Bowles ran behind the President with 32,390 votes to 27,654 for the Governor . -A surprising Democratic plurality in Hartford caused Repreentative Miller , Republican incumbent , to concede defeat by his Democratic opponent , Abraham A. Ribicoff , also of Hartford , before 9 o'clock . Unofficial returns from all of Hartford 's thirty-nine precincts gave Mr. Truman a sweeping lead there of almost 23,000 votes . The President polled 47,574 in the Connecticut capital , as against 24,609 for Governor Dewey . Mr. Bowles ' Hartford total was 48,039 , while Governor Shannon had 24,569 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eight of the thirty-three ' wards in amassing a plurality of more than 12,000 . He had 43,090 votes to 31,030 for the New York Governor . The huge New Haven majority gave former Congressman James E. Shanley victory in his quest for the Judge of Probate post . He had a margin of 15,471 votes over the Republican incumbent , Judge Clifford Sturges . Waterbury , which gave the late President Roosevelt a margin slightly in excess of 3,000 in 1944 , went into the Truman column by almost 4,000 votes . The President received 23,657 votes to 19,757 for Mr. Dewey . BOWLES ACCLAIMS PARTY Governor - Elect Hails Victory as Proving Democrats Strong Following is a statement by Chester Bowles , newly elected Democratic Governor of Connecticut , made in a Mutual Network broadcast at 1:50 A. M. this morn-ing : " We won the Governorship by what I might call a photo finish . Naturally I am very gratified , and so are we all in Connecticut . It looks as though we have carried in three or four Democratic Congressmen with everybody else . " The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , remains very uncertain and I want to wish well to all Democratic candidates running throughout the United States . I want to offer my particular good wishes to Harry S. Truman , who has put up one of the most amazing battles that I have ever seen , or anyone else has ever seen , in the history of American politics . " You know , just four or five months ago , all the experts and commentators and radio columnists and everybody else were ready to bury the Democratic party . They said the Democratic party was a corpse and the bolters followed it up and carried out that same idea . We proved them to be very wrong . The Democratic party is very much alive . It is a liberal Democratic party , a party with strong liberal convictions and principles . We proved it on election day , Nov. 2. 1948 . " Now it seems to me today that the Democratic party , regardless of the outcome of the national elections , is in many ways a stronger party than it has ever been in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ We are rid of the Daiecrats , we are rid of the extremists to the far left . I hope they will never come back into the Democratic party except on our terms , that is , terms of Rooseveltian principles of the ProgressiveLiberal - Democratic party ? the principles that have been handed down to us through Jefferson and Wilson and Roosevelt and carried on so wonderfully in the last few months by Harry S. Truman . " The Roosevelt spirit has proved ' itself to be very much alive today on Nov. 2 , 1948 , and believe me that has done my heart a lot of good and I am sure the hearts of hundreds of people all over the country who believe in liberal government . " For the Democratic party , it seems to me that tonight , regardless of what the final outcome may be nationally , this is not the end but the beginning . We have built a strong party during the last few months . We have proved that we are able to pull together and work together . We have proved @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strongly believe . " We started to prove that at the conventi9 in Philadelphia when we established our strong support for the civil bill of rights that President Truman laid down , and now want to wish to all the Democratic candidates and all you peeple throughout the United States the very best of luck . I think we all feel proud to have played a part in the great Democratic election . There are hundreds of millions of people throughout the world that have been denied this right . We have n't in the United States . We have exercised it today . " And now , good night and good luck to you hall . "                     