@@707024

txt Urging immediate intelligent action to correct New England 's food supply situation , which he said was " rapidly growing worse , " Malcolm McCabe , Secretary of the Massachusetts Retail Grocers and Provision Dealers ' Association , today called for a drastic cut in the point values of canned goods . Unless this is done , he added , " we are in for trouble . " Huge stocks of processed foods already on hand here are not being moved because of the high point value , he said , and many large shipments are being canceled because high point values have " frozen " sales . In an area of abundant poultry and egg supplies , these items are not reaching New England consumers because dealers can not afford to move them under present price ceilings , Mr. McCabe said . One basic food after another is disappearing from the market , he pointed out , until it is a real question where the foods are going to come from to feed our New England families this week . " Meat supplies all over the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we have been assured by the Department of Agriculture in Washington that ' plans are being formulated to relieve the meat situation in the New England area , ' " Mr. McCabe said . " These plans must be translated into cars of beef and pork this week and next , price control or no price control , if we are going to have any meat at all n our tables , " he added . Impossible Operating Situation Pointing out that the Regional and State Office of Price Administration officials are doing tile best job possible to bring order out of chaos , Mr. McCabe stated that " They have been handed a food program that creates impossible operating situations for the food trades , and they now find that the entire food control is in danger of disintegrating . This must not happen , " he asserted . " Prices of fresh vegetables were suddenly ' panic frozen ' at retail and wholesale levels , although the OPA had months to anticipate the effect of the rationing of canned foods on the fresh vegetable prices . This freeze of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Washington knew growers ' prices could not be frozen . " Now , we have the sight of a truckload of cabbage being mobbed by dealers before it stops rolling , with most of the dealers unable to buy . Practically the only cabbage moving is cabbage sold in violation of price regulations , " Mr. McCabe continued . " Spinach ceilings at wholesale , based on the ' freeze week ' price , should be $1.75 , " he pointed out . " Spinach costs wholesale dealers $1.85 laid down on this market . How can men remain honest and get food to their customers under these impossible trading conditions ? " Mr. McCabe asked . " Unless order is restored at once , our stores will not be selling fresh veketables . " Turning to eggs , Mr. McCabe stated that retailers have been ordered to reduce their profit on these to close to 10 per cent , while wholesale egg dealers have not sold an egg for the past two days , because they have been ordered to sell at no profit at all . One retail @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discontinue selling the 12,000 dozen eggs he disposes of each week to his customers if this egg price regulation is enforced . " Eggs never have been so abundant , and it is ridiculous to have stores unable to handle this basic food because of a restrictive price regulation , " Mr. McCabe declared . The poultry supply has practically given up the struggle to substitute for meat , he added . " Receipts in Boston markets on Tuesday totaled only 56,000 pounds , compared with receipts of 134,000 pounds a year ago . " Point values must be drastically reduced , Mr. declared , " Orders for car after car of processed foods , that should be going into storage in New England , are being canceled every day for lack of ' points ' to purchase them , " he said . " At present point values , inventories of canned goods on hand in New England would last for years . I am told that one major concern in New England has enough canned food stored to feed the 2,000,000 persons in Greater Boston for two years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sold a can during that period . " The inevitable result of continued high point values will be to create a ' black market ' in canned goods that would put prohibition to shame , " Mr. McCabe continued , " If a merchant analyzes his stock and finds that it will take him two or three years to liquidate his stock of canned food because some fellows in Washington have priced them too high in points , I am afraid he is going to sell some of that food without points . " That would be unfortunate , because we do need a canned goods rationing program that will honestly work , The new 1943 pack will be a complete fizzle , " Mr. McCabe said , " unless some natural movement of canned goods is immediately restored by this essential cut in points per can . "                     