@@705629

txt Automobile makers face a curtailment in the supply of steel sheets tfor bodies and fenders ) on which their future production schedules depend . Extent of the curtailment can not yet be accurately measured . Several steel companies , however , have worked out definite plans to roll light plates on their continuous sheet mills . Light plates are re inch , more or less , in thickness , whereas the normal output of a sheet mill is a much thinner product When any huge , modern continuous sheet mill is shifted to steel plate construction , the supply of sheets for non-defense consumers will be correspondingly reduced The automobile industry is the largest consumer of steel sheets . Defense Contracts Increasing Meantime , contracts in sheets for actual defense work are increasing in volume . Such orders are being given priority ; as a result . the supply available for non-military consumers is smaller , and deliveries to them are running further behind . Considerable non-defense business booked by sheet makers will be delayed in the coming weeks and months . Currently , it is virtually @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even for delivery in 1942 This is due to the fact that most makers believe the shipments on orders already on their books will be extended into next year If the demand for defense purposes continues as heavy as in recent weeks , or even increases as some observers predict . Efforts of some consumers to place orders for bars and some other products have not been successful . Bar makers already are booked almost to the end of this year . and some feel that deliveries on part of this business must be extended into 1942 . They are not willing to quote prices for next year . Extent of Tin Plate Demand Indicative of the extent of the demand for tin plate by domestic consumers and for British account is the decision of the Carnegie-Illinois Steel Corp . ( LT . S. Steel subsidiary ) to resume operations at 20 of its hot mills at the Shenango Works . Newcastle , Pa . The plant has 40 of these mills which ? are old-fashioned and high cost , and production would not be resumed unless it was necessary to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taking orders for delivery in the third quarter of this year , but are not naming quotations . Pi ices to be paid by buyers will be those in effect at the time shipment is made . All makers are taking orders only from regular customers and the tonnages are based on their normal requirements in the past . There is still a good demand for structural steels , but because of delays in deliveries some consumers are switching to reinforcing steel where such a change is possible . This has resulted in increased inquiries for reinforcing steel . with tonnages involved somewhat larger than normal . Steel Preference Given Freight Car Builders WASHINGTON  --  Freight car builders will be assured first call on steel and other required materials and equipment after military and other Government needs are taken care of as a result of a civilian allocation program promulgated yesterday by Leon Henderson , admin istrator , Office of Price Administration and Civilian Supply . Other civilian uses of qteel will have to be curtailed as a result of giving preference to freight car construction , Mr. Henderson pointed out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the need for additional rolling stock is coming at a time when the armament program is placing heavy demands on the steel industry and that even though the industry is operating at capacity there is not enough steel being produced to satisfy both military and all civilian needs . The program provides that all deliveries of equipment and material necessary for the construction and repair of freight cars shall be given preference over all material and equipment going into any other civilian use , subject only to a prior preference on deliveries for all such material and equipment as may be required under contracts with the United States .2/ any department or agency thereof . Action was taken under the authority of OPACS to allocate residual supplies of scarce materials among competing civilian demands after needs of the armament program are satisfied . Administrator Henderson pointed out that the railroads are faced during the peak loading period this fall with the heaviest volume of freight traffic in recent years as a result of the combined impetus of armament and civilian ac tivity . Because of this the railroads are now undertaking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ approximately 73.000 cars on order May 1 which should be built this year . In order to accomplish this and to avoid a serious rail transportation bottleneck it is essential that construction of these freight cars and repair of bad order cars be speeded by every means possible . Mr. Henderson stated . The civilian allocation program for freight car builders will affect particularly the distribution of available supplies of steel and its products since they constitute a major part of the materials required in freight car construction . It is estimated that an average of 20 tons of steel are required for each freight car built . Completion this year of all the freight cars on order May 1 would require around 1,400,000 tons of steel .                     