@@708429

txt Further disclosures of what took place at the Big Three conference illuminated the magnitude of the diplomatic victory achieved by Russian Dictator Stalin and the extent of the concessions wrung from President Roosevelt . It now appears that what the conference statement represented as a compromise on the voting procedure in the proposed new league of nations to enforce peace is nn compromise at all but a surrender to Stalin 's original demand for the power to veto the use of force against Russia . It was proposed at Dumbarton Oaks by the American , British ; and Chinese delegates that the employ . ment of force by the league against a nation accused of aggression should be authorized by a unanimous vote only of the big powers but that the accused nation would have no vote . The Russians insisted that the accused nation should have a vote , thus being able to veto a proposal to use force against itself . Stalin Stands Ground . Such internationalists as John Foster Dulles admitted that such provision would make a farce of any scheme to preserve peace @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ successfully stood his ground on this issue at the Crimean conference . It appears that under the terms of the socalled compromise the accused nation is to be permitted . to vote and thereby veto the adoption of economic sanctions or the employment of military force against it . Stalin agreed that on all questions not involving punitive action decision could be taken by a ma- jority vote with the parties to the dispute not voting . But if economic , or military sanctions were proposed ) Russia could vote and veto action . F. D. R. Had the Idea . According to the information put out by the administration concerning the conference , it was the President who thought up this " compromise , " which Stalin found he could accept without yielding his original insistence on the power to veto the use of force against Russia . Stalin also won acceptance of his proposal to force territorial and political concessions from Poland , , Mr. Roosevelt backing down from the position he took two months ago when he said such concessions would be acceptable to the United States if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ approved the concessions in the Big Three conference altho Poland did not agree . The Big Three decreed that Polana yield the eastern half of its territory to Russia . Vandenberg on Spot . These and other aspects of the Crimean conference are understood to account for the hesitation exhibited by Sen. Vandenberg R. , Mich. to accept appointment as a delegate to the San Francisco conference April 25 which was called by the Big Three to complete the Dumbarton Oaks peace league plan . Vandenberg frequently has asgerted that he would oppose any peace league in which the United States would be required to use its economic or military power to maintain an unjust peace settlement . Close friends of the Michigan senator , however , are convinced he will accept the appointment ultimately .                     