@@711729

txt The Control Yuan of China appealed directly to Congress today for increased aid to the Nationalist Government of Generalissimo Chiang Kai-shek in its struggle for survival against the Communist forces . The second highest elective body of China warned in a message to Speaker Joseph W. Martin that not even the Americas would be secure if that nation fell under the Communist yoke since the hemisphere would be alone against a sovietized Far East . Asia and Europe . Meanwhile , Peiping prepared its defenses against an anticipated Communist assault . Two key defense outposts were evacuated and the Communist radio asserted that Red forces had seized virtually the entire 100-mile section of the Peiping-Kalgan Railway . At the same time , it was announced that a force of 695 United States Marines had sailed from Tsingtao for Shanghai to protect the lives of American citizens . Meanwhile , the State Department sought to make it clear that Economic Cooperation Administrator Paul G. Hoffman spoke for himself alone rather than for this Government in pledging continued aid to China if the present Government were supplanted by a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ While the department was stressing the consistency of Administration policy toward China and the Nationalist Government , Matthew Woll , chairman of the Free Trade Union Committee of the American Federation of Labor , charged that a coalition Government " would turn China over to the Cominform the Communist Information Bureau and its masters in Moscow . " The appeal from the Control Yuan was forwarded to Speaker Martin by Chinese Ambassador Dr. V. K. Wellington Koo . " In order to realize their policy of world revolution and their design for enslavement of mankind , the international Communists have followed the footsteps of Germany and Japan in attacking democratic and peace-loving countries , " the message said . " The Chinese Communists have thus been instigated to start a rebellion against the National Government . " China 's struggle to suppress the Communist rebellion is. in reality , an anti-aggression war in defense of the way of life of the democratic nations and the peace of the world . It is not to be regarded merely as a civil war to achieve China 's national peace and unity . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be sovietized and so would Asia and Europ$ . Even the Americas might not:be secure . " We , , the members of the Control Yuan , , were elected by and from among the people . We have seriously suffered from the poison - of communism . On behalf of our suffering countrymen , we respectfully appeal to you and through you to your Government and people to increase aid to China so as to overcome the flaming peril from the Communist party and safeguard the democratic way of life and the lasting peace of the world . " The appeal from the Control group , which supervises government expenditures , brought an immediate response from Representative Chester E. Merrow , Republican , of New Hampshire , member of the Foreign Affairs Committee . In a bill that he proposed to introduce the opening day of Congress , Mr. Merrow called for an initial expenditure of $1,000,000,000 in 1949 , increased military representation to advise the Nationalist Government , and expansion of air and surface transportation to move supplies . ? *. - Hoffman Talk Interpreted In discussing Mr. Hoffman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ State Department press officer , said the ECA chief was speaking " very frankly on one subject and subject only . " He emphasized Viat Mr. Hoffman 's evident intention was to bespeak this nation 's desire to relieve hunger and suffering rather than to suggest this Government 's course in political matters . Continuing his quotation from Mr. Hoffman , Mr. said he made it clear that political matters were outside his official competence and that such decisions had to be made at the White House when specific situations arose . Meanwhile , he said , the State Department would not itself indulge , in speculation on " hypothetical possibilities . " In response to a question , Mr. said he had reason to believe that there was no basis for reports suggesting that American representatives in Nanking were pressing Generalissimo Chiang to form a coalition government with the Communists . Elsewhere in the capital it was pointed out that such a suggestion from American representatives would not be inconsistent with President Truman 's policy declaration on China two years ago calling for a national conference of all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reference to this statement of United States policy toward China , Mr. said this Government 's position remained unchanged and that Mr. Hoffman 's statements to the press at Shanghai had not previously been cleared with the State Department . Regarding aid to China , the latest official tabulation today showed that all but $8,000,000 of the $125,000,000 voted by Congress in April for military assistance had been drawn by the Chinese Government . How much of the military supplies already had been shipped was not indicated . Woll Bars Coalition Aid In his statement for the AFL , Mr. Woll said that adoption of the coalition government concept in China would gravely jeopardize the security of the American people , and added : " We know of no immediate single action by our Government ' which would so seriously endanger international peace . " Mr. Woll cited the history of coalition governments in Poland and Czechoslovakia and of Communist minorities in the governments of France and Italy to show that any such arrangement always was intended to pave the way for totalitarian Communist dictatorship . The union labor leader @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conference of all demgeratic nations to work out a common program of action " to stem the tide of Communist tyranny and to bolster the truly democratic forces of Asia . " He proposed further that this Government " place before the United Nations Security Council the entire question of the role of Russia in fostering civil war in China and undermining the National Government of China with which it has a treaty of friendship and peace . "                     