@@706874

txt That 's what some food industry leaders say ; many civilians agree . Dehydrated potatoes . beets , carrots , beef , chicken and spaghetti serve a useful war-time purpose , saving much valuable shipping space . But they lack eye appeal that makes eating fun . Some dried items  --  soups . and eggs for bakers , for instance  --  will continue when mace comes : they antedate the war . Food retailers say many women shoppers prefer the glass containers that are pinch-hitting for tin cans . They like to see what they buy . ? ? ? " RED TAPE DAY " may become a weekly event in Little Rock , Ark . One grocer there proposed it . Others endorie the idea . Stores would close one day a week , permitting overworked owners and their depleted staffs to till out Government questionnaires , straighten out ration book coupons . check price ceilings . Retailers say It takes the full time ( more than a 40-hour week ) of one man just to keep track of new regulations , till out the forms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ grocery store in Little Rock that can keep up with all this red tape . ' ? ? ? WILL WOMEN WORK FAS become as firmly entrenched in factories as they are in the American barber shop ? Manufacturers like their skilL The women like their new-found economic freedom . A Cleveland arms plant finds women turn out more units per hour than the men they replace . A Youngstown steel plant discovers women can and will do jobs the men did n't like ( like racking steel for pickling vats ) . A New York State precision equipment maker says the feminine touch is more accurate than the masculine . At Pittsburgh 63 former stenographers , bookkeepers , school teachers , salesgirls , beauty shop operators and housewives are taking a four months course to become technicians in a synthetic rubber plant . Working in tear plants is patriotic now ? " it 's the thing to do . " Will the fad fade ' Hint : The last war put thousands of women in banks , insurance companies . They 're still there . ? ? ? SOMETHING DRASTIC @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the industry agree shortages are certain . Bowes:homes may go unheated , some CiVilian . goodiftaetories shur-down. - Essenti6 industry ind even shipping could Se bit . The situation is critical now , with available fuel oil being parceled out to users that need it now . Supply lags 250,000 barrels daily behind demand . Stocks here of heavy fuel oil for factories , ships , utilities ( it enriches gas ) are infinitesimal . On conversion it 's a case of " too little , too late " . Some factories switched ; more should have . One big company sought last spring to change a major plant from oil to coal , . could n't get high enough priorities for materials . Now it 's forced to convert but the job ca n't be finished before next spring . Holders of " A. " gasoline rations can expect a further cut ; maybe they 'll get none at all . ? ? ? CIVILIAN MALES will learn more about U.S.E.S . in the months ahead . This nine-year-old agency . the United States Employment Service , will handle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 24 . Launched in 1933 to aid the public works program , it joined tip with the Social Security Board in 1939 to test applicants for unemployment compensation . Six weeks ago it was transferred to the W.M.C. Right now . U.S.E.S . wrestles with its own manpower problem . It ca n't keep enough good workers to man its 1,500 local offices , maintain representatives in every county in the country . Manpower Director will seek higher pay for U.S.E.S . workers ; it 's held low by law ; state lobbies insisted rates be at state office workers ' level . ? ? ? NEWSPAPER EDITORS fret ' over radio scoops . Broadcasters put General Eisenhower 's announcement of Dakar cooperation on the air at 7 p. m . ( New York time ) Monday . Due to poor cable transmission the United Press got its story here at 5:45 a. m . Tuesday . The Associated Press dispatch was 20 hours late . The press associations and newspapers are fighting for better cable service from Africa . British publishers are also concerned . The London Daily Mail @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contradictory broadcasts from unknown commentators speaking from North African stations . " ? ? ? NEW YORK CITY 'S employment outlook brightens . Unemployment is now less than 250,000 , experts estimate , compared with 400 ; 000 four months ago . This is an obvious clue to sharply increased war work in the metropolitan area , although contracts and total awarded are secret . Many Government workers have been hired here , too . Although it costs more to make many articles here ( Army pants , for instance ) , New York has an argument to justify this . There are no " extra " public charges on war contract figures , for additional housing , schools , utilities , pollee , firemen . Those are " musts " in overcrowded war work centers . Postmaster Albert Goldman asks help in placing about 50 retired but able-bodied New York City postal employes . It 's hard ' to reinstate them in the Post Office ; they would lose Civil Service pensions . ? ? ? BRIEFS : The Army Quartermaster Corps not only has clothing displays to show New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , showing what not to make . Planes too badly cracked up in accidents to ? be rebuilt are used by maintenance men in training . One Boston department attire collected 1,500 pounds of old silk stocking , for use as powder bags , in two weeks . Two- ships from West Africa brought in 100,000 bags of cocoa this week .                     