@@712362

txt Dr. T. F. Tsiang , chief of the Chinese delegation to the United Nations , has done a service to his country and a service to the truth by speaking out plainly in the General Assembly . He has dropped diplomatic niceties and has come to grips with the assault on China by the Communists . He has not , at this stage , asked for specific Assembly action , but he has asked the Assembly to do some hard and straight thinking . His analysis of what has happened should help in that process . At the basis of his argument is the declaration that the Chinese Communists are the instruments of an international organization and are tied to Moscow . He said yesterday : " The Chinese Communist party is an integral part of the international Communist movement . * * Its propaganda is always in tune with Moscow propaganda . Its action is always in step with Moscow 's action . " This should help to brush aside the myths about " independent agrarian reformers " and counteract some of the wishfully muddled thinking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chinese Communists as instruments of Kremlin policy becomes doubly significant with Dr. Tsiang 's next logical step . Moscow 's present policy , he points out , is the same imperialist policy in respect to China as that of Czarist Russia and has been even more successful . The Kremlin has gained greater control over Manchuria than did the Czars and has in addition a powerful lever on the rest of China in the subservient Chinese Communist party . Such events naturally raise the questions of why they took place and why something was not dons about them , and Dr. Tsiang points , in answer , to the preoccupation of the United Nations and the Western Powers with the problems of Europe . He is gratified that bounds have been placed on Communist aggression in the West , but is fearful that the dangers of the flood to the East have not been fully apprehended . Because of that he has urged upon the Assembly the peril of attempted appeasement and the unwisdom of trying to ignore what has taken place . Such a course , he holds , will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United Nations and for that reason " requests " that the Assembly give " due attention to the storm that has reached my country and will soon reach other countries . " This approach to the problem , not merely straightforward but head-on , may cause ' some commotion in the Assembly , ' but Dr. Tsiang is right in insisting that the case should not be ignored . He is manifestly right in his facts about the place of the Chinese Communists in Soviet policy and the place of Soviet imperialism in the Far East . Mao Tze-tung , Chinese Communist chieftain , ' has gone out of his way in proclaiming his new " peoples ' " regime to prove Dr. Tsiang right on the first count , and every Soviet action in respect to Manchuria since Yalta has proved him right on theisecond . It is probable that what Dr. Tsiang calls the preoccupation with Western problems to the exclusion of Eastern has been more apparent than real and that much of the failure to act has been based on an inability to discover how to act . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ situation may have arisen from the inability to know how not to ignore it . In any , case , however , the issues are being drawn and they will become sharper rather than ' less distinct . Thel Chinese delegate is being a good patiiot and an honest man when he brings them out into the open . The problem will never be solved on a " hush-hush " basis and Dr. Tsiang does well to get us away from it .                     