@@708970

txt COAL SHIPMENTS RESTRICTED IN EAST AS STRIKES SPREAD ; BUS SLOWDOWN HITS 5TH AVE . FORTAS LIMITS FUEL Provides for Essential Users , Such as Utilities and Transit Lines NO DELIVERY TO DEALERS Acting SFA Head Says Walkouts Cost 625,000 Tons Daily ? Calls Situation Critical By JOSEPH A. LOFTUS Special to THE NEW YORK TimEs . WASHINGTON , Oct. 2 ? While strikes spread to one-third of the country 's soft coal industry , the ' Government took emergency steps today to protect essential users of the fuel . By order of Abe Fortas , acting Solid Fuels Administrator , producers in four major eastern districts were prohibited from shipping coal to any consumer except hospitals , water , gas and electric utility plants , railroads and city transit . systems , vessels , minepower plants , the Great Lakes docks and river and tidewater docks . Mr. Fortas said that strikes in support of John L. Lewis ' demand for unionization of mine supervisory employes were costing the country more than 600,000 tons of coal production a day , or about 30 per cent of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of critical emergency , " he said that the action was necessary to conserve stocks of fuel above ground as much as possible . The four districts affected by the embargo cover Western Pennsylvania , Northern West Virginia , the panhandle area of that State , Southern West Virginia and parts of Kentucky and Tennessee . Reserve Pool Is Ordered The order also directed producers in these districts to hold at railroad mine sidings for emergency shipment as many loaded cars as possible without impeding mine operators . In a statement accompanying the order . Mr. Foster said : " The suspension of operations has reached the proportions of a critical emergency in one of our ' most important soft coal producing fields , and immediate action to protect the public is imperative . " Over half the production of the Appalachian field is paralyzed and the walkout is spreading rapidly . This field produces about 70 per ! cent of the nation 's coal , including the preponderance of our vital byproduct coals essential for making steel , fuel gas and for many other , essential purposes . " As @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tons of coal per day , which is about 30 per cent of the entire national coal output . " In view of the exceedingly heavy soft coal requirements our stocks of fuel above ground offer only slender protection in this emergency . And we must stretch them in every way possible so as to minimize the danger to the public . " The 49,904,000 tons of soft coal in consumers ' hands on Aug. 1 ( the last date for which statistics are available ) represented an average of about thirty-seven days ' supply at the July rate of consumption . Of course this would he a considerably smaller supply at the normal winter rate of consumption . Says Industries Are Short " Steel mills , certain railroads and public utilities , particularly fuel gas plants , are the least adequately protected of any class of consumers . The steel mills as of Sept. 1 averaged about thirteen days ' supplies and the stocks held by gas plants are comparable . " On Monday we had to begin diverting coal from other consuniers to gas utility plants in an effort @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ output for lack of by-product coal and industrial users of fuel gas may have to begin curtailing the use of that fuel at any time so that the supply for home users will be protected . " We have already notified the gas-producing plants of our in // ability to provide the coal necessary for keeping them at normal operating levels for a very long period because of the strike . As of today the production of the special types of coal needed by the gas plants was about 20 per cent of normal . " Exports Are Also Curbed WASHINGTON , Oct.2 ( 113 ) ? Deliveries by retailers to domestic consumers were not directly curtailed by the emergency order of the Solid Fuels Administration , but dealers will be unable to obtain shipments from mines in the affected districts to replenish their stocks . The order applies to bituminous coal shipments by rail and water ! from mines producing more than fifty tons a day . Shipments of coal for export , from the affected districts also , were suspended . The coal which ' had been going abroad @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , thorized to buy it during the emer-1 gency . Where there are no American buyers for this coal , exports will be allowed on the specific approval of the Solid Fuels Administration field office manager in the district . 100,000 Miners Are Idle PITTSBURGH , Oct , 2 t/P ) ? The soft coal strike hit hard in the Appalachian fields today , bringing the number of mines closed to at least 221 and throwing about 100,000 miners into idleness . Springing from a walkout at four mines in southwestern Pennsylvania twelve days ago , the work stoppage movement has steadily gained headway . At issue is the demand of supervisory mine workers for recognition as a collective bargaining agency of the United Clerical , Technical and Supervisory Workers , an affiliate of the United Mine Workers . Coal operators regard these employes as part of management . The strike idle by States today ; are as follows : Pennsylvania-104 mines shut and 44,328 miners idle . West Virginia ? An estimated 100 mines closed and 40,000 miners out . Kentucky ? At least ten mines down and 10,000 miners @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Union leaders in Pennsylvania and West Virginia predicted a complete shutdown in those States . Picketing was reported at scattered places . Steel Producers Are Hit Hard Special to THE NEW Yor.x TIMES . PITTSBURGI-1 . Oct. 2 ? Steel production in this area will be cut sharply by Friday because of the rapidly spreading coal strike , it was indicated today . New walkouts have hit five captive mines of the United States Steel Corporation , which is losing 44,000 tons daily as a result of 8,000 miners being idle . Thirteen of its fifteen captive mines are now closed . Most mills in the district , spokesmen say , can maintain their present operating rate until Friday midnight , but will have to revise schedules at that time if the strike continues . Republic Steel Output Cut 25% CLEVELAND , Oct. 2 ( in ? Republic Steel Corporation said today that six of its seven coal mines were closed by strikes , cutting its iron and steel production 25 per cent . Six of its twenty-two blast furnaces are idle and a seventh is scheduled to go down @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shortage . The firm also said that a strike of nine cranemen in the soaking pits at the Cleveland plant had shut down the pits as well as the blooming and billet mills , and that steel production would be reduced further tomorrow because of the walkout . A dispute with the CIO-United Steelworkers of America over the number of cranemen assigned to each shift in the soaking pit caused the stoppage , the company added .                     