@@712430

txt Twenty-five last minute amend . mcnts , some of which were termed " astounding. " popped up yesterday to plague city council members and Mayor Kennelly when they gathered as a committee of the whole to consider Chicago 's proposed new building code . And  --  after a lively session of an hour and a half  --  nothing concrete was accomplished toward the code 's adoption except that another meeting was called for Oct. 31 and the aldermen were advised to trudge back to their offices with a four pound volume and study the proposed regulations . Still Long Way Off It was finally agreed that making a building code is a long , hard job and that it still may " re some time before a new code is adopted  --  whet with some aldermen indicating that they too have some amendments in mind . Moot - nnoyed about the 25 surprise aniendments were John 0 . Merrill , director of the code revision itaff. and Aldermen Merriam 15th Ind Becker 140th , ardent supporters of the original draft prepared by Merrill and his staff . They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ late Tuesday afternoon . Ald. Cullerton 138thl , explained that about 20 of the last minute amendments had been inserted on the recommendation of the fire prevention bureau , and that the rest had been recommended by Building Commissioner Roy T. Christiansen and City Architect Paul Gerhardt . Plaster Blain Issue Altho none of the proposed amendments were explained at the session , the proposals by the fire prevention bureau were the ones that produced all the bickering . Some are considered minor changes , but one hits at the heart of the prolonged controversy between the Chicago Building Trades council and numerous civic groups . By this proposed amendment , the code subcommittee in effect has bowed to a trades council demand that a half hour fire-resistive requirement be retained for walls ot small , one story homes in the city 's Outlying areas . Merrill 's proposal was that this fire resistive standard be eliminated . His supporters have argued that the requirement would continue a virtual monopoly for the plastering trade , prohibit the use of most types of wallboard , . ad ban erection of many kinds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ considerable time with the code subcommittee this last month , I did not learn thitil 3 o'clock yesterday afternoon about the amendments recommended by the fire prevention bureau . " said Merrill . " I do n't agree with the fire prevention bureau . " Many of the proposed amendments appear to be for requirements far and beyond those of the 1939 code . It appears that some would nullify much of the cost saving for multiple ' family homes at d other structures we are trying to achieve in a new code . " The date of the next meeting was set far enough ahead te allow sufficient time for Merrill and his staff to analyze the recommended amend . ments.                     