@@706963

txt Establishment of a Foreign Trade Zone for the Port of Boston after the war  --  a proposal that was rejected after an extensive investigation in 1935 ? was visualized today in the fourteenth annual report of the Boston Port Authority . The report hinted that " develop- I ment of Castle Island as a Marine Terminal will lend itself adequately " to a Foreign Trade Zone and " considered " the proposed Zone " in terms of what is likely to transpire alter the war . " It is fair to assume , the report said that " more ships " than ever before will be in service alter the war ; that the greatest exchange of goods in history will take place ; and that the largest increase in trade routes ever known probably will transpire . The report was submitted to the Governor and the Legislature and to the Mayor of Boston and was signed by Richard Parkhurst , as Chairman , and five members of the Authority . Many Factors " Any one of these factors may be a sufficient cause for the establishment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this Port to attract its rightful share of the predicted growth of Commerce after the war , " says the report . When peace comes , the Castle Island property is likely to be turned over to the State or to a private company for operation , the report continued , " and made a Foreign Trade Zone that might attract certain industries which would erect buildings from which sampling , exchange of carpi : ) , and other functions of a Foreign Trade Zone might be carried on . We propose to watch all trends , and as the solution of the problem unfolds make recommendations at the proper time which will reflect whether a Foreign Trade Zone at Boston would enhance the flow of traffic through this Port . " Present Situation Regarding the present situation at Boston the report states that " while 1942 port tonnage figures can not be made public until after the war , there has been a substantial movement of ships and cargo . New and excellent facilities have . been built . Many old and worn out ones have been and are being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interest in the Port in important transportation circles , both abroad and in this country . " Boston is unquestionably one of the great war ports of the United States and the United Nations . We believe it can become one of the great peacetime ports as well . " Boston 's port is ready for effective use whenever and to whatever extent needed . based on strategic and tactical considerations . "                     