@@705897

txt Federal authorities today demanded the books of the Internetional Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employds , headed by George E. Browne and his Hollywood representative , Willie Bloff , the former pander . The purpose is to find out George E. Browne . what happens to 6 minion collars a year the union collects in special assessments . Disclosure that the government is after the records came in federal court when Browne 's attorney offered to argue that the theatrical union czar should not have to comply with the demand . Served with a subpena last Tuesday , Browne was called upon to produce all books and records showing collections and disbursements of the assessment fund , it was revealed . Browne , a member of the executive council of the American Federation of Labor , which is the highest body in the AFL , and Bloff are awaiting trial in New York on an antiracketeering indictment . They are charged with extorting $550,000 front four movie companies on threat of calling a nation-wide strike . The case is set for trial on Oct. 6 . For General @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Judge John W. Holland that the government 's demand the union give up the books for inspection by a special grand jury was not related to the extortion case , but was " a general investigation " of alleged racketeering in the motion picture industry . According to Burling , the books cover a special 2 per cent assessment against the weekly wages of approximately 125,000 members of the union . On the basis of an estimated average weekly salary of $50 , it was calculated by government investigators that the fund must amount to at least $6,000,000 annually . Burling declared the purposes for which the huge fund was garnered were " rather vague . " He added the fund was not carried on the regular books of the union and control of the money and records was vested in Browne as IATSE president . Charges Money Unprotected . The government prosecutor went on to say no annual statement of the fund is made , the regular union auditors do not audit the fund , and the money collected was not protected by , any ordinary safeguard , such as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Browne 's counsel , maintained that the records demanded by the grand jury were of a private nature because they belonged equally to each member of the union and , therefore . could not be subpenaed . Burling retorted Browne had custody of the records as an official . Burling cited Supreme court deciMons upholding the right of federal grand juries to examine such records . Judge Holland , who is a visiting jurist from Florida , confessed that matters of this nature were not common in his district and postponed decisico. on Browne 's motion to quash the subpena until Monday so he would have a chance to read up on the law over the week-end . 