@@706443

txt Although the Chinese Government has been strongly insisting on the need for receiving all possible help from the Allies in view of expected heavy Japanese attacks , the Chinese have far from a selfish view of the war . " China 's feeling of solidarity with the other anti-aggression powers has never been as strong as it is now , " a high Chinese government official told this writer . " The fundamental issue for China , as for the other members of the United Nations bloc , is the development of the war situation as a whole , " said this official . This broadly international outlook on nearby events reflects the views of a growing number of the best informed people in China and is the basis for their calm reaction to the loss of all-important positions in Burma with its repercussions on Yunnan and India . The battle of the Coral Sea made a deep , impression in Chungking for it gave a resounding reply to the much asked questions - where is the American fleet ? " and " where are all the new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that Australia might be lost was probably greater than apprehension about any other position of the United Nations against Japan and it is felt that this fear is now in the process of being removed . This is the background against which developments in Burma and Yunnan are being viewed in Chungking . The battle of Burma , however , is not considered as over . What China now wants is re-enforcements for the American volunteer group and The Royal Air Force which have given as effective help as their limited material permitted . But it is clear that Japanese invasion of Yunnan Province came as a surprise to most Chinese and the majority seems to be inclined to the belief that the original objectives of the Japanese Army were : 1 . To cut or forestall transportation routes between China and India across the mountains of Yunnan ; 2 . To destroy as much as possible of the foreign supplies still stored or moving on the Burma road ; 3 . An attempt to strike at a large body of Chinese troop concentrations which the Japanese may have hoped to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a psychological impression on Yunnan until recently the least " centralized " province of China and on Chungking itself . Japanese Thrown Back The Japanese launched their attack on Yunnan with about one division of predominantly mechanized troops strongly supported by planes . They advanced to a place about ten miles northeast of Lung-ling near the Salween River about 180 miles from Lashio in Burma , the southern terminus of the Burma-Yunnan motor road , that is over a distance equal to about one quarter of the entire road . But there they were checked and thrown back and they are at present being engaged between Mangshih and Chefang 30 to 50 miles southwest of the point of their greatest advance . It is hoped that they will soon be repulsed even further and that the rainy season which may set in any day will help the Chinese in their task . The Chinese High Command will certainly spare no effort to defend the Burma Road , although it is at the moment of less importance than ever , and especially to save Kunming=one of the main industrial , trade and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ remainder of the Chinese expeditionary force in Burma will probably soon be able to co-operate with the . Chinese troops in Yunnan while American and British planes have already played a considerable role in checking the Japanese and then forcing them back . The Japanese may also bring up reinforcements out of the four divisions they still have in Burma . They would certainly have to dr ) it ? 11-their objective : was to resume the offensive and to attempt an attack against Kunming.                     