@@707729

txt There may have been moments in the annals of mankind as big with drama as the present , but when before have the same men witnessed at the same time the beginning of one operation and the end of another which deserve to be classed as the greatest military adventures in history ? The world has never seen a flight of armies on the scale of the German withdrawal from Russia . It turns Napoleon 's famous retreat from Moscow into a minor rout . We are watching the finale of the most gigantic gamble in the career of a military adventurer who played for higher stakes than the Corsican or any of his predecessors , from Alexander to Genghis Khan . The magnitude of the attempt and the significance of the failure have been somewhat overshadowed by the day-to-day battles , by the scale of the world-wide struggle and in these last weeks by the vast preparations for the assault in the west . But as the Russian ground is cleared we can measure the immensity of the German loss and what it means m terms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ retreat of unexampled proportions . I. is the end of the Drany ? tacit Osten . The Germans may march again . Even now the military leaders are probably scheming to wear down and divide the forces of their opponents in anticipation of the next war . The Nazis have already deliberately weakened the fightint , power of their neighbors for generations to come . But it is doubtful that Germany will ever again attack Russia . Hitler has not only tested but increased the strength and confidence of the Soviet Union . He has vindicated Bismarck and the traditional view of all topflight German military strategists . The Germany of tomorrow , whatever its fate , will not have the power and unless it develops another megalomaniac leader it will be strange if it has the will to repeat the fatal experiment . The greatest venture of the war to date has failed . But a greater venture is beginning . Reports from London that the day for the grand assault on Europe is set are borne out by every word and sign that comes from those whose - errible responsibility @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of expectancy is near the breaking point . There is little doubt in anybody 's mind that we are on the eve of an operation as hazardous and decisive as the attack on Russia . The campaign to liberate a continent and destroy German military power is even more difficult , more complex , more grandiose in conception than Hitler 's supreme effort . It represents the climactic crusade of peaceful peoples to crush the warmakers and restore the equilibrium of the world . It will be grim and violent and in its first stages hideously costly , but once launched there is no doubt that it will he pursued to a triumphant end . The meeting of the ebb and flood of the forces struggling for the mastery of the world is like the conjunction of a rising and a falling star . To see in one flash the end of one unprecedented action and the beginning of another brings into sharp focus the historic drama in which we live . For a swift moment , in this last hour between night and dawn , we behold the colliding shapes @ @ @ @ @ 