@@705288

txt Reich Marshal Hermann Goering and other high Nazi officials have smuggled millions of dollars out of Germany , to be deposited for their personal use in banks here and in other countries , it was confirmed here yesterday . The cash was transported by a Rumanian , who used a fraudulently obtained United States passport in his trips back and forth across the German border , it was shown . Rumors that Marshal Goering and others who would have much to lose if the Nazi government failed were secreting nest eggs outside their own country were prevalent soon after the war broke out in the Fall of 1939 . Adolf Hitler was the only one not mentioned in such stories , and he was not included yesterday . The story came out in Federal Court , where the Rumanian received a prison term of two years and a fine of $2,500 for his admitted frauds in connection with the passport . The culprit is Isidore Lazarus , a former confidence man who though known among the Nazis as Lee Lane is a Jew . Got Refugees ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ told Judge Vincent L. Leibell the story as it had been pieced together from information obtained by an unnamed foreign agency , the United States Department of State and other investigators . He said Lazarus had caused refugees to transfer their property , in cash , to him before they left Germany . Through arrangements with Marshal Goering , Dr. Hjalmar Schacht , Dr. Joseph Goebbels , Propaganda Minister , Dr. Robert Ley , head of the Labor Front , and others , Lazarus saw to it that the refugees got a small part of the value of their belongings when they reached other countries , while the rest , amounting to vast sums , went to the account of the Nazi officials , Mr. Burke said . He added that part of the money Lazarus smuggled out was used for propaganda and espionage in the countries where it was deposited . Mr. Burke read the following extract from a letter from an important official of the Department of State , whom he did not identify : " According to his own admission to me , he Lazarus or Lane not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ members of the government  --  for which he received a commission  --  but he also acted as the intermediary through which these high ranking members of the Geri man Government transferred the money they received from this traffic to banks in other countries . Lane admitted to me that he made many trips from Germany to other countries carrying money for deposit outside of Germany . . . . Lane himself has admitted that he could reopen these connections with high ranking members of the German Government at any time . " Sums Small , Prisoner Said Lazarus admitted that he had got money out of Germany for the Nazi officials , but said it was in small amounts . He confirmed the statement of Mr. Burke that the cash was for the personal use of these officials . He maintained , however , that he was violently anti-Nazi , and had kept in with the German leaders only so that he could help those " poor devils " who were finding it hard to get out of Germany with their belongings . Judge Leibell listened for nearly an hour and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , argued for a light sentence . Lazarus is a tall man , well dressed , with white hair that is sparse on top , He smiled reassuringly at Judge Leibell as he tried to explain away Mr. Burke 's charges , but gradually , as it became apparent that be was not to be let off with a fine , he became more and more agitated . He groped for letters that he said would show his high purposes and protested again and again that he had been trying to help those " poor devils . " At last he attacked the , accusations by declaring : " It 's inconceivable ! " Judge Leibell calmly replied that it was not inconceivable . Lazarus 's own story was that he had come here in 1900 ? he was then 18 years old  --  and slipped into a life of crime . He did not deny a series of prison terms in Illinois and Colorado , which occupied much of his time from 1908 to 1918 . He maintained , however , that he had lived impeccably since 1918 . After @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in 1923 for Europe , and after visiting other countries he settled down In Germany . In 1927 he began to foresee that political changes were approaching , he said , and he made friends with men who were then poor but have since become powerful . While they were poor , and before he discovered their " hideous " attitude toward his fellow Jews and others , he lent these men money . Lazarus said . He intimated that it was necessary , in the financial and speculative pursuits he followed , to keep friendly with people of importance in the government . He did so , and was able to turn his favorable position to advantage when the time came for befriending oppressed persons who wanted to get out of the country , he said . In 1938 , however , the " radical elements " won power in Germany , he declared . Questioning by Judge Leibell brought an explanation from Lazarus 's counsel that this was after Dr. Schacht lost some of his power . Lazarus continued that he was obliged to sneak out of the country @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there of the approaching invasion and war . He started to say something of the way these business people were impelled to seek German buyers for their property , but was shut off by the court . He went to Poland , also , and France and England , always warning of the coming war . Judge Leibell asked why he had come back to this country , and he said only that he had thought his criminal record had been forgotten , and that he would be safe here .                     