@@706762

txt At the close of ten days packed with conferences , conversations and inspections , Wendell L. Willkie has convinced himself that the best way America can help to win the war is/ by establishing a real second front in Europe with Great Britain at the earliest possible moment military leaders will approve . And Mr. Willkie ventures that some of the military leaders will need some public prodding . " Next Summer may be too late , " he added . Mr. Willkie made his statement at a reception of the Anglo-American Press Association in Moscow this afternoon . He spoke in grave tones . Though , as Mr. Willkie observed , nobody can understand Russia without years of study , the grim picture of Russia today had made a deep impression on him . Mr. Willkie has seen a Russia where every family has some one at the front or has suffered the loss of a relative , a Russia that has lost in killed , wounded and missing 5,000,000 men , a Russia of whose total population of 180,000,000 onethird is under German domination , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ faced with a food scarcity this Winter , where the fuel shortage is likely to be acute , clothes hard to get and many vital medical supplies are nonexistent . That is the Russia Mr. Willkie has seen . Her authorities have sought to conceal nothing from him , he stated . He has come and gone as freely as though on a ? similar trip in the United States . Mr. Willkie found Russia fighting " the people 's war , " resolved to destroy Hitlerism , and resolved upon " victory or death , " but as // WILLKIE APPEALS FOR SECOND FRONT // Mr. Willkie pointed out , talking " only of victory . " Russia , he said , choosing his words carefully , is impatiently turning toward America for aid . Mr. Willkie championed an increase of supplies to Russia as well as a second front at the earliest possible moment . This statement from a man who is well aware of American production efforts is regarded here as a sign of remarkable confidence in the capacity of American industry to supply two major European fronts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ visit Mr. Willkie has been worried about the food situation here . He talked about it in Kuibyshev and Moscow , and it is no secret that he took up the question with the Russian leaders . Mr. Willkie denied that he had seen any traces of coolness or bitterness toward the Allies during his stay . Reports abroad to this effect he held to be harmful . In a talk Mr. Willkie had with Russian intellectuals last night the conversation ran on to a discussion of the value of Russia sending writers to America . Mr. Willkie , who was sitting between Konstantine Sominoff . Soviet war correspondent , and a young Russian woman intellectual , said , " Now I would like to say something to you all . " and then gave an impressive picture of America 's industrial program of planes , tanks and arms pouring out of American factories , and men training to use them . " The question is where are these arms all to go and that depends to an extent that you can not imagine here on American public opinion . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ kind or another every year in America and the Administration is extremely susceptible to public opinion . The English realized that and sent their writers and cultural leaders over to talk to Americans . Americans learned about England 's great fight when she was alone and insisted on shipping vast quantities of supplies to England without which I venture to say England could not have gone on fighting . Later Pearl Harbor roused such Indignation that when Australia needed help the Administration had to bow to public opinion and send important war aid there . " Now you know there has been in the past a good deal of feeling in America against Russia . But the great fight of the Red Army has aroused tremendous admiration and America is going to aid Russia to the utmost with material . " Our Production Cited Here Mr. Simonoff interrupted . " Yes , " he said , " and that aid is useful . American tanks are being used at Stalingrad and they are good . " Sergei Voytechof , f , the playwright , took him up : " But it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is aid for America herself . America is distributing tanks all over the world now and you are making thousands more . But when you have enough to fight the Fascists is n't there danger they will be needed to bar the enemy 's way to your own cities , that , enemy who is fighting on American soil ? " Mr. Willkie retorted : " Now let 's talk practically . Without specifying anybody in particular , I can say that your leaders want material aid from America . Nnw the point I want to make is that while public opinion has been fluctuating , farms and factories have continued to produce . The materials are there . Unlike France , we have arms . The question is how best to use them . " An extremely frank exchange of views took place during the threehour conversations , which Mr. Willkie compared to those he has often held in New York with well-known American writers and journalists .                     