@@704412

txt We Americans nowadays are not making as much fun of Congress as we used to . We know that it is slow , clumsy viand inefficient ; we know that too few of its members are deep students of the great problems with which they have to deal , that some of them are fond of empty oratory , that too many are timorous in the presence of pressure groups and that the great majority will be playing politics in an election year . But developments abroad in the last few years have made us increasingly conscious of how immensely fortunate we are that such an institution as Congress still exists among us . For Congress and the various State Legislatures that also met last week symbolize the settlement of social issues by peaceful compromise of conflicting views , by full discussion , by consultation of the interests of the groups concerned , by constant reference to public opinion . They symbolize also the great lesson that the centuries have taught , but that mankind through bitter misery is having to learn all over again  --  that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " must be dispersed . It is always dangerous , and often disastrous , to permit it . to be concentrated in the hands of a small group . It is true that the small group can " get things done . " But the things that it gets done turn out , in the long run , to be almost invariably the wrong things . They are the things that aggrandize and consolidate the power of the ruling clique itself , that stamp out one by one the liberties of the people , and that usually lead , in the end , to war and misery and death . All this does not mean that Congress can afford to be smug about its own shortcomings . On the contrary , it is precisely because impatience with the real or supposed defects of the parliamentary system has led one country after another to abandon it in recent years that the remaining democratic legislative bodies should take every possible step to improve their machinery and to cure any defect that is not inseparable from their virtues . One of the main @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ countries in recent years is that it has attempted to do too much . That system was not designed for minute regulation of the economic life of a country or for all-pervasive control over the individual . When it attempts this it is forced increasingly to delegate power . The inconsistencies of policy and duplications of functions that develop soon create a demand for coordination of control under a single individual . Parliamentary government should protect itself by a wise limitation of the tasks which it undertakes . Our own Congress in recent years , in addition to trying to regulate too much , has failed to improve its own machinery . One clear way in which it could do this would be by the appointment of an interim committee , or council , to study leading problems between sessions and present the whole Congress with a definite legislative program when it met . If this had been done at the end of the last session , Congress today would have something already formulated to deal with . The country would have before it  --  on national defense , the Wagner @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  definite proposals to discuss , and the prospects for businesslike and wellconsidered legislation would be much greater than they are . Last year , a month after Congress had met , Majority Leader Barkley was Urging the various committees to speed their work " so that the Senate may not be required to adjourn from time to time for three days because there is nothing to do . " Two weeks after his urging , Washington dispatches to this newspaper still reported that " neither the House nor the Senate has before it any pressing business . The Senate has literally no business of a national scope ready for debate . " Yet by June Congress was working desperately in day and night sessions to pass new monetary and relief legislation before " deadlines " that were perfectly well known in January . This dawdling followed by feverish haste could be almost entirely avoided by the device of an interim committee consisting of a few Congressional leaders chosen by Congress itself to formulate a legislative program to be presented in an orderly fashion when the full body met . Such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sacrificing any of our liberties or constitutional safeguards .                     