@@711363

txt Second-day operation - yesterday of the New York City Transit System under the higher fare schedule was much smoother than on Thursday , with less turnstile trouble , fewer ' questions , and a wider acceptance by the public , transit officials reported last night . Delays and difficulties that popped up on Thursday to jostle New Yorkers out of their daily traveling routines largely had disappeared . Both morning and evening rush hour traffic flowed through the turnstiles in a steady stream , with no extra congestion on the platforms . Board of Transportation officials decided that larger directional signs in more explicit language would aid subway travelers to move swiftly from one line to another without paying a second fare . A board spokesman reported last night that by Tuesday , when the city resumes its normal weekday pace , the system 's operation would function as easily as under the 5-cent fare . Maintenance Troubles Drop In Manhattan , turnstile maintenance men reported that their troubles with balky machines had dropped 50 to 75 per cent below Thursday 's volume . Although some entire banks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not a single instance where this occurred yesterday . As the mechanical element of the picture came ' under control , the human element showed signs of improvement as well . Police in the Times Square Station said last night that the number of questions asked of them had dropped 80 to 90 per cent under the total of the night before , even allowing for incoming holiday-makers from other communities . The absent-minded gentleman with his mind in the clouds and his nickel in his hand was also a rarity . Some , gripped by years of habit , still tried to drop the nickel in the turnstile , but soon dug up dimes and covered their sheepishness by bustling on through . Al // though many outward-bound weekenders carried luggage and large bundles , the excess baggage did not seem to impede their progress . After the initial day 's experience many more passengers took the precaution of having the precise fare in hand , whether they were boarding a bus for 7 cents or a subway for 10 . Private bus lines still operating at a five-cent fare @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 7 cents . At the offices of the ' Fifth Avenue Coach Company and the New York City Omnibus Company , no operating difficulties-Were reported . However , it was pointed out that the Fourth of July Week-end did not offer a fair test and that normal weekday traffic-on Tuesday would provide the best criterion of service . Board of Transportation officials still lacked an exact tally of the first day 's receipts in operating revenue . " We 're really handling three kinds of money , " a spokesman explained . " We have the dimes from the subway and elevated turnstiles , the seven-cent transfers issued by , some private bus - and trolley lines , and the - five- cent transfers issued by the city-owned buses and trolleys . We have to rebate to the private operators on the seven cent transfers ; so it will be a little time before we can calculate accurately what the net receipts on the first day were . " A large crowd . left a twelve-inning baseball game at the Yankee Stadium last night without having any difficulty depositing their dimes at the two subway @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on hand to repair any turnstiles that went out of order , but the special maintenance men had nothing to do , a board spokesman said : " The turnstiles will require a change of their coin receptacles to permit the dimes to drop more freely , " the board 's spokesman said . " This can be done by inserting rollers on each side to reduce the width of the coin channel . Meantime we have noticed some passengers who jam the turnstiles by dropping their Coins . and then immediately - throwing heavy pressure on the ' turnstile , which has the effect of- making the coin pop up , and sometimes mutilating it . " Dimes are not as heavy as nickels and do not drop as fast . We had the same experience in 1939 , when the city collected a tencent fare from the World 's Fair spur of the Queens Boulevard line . A little more patience on the passenger 's part will ' help to avoid turnstile jamming . . As another step , all station agents will be equipped with pusher blades made of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the turnstiles . " Brooklyn passengers caught on as quickly as Minhattanites , and their rush-hour ' travel proceeded on an almost-normal basis . Some passengers at the combined IRT and BMT stations at Borough Hall , Brooklyn , went forgetfully out of exit gates'when they meant to use a free passageway between the two- subway divisions . When they pleaded with the guards for a free admission they were told another fare was required . Some grumbled , but the majority paid for their mistakes and mentally promised that they would be more alert next time . Passengers using transfers from bus and trolley lines dropped their paper tokens into ticket-chopping boxes and boarded subways without delay . About fifty passengers tried unsuccessfully to use paper transfers ' for admission to the Jay Street-Borough Hall station of the IND division , which has net been designated as a transfer point between subway and surface lines . However , a guard permitted them to enter the subway without charge , with a warning ' that the practice would not be continued beyond yesterday . Passengers buying transfers from an automatic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mistake of hitting the . machinetoo heavily , with the result that their two pennies emerged instead of the transfer . The cure for this , a maintenance man said , was lighter pressure to make the machine function efficiently . Two transfervending machines were installed during the morning at the Atlan. tic Avenue station of the IRT subway . In Queens the 169th Street sta ? tion of the IND subway handled throngs of bus-to-subway riders without delay . Many bus riders adopted the suggestion of William Reid , chairman of the Board of Transportation , and bought two transfers , one to save time on the return journey at night . The passengers also . refrained from dropping their pennies into the boxes used to collect transfers , thus avoiding a mistake some of them made the first day . The Bronx reported no trouble with the new system , as passengers there had memorized-the requirements for their particular travel routes and approached with the exact change in hand . On the first day many riders lost time because bus and trolley drivers had to pause to make change @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decided that this time-wasting step could be eliminated by having the change ready . On Staten Island , some bus passengers who formerly paid four fares on the old zone system found their carfare reduced under  --  the newer universal fare system . Board of Transportation officials noticed a substantial increase in bus fares on- Thursday , and sent twelve additional . buses to the Staten These will be supplemented by : two more that will arrive this Morning . At the South Ferry= - Station : of the IRT there was Some - corifirsion ye , sterday among passengers Using " buses , Iferries , subways , or a combination of the three . Some thought the transfers were acceptable for ferry passage , which is not permitted . Transfer-vending machines in the ferry terminals will be relocated so that they are more Conspicuous , and directional signs will be installed to minimize confusion . Operators of Brooklyn and Queens city-owned buses and trolleys , who now - are baffled ' by the problem of making change , conversation and progress all at the same time , will be helped by the Board @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ machines to reduce their volume of work , and will instruct them to be patient until the machines are installed .                     