@@711069

txt U. S. AID TO SCHOOLS BACKED BY CONANT // to survive , depends , of course , on many factors , " he declared , " but primarily our= survival depends on a vigorous demonstration in the next decade that we can make our form of democracy function even in a war-torn world . This in turn means imaginative and bold policies both abroad and at home ; a realization of our international responsibilities as a great power , and a satisfactory . development of our internal , economy ; above all , a realization of the unique nature of American democracy and a determination to move a few steps nearer our historic goals . " The Harvard educator said that thanks to our public schools the United States was finding and developing a larger percentage of its potential talent than any other nation , with the possible exception of the Soviet Union . He add . 1 , however , that there was still a considerable untapped reservoir in this country because of the " inadequacies of the elementary and secondary schools . " Dr. Conant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scientists who were starred in " American Men of Science " and had discovered strange discrepancies among the states . He said that there was a fairly close correlation between the number of scientists from a state , and the expenditure a child for educational purposes . The United States is now in a crisis in regard to public education , Dr. Conant said . He declared that the situation in regard to teachers ' salaries had been bad for decades , but that " the drastic upswing in prices has made a bad situation into a national scandal . " Reasons for Federal Aid In explaining his support of Federal aid for schools , he said : " To do an adequate job many states need Federal funds ; in addition , they need the stimulus in many cases to do more with ' their own resources . This stimulus is provided to a considerable degree by Senate Bill 472 , sponsored by Senator Taft and others . Many people are at first sight suspicious of Federal aid bills . They do n't want Federal strings to their local schools @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ me to be a very careful device . The abstention from any degree of Federal control over the states is painstakingly detailed in the bill . " It requires also that the states shall provide their own education up to their reasonable capacity . Thus a state must be spending 2.2 per cent of total income of its citizens on education in order to remain eligible for Federal aid . And it must provide the required minimum expenditure for education in any schools maintained for minority groups , if the Feder , : , ' aid is to continue . Furthermore , the Federal money must be applied to schools for minority groups in proportion to the numbers in the minority group in the total population of the state , else the Federal aid ceases to flow . " This requires a substantial effort on the part of each state , and a reasonable concern for the education of all its children , regardless of race or color . A state which makes these reasonable efforts may receive Federal aid to supplement its own revenues so as to insure a safe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " I have gone on record in favor of this Federal aid bill because I am convinced that a democracy can only be strong if all the citizens are properly educated and careers are freely open to all the talented . " One Night Might Be Decisive General Anderson , in answering General Eisenhower 's comment on the decisive . phase of a new war , said : " I do n't see why he General Eisenhower picked the sixty days . If the enemy is prepared for decisive action in this atomic age and if he has the atomic warheads and if he understands the principle of concentration of strength , and if at the same time we are in a more or less similar state to the one we are in today , then I say I ca n't see why Ihe should take sixty days . " The period , I think , will be one night , because that would be the proper application of material forces against a nation not prepared to counter . That is the impact that these mass-destroying weapons have brought upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ future war would go to the side that could most effectively defend its own national potential , and at the same time could amass instantly and utilize most expeditiously the volume of airplanes and air missiles necessary to overwhelm the enemy . " The Air Forces henceforth bear the major responsibility among the armed forces for securing the peace or attaining the victory , " he said . General Anderson said that the recent unification measure had been " a big step in the right direction , " but that the advent of the air weapon has brought with it the need of " a truly unified and integrated military structure . " He said that land and sea forces were losing their individuality in the nature of their basic weapons . " And as scientific development continues , " he added , " the nature of the weapons employed by the three forces will become more and more similar , until ultimately logic will force us into a truly integrated military structure , whether we like or not  --  providing we are not annihilated before this happy event takes place @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ secretary to Morello H. La Guardia , announced that he would subscribe $25,000 to the campaign that the Conference of Mayors will conduct to raise $250,000 to ? endow a chair in municipal government at Princeton University as a memorial to Mr. La ' Guardia . Mr. Ryan accepted the chairmanship of the campaign , plans for which were announced some weeks ago . He said that when Mr. La Guardia was dying of cancer last summer he had frequently expressed hope that he would recover and would be able to lecture on municipal government at Princeton  --  a project that Mr. Ryan had discussed with him . Dr. Harold Willis Dodds , president of Princeton , expressed the gratitude of that institution to the Mayor 's Conference . He said that the professorship the conference hoped to endow would be one of several that would be established in the Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs , for which the university is now seeking $2,000,000 . O'Dwyer Optimistic on Health Mayor O'Dwyer , in his farewell address to the conference , said that he regretted that his health had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ much as he would have liked , but he added that " thank God , with a little . rest I 'll be all right . " The Mayor said that this city was " in tough shape , " because New York State was taking more in taxes out of the city than it needed . " I hope you wo n't look too closely at our streets , " Mr. ( O'Dwyer said . " They are filthy . But we have n't , got the equipment to clean them properly . " I hope you do n't go into our public hospitals , where the sick are in corridors and under staircases for lack of room . " Many Resolutions Adopted The conference acted on a long series of resolutions briefly and with almost no debate . It unanimously asked Congress to continue rent control . It also endorsed a broad , long-range public housing program ; Federal aid to education , and Federal appropriation of $500 , - 000,000 annually for highways . A resolution urging the House Interstate Commerce Committee to investigate the recent rise in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were resolutions calling for more equitable representation of city residents in state legislatures , and more equitable division of state-colrected revenues between state and city governments . The only controversy was over a resolution offered by Mayor James P. Rhodes of Columbus , Ohio , which would have placed the conference on record as asking the Federal Government and the states to reduce their taxes . It was tabled by a vote of 29 to 24 . Mayor George W. Welsh of Grand Rapids , Mich. , was re-elected president of the conference , and Mayor W. Cooper Green of Birmingham , Ala. , was re-elected vice president . Paul V. Betters of Washington was re-elected executive director , and Mayor A. P. Kaufmann of St. Louis was again chosen chairman of the advisory board . Mayors Stanley Church of New Rochelle , Joseph E. Smith of Oakland , Calif. , ' and Martin H. Kennelly of Chicago were added to the executive board .                     