@@706961

txt A source of anxiety to people long resident here and intimately acquainted with political undercurrents is the freedom with which Americans and British have been striking up friendships with leading pro-Fascist families . Politely smiling hosts are amiably discussing North African affairs with the visitors and entertaining them most pleasantly . There have been some much-enjoyed shooting parties , for example , with M. Temple , Prefect of Police in Algiers , who long has been well known as a pro-German . It was he , who was instrumental in restoring to metropolitan service a number of junior police officers of Axis sympathy who had been relegated to duty in the interior . It is n't fair to assume , of course , that all Frenchmen employed in the French Civil Service and drawing Vichy pay in the past are pro-Vichy , though some are , particularly the higher offices . Many are decidedly the reverse and there are various degrees of Vichy sympathy . Variety of Conditions For the sympathies of the officials , like those of the population , run through a wide gamut of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dwight D. Eisenhower referred yesterday in a memorandum to the Chiefs of the General and . Special Staffs under his direction . He spoke of a " variety of conditions practically beyond any human con- , trol . " But there is no question of the fact that Gen. Henri Giraud , the present High Commissioner , constitutes an acceptable leader for the overwhelming majority of the French here . For he represents many ideas held by wealthy colonists and landowners , and his personal integrity , military reputation , and romantic status as an escapee here commend him widely to popular thought . As it was put to me , " this is time for making war , not social reforms , and Giraud is a good soldier . " Axis propaganda has vigorously fanned anti-Allied and particularly anti-British sentiment among Arab Nationalists and Arabs as a whole , when the Germans entered Tunisia one of their first acts was to release Arab Nationalists imprisoned here . This they followed by generous bribes , including 50,000,000 liters of olive oil . By contrast , Chief Messali , head of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there has been a lack of intensive Allied propaganda among the Arabs to offset German activities of the same sort . In Tunisia Arab Nationalists of the Destour organization  --  counterpart of the Partie Populaire Algerien  --  have been encouraged to give every assistance to Axis forces in return for favored treatment . Few Combat Troops In Algiers , except for volunteers in mixed regiments , the Arabs have in the main been left out of military schemes . Although many of the Arabs are good fighters , especially in the interior , they are poor soldiers and do not want to fight for France , let alone the Allies . The Europeans remain identified in their thought with unredeemed promises of which much has been made by Goebbels propaganda . About 60,000 is expertly estimated as the total of really effective combat troops they are likely to produce , and it is considered that a call-up of these may not be worth the trouble entailed . There has indeed been plenty of trouble in regions where they . have been roped in for local service . The Nationalists who want @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ professional men . There are about 15,000 of them , such as the Nationalista Alaiera . Jewish Problem Serious But the Arabs are not the only problem . The question of the Jews is a serious one . According to an expert whose life work has been intimately connected with the administration of the native population  --  comprising about 90 per cent of the entire community  --  the character of the Jewish problem here has been greatly exaggerated by anti-Semit- ic interests . But it has , wide ramifications . The worst enemies of the Jews are not the general run of Arabs and Berbers who comprise the vast majority of the population of North Africa but rich Arabs and French colonists whose enmity to the Jews is due to financial considerations . There are many Jews among the refugees in the European segment of North Africa 's population and they are assailed mainly on the same grounds . Their name is usually mentioned in the same breath as Freemasons who are anathema to the Roman Catholic Church to which Marshal Petain gave devote allegiance . General Giraud himself is by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ found the General very touchy on this question . He described the Jewish problem as his and France 's affair and , when it was pointed out that the rest of the world was very interested too , replied tartly , " It is not the business of the rest of the world . " General Giraud did say later , however , that property rights lost by the Jews are to be restored and their children to be admitted into schools here withoitt discrimination . The matter of the vote for the Jews is unsettled  --  at least publicly  --  and this is a tricky problem with specific local difficulties because the Arabs do n't have citizenship rights and are subjects without the vote unless they elect to forfeit Islamic religion , customs , and ties . Jews here were given the vote by the French Jewish statesman Cremifux in 1875 , but it was removed by Marshal Petain in 1940 . Only about 2,000 Arabs have exchanged Islam for the French vote , but the Arabs dre very jealous about the Jews having it if they themselves do not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @            