@@711219

txt Secretary of State George C. Marshall has made a major effort to save the United Nations Charter . He told Congress that the object of the nation 's foreign policy IS to prove the futility of Communist expansion , and thereby to bring Russia back to the world peace organization wholeheartedIn the meantime it would . be wrong , he argued , to jeopardize this return by drastic revision of the UN which would force Russia out . The Russian leaders , Secretary Marshall told the House Foreign Affairs Committee , must be convinced that the Soviet Union can " live side by side in peace " with the western powers and the United States . UN Shake-Up Dangerous Any major shake-up of the UN without Soviet agreement , he said , probably would destroy the organization and result in setting up rival military alliances . Both he and the chief United States delegate to the UN , Warren Austin , expressed the hope that with a better world situation in prospect ( stemming from ERP , the Greek-Turkish aid program , the Brussels " western union @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Bogoti ) , the United Nations could be made to function with increasing effectiveness . Secretary Marshall said that by strengthening its own defenses , by giving heart and help to other freedom-loving nations , and by constant use and development of the UN organs and instruments , American policy could do more to advance security and peace than by calling for a world convention to rewrite the Charter . Secretary Marshall disclosed that many smaller powers of the world were apprehensive lest the United States , out of impatience over UN progress , kill it by precipitous efforts to strengthen it . While not objecting to any congressional resolution calling for changes in the Charter , he did emphasize : 1 . That the United States itself is not prepared to give up the big power veto over enforcement measures , as one pf the resolutions before the Houk provides . 2 . That today 's big job is not to perfect the Charter but to establish that healthy economic and political life in the world , accompanied by a genuine sense of security , that would permit the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been done as could be done to strengthen the existing machinery of the Charter without endangering its existence by calling a conference to amend it  --  particularly as there seems little chance of getting all powers to accept invitations or the changes being proposed . He specifically mentioned as Veto Elimination Called Perilous noteworthy the steps already taken to strengthen the General Assembly 's powers  --  establishment of the Little Assembly and of the Greek border commission . And he expressed the hope that present efforts to soften the veto on such matters as pacific settlement of disputes and admission of members would bear fruit . ' Secretary Marshall and Mr. Austin oppose congressional efforts to have a full-dress Charter-revision conference called because : 1 . Present world conditions , present East-West rivalries , practically doom it to failure . 2 . Ineffective as the present UN may be , it is better than nothing . It keeps the powers in diplomatic contact ; it keeps the spotlight of public opinion on their actions and policies ; it has rung up successes on many fronts , even where political matters were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Indonesia . Prospects Held Good 3 . After ERP gets rolling , after western Europe unites in the re-. gional pact envisaged at Brussels and permitted by the Charter , after the United States has brought its military establishment up to date , then the possibility for negotiation and agreement with the Soviets both within the UN and without will have improved immeasurably . Secretary Marshall repeated what he has told his press conference before , that plans for shipping military supplies to western Europe are getting serious consideration . This program is part of what he calls the need for creation of " an international equilibrium " ? without which , he told the congressmen , the UN can not function .                     