@@711571

txt Big Labor Vote for President Will Not Win Larger States ? Survey Indicates He Will Get More Union Backing Than His Rivals , but Not Enough to Carry More Populous Industrial Areas By JA ES A. HAGERTY President Harry S. Truman will get a larger share of the votes of organized labor than any other Presidential candidate , but this will not be sufficient to enable him to carry any of the more populous industrial states with large numbers of electoral votes , according to a survey made by correspondents of THE NEW YORK TIMES . The reports of the correspondents also indicate that the labor vote for Democratic candidates for the United States Senatt and House of Representatives will be larger in nearly every state canvassed than the vote for Mr. ' Truman . The reports indicate thfa two Republican Senators , Chapman Revercomb of West Virginia and Joseph H. Ball of Minnesota , are likely to be defeated because of the opposition of organized labor . In some of the states , the labor leaders are concentrating on the defeat of Republican representatives who voted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the representatives will be beaten . In Rhode Island , strong labor support apparently assures the reelection of Senator Theodore F. Green , Democrat . The state 's four electoral votes are expected to go to President Truman . In West Virginia , all- branches of organized labor are concentrating on defeating Senator Revercomb and four Republican Representatives who voted for the TaftHartley Act . The situation in this state is of particular interest because of the strength of the United Mine Workers . It is the opinion of the Charleston correspondent of THE TIMES that the attack made on Mr. Truman by John L. Lewis , president of the United Mine Workers , will be no more successful in getting rank and file members of his union to vote against the President and for Gov . Thomas E. Dewey , Republican nominee , than were his // attempts to swing the mine workers ' votes against the late President Roosevelt in 1940 and 1944 . The indications are that President Truman will carry West Virginia . ? Not all organized labor is for the President , however . Governor Dewey @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ among members of American Federation of Labor unions . There is agreement among the correspondents reporting that the strength of Henry A. Wallace , Progressive party candidate for President , is less than it appeared to be a month or two ago , though still considerable in left-wing labor groups . - New York Registration Cited In New York , where the comparatively small registration in New York . City indicates that the Dewey-Warren ticket will carry the State-by a considerable plurality , President . Truman is expected to get the larger share of the CIO vote , with a minor fraction of this vote going to Mr. Wallace . The CIO Political Action Committee is supporting the President actively . Mr. Wallace will get a large vote from the so-called " left wing " CIO unions , affiliated with the Greater New York CIO Council . The CIO Wallace support will be much less up-:state . The situation in the New ; Yerk unions of the American Federation of Labor is quite different . The State Federation of Labor has refrained from , endorsing any Presidential candidate . Herbert Brownell @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a " Labor for Dewey and Warren Committee , " headed by John J. O'Rourke , president of the New York City Teamsters Council , and with three vice presidents of the State Federation of Labor included in its membership . Supporters of Governor Dewey expect him to get a large labor vote up-state , much more , proportionately , than he will receive in New York City where the Liberal party , which has endorsed Mr. Truman , has considerable labor strength . It is not likely that opposition of labor leaders to the Taft-Hartley Act will result in any Democratic gain in the New York State delegation in the House of Representatives , and a slight Republican gain seems more probable . House Changes Up-State Doubted The New York delegation in the House now stands at twenty-eight Republicans , fifteen Democrats and two members of the American Labor party , with all the Democrats but one , Representative William T. Byrne of Albany , coming from New York City . No change in the up-state Republican seats and those in Nassau and Suffolk counties is expected . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gain two seats now held by Representative Leo Isacson , of the Twenty-fourth Congressional District , American Labor party candidate for re-election , and Representative Jacob K. Javits , Republican , of the Twentyfirst District , - With Mr. Javits having at least an even chance for reelection . The Republicans have a chance of gaining one seat in the Eighteenth Congressional District by defeating Representative Vito Marcantonio , Labor party State Chairman , if the Republican sweep is big enough . They also have a chance of gaining one , two or more seats in Brooklyn Congressional districts , where the Democratic incumbents have not received the Labor party endorsement . Report of Correspondents Following is the labor political situation in other industrial states , as reported by correspondents of THE TIMES : CALIFORNIA Although labor organizations representing the great majority of California 's more than a million unionized workers have formally declared for President Truman and Democratic candidates generally , even high-placed Democrats and labor leaders are uncertain how the vote may go . They hope that the majority will vote for the President but they recognize that there are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be about 20 per cent of the total vote of between four and five million . Both the State Federation of Labor , claiming 1,200,000 members , and the right wing of the split CIO , claiming 150,000 adherents , are supposed to be supporting the Democratic ticket , but the rank and file are notoriously individualistic when it comes to voting . Within the AFL are a dozen splinter groups supporting either Mr. Wallace or Governor Dewey . Among the latter is a sizable faction of the Teamsters Union . The CIO left wing supporting Mr. Wallace has more than 50,000 adherents , chiefly among Harry Bridges ' International Longshoremen 's Union , the Marine Cooks and Stewards Union and the United Electrical Workers . Out of this melange politically , the two general impressions are that dissatisfaction with the TaftHartley Act will turn a lot of votes from the Republicans and that Mr. Wallace and the Progressive party will draw a sizable bloc of votes from the Democrats . The most optimistic prediction that a Democratic forecaster would make is that the - vote for Governor Dewey would not be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wallace . It i ; doubtful that the labor vote will bring about any marked change in the California delegation in the House . of Representatives , which now stands fourteen Republicans to nine Democrats . CONNECTICUT The campaign in Connecticut is being fought- - on the state level , and it is there that the alignment of organized labor is most apparent . The Americans for Democratic Action.and the state leaders of the AFL and CIO have endorsed and are working for the election of Chester Bowles , Democratic candidate for Governor : President Truman may benefit from this labor support for Mr. Bowles , but only incidentally . Governor James Shannon , Republican candidate for election to that office , is a former counsel for the State Federation of Labor and , has many friends among the con : servatives - in that erganitistion . Mr. Wallace is getting support from the-United Electrical , Radio and Machine Workers but from almost no other union group . Mr. Wallace has only small support in Connecticut . The Progressive party has endorsed Mr : Bowlea so that it will be possible to vote @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the lever on the Progressive party line , even though Mr. Bowles has repudiated this endorsement . Many observers believe that there is e. strong possibility that the state , as it did in 1932 and 1940 , may give its Presidential votes to the candidate ' of one party and its governorship votes to the candidate of another . In other words , Governor Dewey may carry the state and Mr. Bowles may be elected . Republicans , however , are confident of the election of Governor Shannon . INDIANA Labor union leaders never have been able to deliver Indiana 's labor vote very . efficiently , even in the days of Eugene V , Debs and Sidney Hillman . Whatever political force they have been able to exert has been felt most frequently in contests for election to the House of Representatives . Without exception the labor unions in the state are- following the decisions of their national organization on Presidential ' candidates . No union has endorsed the Republican state ticket , headed by Speaker Hobart Creighton , candidate for Governor , but many unions have endorsed former @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ No Indiana union has endorsed Henry A. Wallace , although those whose national organizations have endorsed the Progressive party candidate are going along for him without , much enthusiasm . The plurality for Governor Dewey in Indiana is expected to be at least 125,000 and may reach 175,000 . The best impartial opinion is that majority rank and file labor support will go to Mr. Shricker and Democratic candidates for Congress and that this vote will be more evenly divided between Mr. Truman and Mr. Dewey . ? ILLINOIS Despite the indications of a Republican sweep in Illinois , leaders of ' organized labor are striving as never before for an unprecedented turnout of union members and members of their families to vote for President Truman and ' the Democratic Senatorial , emigres : - sional. and Governorship candidates it the election on November 2 . Heading the movement are leaders . of the AFL and the CIO . Among their objectives is the defeat of Senator C. Wayland Brooks , Republican , candidate for re-election , and seventeen Illinois Republican Representatives who voted for the Taft-Hartley Law and are seeking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ CIO about 400,000 members in Illinois . On the national level , the AFL has endorsed President Truman and Paul H. Douglas , Democratic nominee for Senator . The GOP Political Action Committee , besides endorsing the President and Mr. Douglas , has endorsed Adlai E. Stevenson , Democratic candidate for Governor . ? At Republican headquarters , it was said that labor support for Governor Dewey included endorsement by William , international president of the Building Service Employes Union . Mena individual labor ... leaders are reported to be backing Senator Brooks and more than one hundred officials of labor unions have endorsed Gov . Dwight H. Green , Republican candidate for re-election . MASSACHUSETTS An increase of approximately 100,000 in the registration in ' Massachusetts has created a paradox that strengthens Governor Dewey 's position in the State . On the state level , CIO and AFL leaders have joined forces to try to , defeat three restrictive labor referenda . On the national level , the AFL remains lukewarm toward President Truman despite strong support for him in the CIO camp . A. , pronounced Republican groundswell @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Mr. Wallace 's star grows increasingly dimmer , so far as Massachusetts labor is concerned . Although many labor leaders disagree , the same GOP grounde : swell is expected to prevent the Taft-Hartley issue from being an important ' factor in the election . Representation in the House of Representatives is not expected to change much . It now stands at nine Republicans to five Democrats . The Democrats gained one seat two years ago and hope to hold it . Labor leaders , contend that the increased registration is due to.opposition to the labor referenda and that these additional voters can be sold on the . Taft-Hartley issue .. to vote Democratic . Part of the new registration , however , was due , to the efforts of the Roman Catholic church to get out a - vote to defeat . a birth control referendum . MICHIGAN Organized labor in Michigan seems predominantly for President Truman , but the indications are that the state will go for Governor Dewey , possibly by a sizable plurality , Walter Reuther , president of the United Automobile ' Workers , C10 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that union said that the members were predominantly concerned with getting out a large - Vote " because we have found by past experience that when there is a big liberal turnout the liberal candidate wins . " Gus Scholle , president of the State CIO Council , also has endorsed Mr. Truman . Not all organized labor , however , is for the President . James Hoffa , president of the Teamsters Union , may swing to Governor Dewey , and the position of the Woodworkers Union , which is strong in the upper part of Michigan , is in doubt . A considerable left wing segment of union members will vote for Mr. Wallace . It is the opinion of the Detroit correspondent of THE TIMES that the Dewey-Warren ticket will carry Michigan and win its nineteen electoral votes ; that Senator Homer Ferguson , Republican , will be re-elected , and that a majority of the Michigan representatives in the next Congress will be Republicans . MINNESOTA The vast majority of Minnesota members of labor unions will vote for President Truman and Mayor Hubert H. Humphrey of Minneapolis , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has support among : the CIO United Steel Workers of America who work in the iron mines of northern Minnesota and among the leftist CIO United Electrical Workers in Minneapolis and St. Paul . The Wallace strength has been deteriorating . steadily and he is no longer an important factor in this state except in the Eighth Congressional District in the iron range . All AFL and all but a few CIO officers are working actively for ' President Truman and the Democratic-Farmer Labor Congressional candidates . The Wallace supporters have been purged ' from leadership in most CIO - unions : The railroad brotherhoods and independent rail ; road unions are pro-Truman . The general basis for , fiber 's solidarity is not love for Mr. Truman but fear of a Republican administration and a Republican Congress A conservative estimate is that 75 per cent of the Minnesota labor vote will go to , the President and that probably 90 per cent will goto Mayor Humphrey , who is favored to defeat Senator Joseph ' -1 . Ball , Republican incumbent Taft-Hartley Act criticism by labor leaders has helped to solidify @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in AFL unions who are not greatly : worried about that law any more . Minnesota now has only one Democratic Representative , from the Eighth District . MISSOURI The majority of the labor vote in Missouri appears to be for President Truman and Democratic candidates in general . This is a natural alliance in the fight for repeal of the Taft-Hartley Act , which is bolstered in the President 's home state by two new labor laws enacted by a Republican-dominated Legislature . These state laws prohibit strikes against public utilities , jurisdictional and sympathy walkouts and secondary boycotts . While leaders of the larger unions are under no illusions about prospects . for immediate changes in the laws or the Prese dent 's chance of re-election , they are pressing the fight to get a big turnout of labor voters for Mr. Truman and endorsed Democratic candidates for the House- of Representatives . Many political leaders attribute the advantage for Mr. Truman shown in the polls to labor support . Mr. Wallace apparently will have comparatively little labor support and moat of his votes are expected to come from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ League for Political Education has condemned nine Republican Representatives for voting for the Taft-Hartley Act , and the CIO Industrial Union Council has sent a protest to Governor Dewey against the Appointment of Barak T. Mattingly , of St. Louis , as , director of labor activity of the Dewey-Warren ticket . While labor leaders have estimated that President Truman may get 75 per cent of the labor vote in Missouri , it is the opinion of the St. Louis correspondent of THE TIMES that Mr. Truman will get about 60 per cent of , the labor-vote with Governor Dewey getting 39 per cent and Mr. Wallace 1 per cent . NEW JERSEY Both - the AFL and CIO organizetions , with the exception of the Electrical Workers and a few other CIO " left-wing " unions , are supporting President Truman and the Democratic Congressional candidates in New Jersey , mainly on the issue of repeal of the Taft-Hartley Act . Labor in this state is traditionally allied with the Democratic party . Despite this labor support for the Democratic candidates , it is the opinion of the . Newark correspondent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ state by a minimum of 100,000 , with the possibility of a landslide that may increase this to 200,000 . It is also expected that Robert C. Hendrickson , - Republican candidate for United States Senator , will defeat Archibald S. Alexander , his Democratic opponent , and that the Republicans will retain the twelve seats in the House pf Representatives that they now hold , with Democrats re-electing Representatives Mary T. Norton and Edward J. Jart , whose districts are partly in Hudson county . The Trenton correspondent of - THE TIMES also believes that Governor Dewey will carry the state but by a lesser plurality . - There has been a registration increase of about 300,000 , which both Democratic and Republican leaders regard as " favorable . " OHIO Leaders of the Brotherhood of Railroad Trainmen , the Ohio CIO and the State Federation of Labor are supporting President Truman . Only a few CIO unions , notably the United Electrical Workers , the Mine and Smelter Union , the Longshoremen 's ' Union and - the United Office and Professional Workers , are supporting Henry A. Wallace . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contest . Spokesmen for the larger CIO unions predict that President Truman will get 80 per cent of the organized labor vote , with 12 per cent going to Mr. Wallace and 8 per cent to Governor Dewey . An impartial opinion is that Mr. Truman will be lucky to get 70 per cent , with Governor Dewey getting the larger part of the remainder . The railroad brotherhoods , except the Trainmen , are opposed to the President and the bulk of their votes is expected to go to Governor Dewey . The State CIO and AFL are not taking sides in the gubernatorial battle between Gov . Thomas J. Herbert , Republican , and , former Gov . Frank J. Lausche , Democrat . The Cleveland Federation of Labor is supporting Governor Herbert . The Taft-Hartley Act issue is not cutting much of a figure in the Presidential contest , but both the CIO and the AFL state organizations are conducting active campaigns in the urban districts to defeat Republican Representatives who Voted fon the act . In the Presidential contest , Ohio is expected to go Republican . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . ' PENNSYLVANIA Although there seems to be little doubt that Governor Dewey will carry this state , a large majority of the rank and file members of Pennsylvania labor unions will support President Truman and Democratic Congressional candidates , in the opinion of impartial observers , although probably to a lesser degree than they supported the late President Roosevelt . With the exception of a few " red-tinged " locals supporting Henry A. Wallace , labor unions which have endorsed a Presidential candidate are for President Trumen . Both the CIO Political Action Committee and Labor 's League for Political Education , the political arm of the AFL , have endorsed the President and are seeking to impress upon rank and file members the importance of voting for the President and Democratic Congressional candidates to " insure reduction in the cost of living , better housing at reasonable cost , increased educational facilities and repeal of the Taft-Hartley Act . " This may cause a reduction of two or three in the state 's Republican delegation in the House of Representatives . So far , no Pennsylvania unions have declared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before the election . John L. Lewis ' stand against President Truman is not expectea to influence the votes of many anthracite or bituminous coal miners . RHODE ISLAND If Rhode Island does n't wind up in the Democratic column on November 2 , a lot . of people , including labor leaders and political forecasters in this highly industrialized little state , are going to be surprised . All the big CIO unions , including the largest , the Textile Workers of America , are for President Truman ; Senator Theodore F. Green and Representatives John E. Fogarty and Aims J. Forand , all candidates for reelection . The Rhode Island Industrial Council , following the policy of the National CIO Executive Board , recently endorsed President Truman . The State Federation of Labor has made no such declaration of support but its more influential leadera are all for the President and the Democratic Congressional candidates . Labor support for Henry A. Wallace is virtually nil in Rhode Island . Governor Dewey has found some labor support ? in the Providence local of the Building Service Employes Union . Support @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and file level will come mostly from workers who are primarily Republicans . WEST VIRGINIA Organized labor is making the Most intense campaign in its political history in West Virginia and it is all moving in the same direction ? to defeat the proponents of the Taft-Hartley Act . This means that labor is campaigning , by mail , by public speaking and by door-to-door canvassing , for the Democratic ticket . Spokesmen for all major unions , the United Mine Workers , the railroad brotherhoods and the AFL and the CIO agree that their main objective is to work for repeal of the Taft-Hartley Act by defeating Senator Chapman Revercomb and four of the six Representatives , all Republicans . These unions have a dues-paying membership of more than 200,000 and their leaders hope to reach more than twice that number of voters through families and friends of members . While only the CIO has endorsed President Truman formal ly , the- whole movement is expected to help him because traditionally the West Virginia wage earner votes a straight ballot . There is general belief that John L. Lewis ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the miners ' vote to Governor Dewey . Mr. Lewis supported the late Wendell L. Willkie in 1940 and Governor Dewey in 1944 and the rank and file coal miners voted , overwhelmingly for Franklin D. Roosevelt in both elections . This year , Mr. Lewis is supporting Governor Dewey only through the negative action of opposing President Truman . His organizers in the state have publicly endorsed Matthew M. Neely , Democratic nominee for Senator , and Democratic Congressional candidates .                     