@@705425

txt Specific information has been received here that Germany is preparing to send air forces and other equipment of-the most modern type into Albania to reinforce the Italians and drive the Greek troops back into their own country . The plan is not especially welcome to the Italians , because they have been hoping for a singlehanded victory that would tend to restore somewhat their damaged prestige , but the decision has been reached and , it is reported , will be carried out . What effect this will have on Greek intentions to resist the Axis is not apparent for the present but a belief is held here that Greece will fight and that , if Germany is to dominate the country , she must do so by force . However , no official information has been received concerning any terms Berlin may have offered in an approach to Athens looking to peace . At least it is believed that , In view of the terrain , Greece can holdout for some time at home , if Great Britain sends her substantial air reinforcements . Officials are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Greece , but they are of the opinion that she will fight if she is invaded . The prospective German move into Albania ' follows the Nazi occupation of Sicily with air forces and the sending of planes , tanks and regular divisions to Tripoli . The present strength of the North African expedition is not known definitely here but it is accepted as a fact that German troops are there . Presumably they moved by way of Naples and Sicily , a circumstance that would explain the Italian order closing the American Consulates at Naples and Palermo , both important observation posts . Not only is Sicily important as a control point in the Mediterranean but it is the hip of one blade of the scissors that would be used in a Nazi move to take Suez . In view of the Italian defeats in North Africa , it is assumed that Germany intends to hold the hip and later , if feasible , restore the blade in North Africa . To do this would require action against the British . No information has been received recently through official @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that area . Officials do not shut their eyes to the possibility that French involvement against the British might have an important bearing upon future developments in the Mediterranean , but they do not understand that incidents arising out of convoying food ships would necessarily plunge France into active war against Britain . Although Italy has suffered sharp reverses , information here does not support rumors that Premier Mussolini is remaining in power only with the support of Adolf Hitler . He is believed to be firmly in the saddle and exercising the real power internally , because the Italian people are helpless to do anything about it . In these circumstances , Germany id letting matters take their natural course , but , it is assumed , would act to prevent any crack-up that would benefit Great Britain . Many Italian Cabinet Ministers have been sent to the front , but this is interpreted here as merely meaning that Premier Mussolini has decided to exercise more administrative power at home and , at the same time , not permit the spectacle of Cabinet officers living ' in ease in Rome @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cabinet offi1 cer sent to the front Is Count Ciano , Premier Mussolini 's son-inlaw and Foreign Minister . Count Dino Grandi is also reported to have gone to the front lines . Giuseppe Bottai , Minister of Education , and Tullio Cianetti , UnderSecretary of Corporations , have been reported killed or wounded in action . Many of the Ministers have not been deprived officially of their functions , but at least temporarily they have been removed from the political picture . It IS not known , but it is suspected that there has been some German infiltration into the Italian Government through placing " advisers " at key points , but this is not believed to be widespread , if for no- other reason , because it would not be necessary . It would not be necessary in the Foreign Ministry , for Italy to all practical purposes no longer has any foreign affairs in view of the losses of influence and prestige she has suffered in Central Europe , the Balkans , and North Africa . It would not be necessary or desirable with reference to local ministries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This leaves only the Propaganda Ministry , and there it is assumed there has been German infiltration . It would be sufficient for Nazi purposes to , confine this movement to that one ministry , it was said here .                     