@@709379

txt ? The House Banking Committee today approved a year 's extension of price control , as recommended by President Truman . It defeated 13 to 9 a Republican effort to limit continuance of the Office of Price Administration to nine months . However , the Committee aimed a blow at OPA pricing policy , voting 15 to 6 to prohibit the agency from requiring retailers for a period of six months to absorb larger cost of manufactured products , such as automobiles , refrigerators , ' and ? radios . Moreover , the group by a 15-to5 ballot approved ? subject to House and Senate action ? a gradual termination of the Government 's $2,000,000,000 annual subsidy program . The latter amendment would require the Government to reduce subsidy payments by 25 per cent over the year beginning July 1 and get out of the subsidy business by June 30 , 1947 . The subsidies include payments to hold down food costs . A proposal by Reptesentative Jesse P. Wolcott ( R ) of Michigan to give manufacturers prices reflecting production cost and a reasonable profit on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Committee approved , however , an amendment by Repre- sentative William B. Barry ( D ) of New York establishing a policy that . OPA should allow upward price adjustments for transient hotels  --  making a distinction between a transient and an apartment or residential hotel . No percentage of increase was specified . Outlook for OPA ' The proposal to hold the pricing agency 's new life span to nine months beyond June 30 also was offered by Mr. Wolcott , senior Republican on the Committee . Its defeat left proposed OPA termination date at June 30 , 1947 . Representative Crawford ( R ) of Michigan offered the amendment to alter OPA 's retail cost absorption policy . It stipulates that OPA can not interfere for a period of six months with normal retail percentage markups , on items where Government restrictions during wartime forced a 75 percent or more reduction in production rates . Automobile dealers especially have protested OPA orders reducing their normal percentage markups . The actions virtually completed committee work on price control extension legislation . Chairman Brent Spence ( D ) of Kentucky @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nightfall , and shuttle it to the House for action . Speaker Sam Rayburn ( D ) of Texas told newsmen the House probably would begin debate on the measure April 15 . Previously , the Committee . had written into the bill a requirement for gradual lifting of price controls on various items as supply catches up with demand . Another previously approved amendment repeals on July 1 OPA 's maximum ? average price program , which is destined to increase production of low-cost clothing .                     