@@712349

txt The International Monetary Fund announced today its concurrence in Britain 's action devaluing the pound sterling from $4.03 to $2.80 and in equivalent 30.5 per cent depreciations in the value of the ' 1Danish and Norwegian kroner , the Indian rupee and the pounds of Australia , the Union of South Africa and Egypt . Other countries having a substantial volume of trade with Britain were expected to make similar currency adjustments in the near future , but the Bretton Woods institution was careful to give no intimation where action 's was expected next . This Government 's reaction to I the British move was entirely favorable . The decision occasioned no surprise at the Cabinet level since Secretary of the Treasury John W. Snyder and Secretary of state Dean Acheson had known of the intention to devalue since the arrival of the British delegation in this country more than two weeks ago for the tripartite ministers ' conference . What this Government did not know until two days ago was the extent to which sterling would be devalued and the matter of timing . In the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ action would reverse the continuing drain on Britain 's gold ' and dollar reserve and ultimately stabilize the dollar-sterling relationship . Secretary Snyder issued the following statement : " The British Government has taken a constructive economic step in making the adjustment in their foreign exchange rates . The British consulted with the International Monetary Fund . The immediate effect should be an early rise in their dollar resources . The longrange result should be it healthy impetus to world-wide multilateral trade . " Although the immediate effect of the British Government decision was to appreciate the value of the United States and Canadian dollar by 30.5 per cent in foreign trade , this is not expected to be reflected on any immediate substantial increase in this country 's imports from Britain . This Government has made it clear to all countries concerned that the only permanent answer to their " dollar shortage " was to earn dollars - by selling their products here ' and in other markets of the so-called dollar area . Currency revaluation has been urged by this Government directly and through the monetary fund as a first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of several important steps needed to improve the competitive position of Britain and other countries trying to earn dollars by selling to the United States and other dollar countries . The other steps include reduction of manufacturing costs , improved merchandising methods and more vigorous salesmanship . Until foreign currencies generally had been placed in. more realistic relationship to the dollar , however ; officials saw little chance of the cost and merchandising factors being brought into play . Put another way , while the cost-price factor is considered an important one in determining competitive advantage in the United States market , it is far from being a deciding element Other Devaluations Approved Camille Guff , managing director of the monetary fund sought to make it clear at a news conference accompanying announcing of the agency 's concurrence in the action of the sterling-area countries , that the decision had been entirely their own . He said the fund acted yesterday on the British proposal and on some others today . The Belgian was asked whether rdevaluation applications had been filed with the fund 's executive board , but only smiled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Even if I had several applications on hand , I would not announce them . " Under the fuhd 's articles of agreement , all member countries are required to give notice of their intention to make any fundamental currency adjustment . All British colonies and dependent areas were covered by the action of the British Government but several important members of the so-called sterling bloc whose reserves are in pounds or whose currency is freely convertible into pounds had yet to be heard from . These included Pakistan , Ceylon , Burma , Iceland and Iraq . The Canadian dollar is at par with the United States dollar , so that the effect of the British devaluation there is expected to be much the same as in this country . However , because of preferential tariffs and other similar conveniences , the result is expected to be more pronounced in Canada in the form of larger imports from Great Britain . ? If the devaluation of the pound is expected to result in improvement in the British competitive position here , the reverse is true of the United States competitive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ products has been automatically increased by nearly a third . However , price has not been a factor in this country 's sales to Britain since the war . Britain 's purchases here have been confined largely to items she . could not buy elsewhere and such imports during the last eighteen months had been limited largely to those financed through the Marshall Plan . This general export picture is not expected to change materially as a result of the devaluation action , although Britain and other principal members of the sterling area had previously announced an arbitrary cut of 25 per cent in dollar purchases as part of the plan to end the sterling deficit and the disequilibrium between the world 's two leading currencies . British Honduras was specifically excepted from the list of British dependent areas in which the new rate of the pound sterling applied . Honduras is part of the dollar area and sterling is convertible there into dollars theoretically , although not in fact . New Rate Proves a Surprise The only unexpected element in the British monetary adjustment , so far as this Government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ par value of the pound at 1$2.80 , or somewhat below the Swiss free-market rate . This determination was regarded here as both courageous and conservative ? courageous because of the unpleasant political implications and conservative because it provided some " insurance " against any further drain on reserves . So certain were United States officials of the immediate favorable effects of the decision on British reserves that they regarded as either pessimistic or an understatement the news conference assertion by George Bolton , Britain 's representative on the Fund 's executive board : " We have been losing reserves at a rate we can not stand and hope that the lower level ( of the pound ) will restrain loss of reserves . " High Administration officials made no secret of the fact today , that their foreknowledge of the British devaluation intention had much to do with the favorable consideration given that Government 's proposals at the Tripartite Ministers Conference . It was this effective notice of Britain 's intention to put its external financial relations in order that persuaded this Government to reciprocate and undertake to remove all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ creditor nation logically should , one official explained .                     