@@705433

txt The last remaining regular passenger service on which refugees by the thousands have escaped from Europe direct to the United States has been indefinitely closed by an order issued yesterday at the offices of the American Export Line closing the company 's books until further notice . John F. Gehan , vice president of the company , said the line had made repeated efforts to arrange for additional passenger tonnage " to relieve the increasing demand for passage from Lisbon to New York , " but that these efforts had been unsuccessful and the line had been forced to refuse to sell more tickets in Lisbon , and also to shut off the booming " prepaid " business in New York . A majority of the passenger tickets used by refugees and others leaving Lisbon for New York were arranged and paid for in New York . No more tickets will be sold until additional accommodations can be arranged , Mr. Gehan said . It was unofficially estimated that the line 's backlog of passages would exceed 10,000 tickets , and - with its present tonnage the line @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and possibly later . One effort to obtain another ship failed yesterday when the Maritime Commission disapproved an application of the United States Lines to run the 24,000-ton liner Washington to Lisbon . This ship can carry 1,100 passengers normally and several hundred more in an emergency . John M. Franklin , president of the United States Lines , announced the commission 's ruling in a oneline statement , saying : " The Maritime Commission today disapproved the request of the United States Lines Company to place the liner Washington in the New . York-Lisbon service . " This was the first admission by the company that discussions regarding a change in the Washington 's assignment had been going on with officials of the Export Line and the Maritime Commission . It had been widely known in shipping circles , however , that the commission and the companies were eonsidering several solutions to the problem . Although neither of the two announcements disclosed details of the proposed arrangement , it was supposed here that American Export , having offices and staffs already experienced in the Lisbon route . would operate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by which the companies would share in the business . War Perils a Factor A Maritime Commission spokesman in Washington said last night that the proposal had been turned down because it was not considered desirable to send a ship as large as the Washington into or near the war areas . It was also said that the only application received by the commission had been one suggesting that the Washington and Manhattan make a single voyage each . Inasmuch as the Manhattan is in drydock for repairs as a result of her grounding in January , shipping men here were puzzled by this reference . She is not likely to come out of drydock for some weeks . It is possible that the companies applied for only one voyage , intending to reapply after the first voyage and for subsequent voyages as long as the passenger trade held up in Lisbon . American Export operates four ships in the service . They are the Exeter , Excambion and Excalibur , sister ships with passenger quarters for 144 each , and the Siboney , a larger ship owned by the Atlantic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mexico run of the Cuba Mail Line . The Siboney can carry nearly 400 passengers and the three other vessels have been carrying 185 each by establishing emergency dormitories in some of the public rooms and doubling up in some cabins . The Siboney is one of the worries of the company . The Army bought her sister ship , the Orizaba. , late in February , paying $750,000 , and since then Army representatives have inspected the Siboney . Company Voices Concern " Several weeks ago we learned unofficially that the United States Army was considering taking over the S. S. Siboney , which was under charter by our company , " Mr. Gehan said . " We immediately canvassed the market to locate such tonnage . " He said officials of the two lines then discussed the Washington plan . " However , " he continued , " we now understand the Maritime Commission has not approved the placing of the S. S. Washington on the New York-Lisbon run , and American Export Lines is now making efforts to replace the Siboney with other tonnage or to keep her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lisbon refugee trade will be a tragic blow to thousands of refugees in Portugal and to as many friends and relatives in this country . American Export offered to most of them the ; only hope they had of leaving Europe . A few will be able to leave ' on the irregularly operated Portuguese vessels in the trade , but these are small and they are also booked full for some weeks . It is understood that one of these ships , the Serpa Pinto , which brought more than 600 passengers here early in January , is now on her way to New York with about 400 passengers . Since her last trip here the ship 's capacity has been reduced , on order of the Portuguese authorities , it is reported .                     