@@705847

txt A large Italian liner of a type known to be serving for troop transport believed to be the 23,635-ton Duilio ? has been torpedoed " and almost certainly sunk " in a series of British successes in the Mediterranean , the Admiralty announced today . The big ship was attacked while sailing with two other large passenger ships off the coast of Italy , the Admiralty said in a communique announcing two other Mediterranean attacks on Axis shipping . In yet another engagement the Admiralty reported that a 10,000-ton cruiser was hit by torpedoes and seriously damaged by a British submarine in an attack on " an enemy naval force " ( presumably Italian ) between Sicily and Italy proper . A loaded tanker was torpedoed and sunk from an Axis convoy off Sicily , and in the same group of vessels the 4,971-ton Italian supply ship Aquitania was severely damaged by torpedoes . In the Central Mediterranean , ah Axis supply ship of " about 8.000 tons " was torpedoed and sunk by a British submarine , the Admiralty said . The enemy naval force was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Messina are tween Sicily and the toe of Italian Boot . Earlier , the Admiralty announced that a British cruiser had rammed and sunk an Italian U-boat in the Mediterranean . The 5,540-ton Cruiser Hermione sighted the U-boat on the surface and cut it in half while plowing ahead full speed , the Admiralty said , carrying a part of the wreckage away on her prow . There were no survivors , it was announced . The attack was described as so sudden that the submarine 's attempt to crash dive was prevented . over the entire Atlantic and forces U-boats frequently to dive , " he said . " They send convoys over the northernmost route where there is hardly any darkness because of the short summer nights , or the protection is so strong that often several days of tenacious pursuit are necessary in order finally to get into shooting position , " Commander Kell continued . Commander Kell said the attack Aug. 25 on a British convoy traveling toward Gibraltar , out of which the Germans claimed to have sunk 122,000 tons , was the longest in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ U-boats repeatedly were forced off but closed in again , he said . Germany claimed Aug. 25 that 21 British merchantmen totaling 122,000 tons were sunk from a British convoy en route to Gibraltar . It said that eight of the ships escaped . The same day 13 British ships from the same convoy entered Lisbon harbor to report that the convoy had consisted of only 15 vessels and that seven had been sunk . ) Recently , he explained , shipping on the high seas " has become a little more lively " after months " in which the Atlantic became empty and the U-boats did not sight a mast for weeks . "                     