@@773498

txt 360 International Trade and Commercial Policy case , the importers must forfeit their bonds , since they can not export or destroy the merchandise . If , on the other hand , the Commission finds no violation of the law , importers receive no indemnity . ' MARKS-OF-ORIGIN REQUIREMENTS In order to protect domestic producers from unfair competition , such as the pirating of domestic trade-marks , and inform consumers of the origin of their purchases , so that they may not be misled , many countries require that imported goods be marked in such a way that their country of origin may be readily ascertained . When marks-of-origin legislation is employed simply to prevent unfair competition in foreign trade , it carries no suggestion of administrative protection . In many countries , however , marking requirements have been perverted into an instrument for the protection of domestic industry , rather than used merely for the prevention of unfair competition . In some instances , marking requirements have apparently been legislated for the express purpose of providing economic protection. ? But , even when legislators , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ restrict imports , the necessary result of marking requirements is to obstruct the international flow of goods . In the first place , marking adds to the cost of producing foreign goods , especially if a mark is difficult to affix to a designated article , or if the type of mark specified is unsuited to the size or shape of the commodity . This difficulty is illustrated by the United States requirements that individual cork stoppers from Spain be marked " Made in Spain " ; the cost of marking exceeds the cost of the cork stopper itself . Fortunately , this requirement has recently been modified . A similar handicap to importing resulted from the Customs Court 's interpretation of the American marking requirements re- // specting cigarette papers , which insisted that each individual paper , not each package , was a separate article and hence must be marked separately with the name of the country of origin . A second way in which marking requirements obstruct trade is by hindering the reexportation of goods which do not find a ready sale in the national markets for which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ uniformity of marking requirements among the various countries , and where the cost of remarking is prohibitive . The arbitrary administration of marking-requirements laws may severely handicap importers . The American law provides that imported goods illegally marked must pay additional duties amounting to 10 per cent of the value of the imported merchandise ; at the same time , the law makes it possible for the importer to avoid the penalty duties by paying for remarking the imports under customs supervision . One American importer discovered that 20,000 bags of cocoa which he had imported from British African possessions were illegally marked , because the French language was used ; he was able to avoid a $15,000 penalty only by returning the goods to Liverpool . Another importer paid penalty duties of $350 , because the dust covers on a consignment of imported books were not marked " France , " although the books themselves were so marked . The court held that the dust covers were " containers . " Rubber marked " Burma " has been judged to be illegally marked ; the correct marking should have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time was held to be an illegal marking . A manufacturer of chocolate almond bars had to pay penalty duties of $2000 on shelled almonds in bags marked " Portucues , " although the almonds were to be used exclusively in his own business.10 The British Merchandise Act permits the use of the mark " Habana " only when it is applied to cigars manufactured in Cuba , and permits the term " sardines " to be applied only to fish caught off the coast of France . The name " California Port " is not allowed , but " California Sherry " is within the law.11 The mark of a foreign country on an article may be a severe handicap to its sale in a given market . Implicit in marking requirements is the assumption that , if domestic consumers were apprised of the foreign origin of goods , they would show a preference for 362 International Trade and Commercial Policy domestic substitutes . Marks-of-origin laws strengthen the effectiveness of popular boycotts of the goods of certain countries when national feeling against those countries is running high . During , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ marks " Made in Germany , " " Made in Japan , " and " Made in Italy " on any goods were a serious handicap to their sale in the United States . In Chinese markets , the mark " Made in Japan " arouses anything but enthusiasm for goods so marked . But marks of foreign origin are not always an encumbrance to the domestic sale of foreign goods . Shoes and men 's clothes marked " Made in England , " tweeds marked " Made in Great Britain , " and women 's gowns marked " Made in France " frequently sell in the United States at a premium over similar , domestically-made goods . THE CONTROL OF IMPORTS OF ANIMALS AND ANIMAL PRODUCTS The misuse of sanitary regulations of imports of animals , meats , and meat products for economic ends provides one of the classic examples of administrative protectionism . The rigid inspection , quarantines , and even embargoes to which imports of animals and meats are subjected have been devised to protect domestic herds and domestic consumers from contagious animal diseases and parasites , such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Little criticism can be made of restrictions upon the importation of animals and meats from regions known to be infected , for the eradication of animal diseases has been extremely costly to both governments and animal raisers . Yet in every sanitary restriction of this sort there may be a concealed measure of economic protection . As early as 1879 , American exports of pork and pork products suffered a serious decline , as Italy and Austria-Hungary , and later Germany , France , and other European countries , embargoed imports of these American products on the ground that they were infested with trichinae . After rigid American inspection of pork and bacon for export ? instituted in 1890 and 1891 ? had removed all danger of infection from these products , the embargoes were withdrawn . In some instances , however , it was evident that France and some other European countries delayed lifting the ban on American meats ? even though all danger of trichinae had been // removed ? in order to use the sanitary regulations as bargaining instruments in an attempt to obtain concessions in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ demanding the subjection of imports of animals and meats to sanitary regulations which have had little justification on biological grounds . The outstanding instance of such perversion of sanitary regulations is the embargo on fresh meat imposed by the Tariff Act of 1930 . Under earlier legislation , the Department of Agriculture had complete authority to restrict imports of animals and meats from any country , or part of a country , known to be infected with contagious cattle diseases . No serious complaints of abuse of the Department 's discretionary authority were incurred . But in 1930 , Congress , yielding to pressure from domestic livestock interests , legislated that absolute embargoes must be applied against imports of animals or meats from any country in which rinderpest or the foot-and-mouth disease exist , and no region in such country was to be exempted from the embargo . The chief country to be affected by the legislation was Argentina , whose livestock industry is carried on in two different regions , one in the north and one in the south . The northern area is infected with the foot-and-mouth disease , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the disease . The exclusion of Patagonian meat is therefore unjustifiable on biological grounds . The Argentine government launched a bitter protest against this discrimination ; but , although the Roosevelt administration negotiated with Argentina a sanitary convention which would have supplanted the 1930 legislation with a policy that could have been defended on biological grounds , pressure groups succeeded in preventing Congressional ratification of the convention . The illwill which this legislation aroused in Argentina against the United States has never been completely allayed . SANITARY REGULATIONS OF PLANTS AND PLANT PRODUCTS National plant-quarantine laws , like veterinary regulations , are devised to afford biological , not economic , protection . As they have done with veterinary regulations , however , pressure groups have prevailed upon legislators and those entrusted with the administration of the laws to pervert these biological defenses to economic 364 International Trade and Commercial Policy ends . If nurserymen find the competition of plants from a particular country distasteful , and if outright protection can not be secured without exposing the government to charges of discrimination against a friendly nation , plant pests may be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the country in question . Proof that the imported plants are not diseased is always difficult to establish . In this respect , the United States has been both sinner and sinned against . In 1930 , Great Britain prohibited the importation of American apples for the period between July seventh and November fifteenth , with the exception of two grades , because fruit flies had been discovered in shipments from this country . Imports of apples from Canada , however , were not covered by the order , although the apple maggot is also found in that country . New Zealand in 1924 placed embargoes on all imports of American grains , hay , plants , fruits , vegetables , and livestock because of the outbreak of the foot-and-mouth disease in California . The United States government demanded that the embargoes be restricted to products of the infected regions . The United States permits the importation of rose stocks without limitations as to quantity and utilization , but allows finished roses , bud sticks , and cuttings to be imported only in limited quantities and for specified purposes . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the same regions . Finished rose bushes compete with domestic products , but rose stocks are the raw materials for the domestic rose-growing industry . From 1919 to 1926 narcissus and hyacinth bulbs were imported in unlimited quantities without restriction as to their use , but iris and gladiolus bulbs were rigidly restricted . Neither class of bulbs carried pests of any importance to the plant industry , and the Chief of the Bureau of Entomology and Plant Quarantine declared that there was no reason why one class of bulbs should be unlimited as to quantity and utilization and the other limited . In 1926 , imports of Dutch narcissus bulbs were excluded , although interstate movement was permitted of all narcissus bulbs which had been disinfected or had been found free from infestation ? an obvious discrimination against Dutch bulbs . The embargo against Dutch bulbs was lifted by the Department of Agriculture in December , 1936 , six weeks before the reciprocal trade agreement with the Netherlands went into effect . // THE LETTING OF PUBLIC CONTRACTS The broad expansion of the functions of states and governmental subdivisions during @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the most important consumers . The expansion of the army , navy , and air force , the extension of educational facilities , the construction of vast highway networks and numerous public buildings , and the inauguration of public works programs have all compelled governmental units to enter the market as purchasers of goods and labor on a prodigious scale . Unlike private industry , however , the government is not always free to buy on the most favorable terms , for it has come to be a universally accepted principle that the government should give preference , wherever possible , to domestic products . Although this preference to domestic goods is openly conceded only when the prices , quality , and conditions of sale of the foreign and the domestic goods are equal , the manipulation of price calculations and the character and form of public specifications for the delivery of goods make discrimination easy . In comparing prices , for instance , the prices of foreign goods can be interpreted to include the addition of import duties , although the government has the right of duty-free entry . Some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of foreign bids for public contracts , unless the bids of domestic concerns are disproportionately higher than those of foreign concerns . The Austrian government at one time refused to consider that domestic prices were high enough to warrant the consideration of foreign bids if they did not exceed the foreign prices of the articles in question by at least eight per cent ; Bulgaria and Roumania had similar laws , but their limit of tolerance was five per cent . Specifications can be drawn so as to exclude foreign goods ; for example , brands may be specified which can be supplied only by domestic producers . Colonial powers have been known to use their political position to compel their colonies to give preference to the products of the mother country in filling public contracts of the colonial governments , although foreign products were offered at lower prices . Grunzel refers to the Egyptian practice of setting a time limit for the fulfilment of public contracts and of making this time limit extremely short ; English firms were informed of the forthcoming contracts far enough in advance so that they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but 366 International Trade and Commercial Policy foreign firms frequently found it impossible to complete the contracts within the allotted time.12 Besides favoring domestic producers of the products which it purchases itself , the state may offer to its citizens various inducements to buy domestically-produced goods . In its purchases of supplies from domestic producers , for example , the government may require that , wherever possible , these producers use materials which are also produced at home . OTHER PROTECTIVE MEASURES Propaganda and pressure from economic groups may succeed in effecting a high degree of protection through the informal boycott of foreign products . The " Buy British " campaign in the 1930 's is an example of such a boycott . Protective boycotts may be officially sponsored by the government , or they may develop spontaneously among the people , as did the boycotts against German goods in many countries following the Nazi pogroms in the middle 1930 's , and those against Japanese goods in 1937-1938 , following the invasion of Shanghai . These movements may represent attempts to provide general protection against imports of all foreign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ during the period of widespread unemployment in the 1930 's , or they may be directed against the goods of a particular nation as an expression of strong disapproval of certain activities of the boycotted nation . How effective these mass refusals to buy can become is evidenced by the many attempts of the Japanese to terminate the Chinese boycott of Japanese goods after the beginning of the " China Incident . " Usually , however , such boycotts tend to be short-lived . The task of instructing the people about the blessings which flow from the purchase of domestic goods ? in contrast to foreign products ? has on occasion been undertaken by particular trade groups . A few years ago , American beet-sugar producers revealed to Americans the large numbers of workers which the beet-sugar industry then employed and announced that the industry could employ a great many more if consumers would only confine their purchases to sugar made from domestic beets and refuse to buy that produced from imported sugar cane . The Chemical Foundation has flooded // the country with pamphlets picturing the dangers which the purchase @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is presently eager to encourage the British motion picture industry . While direct , official encouragement has been extended to the industry by means of display quotas , a considerable measure of indirect protection has also been given British pictures . Since V-E Day British press and radio criticism has become markedly " antiHollywood . " " British pictures are praised and given the greatest encouragement by the critics while the best Hollywood efforts are derided and treated with a sort of bitter antagonism that is most noticeable . " 19 Marketing regulations sometimes discriminate against foreign products . Most European countries have milling regulations which stipulate that certain proportions of local flour shall be admixed with all imported flour , or with all flour made of imported grain . In Switzerland , the issuance of permits to import foreign eggs is made conditional upon the purchase of stated proportions of domestic eggs . France requires that all horses imported for sale . be sold only on the Paris market , where municipal sales taxes are much higher than in other local markets , and that they be sold only on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only during the last hour or two of the market , after the demand is usually sated.14 The British Cinematograph Films Act of 1938 , as amended in April , 1945 , sets the proportion of British-made films that must be released in Britain annually at 20 per cent for 1945 , 223 per cent for 1946 , and 25 per cent for 1947 . It is expected that the Act will be further amended in 1948 to attain its ultimate goal of 30 per cent.15 CONCLUSION While the foregoing discussion of indirect protectionism makes no pretense of analyzing the problem in all its ramifications , sufficient cases have been described to indicate the scope of the problem and to illustrate the extreme flexibility of the device . As has been indicated in the preceding pages , most of the restrictions which are classed as administrative protection have originated as perfectly 368 International Trade and Commercial Policy justifiable government controls to promote such desirable social ends as the safeguarding of health and the ensuring of fair competition . Private industry can not always be trusted to protect the public 's interest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enough informed to safeguard their own welfare . Nevertheless , these necessary and desirable safeguards can be quickly and unobtrusively converted into an extra form of protection , especially during an emergency ; the line between their legitimate and their illegitimate uses is indeed difficult to draw . At their worst , they can become under-handed and evasive forms of discrimination which engender suspicion , illwill , and retaliation . But the elimination of this type of protection , desirable as it may be , is not easy . No satisfactory definition of the evil to be proscribed can be drawn up , because new forms are constantly appearing . The outlawing of the practices by treaty offers little promise of success as long as there is a deep-seated belief that the national welfare demands a large measure of protection . Not until there is a strong conviction among the nations of the world that human well-being will be best served by a general lowering of trade barriers can the uses of the instruments of indirect protection be expected to be confined to their legitimate purposes . Moreover , trade liberalization @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economic self-sufficiency , which have become such dominant factors in domestic policy in recent years . PROTECTIVE EXCISE TAXES Another instrument which has come into use in recent years as a means of providing protection for domestic industry is the excise tax . Protective excise taxes are imposed , not primarily for the purpose of raising revenue , but for the purpose of discriminating against goods of foreign origin . Excise taxes designed to restrict imports are of two types : import excise taxes and processing excise taxes . Import excise taxes are taxes levied on the importation of goods where no corresponding taxes are imposed on the competing domestic articles . In the United States , these were originally applied chiefly to goods of types produced in this country , although more recently they have also been applied to many commodities not produced here . Processing excise taxes are taxes levied on the first // processing of imported materials , and are generally imposed on goods which either are not produced domestically or are produced domestically in only negligible quantities . Although the foreign materials selected for taxation may not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ desired , however , they are always materials which are keenly competitive with domestic products . The American processing tax on coconut oil , for instance , was designed solely to protect the domestic production of butter ; coconut oil is a component of butter 's competitor , oleomargarine . The import excise taxes introduced in the United States in 1932 for the purpose of protecting domestic industries are to all intents and purposes identical with tariffs , with one important exception . While they are levied , assessed , collected , and paid in the same manner as duties under the Tariff Act of 1930 , they can not be changed by the President in accordance with the flexible provisions of the Tariff Act ; but they may be altered by the chief executive under the Reciprocal Trade Agreements Act of 1934 . The processing type excise taxes are , like the import type , not subject to alteration under the flexible provisions of the Tariff ; but , unlike the latter , they are not even subject to change under the Trade Agreements Act . In the United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more extensively than the processing type . Articles on which import excise taxes are levied include petroleum and petroleum products , lumber , coal , copper and materials containing copper , and a long list of vegetable , animal , and fish oils . Processing excise taxes are now imposed only on palm oil , palm kernels oil , coconut oil , and mixtures and manufactures thereof . Despite the limited use of processing taxes , however , they have been much more productive of revenue than excise taxes of the import type . In 1936 the former yielded revenues of nearly twenty-nine million dollars while the latter yielded less than twelve million dollars . As instruments of protection , excise taxes have certain practical advantages over tariffs . In the first place , they are less apt to be tampered with than tariffs , since they may not be reduced by the operation of the flexible provisions of the tariff , nor , in the case of processing taxes , even in reciprocal trade agreements negotiated under the Act of 1934 . In the second place , excise taxes can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ revision opens up the 370 International Trade and Commercial Policy whole tariff list to revision and makes it the subject of general logrolling , with the result that duty increases are usually won for a much larger number of commodities than was originally intended . Such general increases in import duties frequently cause serious embarrassment to the party in power , and may even interfere with the passage of the contemplated law . The creation of new excise taxes , on the other hand , avoids general tariff revision , and is accomplished with little more than a dim realization by the public of the protective character of the taxes . Finally , excise taxes are fairly secure against presidential veto , for they are incorporated into a general revenue act and usually constitute only a minor item of the act . However distasteful a particular protective excise tax may be to the President , experience shows that he will almost never reject a complete revenue bill in order to kill merely one or two minor taxes . The adoption of such taxes by the United States in 1932 and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of protection . Despite the demand from many sources for increased protection in a period when production was declining and unemployment increasing , any general tariff increases were out of the question , because of the widespread criticism of the high rates of the Hawley-Smoot Act . Furthermore , the Democratic party had gone on record during the presidential campaign of that year as favoring a reduction in tariff rates , and , after the election , had proceeded to carry out its promise in part through the Reciprocal Trade Agreements Act of 1934 and the many trade agreements negotiated under the Act 16 But , unpromising as the prospects for greater protection appeared to be , at least through tariff increases , various interests did succeed in securing protection ? by means of excise taxes . In granting protective excise taxes , Congress became truly prodigal ; taxes were made considerably higher than the traditional principle of equalizing foreign and domestic costs of production demanded . Little wonder that this new implement of protection has won innumerable new friends ! Protective excise taxes are objectionable , on economic grounds , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they re- // strict international specialization . They are especially obnoxious when they are levied primarily upon necessities and raw materials , such as petroleum , coal , lumber , copper , oils , and fats ? the products which have been subjected to protective excise taxes in the United States . It is doubtful whether these taxes are of any benefit to industries on an export basis , for the foreign materials which would otherwise have been admitted are only diverted to the export market , where they tend to displace exports from the country levying the taxes . The claim that they tend to become less permanent than tariffs is not borne out by American experience ; with one exception , none of the excise taxes levied has been repealed or allowed to expire when it was supposed to . Finally , " our unfamiliarity with this new instrument of commercial policy , the concealed , undercover manner of its use , and the difficulty of resisting it render it more insidious and more dangerous , at the present time , than the protective tariff . " 17 XvI @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of commerce beyond national boundaries and the increasing discrimination against foreigners and foreign products throughout the world have aroused every nation to the need for securing and protecting the rights and privileges of its citizens and goods in foreign countries , and for assuring its nationals and its products treatment abroad at least as favorable as that accorded to the nationals and products of third countries . The chief instrument for securing more favorable treatment for a country 's nationals abroad and for insuring them against discrimination in foreign markets is the commercial treaty . A commercial treaty is merely a contract between two or more nations , which deals with any part of their economic relations , although the relations usually dealt with are chiefly commercial . These international compacts appear in a variety of forms and under a diversity of titles , according to their importance or duration . The more formal compacts are generally known as " treaties " or " conventions " and are negotiated by the chief executive , with parliamentary approval . ' Subordinate or special subjects may be dealt with in less formal compacts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " " exchange of notes , " etc . The latter are frequently effected // by a mere exchange of notes between the foreign minister of one country and the ambassador of the other . The conventional regime of international commerce may also be established by clauses of treaties of friendship , treaties of peace , and other treaties of a political character . Commercial treaties may cover a wide variety of subjects ; in fact , every object of national economic activity may be an object of international negotiations and treaties . Besides customs questions , commercial treaties may deal with such matters as fishing rights , the treatment of one another 's shipping in the countries ' respective ports , the ownership of property by foreigners , the conditions of immigration , the rights of foreign business associations , the protection of patents , trademarks , copyrights , and other industrial rights , the payment of taxes , and sanitary and veterinary regulations . Treaty-making was in earlier times concerned more with securing the right to participate in a particular trade than with the details of customs rates . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most important subject of negotiations , for a presumption has grown up that trade is in general open to all and that a foreigner , as a foreigner , will not he deprived of ordinary civil rights . Although agreements between leading powers and economically backward nations , which grant the former certain exclusive privileges in the territory of the latter , such as the building and operation of railways and the exploitation of natural resources , are still of considerable importance , there is a tendency to restrict the use of the term " commercial treaties " to agreements dealing with tariff questions . Unlike treaties of peace , which are perpetual unless altered by mutual consent or by war , treaties of commerce are usually negotiated for a fixed term of years . It is common , however , to include in commercial treaties a provision requiring notification before the treaty is terminated ; unless such notification is given by one of the contracting parties , the treaty is automatically renewed for another term , equal to , or shorter than , the original term . Thus , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , orig- 374 International Trade and Commercial Policy inally signed for a twelve-year period , remained in force until the two countries went to war in 1917 ; it contained a provision for its continuance unless one of the parties to the agreement should give notice of termination one year in advance of such termination ? and neither party chose to terminate it . Before the first World War , commercial compacts were concluded for a relatively long period , generally about ten years ; but the economic and political unsettlement which has characterized the period since the war has caused nations to become more cautious in their treaty commitments . As a result , the modus vivendi has recently come to play a much more important role than formerly . This type of agreement is usually terminable by either party upon a few months ' notice , after it has been in effect for a brief period , commonly one year . While commercial treaties are in most cases bilateral , i.e. , between two nations only , multilateral agreements ? those to which more than two nations are signatory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have many interests in common and face many problems which can be effectually handled only by multilateral treaties has brought wider use of this type of treaty . Multilateral treaties usually deal with special questions of international trade ; the Brussels Sugar Convention of 1902 , the Barcelona Convention of 1921 relating to the freedom of transit , the Convention of Geneva of 1923 relating to the simplification of customs formalities , and the Geneva Convention of 1930 providing a uniform law for bills of exchange and promissory notes are examples of such special multilateral treaties . Multilateral agreement may be embodied in one multilateral treaty or in a series of bilateral treaties , each of which is the result of collective discussions and decisions and all of which have the same content . Many administrative questions and questions concerning the legal and fiscal bases of trade were settled in the inter-war period by the calling of a diplomatic conference and the signature of a multilateral convention . This procedure has proved to possess several advantages . ( 1 ) It often makes possible the rapid achievement of some desired end @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . ( 2 ) There are certain actions which no country , or pair of countries , would care to take unless many other countries took similar action simultaneously . ( 3 ) A system established by a // multilateral treaty possesses greater stability than can be achieved even by a whole network of bilateral treaties . ( 4 ) In a bilateral agreement there must be an approximate equivalence in the concessions given and received by each contracting party ; in a multilateral agreement it is not necessary that the concessions granted between any two countries be even approximately equivalent so long as each party 's concessions are offset by the total concessions which it obtains from all the other parties . The opening of international conferences on questions of commercial policy to all nations , however , raises specific difficulties which often limit the accomplishments of multilateral conventions . ( 1 ) National differences in law and practice and in economic conditions are sometimes so great that agreement is possible only between a small number of states . ( 2 ) When world-wide agreement is sought , there is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agreement to such an extent that the code falls short of the existing practice in the more advanced states . The weakening of the obligations for the purpose of securing the signatures of doubtful countries may , moreover , be of no avail , for these countries may fail to ratify . ( 3 ) After a multilateral convention has been laboriously prepared , negotiated , and signed , it still remains uncertain whether the minimum of ratifications necessary to bring it into force will be obtained . ' The agreement incorporated into commercial treaties may be either direct or indirect . Direct agreements specify in great detail the rights of citizens and the treatment of commodity imports : specific rates of import duties are set , the rights and obligations of consuls are specified , and the conditions under which foreign firms can establish themselves are set forth . Indirect agreements merely lay down a general rule or yardstick by which the treatment of the nationals and the goods of the other country is determined . Of the various rules which from time to time have been invoked in these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ modern times : national treatment and most-favored-nation treatment . Before embarking upon a discussion of national and most-favored nation treatment , it should be pointed out that treaties are not the 376 International Trade and Commercial Policy exclusive source or measure of the rights and privileges of aliens in a given country . The absence of any treaty between two countries does not mean that the citizens of one country have no rights in the other country . Numerous rights and privileges are assured to aliens in all civilized countries through domestic laws ; general laws may apply to nationals and aliens alike , or special laws may concern aliens alone . In most civilized countries , the legal position of aliens in the enjoyment of civil , contrasted with political , rights is today that of practical assimilation with nationals ? except for certain minor disabilities in some countries ; if an alien owns any nationality at all , he must be accorded protection of his person and property . Furthermore , international law and established custom have secured for foreigners a certain standard of justice and a minimum of rights @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which a nation must be guided in its treatment of aliens , irrespective of any treaty that it may have with the alien 's home country . It should not be assumed that , the more specific a nation 's treaties with a given country are , the more numerous are the rights of its citizens in that particular country compared with those of other foreigners , or that , because nothing is said about certain rights in treaties with a given country , foreigners in that country are without those rights . The contrary may be true . For the more generous is the treatment accorded to foreigners by the laws of a country , the less is the need for a detailed guarantee of the rights of foreigners by treaty . For this reason , treaties between highly developed nations do not need to be as specific and complete with reference to fundamental rights as treaties between countries on a lower plane of civilization , or between countries fundamentally different in morals and culture . NATIONAL TREATMENT The national treatment clause of commercial conventions provides that the party granting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the same rights and privileges , in all matters to which the pledge of national treatment relates , that the former accords to its own nationals . Usually national treatment is reciprocal , i.e. , each party pledges national treatment to the citizens and subjects of the other ; but the extension of national treatCommercial // ment may be unilateral . The more common matters in which national treatment is accorded include those relating to commerce , navigation , industry , taxation , trading companies , and civil rights . ' The type , scope , and extent of national treatment differ in different treaties . It may deal with only a few or with many topics ; it may be extended to the entire territory of a power , or it may be excluded from certain areas under a nation 's jurisdiction . Since the very object of tariffs and other forms of trade restriction is to secure more generous treatment for native goods than for foreign goods , national treatment applies only to the rights and privileges of persons , not to goods . Moreover , it is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ certain rights and privileges which for one reason or another are not extended to aliens . It has been the policy of the United States , for example , to reserve the coasting trade exclusively for vessels of its own citizens . Therefore , a clause is incorporated into all American commercial treaties in which national treatment is pledged on a scale sufficiently broad to include coastwise shipping , which expressly excepts this trade . Some countries also reserve national fisheries for national vessels . Other fields in which discriminatory treatment in favor of a country 's own nationals is frequently provided in commercial treaties are the acquisition and possession of the soil , especially in agricultural districts , and the practice of certain professions and trades , such as pharmacy , brokerage , peddling and other itinerant trades . At the same time , commercial treaties frequently guarantee ex- 378 International Trade and Commercial Policy ceptional treatment for resident aliens . The latter are usually exempt from personal military service in the country of residence ; from all forced loans , imposts , and extraordinary military requisitions and contributions , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ countries , from the compulsory acceptance of judicial and municipal functions , except jury service and the office of guardian of wards of their own nationality . Although the reciprocal granting of national treatment may , on the surface , appear to establish reciprocally equal treatment , it may , in fact , fail to do so . National treatment is merely treatment equal to that accorded to nationals of the country granting such treatment . In a well-ordered state , where persons and property are secure under the law , and where citizens enjoy a large degree of industrial and commercial freedom , national treatment will mean much more than in a backward state , where security and enterprise are more restricted . Even countries in the same plane of development may have widely differing domestic policies respecting fiscal , industrial , and commercial matters . Income , property , and corporation taxes , for instance , may be higher in one country than in another ; certain trades and professions may be treated liberally in one country , while they may be burdened with various restrictions and charges in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ long period without any requirement that the patented process be used ? this is the case in the United States ? while in another state the production of the patented article must be started within a stipulated period in order to enjoy the protection of the patent rights ; patent fees may vary widely in different countries . Obviously , reciprocal national treatment is not necessarily reciprocal equal treatment . National treatment is nowadays the rule between equals . But world powers have on occasion exacted from weaker nations some form of special privilege and have secured for their citizens partial or complete exemption from the operation of local law . At different times , China , Egypt , Morocco , Iran , Thailand , and Turkey have granted extraterritorial rights to states of European civilization . This means that nationals of the European states are subject , not to the laws of the country granting extraterritoriality , in which they may be resident , but to laws of their homeland and to the jurisdicCommercial // tion of courts and authorities established and regulated by their own municipal regulation . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon treaty . RECIPROCITY Every nation has a twofold object in the adoption and development of a commercial policy : ( 1 ) to gain and to preserve for itself advantages , and ( 2 ) to avoid and guard against disadvantages . In earlier times , nations sought to realize these objects through " reciprocity " treaties , i.e. , agreements whereby each of the parties to a treaty makes special concessions to the other with the intention that the transaction shall be looked upon as a particular bargain whose benefits are not to be extended automatically , generally , and freely to other states . Favors granted in " reciprocity " treaties are , in other words , exclusive , not generalized . MOST-FAVORED-NATION TREATMENT It is always a matter of considerable importance to a country to be assured that the treatment its citizens receive at the hands of another country shall be not less favorable than that which the other accords to the citizens of a third country . Now it has frequently happened that " reciprocity " arrangements between two nations have been rendered valueless , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ parties has granted to some third nation even more liberal concessions than it had granted to the other . In order to obviate this disadvantage , it became common practice to stipulate in commercial treaties that each of the contracting parties should grant to the other party every concession granted to any third nation . This stipulation has come to be known as the " most-favored nation clause . " The term is a misnomer , however , for the purpose of the clause is not to establish a nation more favored than others , but rather to maintain equality of treatment and to insure to each state that it will at all times be as favorably treated as the state which is most favored . Culbertson rightly suggests that a more truly descriptive term would be the " equally-favored-nation clause . " The clause was devised , furthermore , to insure to the contracting states the benefits , not only of concessions previously made , but also of 380 International Trade and Commercial Policy those that might be made at some future date by either of the contracting states . While @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against citizens of the other , compared with the treatment accorded its own citizens , most-favored-nation treatment excludes discrimination against one foreign nation compared with another foreign nation . Frequently , treaties guarantee national treatment of persons and most-favored-nation treatment of goods . Most-favored-nation agreements may be " unrestricted " or " restricted , " depending upon whether they apply to all matters relating to commerce , navigation , and industry , or are limited to certain specific subjects , such as customs duties and prohibitions , consuls , access to ports , etc . The Treaty of 1911 between Great Britain and Japan , which grants most-favored-nation treatment " in all that concerns commerce , navigation , and industry , " illustrates the unrestricted form of the most-favored-nation clause . The Convention of 1904 between Russia and Germany , on the other hand , limited most-favored-nation treatment to the " products of the soil or of industry " of either country , while the Convention of 1926 between France and Greece granted most-favored-nation treatment only to Greek wines . Sometimes a distinction is made between the restriction of the topics @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ covered . The most-favored-nation agreement concluded between France and Germany in Article XI of the Peace of Frankfort ( 1871 ) , for example , was formally restricted to those concessions which either of the two nations granted to any one of the following states  --  England , Belgium , Holland , Switzerland , Russia , and Austria ; the Convention of 1922 between France and Canada granted to Canada most-favored-nation treatment only with regard to concessions in favor of the United States . Ordinarily , the comprehensive coverage is intended when reference is made to the " most-favored-nation clause . " The operation of the most-favored-nation clause is usually bilateral , i.e. , it is extended to each of the contracting parties . But this is not always the case , especially in treaties between dominant powers and lesser states , and sometimes between victor and vanquished . In the Treaty of 1856 between the United States and Siam , most-favored-nation treatment was unilaterally accorded the United // States by Siam , but the United States made no reciprocal extension of the same privileges to Siamese subjects . Another example @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Versailles ; under this treaty Germany undertook to give mostfavored-nation treatment to the Allies for five years , but was assured of no similar treatment by the Allied Powers . The most acrimonious disputes concerning the most-favored-nation clause ? and no feature of commercial treaties is so much discussed and so hotly disputed , both in legal and economic writings and by politicians ? are those revolving about the unconditional and the conditional interpretations of the clause . Under the unconditional interpretation , any advantage granted by either contracting party to a third party accrues automatically , and without compensation , to the other party . An example of the most-favored-nation clause in its most general and unconditional form is found in the 1911 Treaty between Great Britain and Bolivia : " The High Contracting Parties agree that , in all matters relating to commerce and industry , any privilege , favor , or immunity whatever which either Contracting Party has actually granted or may hereafter grant to any other foreign state shall be extended immediately and unconditionally to the subjects or citizens of the other Contracting Party ; it being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shall be placed , in all respects , by the other on the footing of the mostfavored nation . " ' According to this agreement , any reduction in import duties which Bolivia might grant to a third nation , say the United States , would be extended freely , immediately , and automatically to Great Britain . And Great Britain need make no concession to Bolivia in order to obtain the benefits of the lower duties , even though the United States may have had to make substantial concessions to Bolivia in order to secure them . The conditional form of the most-favored-nation clause , unlike the unconditional form , distinguishes between concessions granted gratuitously and concessions purchased at a price . According to this interpretation of the clause , either contracting party must extend to the other , immediately and gratuitously , any favor which has been gratuitously granted to a third country . But any favor which a third 382 International Trade and Commercial Policy country purchases from either contracting party need not be extended to the other party except upon receipt of a similar or equivalent concession @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Japan illustrates the conditional most-favored-nation clause : " Except as otherwise provided in this Treaty , the High Contracting Parties agree that , in all that concerns commerce and navigation , any privilege , favor , or immunity which either Contracting Party has actually granted , or may hereafter grant , to the citizens or subjects of any other state shall be extended to the citizens or subjects of the other Contracting Party gratuitously , if the concession in favor of that other state shall have been gratuitous , and on the same or equivalent conditions , if the concession shall have been conditional . " ( Article XIV ) .6 Both forms of the clause recognize in principle that any act by either party to a treaty , which makes a third party a " favored " nation , is contrary to the treaty and entitles the other party to the same favor . But , under the conditional interpretation , any favor granted to a third state for a compensation does not create , in the technical sense , a " favored " nation , and the other state @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an equivalent compensation . European states began to incorporate the most-favored-nation clause into their commercial treaties as early as the seventeenth century , and by the second half of the eighteenth century scarcely a commercial treaty was concluded by these countries which did not include the clause , either expressly stated in one of its variants or implied in the text . Since the middle of the nineteenth century , practically all European states have adopted the unconditional form of the clause , although some of these states have readopted the conditional interpretation since the 1920 's . The United States alone among the great powers consistently adhered to the conditional form down to 1923 . The first commercial treaty that she signed after she had declared her independence ? that with France in 1778 ? incorporated the conditional clause , and thereafter American officials almost invariably maintained this interpretation , even in the case of treaties which did not contain an express stipulation calling for compensation . At first , she obtained // fairly substantial advantages from this policy , especially in respect to navigation rights . Throughout most of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bargaining , and secured few exclusive privileges from her conditional policy , except in treaties with Canada , Hawaii , and Brazil . Despite her aloofness from bargaining , she nevertheless received most-favored-nation treatment in most foreign markets . This is probably attributable to her use during this period of a uniform ( single schedule ) tariff , applicable to the exports of all nations without discrimination , and to the composition of her exports , which consisted chiefly of foodstuffs and raw materials ? products which were not only largely non-competitive with European products and thus customarily on the free list , but were also in wide demand in European countries . The United States has completely altered her attitude toward the most-favored-nation clause since the first World War and has now become the most ardent supporter of the unconditional form . In an exchange of notes with Brazil in 1923 , the United States abandoned her previous conditional policy and accepted the unconditional most-favored-nation policy . She has vigorously championed the unconditional form in her negotiations under the Reciprocal Trade Agreements Act of 1934 , at a time when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to veer away from the generalization of concessions granted in bilateral agreements . Several factors are responsible for this shift in American policy . The conditional policy had given rise to numerous disputes , and the application of the policy constantly encountered serious difficulties . Furthermore , manufactured goods have grown to be a much more important element in American exports than they were in the nineteenth century ; and , since exporters of these goods have to face much keener competition in export markets than they did before 1914 , equality of treatment has come to be prized more than any grant of special concessions , which have a habit of evaporating overnight . Finally , the adoption of stronger protectionist policies by most countries has meant that special concessions to particular countries would seriously handicap exporters in countries not so favored . All in all , it is not surprising that the United States has reached the conclusion that equality of treatment with her competitors is the policy best designed to serve her interests . 384 International Trade and Commercial Policy CRITICISM OF THE CONDITIONAL MOST-FAVORED-NATION CLAUSE At first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Why should any nation expect to get for nothing a reduction in tariff rates which a third nation has had to buy ? If any nation can be assured of the opportunity of securing a reduction in the import duties of a foreign country upon the same , or equivalent , terms as a third nation , the principles of justice would appear to be satisfied . The conditional clause thus suggests an analogy to the Anglo-Saxon law of contracts , which requires a consideration in order to make a contract binding . The conditional version has been favored by some as a more effective instrument for bargaining than the unconditional version , because it does not involve " giving away " concessions to third parties . If third parties can expect to acquire duty reductions only by making concessions themselves , then , it is argued , they are more likely to make concessions . This is the reason why France abandoned her traditional unconditional policy after the first World War in favor of the conditional policy . It has been contended , finally , that highly protectionist countries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if such reductions are not automatically generalized for many exporting countries . Country A , for instance , might be quite willing to grant Country B a reduction in import duties on , say , shoes if the latter could supply at the most only a small proportion of the former 's imports of shoes , while she would be unwilling to make any reductions ? for fear of injury to domestic producers ? if other shoe-producing countries automatically received the same favor . Yet , in practice , the conditional interpretation of most-favored nation treatment has encountered serious difficulties and has been the source of bitter diplomatic disputes . The determination of just what conditional treatment means has necessitated frequent negotiation . What is to be considered an " equivalent " concession ? If the United States grants Great Britain a generous reduction in American wool duties in exchange for a reduction in British duties on American typewriters , then the American reduction in wool duties would have to be extended to Argentina , provided the latter had a conditional most-favored-nation agreement with the United States and made a similar reduction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's reduction in typewriter duties to be considered the equivalent of Britain 's if Argentina imports few , if any , typewriters ? What if Argentina has previously reduced her typewriter duties ? And what is to be regarded as an equivalent concession if Argentina has no import duty on typewriters ? The United States will be the sole judge of the equivalence of the compensation . Frequently , moreover , each party to a treaty will make several concessions simultaneously , and only the sum total of concessions on each side may be regarded as an approximate equivalent . It will then be impossible to say exactly what has been paid for any individual concession . Little more can be said for the conditional most-favored nation clause than that it places upon a nation the obligation to enter into negotiations for equal treatment with the other contracting party . In some cases , it has even been held that concessions granted by one country to another depended upon peculiar relations between the two countries , and hence could not be matched by any third country . Another disadvantage of the conditional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is almost certain to result in a multiplicity of rates on some articles , for the rates on any article on which conventional reductions are made will vary according to the country of origin . Such a complicated tariff structure is costly to administer , it invites fraud , and it discriminates in favor of certain countries and against others , These discriminations can be removed only through a long and confused process of practically continuous negotiations ; and , meanwhile , trade currents are kept in a state of constant fluctuation . It is improbable that the maximum tariff reductions will be effected under the conditional most-favored-nation policy . When a nation obtains tariff concessions abroad through bilateral agreements based on the conditional most-favored-nation clause , it realizes that it will in the future have to make additional concessions in order to secure additional benefits , and that additional benefits may become indispensable if equality with foreign competitors is to be maintained . Anticipating the necessity of granting further reductions , a nation will naturally tend to hold some concessions in reserve . Initial reductions are therefore unlikely to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if future negotiations are unsuccessful , further reductions 386 International Trade and Commercial Policy which a nation might have been willing to make may never be made . Culbertson has pointed out that United States adherence to conditional treatment under the tariff policy adopted in 1922 would have made our commercial policy embarrassingly inconsistent. ? The Tariff Act of 1922 authorized the President to impose additional duties on imports from any country which in any manner discriminated against American commerce . But , since an active policy of conditional most-favored-nation treatment almost unavoidably introduces discriminations into a nation 's tariff schedules , the United States would have found herself in the insupportable position of penalizing other nations for discriminating against her , while she was actively discriminating against others . Finally , the conditional clause leads to the same results as the unconditional clause as soon as a country most of whose treaties are conditional makes one unconditional treaty . For , whatever concessions she makes to any other country , either gratuitously or for compensation , she must extend immediately and gratuitously to that nation with which she has an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gratuitously to any country are to be extended gratuitously to all'countries with which she has conditional most-favored-nation agreements . MERITS OF THE UNCONDITIONAL MOST-FAVORED-NATION CLAUSE A conviction that only bilateral agreements based upon the unconditional most-favored-nation principle could be really effective in lowering trade barriers and supplying a truly satisfactory basis for the development of international trade led to its practically universal acceptance by European states during the half century preceding the first World War and to its readoption as one of the important bases for the reestablishment of world commerce in the postwar years . The unconditional principle is superior to the conditional principle in many respects . Its meaning is clear , and frequent and long drawn-out diplomatic wranglings are not necessary for its interpretation . It establishes uniform tariffs , regardless of the origin of imports , and thus avoids arousing the irritation , controversy , and international ill will which are the inescapable concomitants of discriminatory treatment . Professor Viner points out // that " there is no case on record where a country whose exports have been subjected to higher duties than the exports from another @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Unconditional most-favored-nation treatment also assures each competing country that it will at no time during the life of the treaty be placed in a less favorable position in respect to competition with third countries than at the time the treaty was made . The application of uniform rates to imports of similar commodities , regardless of the country of origin , has , however , an even more important advantage . Given the extent to which a country desires to permit imports , it insures that the imports will be provided by those countries which are willing to provide them at the lowest prices . It also furnishes a guarantee that , when duty reductions are granted to only one country , or to a few , the benefits of the reductions will not accrue to foreign exporters rather than to domestic consumers . When preferential treatment is accorded to only one country , there is always the possibility that that country will be either unable or unwilling to provide the full quantity of imports demanded by the importing country and that the deficiency must be made up by imports from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the imported commodity in the importing country will be the world price plus the unreduced duty which imports from nonpreferred countries have to bear ; but exporters in the preferred country will receive the world price plus the amount of preference in duty which they enjoy in the importing country . This subsidy enjoyed by the preferred foreign exporters is made at the expense of the public treasury of the importing country . When the duty reduction is extended to all countries , the loss in revenue to the treasury in the importing country is offset by the lower prices paid by consumers ; when the reduction is made to a country , or countries , supplying only a fraction of the imports , there is no corresponding gain to consumers to offset the loss to the treasury ? only the preferred foreign exporters gain . ' Superior as the unconditional most-favored-nation principle has demonstrated itself to be , it has nevertheless been the object of 388 International Trade and Commercial Policy numerous and insistent attacks . Protectionists have attacked it because they consider it merely a device for promoting free @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ abolish completely the individualistic basis of world economy and to replace it with a planned regime . But it has also been criticized by some who favor the individualistic world economy and the international division of labor . The latter have argued that unconditional mostfavored-nation treatment is unjust because it permits countries which make no reciprocal compensatory concessions to enjoy favors which other nations have had to purchase at a substantial price . Fundamentally , this argument rests upon the untenable protectionist contention that every unilateral tariff reduction is a sacrifice.10 But , even more important , it overlooks the fact that a very valuable concession is extended by the third country when the latter itself grants unconditional most-favored-nation treatment , irrespective of any concrete tariff reductions . A uniform rise in the import duties of the third country will cause the exports of other countries to that country to decline ; but it will not necessarily destroy the trade of any one country with that country . The granting of preferential treatment by the third country to any one country , however , may result in the complete exclusion of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ third country . This advantage of unconditional most-favored-nation treatment has been plainly stated by Helfferich : " We have , indeed , a great interest in low duties upon our exports , but our interest in receiving the same treatment as other countries is immeasurably greater . " 11 Some have maintained that unconditional most-favored-nation treaties have tended to hinder the reduction of tariffs . For example , when country A negotiates successfully with countries B and C for mutual tariff reductions , country D may be unwilling to negotiate with country A , because under her unconditional most-favored nation treaty with A she is entitled automatically to every concession which A has extended to B and C. Hence , country D receives substantial concessions from country A without having to lower her tariffs at all ; whereas , had country A 's reductions not been extended to country D gratuitously , the latter might have been willing to // make concessions to country A in order to acquire these concessions for herself . In answer to this argument , it may be stated that A will probably still have duties for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But , even if A becomes convinced that no reductions by D can be expected , it is open to A , as Haberler has pointed out , to make the granting of most-favored-nation treatment to D conditional upon the granting of tariff concessions to A by D. In other words , unconditional most-favored-nation treatment , instead of being the premise upon which trade relations between the two countries are based , may be placed as a final seal upon those relations . In the period before the first World War , Germany used to arrange all her tariff treaties so that they would terminate at the same time ; then , in the year of their expiration , she would negotiate simultaneously for the renewal of them all , making the grant of most-favored-nation status dependent upon the conclusion of successful tariff negotiations and making the life of the most-favored-nation pledge coterminous with the life of other provisions in the tariff treaty . " The danger that the unconditional most-favored-nation clause might become an obstacle to tariff reductions has been largely overcome by the United States in her negotiation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ refusal to consider as the subject of negotiations duty reductions on any commodity of which the other country is not a major supplier . Duty reductions granted to one country are thus not likely to constitute a major concession to any other country , and other countries are left with a strong inducement to enter into independent negotiations for reductions on additional goods . Most-favored-nation treatment should be accorded to countries with non-bargaining , but low , tariff policies without a reciprocal pledge . The treatment of high-tariff countries which do not follow a bargaining policy , however , presents difficulties . Professor Haberler has suggested a promising method for dealing with such countries . If there is a possibility that the threat of withholding the pledge of most-favored-nation treatment from any such nation would induce the nation to negotiate , then the granting of the pledge should be made conditional upon duty concessions by that nation . If , on the 12 Ibid. , p. 382. 390 International Trade and Commercial Policy other hand , there seems to be little possibility that any threats will induce the refractory high-protectionist to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her unconditional most-favored-nation status . This course involves no sacrifice . On the contrary , failure to follow such a course will only force trade into uneconomic channels ; goods which could have been obtained most cheaply from that nation will have to be obtained from higher-cost sources . EXCEPTIONS TO THE MOST-FAVORED-NATION CLAUSE There are certain more or less recognized exceptions to the principle that a country which has been promised most-favored-nation treatment is entitled to receive trade privileges as generous as those accorded to any country . These exceptions may be expressly stipulated in treaties , or they may be merely implied . The most common of these exceptions is frontier traffic of a strictly local character . Since international boundaries are arbitrary and frequently divide regions which are economically homogeneous , the strict maintenance of customs barriers would work great hardship upon the inhabitants along both sides of the frontier . Consequently , frontier traffic is commonly exempt from customs duties . The extension of the same exemptions to other traffic would , however , place the nation on a free-trade basis , and general free trade might @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most-favored nation treatment is the trade between a mother country and her colonies . Where the colonies are not incorporated into the customs area of the mother country , preferential duties are not infrequently accorded the mother country by the colonies , and accorded the colonies by the mother country . Such a system of preferential duties was adopted by Great Britain and the British Dominions at the Ottawa Conference in 1932 . Colonial preferences have also been employed by the United States , France , Italy , and Spain . Still other exceptions to most-favored-nation treatment have been made in the case of countries which are closely related in respect to race , location , or economic ties . Both the United States and Cuba exclude other nations from the enjoyment of certain duty reductions which they have reciprocally pledged . Similar exclusions are to be found between Spain and Portugal , among certain Balkan countries , certain South American countries , and the Scandinavian countries . // Spain reserves the right to give special privileges to Latin American countries , and Portugal retains the right to extend preferences to Brazil @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of commercial policy that customs-unions , such as that formed after the first World War between Belgium and Luxembourg , are exempt from the jurisdiction of the most-favored-nation clause , unless otherwise provided by treaty . Apart from these open and accepted exceptions , certain practices have come into use which not only violate the spirit of the mostfavored-nation clause , but also seriously impair its effectiveness . Chief among these are the increasing specialization of tariff classifications , the use of various administrative regulations , the adoption of import quotas , and the negotiation of clearing and compensation agreements . While it is true that , through additions to the usual wording of the pledge , something can be done to mitigate such discriminations , there is nevertheless little reason to suppose that the pledge will regain its former importance as long as these practices continue . These discriminatory practices , like much of the criticism of the clause itself , show a strong disposition to increase during periods of political , monetary , and economic upheaval . They are one aspect of high protectionism and the quest for economic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conclusion , that the bulk of what is known as international law is based upon treaties , including commercial treaties . The nations of the world are thus not only the authors of the law governing their relations ; they are also the courts which interpret this law and the officers which enforce it . There are , to be sure , international bodies of arbitration , such as the World Court at The Hague and the International Court of Justice established by the United Nations , whose function it is to adjust disputes between nations ; but they have no means of enforcing their decisions upon nations which refuse to abide by them . Where vital national interests are not at issue , these courts and commissions may perform a useful work of arbitration . So long as nations possess unlimited sovereignty , however , they are usually reluctant to surrender what they consider to be their vital , sovereign rights or 392 International Trade and Commercial Policy their possessions . Then , the arbiter of international disputes must be either the pressure of world public opinion ? or military @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thus rests fundamentally upon the fairness , simplicity , and clarity of the world treaty structure . The relative infrequency of disputes over the meaning of treaties testifies to the justice of treaties in general . The treaties that are most likely to be violated are those to which one party has become a signatory under duress . XVII Tariff Bargaining Tariff bargaining has been defined as " a process of negotiation between two countries , usually taking place shortly before the expiration of a previously existing commercial treaty , with the purpose of establishing their tariff relations on a definite footing . " ' The most conspicuous purpose of bargaining tariffs has been to obtain concessions from other countries ; this was certainly one of their main purposes during the half century before the first World War . Bargaining tariffs are thus devices which employ import duties as a means of stimulating exports ; they are constructed in such a fashion that tariff concessions may be traded for tariff concessions . The securing of tariff reductions from foreign countries is not , however , the only purpose for which bargaining @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ secure the removal of , or to forestall , discriminations against a country 's exports . While high foreign tariffs tend to curtail a nation 's exports , tariffs which discriminate against its products may completely exclude its exports from foreign markets . The guaranty of most-favored-nation treatment has therefore been the primary aim of nations in negotiating most commercial treaties . In some cases , particular concessions have been granted in order to obtain nothing more than such treatment . Whenever a nation has been unable to obtain general most-favored-nation treatment , it has made every effort to secure most-favored-nation treatment on at least those articles that it exports in competition with third countries . The importance which nations attach to obtaining equality of treatment is attested by the not infrequent extension by one bargaining state of concessions ? granted to a second state 394 International Trade and Commercial Policy only after long haggling ? to a third state without reciprocal concessions , on the ground that the state outside the bargaining circle has a single-schedule tariff and hence can not practice discrimination against other states . Bargaining tariffs , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the purpose of securing concessions , have taken one of two forms : that of concessions , by which reductions in duties are granted to countries which either concede equality of treatment or make reciprocal concessions , and that of additional duties , in the nature of penalty or retaliatory duties , made applicable to countries which fail to accord satisfactory treatment . The principal advantage of the concessional method is that it appears to be more conciliatory : the offer of a reduction is less irritating than the imposition of a penalty . But the method of concessions may in effect become the equivalent of the penalty method . Nations which fail to grant satisfactory treatment receive no reductions , and therefore pay the unmodified , and higher , duties , which become in fact penalty duties . Where tariff bargaining results in a reduction in duties , the economic effects differ according to the conditions of supply . If a reduction in a particular duty applies to only a fraction of a country 's imports of the commodity affected , the public treasury suffers a loss in revenue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ form of a lowered price . The benefits of the duty reduction accrue solely to the producers in the favored exporting country . If , on the other hand , virtually the entire supply of the commodity is admitted at the reduced duty , the effect is similar to that of a general reduction in the rate . Customs revenues are diminished , to be sure ; but the reduced customs revenues are more than counterbalanced by lower prices to domestic consumers . The other method of tariff bargaining , that of imposing additional duties to imports from countries which do not concede satisfactory treatment , is combative in principle and usually irritating in its effects . When the additional ( penalty ) duties are put into effect simply in order to secure equality of treatment , however , rather than to obtain special concessions , and are therefore subject to termination as soon as equal treatment is granted , little reasonable ground for complaint exists . // The economic effects of the imposition of penalty duties , like the effects of granting reductions in duties , will differ with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are applied only to the imports from a country that furnishes but a small fraction of the total imports of a given commodity , imports from that country will be excluded and will be displaced by additional imports from elsewhere . It is to be doubted that the domestic consumer will suffer from additional duties imposed on a small fraction of the imported good . But , if a large proportion of the supply , or the entire supply , is subjected to additional duties , such duties will impose an added burden on the domestic consumer in the form of a higher price . Penalty duties are therefore least burdensome when they are applied to an imported article which is supplied by several competing countries , no one of which supplies a large fraction of total imports ; for then they merely establish a preference for one foreign producer , or several , over another , without penalizing the domestic consumer . Tariff bargaining may he either " conciliatory " or " aggressive . " 2 Bargaining may be considered to be conciliatory when a country abandons a measure of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and reasonable , in order to obtain concessions in foreign duties in favor of its exports . An example of this type of bargaining is that which has been carried on by the government of the United States under the Reciprocal Trade Agreements Act of 1934 , discussed at length later in this chapter . Aggressive bargaining , on the other hand , consists in imposing new duties , or increasing existing duties , not because such duties , or such increases , appear desirable for the protection of domestic industry , but with the intent of withdrawing , or reducing , them later in exchange for a reduction in the import duties of foreign countries . Bargaining may be considered aggressive also when a country which recognizes that it is to the advantage of its own economy to lower its existing level of duties refuses to do so , except in exchange for reciprocal reductions by foreign countries . Aggressive bargaining has been practiced extensively by the countries of Continental Europe . " The tariff policies and bargaining 396 International Trade and Commercial Policy tariffs of the Continental European nations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ While the tariff system has strongly tended to work itself out in practice to equal treatment of the commerce of all nations , it has been built on the assumption that discrimination and inequality are natural features of commercial policy and are to be removed only by mutual agreements among sovereign states . " 3 During the period preceding the first World War , practically every European state found it necessary to negotiate periodically for the removal of discriminations against its trade . France , Germany , Austria-Hungary , Russia , Italy , Spain , Portugal , Norway , Sweden , Bulgaria , Rumania , Greece , and Serbia pursued policies of tariff bargaining based upon the principle of discriminatory treatment . Great Britain , on the other hand , sought to secure equal treatment for her exports by granting equal treatment to the exports of all other nations . This policy was , of course , a natural corollary of her policy of free trade . The low-tariff countries of Switzerland , Belgium , Holland , and Denmark also based their commercial policies upon equal treatment . Although Switzerland and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ articles were made lower than the rates of their general tariffs , any reduction extended by treaty to one country was immediately extended to all others . Tariff bargaining before 1914 ? which was based upon both general-and-conventional and maximum-and-minimum tariffs ? tended to result , not in a mass of discriminations , but in a network of treaties which secured substantially equal treatment for the commerce of every nation . Equal treatment resulted primarily because each nation made it an aim of its policy to secure at least equality of treatment for its exports , and because the unconditional mostfavored-nation clause was written into practically all commercial treaties . Thus , for at least eight years out of every decade , practically every nation of Europe was bound by a network of commercial treaties , each incorporating the unconditional form of the mostfavored-nation clause , and normally imposed upon imports from Tarifa Bargaining 397 every other European nation identical rates of duty . ' The other two years of each decade , however , were usually years of unsettlement , characterized by domestic tariff revisions and frantic international negotiations . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from its general rates that a nation was willing to make , the larger the reductions in the duties of other nations that it might expect to receive . The higher the rates were originally set above what was considered necessary for revenue purposes or for the protection of domestic industry , therefore , the greater were the concessions a country was in a position to make . Consequently , it became the common practice among European nations to revise their tariffs before the expiration of existing treaties , regardless of domestic economic conditions ; and these revisions were invariably padded with a considerable trading margin . Furthermore , the amount of the padding added to the basic rates tended to increase from one revision of the tariff to another . This tendency to increase the padding in tariff rates is revealed by the widening gap between the maximum and the minimum rates of the French tariff . Maximum rates were included in the tariff purely for bargaining purposes ; the basic protective and revenue rates were the minimum rates . In 1892 , the maximum rates were only 25 per @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the gap was widened , until maximum rates eventually became four times as high as minimum rates . The same trend is found in the maximum tariff schedules of Spain , Belgium , Norway , and Portugal . Countries employing general-and-conventional tariffs were also inclined to increase the padding in their general tariffs . Where a nation had previously been willing to reduce through bargaining a $10 duty to $8 , it might consider that changes in fiscal needs or competitive conditions required that the minimum duty be advanced to $10 . But , suspecting that a $2 reduction from a $12 duty 398 International Trade and Commercial Policy would appear rather small to other countries in future negotiations , in view of the previous $2 reduction from a $10 duty , it would establish an initial rate of $15 , from which it would be quite willing to concede a $5 reduction . Even if there were no inclination to increase the basic $8 duty , the nation might consider that its bargaining power in future negotiations would be augmented if the general rate were advanced from $10 to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ European tariff bargaining in this period was the carrying on of negotiations by one state simultaneously , or in quick succession , with a considerable number of states . Such simultaneous negotiations were made possible by fixing the duration of all a nation 's treaties so that they would expire , or be subject to denunciation , at the same time . Each state thus had a free hand when the next period of bargaining rolled around ; and the danger that any state might delay entering upon negotiations in the hope that it might , because of unconditional most-favored-nation treatment , secure for itself the concessions which resulted from the negotiations between other states , without giving up anything itself , was minimized . All the important commercial treaties between European countries consequently tended to expire about the same time . For example , Germany postponed putting into effect her tariff of 1902 in order that new conventions might be negotiated ; other countries followed her example . The result was that in 1906 a whole new series of treaties became effective that were intended to stabilize the European tariff @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was resumed after the first World War , but the treaty network assuring equality of treatment has never since attained the comprehensiveness of the pre-1914 period . This failure of tariff bargaining was due in part to the number of new states to which the Treaty of Versailles gave birth and to the new and rapidly changing economic conditions ; but it was due even more to policy changes which resulted in the wider uses of quotas , prohibitions , exchange control , and bilateral clearing agreements ? restrictive devices which had not been covered by the most-favored-nation clause . Since the early 1930 's the principle of equality of treatment in commercial policy has had a rough road to travel . Aggressive tariff bargaining has in its general effects been harmful . Bargaining tariffs have tended to increase rather than to reduce // the obstacles to international trade . Although bargaining tariffs are , in general , concessional in form , they are combative in spirit . General , or maximum , rates have been set high in the belief that the heavier the penalties a nation is in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the stronger is its bargaining position . The reduction of these high rates has afforded other countries no easier access to the domestic market than they would have enjoyed under a single-schedule tariff designed simply to meet what were judged to be the industrial and fiscal needs of the country . Since the 1860 's tariffs have moved upward undeviatingly , despite widespread bargaining ; and this competitive bidding-up of tariff rates has never been completely undone by subsequent negotiations . General rates have in some instances evaded any conventional reduction ; in other instances , negotiations have completely broken down , leaving the exports of certain countries subject to maximum duties . And underlying most tariff-making and tariff negotiations has been the almost universal belief that tariff reductions are injurious to the country making them , anyway . Another shortcoming of tariff bargaining is that it has at times introduced uncertainties into trade and caused serious commercial dislocations . Unless tariffs are revised and new treaties negotiated before old treaties expire , a period of instability and sudden changes follows . Where haggling is long drawn out , trade is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can be fiscally or economically justified . When negotiations do not succeed , duties remain in effect that are higher than intended , that cause discriminations among the products of different countries , especially where the most-favored-nation clause is not in full and unconditional operation , and that force trade into uneconomic channels . Finally , where tariff bargaining is widely practiced , countries which have no desire to indulge in bargaining may nevertheless be forced to adopt the practice . This situation is ably described by the following statement of the Swiss Federal Council in justification of the introduction of higher duties into the Swiss tariff of 1921 : Foreign countries oppose to us tariffs whose rates are , so to speak , much higher than ours . When we ask the reduction of these rates ? and we must ask reductions in the interest of our export industries ? they demand of us concessions , which , no doubt , might be made , in a sufficient 400 International Trade and Commercial Policy measure , from a general tariff but which can not be made from a working tariff @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our particular situation and take our working tariff for what it is , that is to say for a minimum tariff , the public opinion and the parliament of the country in question , by whom the structure of our tariff is less well known , do not see the situation as it is . They compare the reciprocal concessions which have been made upon the basis of unequal tariffs and they find our concessions insufficient . ' AMERICAN EXPERIENCE WITH TARIFF BARGAINING // Bargaining tariffs did not play a major role in American tariff history before 1934 . One reason for this lack of interest in bargaining tariffs was that American constitutional law and political organization place severe handicaps upon successful diplomatic negotiations . Treaties may be negotiated by the President , in fact the initiative in such matters must be taken by the President ; but treaties negotiated by the President do not assume the sanction of law until they have been ratified by two-thirds of the Senate . Unless the President 's party commands a substantial majority in the Senate , or unless his treaty commands widespread popular @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Before 1922 , at least twenty treaties failed to become law because of the Senate 's refusal to ratify them . A much larger number became law only after material amendment had been made by the Senate ; some of these amended treaties were approved by the President , the others were rejected . Another reason why bargaining tariffs played such a minor role in American history prior to 1934 is that in the half-century before the first World War , when the European tariff structure was being built on trade treaties , foreign commerce played a relatively small part in the business life of this country . We were diverting our energies and capital to the development of our vast resources ; consequently , our interest in tariff legislation lay chiefly in protecting our young industries from the competition of established industries abroad , rather than in trying to expand foreign markets for the products of our industries . Furthermore , the goods that we did export , primarily foodstuffs and raw materials , were in such active demand abroad that 5lbid. , p. 12. // foreign tariff barriers on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and therefore caused us little concern . Our deeper concern over foreign tariff barriers since 1918 is to be explained in part by our rise to the position of one of the two greatest creditor nations in the world , and in part by the fact that today well over 50 per cent of our exports consist of manufactured and semi-manufactured goods , compared with less than 20 per cent in the 1880 's ; such goods must face the competition of third countries in foreign markets . Even in the earlier period , however , when foreign markets were of less interest to Americans , the United States did engage in tariff bargaining on a limited scale , But American tariff bargaining and American reciprocity agreements in this period reveal no continuous or settled policy . Negotiations have at times sought special and exclusive concessions ; at other times , equality of treatment . On occasion , the penalty method has been employed ; at other times , the concessional method . Down to the first World War , the traditional American interpretation of the most-favored-nation clause was the conditional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unconditional interpretation . Today the United States has become the leading exponent of the unconditional interpretation of the most-favored-nation clause . American experiments with tariff bargaining may be conveniently divided into ( 1 ) reciprocity agreements , and ( 2 ) agreements authorized under general legislation . ( 1 ) RECIPROCITY AGREEMENTS It will be remembered that the special concessions granted in reciprocity agreements are not extended automatically , generally , and freely to third states . The most important reciprocity agreements concluded by the United States were those with Great Britain for Canada in 1854 , with Hawaii in 1875 , and with Cuba in 1903 . The only one of these agreements which is still in existence is the one with Cuba . The Canadian treaty was denounced by the United States in 1866 , while the Hawaiian treaty was terminated by the annexation of Hawaii in 1898 and its assimilation into the American tariff system in 1900 . Canada . The reciprocity treaty of 1854 with Canada , the only 402 International Trade and Commercial Policy agreement of its type between the two nations prior to 1935 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economies , was the direct outcome of the repeal of the English Corn Laws in 1846 . By this act of the British Parliament , Canada received tariff autonomy , but at the same time her exports were deprived of preferential treatment in the markets of the mother country . As a result , Canadian statesmen and businessmen sought closer commercial relations with their neighbor to the south . In the United States , times were prosperous and protectionist sentiment was at a low ebb , so that there seemed little to fear from Canadian competition . The Treaty of 1854 provided for the mutual enjoyment of the Atlantic coast fisheries , a matter which had long been a constant source of controversy between the two countries , and for reciprocal use of canals and waterways . With respect to commerce , it established virtually free trade in the natural products of the two parties . The term of the treaty was fixed at ten years . At the end of this period notice of abrogation was given by the United States , and the treaty terminated in 1866 . There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ treaty , as trade between them increased three-fold in the elevenyear period . Abrogation was motivated more by political than by economic considerations . Deep resentment against Canada had been aroused in the northern United States by the activities and pronouncements of Canadians who sympathized with the Confederacy . The demands of domestic fish , coal , and lumber interests for protection and the governmental need of revenue also encouraged American abrogation . Canadian opinion favored the continuation of reciprocity , and repeated efforts were made by Canadian statesmen for renewal of the agreement ? without success . The United States renewed reciprocity negotiations with Canada again in 1910 . A Canadian reciprocity agreement seemed necessary at that time if the application of the penalty duties of the American Tariff Act of 1909 to Canadian goods was to be avoided ; it was feared that the preferential duties which Canada granted to imports from Great Britain might be held unduly discriminatory against American commerce and might be considered a cause for the impoTariff // sition of penalty duties . An agreement decidedly favorable to Canadian trade was drawn up and was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ however , rejected the agreement . Fear of concealed annexionist motives and loyalty to the mother country apparently outweighed economic considerations with the Canadian people . Hawaii . By the terms of the commercial treaty of 1875 with Hawaii each country agreed to admit various products of the other free of duty . The chief Hawaiian industry to benefit was sugar growing . To the United States , the commercial importance of the treaty was never great . ' Her gain was rather of a political and military nature . The Hawaiian government agreed not to make any territorial grants or leases of ports to other powers nor to grant to other countries duty reductions similar to those granted us . When the treaty was renewed in 1885 , the United States was granted a naval base at Pearl Harbor . Reciprocity was the prelude to annexation . The placing of sugar on the free list by the United States in 1894 caused much distress among Hawaiian sugar planters , whereupon they urgently insisted upon annexation . When the Spanish-American War broke out and the American fleet crossed the Pacific , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? and annexation inevitably followed . Cuba . The Cuban reciprocity treaty of 1903 , like the treaty with Hawaii , is an exclusive agreement in whose benefits no third country can claim to participate , even by virtue of an unconditional pledge of most-favored-nation treatment . Like the Hawaiian treaty , its terms reveal the action of powerful political influences . Its political background is the Spanish-American War , as a result of which it was felt that we had acquired a definite moral responsibility for the future of Cuba . The United States was also deeply concerned 404 International Trade and Commercial Policy over the strategic location of the island at the entrance to the Gulf of Mexico ; as a consequence , she established a virtual protectorate over the island by the Platt Amendment of 1901 . In the commercial treaty both parties granted concessions in tariff rates . The United States granted to Cuba preferential rates which were 20 per cent lower than her general rates ; Cuba reciprocated by granting to the United States duty reductions varying from 20 to 40 per cent . Both countries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ place duties on articles then on the free list , such duties should not be applied to the trade between Cuba and the United States . The economic benefits which the United States has derived from the reciprocity treaty have been modest . For several years after the signing of the treaty , and for a few years after the first World War , American exports to Cuba grew more rapidly than exports to other North and South American markets . In other years , however , they resumed their pre-treaty position . The Cuban sugar industry was the chief beneficiary of the preferential duties . Cuban exports of sugar jumped from an annual average of 1,729 million libras in 1900 ? 1903 to 4,217 millions in the period 1910 ? 1914 . Since the United States continued to import substantial amounts of sugar from Java during the ten years after 1903 , and since Javanese sugar paid the full duty , Cuban sugar producers received a virtual bounty from the United States . This preferential price stimulated the expansion of the Cuban industry ? financed chiefly with American capital and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ today no full-duty sugar is imported into the United States . The effective rate of duty is that imposed on Cuban sugar . It seems doubtful , however , that the one-half-cent-apound preference which Cuban sugar now enjoys in the American market is responsible for keeping other foreign sugars out . The nearness of Cuba to the United States and its advantages in sugar production would probably defeat competition from other foreign sources even without the benefit of the tariff preference . Cuban sugar producers are today more seriously concerned over the absolute height of the American tariff and the quota , which together are nurturing a domestic industry in the United States , than over the amount of the duty preference . // ( 2 ) AGREEMENTS AUTHORIZED UNDER GENERAL LEGISLATION American tariff bargaining before 1934 was not confined to seeking exclusive agreements with other countries ; several American tariff acts contained provisions for the exchange of mutual concessions in which any number of countries might participate . These bargaining provisions were in some cases designed to secure special concessions ; in others , they sought equality of treatment . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , while the provisions of other acts held out the threat of penalty rates . The growth of large-scale manufacturing in the United States in the 1880 's aroused considerable interest in the development of export markets . The rise of a new protectionist movement in European countries at that time unfortunately destroyed any hope that tariff bargaining could open up worth-while markets across the Atlantic . Consequently , we turned our attention to the possibilities of securing reductions in the tariffs of Latin American countries . Substantial obstacles , however , dimmed the prospects of successful tariff negotiations with our southern neighbors . We had nothing in the way of concessions to offer several of the Latin American countries that had important markets to offer us ? e.g. , Mexico , Argentina , Brazil , and Chile ; their exports consisted primarily of agricultural products which were directly competitive with our own . Furthermore , the growing political strength of the American farmer had become a factor to be reckoned with . Finally , the chief imports into the United States from these states ? coffee , sugar , molasses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ free list . Penalty Duties . In order to provide the United States with an effective bargaining weapon , the Tariff Act of 1890 set forth its bargaining proposals in the form of penalty duties , not concessions . The President was empowered to impose penalty duties on the four commodities enumerated above , and tea , coming from any country whose import duties on our products he deemed to be " reciprocally unequal and unreasonable . " In other words , any country that expected to continue to have its exports of coffee , sugar , molasses , hides , and tea admitted into the United States duty free must not only not discriminate against American exports ; it must also reduce 406 International Trade and Commercial Policy its own import duties on our exports from levels which we deemed to be too high ? although we considered it nobody else 's business how high we might choose to set our own tariffs . Agreements with eleven nations were concluded under the Act of 1890 ; these eleven foreign nations made reductions in their tariffs in return for our promise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ repeal of these reciprocity provisions by the United States in 1894 engendered considerable ill feeling , with the result that some states withdrew the concessions previously made while others adopted retaliatory measures . Penalty duties were actually applied to imports of coffee , hides , sugar , and molasses from Colombia , Venezuela , and Haiti , because of the failure of these countries to reduce their duties on American products . The appearance of discriminations against American exports in the tariffs of certain European nations led to the inclusion in the Tariff Act of 1897 of another provision for the application of penalty duties , this time to coffee , tea , vanilla and tonka beans imported from countries treating our commerce " unjustly and unreasonably . " The penalty duties of this act were less effective than the similar provisions of the Act of 1890 had been because sugar and hides had been placed definitively on the dutiable list and hence were unavailable for bargaining . The only important " success " was the treaty of 1904 with Brazil , by which for 20 years she accorded our commerce @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an import duty of $0.03 a pound on her coffee . The threat of imposing penalty duties in order to secure special and exclusive concessions has , on the whole , met with negligible success . With the exception of the concessions from Brazil , no significant exclusive concessions were obtained , in spite of our strong economic position . On the contrary , such provisions frequently led to misunderstanding and friction with third countries , and on occasion to retaliation . Some American tariff acts have held out the threat of penalty duties as a means of securing merely equal treatment for our commerce . In the acts of 1894 , 1897 , and 1922 , provision was made for imposing new duties , or raising existing duties , on specified articles imported from countries which levied duties , or charged higher duties than we did , on the following articles : salt , petroleum , autoTariff // mobiles , bicycles , brick , calcium acetate , cement , coal , and gunpowder . The 1922 act empowered the President to raise by 50 per cent the duties on any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against our commerce , and to enforce a total prohibition against that country 's products if the higher duties proved insufficient to bring about a removal of the discriminations . Concessions . The Act of 1897 carried , in addition to the provisions for penalty duties , two separate provisions for granting concessions . The first provision offered reduced rates on argols , brandies , champagnes , wines , paintings , drawings , and statuary to any country which would offer " reciprocal and reasonable concessions . " Agreements made under this section did not require ratification by the Senate . Argol agreements , as they were called , were concluded with nine nations , eight of which conceded to the United States most-favored-nation treatment . France , the sole exception and the country to which the American concessions were of chief importance , removed various discriminations against American products . The other provisions of the Act of 1897 authorized the President to conclude with other nations commercial treaties of limited duration for the exchange of mutual tariff concessions . The President was authorized to reduce American duties by as much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the dutiable to the free list , in case no comparable articles were produced in the United States . Commercial treaties based on these concessions ? known as Kasson treaties , from the name of the American commissioner who negotiated them ? were negotiated with seven states . But no one of them ever went into operation . Unlike the argol agreements , these Kasson agreements had to be ratified by the Senate and approved by Congress , and business interests were able to bring enough pressure to bear upon Congress to block ratification . The experience with the Kasson treaties illustrates the futility of tariff bargaining where particular agreements , and especially specific duty reductions , have to be ratified by Congress . A new bargaining device was incorporated into the Tariff Act of 1909 , which had as its objective , not exclusive concessions , but the elimination of discriminations against and the establishment of equality of treatment for American products . This device was the double-schedule tariff . The stated tariff rates were declared to be 408 International Trade and Commercial Policy the minimum rates . Penalty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the value of the articles imported to the minimum rates , were to be levied on goods coming from countries which " unduly discriminate " against the United States . Negotiations under this act for the removal of discriminations against American commerce were only partially successful . The maximum duties were applied against no country , even though France , Italy , and Germany continued to subject certain imports from the United States to unequal treatment . The Underwood Tariff Act of 1913 empowered the President to negotiate trade agreements with foreign nations " wherein mutual concessions are made looking toward freer trade relations and further reciprocal expansion of trade and commerce . " Such agreements were to be submitted to Congress for ratification or rejection . President Wilson made no use of the bargaining powers granted by this act ; the outbreak of war in 1914 upset trade relations and prevented further experimentation with tariff bargaining . The shift in American bargaining objectives from special concessions to equality of treatment runs approximately parallel to the shift in our interpretation of the most-favored-nation clause from the conditional to the unconditional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ evident in the Tariff of 1909 , and the principle of equality of treatment is explicitly stated in the Act of 1922 . In an exchange of notes with the Brazilian government in 1923 , the American government voluntarily released the former from the obligation of maintaining the preferences first granted us in the treaty of 1904 , which were now recognized as being inconsistent with the newly announced policy of equality of treatment and the unconditional version of the most-favored-nation clause . In 1925 , for the first time , an American treaty ( with Germany ) contained a clear cut statement of the unconditional most-favored nation clause . Since that time , the United States has been an ardent supporter of the unconditional interpretation , which has been a basic principle of all agreements signed under our Reciprocal Trade Agreements program . THE RECIPROCAL TRADE AGREEMENTS PROGRAM The Reciprocal Trade Agreements program of 1934 represents the readoption of a policy of tariff bargaining by the United States , but // a bargaining policy sounding a note refreshingly different from the clamor for exclusive concessions which characterized the bargaining features of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1934 , passed as an amendment to the Tariff Act of 1930 , frankly recognizes that imports and exports are not two separate and unrelated branches of trade , but are rather inextricably interdependent members of a single organism . It concedes that reductions in duties are not necessarily injurious to domestic production and employment , and professes the willingness of the United States to grant reductions from its effective level of duties in exchange for similar reductions by foreign countries . Background of the Act . The Act of 1934 was an inevitable reaction to the failure of the policy of high protection that reached its climax in the Hawley-Smoot Tariff of 1930 . The three years following the passage of that ill-fated act witnessed a precipitous and drastic decline in world trade . From a turnover value of $68,152 , - 300,000 in 1929 , world commerce declined to $24,000,000,000 in 1933 . The share of the United States in this commerce declined in the same period from $10,050,840,000 to $3,443,405,000 . Moreover , this decline in the value of trade represented a decline in the physical volume of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ entering international trade . To attribute this shrinkage in world commerce to the American tariff policy alone is , of course , unjustifiable . Trade restrictions abroad had multiplied , international investment had broken down , and deflation and depression had fastened their grip upon the whole world . Nevertheless , it may be fairly said that our high tariff barriers were important contributors to the debacle , and later acted as impediments to world trade recovery . Many of the trade restrictions of foreign countries were imposed in direct retaliation against our prohibitive rates , while the severe and sudden restriction of our market caused other countries hastily to erect barriers in defense of their domestic economies . The decline in our exports wrought severe hardships upon the American economy , particularly upon agriculture , which relied heavily upon foreign markets . Furthermore , the shutting-out of international trade did not result in an increase in our domestic trade . As Secretary of State Cordell Hull pointed out , " Instead of increasing as our foreign trade decreased , our domestic trade decreased at 410 International Trade and Commercial Policy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in his message to Congress on March 2 , 1934 , that heart-breaking adjustments in our export industries would be necessary if the shrinkage of American foreign commerce remained permanent . It was widely realized , too , that unless foreign purchasing power were revived , foreign debtors would be unable to service their debts to us , to say nothing of ever repaying the billions of principal that they had borrowed from us . While it was admitted by the proponents of reciprocal agreements that no concessions that amount to anything can be entirely painless , it was staunchly protested that carefully considered concessions would benefit the country as a whole . Since the incoming Democratic administration was committed to lower tariff rates anyway , and since American successes with tariff bargaining in the past had not been impressive , it may be wondered why tariff bargaining was resorted to again . Why not simply pass a new tariff act embodying generally lower duties ? Such a procedure seemed impracticable for three reasons . For one thing , the Democratic party was no longer the staunch defender of trade liberalism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its ranks at many points . There was therefore little prospect that the reopening of the entire tariff to revision on the floors of Congress would produce any substantial reductions in duties . On the contrary , experience furnished ample ground for the belief that such a course would only encourage log-rolling , which would ultimately produce higher , not lower , rates . In the second place , while a judicious unilateral lowering of duties may be made with a minimum of hardship at a time when productive factors are fully employed , the effects of duty reductions may be more serious when unemployment is widespread . A lowering of our tariff wall would , to be sure , cause imports into this country to increase and would thus place in the hands of foreign purchasers greater purchasing power with which to buy larger quantities of our export surpluses . But , if a time lag between the increase of imports and the consequential increase of exports eventuated , the spiral of deflation would be given added momentum , causing additional unemployment and a further reduction in production before any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eventual expansion of exports might well be insufficient fully to counteract this additional contraction . Finally , our own tariff walls were not the only obstruction to international trade . The widespread adoption of exchange controls and import quotas , the collapse of the most-favored-nation principle and its replacement by exclusive bilateral agreements , the prevalence of subsidies and dumping , and the spread of currency depreciation were even more formidable obstacles to the reopening of normal trade channels . Unilateral tariff reductions on our part would have left untouched this mounting mass of trade barriers that had been erected all over the world as a result of aggressive economic nationalism . If American export markets were to be rewon , some method of bringing about the simultaneous reduction of trade barriers at home and abroad had to be devised . The method chosen was that of international bilateral agreements for the mutual reduction of trade barriers . Purpose of the Act . The purpose of the Act of 1934 , as declared in the Act itself , was to expand " . . . foreign markets for the products of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of foreign goods into the United States in accordance with the characteristics and needs of various branches of American production so that foreign markets will be made available to those branches of American production which require and are capable of developing such outlets by affording corresponding market opportunities for foreign products in the United States . .. . " Specifically , it sought to lower tariffs throughout the world , to abolish import quotas ? or at least greatly enlarge the quotas themselves , exchange controls , prohibitions , and exclusive bilateral agreements , and to extend the application of the unconditional most-favored-nation principle . Authority Granted to the President . By the Act , the President was empowered to enter into reciprocal treaties with foreign countries for the purpose of establishing mutual trade concessions . He was permitted to lower , or raise , duties by as much as 50 per cent , but was explicitly forbidden to transfer dutiable commodities to the free list , or duty-free articles to the dutiable list . Agreements negotiated under the Act were to go into effect upon proclamation by the President ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ denies the President the authority to " cancel or reduce , in any manner , any of the indebtedness of any foreign country to the United 412 International Trade and Commercial Policy States . " The authority granted to the President in the Act was to terminate at the end of three years , but it was extended for threeyear periods in 1937 and 1940 , and again in 1943 for a period of two years . In 1945 this authority was renewed for another three-year period . Procedure . The procedure for putting the new policy into effect is one carefully designed to give all interested parties a fair hearing . The whole program of preparing and negotiating trade agreements is supervised and energized by the Trade Agreements Committee , whose membership includes high officials of the State , Commerce , Agriculture , and Treasury Departments , the Tariff Commission , and the Agricultural Adjustment Administration . If the negotiation of a trade agreement seems to merit serious consideration , and if there is a likelihood that the foreign government concerned would be prepared to enter into negotiations upon the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of trade control , a " country committee " is set up to make a preliminary report with recommendations . If , after a searching examination of this report , the Trade Agreements Committee is favorable to an agreement , and if the foreign government is prepared to negotiate on an unconditional most-favored nation basis and to cease any discriminations against American commerce , public notice is given that negotiations for an agreement with that particular country are to be undertaken , and a list of the commodities upon which duty reductions are to be considered and sought is announced . Hearings are then held by the Committee on Reciprocity Information , another interdepartmental committee , at which interested parties may express their views . The information gathered at these hearings together with a mass of other data prepared by the country and commodity subcommittees are subjected to a painstaking analysis occupying many months . From all this research , there finally emerge two schedules : a list of commodities upon which we intend to ask concessions of the foreign country , along with recommendations as to just what concessions should be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a freeing from import restrictions , a binding of duty , or some combination of these ? and the extent of each ; and a list of concessions which we might consider granting . These two schedules , together with various general provisions deTariff Bargaining 413 signed to prevent discriminations and safeguard the detailed concessions , must be finally approved by the Secretary of State and the President . These approved proposals then become the limits within which formal negotiations with the other country are carried on , with frequent reference back to the Trade Agreements Committee , the President , and the Secretary of State . While we are in the midst of these hair-trigger negotiations , seeking to win an agreement of real profit to both sides , high-powered lobbyists make their voices heard throughout the country , using every device to prevent the giving of concessions in the particular commodities in which they are interested or to defeat or upset the agreement . Pressure is brought against members of Congress ; Washington is deluged with inspired letters and telegrams . The country rings with the protests of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ speak for the interests of the consumer or of the nation . ' After weeks , or even months , of bickerings , proposals , and counterproposals , the trade agreement is at last ready . Most-Favored-Nation Clause . The United States has insisted upon the inclusion of the unconditional form of the most-favored nation clause in each of the thirty-two agreements with the twentyeight nations with whom agreements have been concluded . ' The concessions accorded each nation have been generalized to all nations which do not discriminate against our commerce . Thus does the United States affirm its policy of equal treatment . While third parties benefit from each concession granted in new agreements , the United States in turn profits from every duty reduction which nations having trade agreements with us accord to others . 414 International Trade and Commercial Policy Insistence upon the inclusion of the unconditional form of the most-favored-nation clause in every agreement is the means employed to guard against one of the principal pitfalls of reciprocal agreements , viz. , the notion of a quid pro quo arrangement , whereby the volume of imports from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exports which that country is willing to accept from us . Such bilateral clearing agreements , widely developed by Germany in the 1930 's , tend to destroy triangular trade , restrict international commerce , and divert world economic activity away from comparative advantages instead of towards them . But the unconditional most-favored-nation clause has at the same time been one of the points of sharpest attack by critics of the Trade Agreements Act . The most frequent criticism of the unconditional most-favored-nation clause , viz. , that it involves granting concessions to third nations for nothing , has already been answered . We do not extend trade agreement concessions to third nations without receiving something in return . Third nations secure these concessions only in return for their extending to us the benefits of concessions which they have granted , or may in the future grant , to all other nations . To state it differently , we give minimum tariff treatment and freedom from discrimination in return for minimum tariff treatment and freedom from discrimination . This guaranteed freedom from discrimination is of inestimable value to American exporters . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policy that the generalization to third countries of concessions granted to any country will destroy all possibility of further bargaining . Why should any country bargain with us if she will receive all the concessions that we grant to third countries , merely by virtue of her most-favored nation guarantee , without conceding anything herself ? This criticism would be unanswerable if all duty reductions were written into a single treaty . But this is not the case . In order to preserve our own bargaining power , we have adopted as a cardinal principle of our policy the rule of limiting the tariff reductions granted to any country to those articles of which that country is the chief source of supply . How effective this method can be , owing to the high degree of specialization in production in most countries , Dr. Benjamin B. // Wallace has convincingly pointed out.10 Of the dutiable imports into the United States in 1931 from 29 countries that supplied 96 per cent of our dutiable imports , 71 per cent of each import , on the average , came from some one country , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ When general imports are broken down into more detailed import classes , moreover , it is found that each separate sub-item is imported almost exclusively from some one country . Therefore , it seems highly improbable that the new American tariff policy involves the gratuitous extension to third countries of concessions on even as much as 29 per cent of our imports . The percentage was , according to Secretary of Commerce Wallace , probably less than 20 , and perhaps not much more than 10 . In the long run , even these concessions can hardly be called gratuitous , for most countries will find that there are other commodities upon which they will desire duty reductions , and they will be willing to bargain for these additional reductions . The unconditional most-favored-nation clause thus does not preclude tariff bargaining ; but it does pretty much restrict it to articles imported from one country . Duty Reductions and Our Policy of Protection . In addition ter : the limitation of confining duty reductions in any single agreement to those commodities which are imported chiefly from the particular foreign country that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ duty reductions are observed in sympathy with our policy of protection . Rate reductions on articles directly competitive with domestic products are avoided , so far as possible . Where competitive products are involved , rate reductions are eased , in order to avoid any serious disturbance of domestic production and employment . The care and skill with which such of our trade barriers as were excessive and indefensible have been reduced without injury to domestic production and employment are attested by the widespread and increasing support which the program has elicited throughout the nation and by the relatively few complaints that have been made regarding particular tariff adjustments . In some instances where American import duties have been lowered , the interests of domestic producers have been further safeguarded by limiting the amount of the article which may be im- 416 International Trade and Commercial Policy ported at the reduced duty . In the first agreement with Canada , for example , the duty on beef cattle weighing over 700 pounds was reduced from $0.03 to $0.02 a pound ; but the reduction was limited to imports equaling three-fourths of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and calves . In the same agreement , the duty on cream was reduced from $0.566 a gallon to $0.35 , subject , however , to an annual quota of one and a half million gallons , equal to about one-quarter of one per cent of our domestic consumption . Unlike the French import quotas of the 1930 's , described in the next chapter , these quotas are intended to permit an increase in trade , not to diminish it . While extreme caution in making concessions has been exercised by those entrusted with carrying out the Trade Agreements program , this has not prevented substantial and numerous reductions in duties . More than 1200 American rates of duty have been reduced , about one hundred more have been bound against increase , and numerous other items have been bound on the free list . Postwar nationalism had eased the task of tariff lobbyists to such an extent that duties had been raised to insensate levels and had been applied to goods which no consideration of national welfare could justify . Duties on many agricultural products of which we produced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were not even produced in the United States and hence were not directly competitive with American industry ? Brazil nuts , caviar , lentils , mahogany , certain kinds of works of art , lace machines , imitation precious stones , and many others ? were given protection . Certain articles supplied almost wholly from abroad entered the privileged fold . Outstanding in this group was olive oil , which bore a duty of $0.065 a pound ? approximately 75 per cent ad valorem ? despite the fact that in the period 1921 ? 1929 from 97.1 to 99.0 per cent of all domestically consumed olive oil was imported . It is estimated that this duty alone cost American consumers nearly five million dollars in the nine-year period ? to protect an industry with an investment of about one million dollars 11 In the same category are many goods of which nearly the entire domestic consumption is produced at home , and only a tiny fraction is imported , e.g. , corn , // biscuits , certain photographic materials , cocoa , and chocolate ? goods produced by domestic industries which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Finally , inordinately high duties ? 75 per cent , 100 per cent , and even more ? on many goods raise grave doubts concerning the effectiveness of certain domestic industries and the justifiableness of continuing such heavy burdens on American consumers 12 Such high duties , furthermore , encourage domestic monopolies . The opportunities for reducing rates with a minimum of disturbance to domestic industry were obviously vast . The Broadening of Most-Favored-Nation Treatment . One of the most interesting innovations introduced by the Reciprocal Trade Agreements program is the rewording of the unconditional mostfavored-nation clause to apply not only to tariffs but to the newer devices of trade strangulation as well . In the various agreements that have been signed , there is a fairly consistent , explicit provision for the application of most-favored-nation treatment to internal taxes imposed on any product of either country imported into the other , to existing import prohibitions or quotas and those which may arise , and to the allocation of exchange where exchange control exists . Since these newer forms of trade control have been extensively used to defeat most-favored-nation practice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been necessary to construct a precise definition of the meaning of the principle in respect to these forms of control . The precise definition of equality of treatment with respect to import quotas and exchange control has presented difficulties . As applied to quotas and exchange control , most-favored-nation treatment has been defined to guarantee to the other country a share of the total available imports into the country employing such control , which shall be equivalent to the proportion of total imports furnished by the other country during some base period when no controls were in effect . The right to impose quotas on concession items has been prohibited , or strictly limited . In the case of countries that subject most of their imported articles to quotas , it has been neces- 418 International Trade and Commercial Policy sary to insist upon minimum quotas of specified amounts , in order not only to remove discriminations against American products , but also to secure adequate concessions for reductions which we are prepared to grant . In order to guard against discriminations in rates of exchange , it has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in respect to rates of exchange and taxes or surcharges on exchange transactions . Finally , where either government establishes a foreign trade monopoly , it is usually agreed that , in making its foreign purchases of any product , such monopoly will be influenced solely by those considerations of price , quality , marketability , and terms of sale which would ordinarily be taken into account by a private commercial enterprise interested solely in purchasing such products on the most favorable terms . Escape Clauses . The administrators of the program have had to , face two other well-known pitfalls of tariff bargaining : the danger that reciprocity will lead to " bargaining " tariffs , i.e. , that a country anticipating a reciprocal trade agreement will raise its tariff , so that when it is later reduced by a tariff agreement it will be as high , or nearly as high , as before ; and the danger that national currency management will virtually cancel , or at least greatly modify , the concessions granted in reciprocal trade agreements . The first danger has been met by the unequivocal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will not enter into reciprocal trade agreements with nations which employ " bargaining " tariffs as a weapon of negotiation . The second danger has been more difficult to cope with , and has led to the insertion of an escape clause in all American trade agreements . This clause usually provides that in the event that a wide variation occurs in the rate of exchange between the currencies of the two countries , as a result of exchange operations , the use of stabilization funds , devaluation , or other devices of currency management , " the government of either country , if it considers the change in rate so substantial as to prejudice the industries or commerce of the country , shall be free to propose negotiations for the modification of this Agreement or to terminate this Agreement in its entirety on thirty days ' written notice . " It is obvious that the failure // to achieve world monetary stabilization could cause the program to founder . Another escape clause covers the possibility of a shift in trade , whereby a third country obtains the major benefit of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whom the concession was granted , and an unduly large increase in total importations occurs . To meet this eventuality , each agreement usually provides for the withdrawal or modification of the concession on any article or the restriction of imports through the imposition of a quota on any such article by either government . If the withdrawal of the concession or the imposition of a quota is unacceptable to the other nation , however , the latter has the right to terminate the entire agreement . A third escape clause subserves the idol of nationalistic economic planning . Under the agreements , either country is left free to impose restrictions in connection with government measures operating to regulate the production , market supply , or prices of domestic articles . But if , after consultation , the governments fail to reach an agreement over the proposed restriction , the dissatisfied government may denounce the entire agreement on thirty days ' notice . Two other frequent causes of international discord are handled in a promising manner under the program . The application of any new interference with imports on sanitary grounds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consultation . In case either government objects to the application of any sanitary measure by the other , a committee of experts may be appointed to consider the matter and make recommendations to the two governments . This clause provided the entering wedge for the agreement of 1941 with Argentina.13 Unfair practices in international trade are also dealt 420 International Trade and Commercial Policy with in the agreements ; anti-dumping duties and prohibitions or restrictions relating to public security , prison-made goods , and the enforcement of police or revenue laws are exempt from the general provisions for lowering duties . Effects of the Trade Agreements Program . The real purpose of the Reciprocal Trade Agreements is to increase the volume of trade . Does the record show that they have succeeded in doing so ? While the outbreak of war in September , 1939 , caused serious disruption of world commerce , enough agreements were in operation from the beginning of 1936 to the time the German army invaded Poland to indicate whether they had afforded any stimulation to trade . During most of the year 1936 , nine trade @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ jumped to fourteen . Two additional agreements were in effect throughout 1938 , while the Czechoslovakian agreement went into operation on April 16 of that year . During most of 1939 twenty agreements were in operation , including one with the United Kingdom and the British Colonial Empire . Trade statistics for these years tend to support the view that the Hull agreements have acted as an important stimulus to world trade recovery . American trade with agreement countries between 1935 and 1939 increased more rapidly than trade with non-agreement countries . Average annual exports from the United States to countries with which agreements had been signed were 62.8 per cent higher in 1938 ? 1939 than in 1934 ? 1935 , while the percentage increase in exports to non-agreement countries in the same period was only 31.7 . The stimulus given American exports by trade agreements is also reflected in the sharper increase in the United States ' share of the total imports of trade agreement countries than in its share of the total imports into other countries . The United States in 1933 supplied 12.2 per cent of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ became effective before 1938 ; by 1938 the American share in the imports of these same countries had grown to 19.7 per cent . The United States ' share in the imports of the twenty most important countries with whom no trade pacts // were in effect in 1938 , on the other hand , increased in the same period only from 12.1 per cent to 14.5 per cent . Exports to the individual agreement countries , moreover , have in almost all cases shown greater rates of increase than American exports as a whole.Y4 These figures can not , however , be interpreted as delineating precisely the influence of the trade pacts upon American foreign trade . Too many other variables are reflected in the trade statistics , variables whose effects can not be isolated . Industrial recovery or recession , drought , and rearmament for war in certain of these years unquestionably exerted an important influence upon our foreign trade . Imports into the United States in 1937 from non-agreement countries , by way of illustration , showed a greater increase over the preceding year than did imports from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ business recovery in this country and followed a year of serious domestic drought ; the imports which increased most rapidly in that year were raw materials and foodstuffs , goods which came largely from countries with which no trade pacts had been made . " Exports statistics for 1937 were also distorted by heavy purchases of such war materials as steel scrap , petroleum products , cotton , and copper by Japan , a nation with which we had no trade agreement . Despite the inconclusiveness of the trade statistics for the years from 1936 to 1939 , there can be no doubt that the Reciprocal Trade Agreements program of the United States has on balance operated to reduce barriers to trade . Duties have been reduced on two-thirds 422 International Trade and Commercial Policy of the dutiable imports of the United States ( 1939 figures ) ; on 68 per cent ( by value ) of the items affected , the reduction has amounted to the full 50 per cent permitted by the Act . These duty reductions by the United States have been purchased by foreign countries with duty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ program is the only device yet to appear that has had any significant success in loosening the cords of bilateralism , which were slowly strangling international commerce , and in liberating triangular trade . The outbreak of war in 1939 interfered with the progress of the program , but it did not put an end to negotiations . Supplementary agreements were signed with Cuba and Canada in late 1939 and 1940 , while new agreements have since been signed with several Latin American countries , Iran , and Iceland . Today the Hull agreements are the one liberal program which has proved its effectiveness in breaking the jam of trade restrictions and which promises to the independent nations of the world , large and small alike , access on equal terms to the markets and the resources of the postwar world , and all that that implies for the improvement of living standards . If the United Nations can agree upon the establishment of the proposed International Trade Organization , which was discussed at an international conference during the autumn of 1946 , the task of reducing barriers to international trade @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an organization is created , however , the type of bilateral agreement based upon the unconditional mostfavored-nation clause that is provided by the Trade Agreements Act seems to offer the greatest promise for the restoration of a multilateral world trading system . Such a system of world trade is greatly to be desired . Chinese walls and strangulating tariffs can create hothouse industries ? at the expense of the consumer . But they can not possibly produce iron , coal , petroleum , tin , copper , and nickel in countries that do not possess natural deposits of such minerals , nor rubber , tea , and coffee in countries in the temperate zone , except at practically prohibitive cost . No great industrial nation today is or can be completely self-sufficient economically . Attempts to attain such sufficiency by a few have not only failed ; they have brought down upon the whole world the horrors and wastes of war . A lasting peace can not be attained unless commerce among nations is released from its shackles. // One other criticism of the Act must be briefly considered . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tariff agreements negotiated by the executive must be ratified by the Senate constitutes an autocratic method of tariff making ; the American people have been urged to restore democratic processes in their tariff making by again requiring that no trade agreement can become law unless and until it has been approved by a majority of the Senate . It is true that the procedure set up by the Act lessens the lobbyist 's opportunity to grind his own axe . But the national welfare has not suffered therefrom . The President 's authority to reduce duties has been carefully circumscribed by statute . Full consideration has been given in negotiations to the effects of duty reductions upon employment and capital values , and every care has been taken to make sure that American industries are not wilfully injured . The Trade Agreements program , it must be emphasized , does not constitute an abandonment of the traditional American policy of protection ; but it does make a start in lopping off the gross excesses which have grown up under that policy . The teachings of history raise grave doubts that any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of particular duties were made dependent upon Congressional approval . " If the program is to be criticized on general grounds , it must be not because it has gone too far , but because it has not gone far enough . In many instances the margin of protection remaining is still more than sufficient . One writer calls attention to the fact that in 1939 one-fourth of our dutiable imports were restricted by quota 424 International Trade and Commercial Policy limitation . He concludes that , " The trade agreements program did not introduce a free trade policy , or even a general low tariff policy , but a policy of altering tariffs to the degree necessary to get concessions for American exports without hurting domestic producers . This adjusted protectionism ' differed from past American protectionist policy more in technique than in fundamental concept . " 17 The failure of imports into the United States to respond more noticeably to the duty reductions granted by the agreements is the most disappointing result of the program . In 1938 and 1939 American imports amounted to scarcely more than two-thirds of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be regained and expanded , if interest and dividend payments on our growing foreign investments are to be maintained , and if the repayment of many billions of dollars of debts owed us by foreigners is to be realized , then American imports must expand , and expand more than exports . Amendment of 1945 . This need for the further encouragement of imports into the United States was given recognition in the 1945 amendment to the Act . This amendment seeks to strengthen the bargaining position of this country by permitting tariff reductions of as much as 50 per cent of the rates in effect on January 1 , 1945 , instead of basing such reductions on the 1934 rates . This change was advocated on the ground that the authority of the government to grant concessions within the limits set by the original Act had been nearly exhausted in agreements with some of the largest foreign purchasers from the United States , such as the United Kingdom and Canada . Tariffs had already been reduced by the maximum of 50 per cent on many commodities that would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ power of the government had been weakened . If such countries , and other countries with which future agreements might be anticipated , are to be expected to make further reductions in their tariffs , the United States must be in a position to grant reductions beyond the 50 per cent provided in the Act of 1934 . The effect of this amendment is to make possible total reductions amounting to as much as 75 per cent of the 1934 rates on a considerable list of commodities . XVIII Import Quotas THE GROWTH OF PROTECTIONISM One of the outstanding characteristics of the Great Depression of the nineteen-thirties was the disruption of world commercial relationships . The breakdown of international economic equilibrium in 1929 caused a strengthening of the spirit of nationalism , accentuated the trend toward protectionism , and led to the introduction of new and more effective instruments of commercial policy . The resurgence of the spirit of nationalism and the revival of protection antedate , however , the world breakdown of 1929 ; their roots are to be found in the first World War and its aftermath . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ world markets by countries whose currencies had depreciated severely , raised import duties to new heights in her Emergency Tariff Act of 1921 and her Fordney-McCumber Tariff Act of 1922 . The succession states of the old Austro-Hungarian Empire , seeking to secure their newly won freedom through a greater degree of national self-sufficiency , closed long established trade channels by her erection of prohibitive tariffs . Even free-trade Britain took a first step toward a policy of protection by the adoption of the McKenna Duties in 1915 and the enactment of the Safeguarding of Industries Act in 1921 ; the McKenna Duties were designed to promote the more effective prosecution of the war , while the Safeguarding of Industries Act was intended to provide greater national security by fostering domestic " key " industries . In France , the removal of existing import prohibitions was long delayed as a result of the economic and mone-426 // tary troubles of the early postwar period and the desire to protect industry and agriculture during the period of transition , although the French government surrendered its power to proclaim new import prohibitions in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regime of the prewar years . Postwar duties , however , attained levels much higher than prewar duties had . Most countries of the world adopted similar protective policies . Monetary stabilization by England in 1925 and by France in 1927 and returning world prosperity brought some relaxation of the protectionist controls imposed during the early twenties . But the vigor of the spirit of nationalism prevented the restoration of the relatively liberal trading policies of the prewar period . Although drastic currency depreciation caused several European countries to establish import quotas , impose certain forms of exchange control , and even prohibit the importation and exportation of certain goods , customs duties nevertheless remained the chief means of providing protection for national industries in the decade of the twenties . During the decade between the Wall Street crash of September , 1929 , and the declaration of war by Great Britain and France ten years later , however , the technique of trade restriction was radically altered . Tariffs were , to be sure , still widely used , and rates were continually being raised . Hardly had the depression @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ passed the Hawley-Smoot Tariff of 1930 , which raised many duties above even the high levels set by the Act of 1922 . Our lead was quickly followed by numerous other countries ; foreign nations raised their tariffs partly in retaliation against our duty increases , partly for the purpose of protecting their domestic economies from the ravages of depression . Great Britain completely abandoned her decades-old free-trade policy in 1931 and adopted a general protective tariff . But , despite the prevalence of formidable tariff walls , the chief reliance for protecting national industries was no longer placed on tariffs . Resort was had over a wider and wider area to import quotas and exchange control , devices which human ingenuity , after some experimentation , elaborated into tools of the utmost effectiveness . Country after country adopted some form of one or the other or both , and the range of commodities and transactions affected grew until one writer was compelled to conclude in 1938 , " World trade has become enmeshed 428 International Trade and Commercial Policy in so incredibly complex a network of restrictions that it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of import quotas and exchange control profoundly altered the traditional economic relationships between nations and led to the creation of yet another form of control ? the exclusive bilateral agreement . These bilateral agreements not only tended to restrict the volume of world trade ; they tended to destroy multilateral trade and force trade into bilateral channels . The strictly bilateral trade ( imports balancing exports in each direction ) of a group of nations whose foreign trade accounted for approximately three-fourths of total world trade increased from 71.7 per cent of their total trade in 1929 to 74.2 per cent in 1935 , while strictly triangular trade declined from 15.5 per cent of the total to 13.8 per cent in the same period . ' Like import quotas and exchange control , the bilateral agreement was widely . adopted and early became an arrangement of infinite complexity . It eventually became the basis of practically all German foreign trade . Never since the days of rampant mercantilism had trade regulations in peacetime resembled so closely the measures that are common in time of war as they had by 1936 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the world depression . The continued competition of imported goods offered at lower and lower prices was not to be tolerated while domestic unemployment was increasing , production shrinking , and profits vanishing . In the general price decline , agricultural prices were hit the hardest . The precipitous decline in the prices of raw materials and foodstuffs forced nations whose exports consisted largely of agricultural products and nations a large percentage of whose population was engaged in agricultural pursuits to take drastic measures to curtail imports . The former sought through such measures to improve their balance of international payments and to maintain the stability of their currencies ; the latter strove to prevent any further recession in the level of domestic economic activity . The difficulties of agriculture did not begin in 1929 ; they had // their roots in the first World War . Agricultural production had expanded greatly in the new world during the war in response to the abnormal wartime demand , and production in the western hemisphere failed to contract readily as agricultural production in Europe revived after the cessation of hostilities . As @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an " agricultural problem " from 1925 on . Diminished industrial production and reduced incomes after 1929 , which resulted in a smaller demand for agricultural products , merely accentuated maladjustments which had already begun to plague agriculture . In many European countries , e.g. , France , the preservation of national agriculture meant much more than the loss of agricultural capital , which a free-trade policy would have entailed . The most stable and conservative , as well as the most powerful , element of society in such countries was the peasantry , who owned land in small parcels and whose entire lives , hard but rewarding , were rooted in the land . The disorganization of the national market by imports of cheap foodstuffs would have destroyed the security of this class and threatened the entire social structure with disorder and chaos . Another major economic change that caused deep distress among debtor countries ? and many agricultural nations were international debtors ? was the almost complete cessation of international lending . The countries of central and southeastern Europe were especially hard hit , for not only were they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economies had become accustomed , but they also had to contend with a sudden withdrawal of foreign funds , as well as with an expatriation of national funds . The United States must bear a considerable share of the blame for this disruption of the flow of international capital . During the postwar decade , this country became a large net exporter of capital ; our annual net exports of capital averaged approximately $500 million from 1919 to 1929 . The frantic speculation in securities in 1928 and 1929 attracted to New York a large volume of foreign funds , which in 1929 largely offset our capital exports , and thus sharply reduced our net capital exports . In 1930 net capital exports practically vanished , and in the years following the net capital flow was toward the United States . The virtual cessation of American capital exports immediately affected the entire structure of war debts and reparations . The pay4 30 International Trade and Commercial Policy ment of war debts among the former Allies ? the major part of which was ultimately paid to the United States ? rested largely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's ability to make payments on reparations account had , in turn , depended upon loans from the United States , for rising trade barriers had prevented the necessary expansion of German exports . Thus , the cessation of American capital exports impaired Germany 's ability to pay reparations , caused the whole structure of reparations and war debts to crumble , and subjected national economies and balances of payments to additional strain . The event that finally drove many countries to adopt a policy of drastic protection was the abandonment of the gold standard by Great Britain in 1931 and the resultant depreciation of sterling . Following the stabilization of the pound in 1925 , the maintenance of a high bank rate by the Bank of England had attracted large shortterm balances to London . Large-scale withdrawals of these foreign balances during the international banking crisis of the summer of 1931 , precipitated by the failures of the Austrian Creditanstalt and the German Nationalbank , led to the rapid depletion of the Bank of England 's gold reserve and the exhaustion of large credits which the Bank of France and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Bank of England . In September , it was decided to abandon the attempt to meet obligations in gold . Sterling thereupon depreciated sharply , and by December the pound had declined below $3.50 , compared with a gold parity of $4.8665 . Great Britain 's departure from the gold standard induced many important suppliers of raw materials and foodstuffs to follow her example , since she was a quasi-monopolistic buyer of their products . This widespread currency depreciation exerted strong deflationary pressure upon the price levels of countries which chose to remain on the gold standard at the predepression parity , including the United States and members of the so-called " gold bloc " ? France , Belgium , the Netherlands , Switzerland , Germany , and Italy . Debtor countries , gold-bloc countries , agricultural countries all experienced rapidly deteriorating balances of payments . Heavy fixed debt payments , shrinking exports and declining prices of export goods , and annoyingly inflexible imports drained off gold reserves at a pace which threatened their quick exhaustion , or , if the gold         @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @   