@@773495

txt // and for many children by the crowded city tenement with no place for play either indoors or out the opportunity to play games , to build things , to have pets and gardens , was lost to many children . Group play among brothers and sisters decreased as families became smaller . Work in factories and offices took fathers long distances from home for the greater part of the day , and as children were forced to seek much of their play outside the home , mothers too lost touch with a large part of it . Consequently many parents no longer were able to share so frequently and intimately in their children 's play . Because children have always been taught even the most simple play forms and because they no longer have the opportunity of learning these in the home , children must be given the guidance in their play activities which city living has taken from them . Play without Guidance. ? Children will play without guidance . The impulse to play is too strong to be short-circuited by a change of living @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , play activities are just as likely to be destructive as they are constructive . Play itself is neither good nor bad . A boy who throws a stone through a store window so the storekeeper will chase him may be obeying the same urge to adventure as the boys in the open country when they play " Run Sheep Run " on a summer evening . But the storekeeper and the police do not excuse the boy 's transgression of law and order just because he is playing . If the boy is caught , he is regarded either as a juvenile delinquent or well on the way to becoming one . Juvenile court records are full of cases of misdirected play , the right expression of which would have meant much to the boy or girl involved and to society . Take for example the group of boys about whom George E. Johnson writes in his monograph , Why Teach a Child to Play ? ' Some boys were brought before our juvenile court on the charge of malicious mischief . They had built a hut in a vacant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and their methods were wrong , but their act comes out of the very heart of the instinct of workmanship . What would this world be if it had not been for this instinct of construction ? In this act the boys centered several immemorial streams of heredity , like our great rivers into the Ohio ; the instincts of shelter , of construction , of companionship . Had these play instincts been supervised and these acts allowed proper expression , the majesty of the law would not have been offended and the divine right of these boys would not have been violated . Discussing the subject of misdirected play further , Mr. Johnson continues : It may seem a striking statement , but it is nevertheless perfectly true that no case ever appeared in the Pittsburgh juvenile court or any other juvenile court // in which the act committed was not prompted wholly or in part by some impulse which under other relations and other associations could not but be both right and desirable . Streets and back alleys are usually the places where children run afoul of the law @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ streets and give them a place where they can play freely and without interference from objecting neighbors . But playgrounds without leadership are no guarantee against rowdyism and unsocial conduct . They are the city 's answer to the question , " Where shall we play ? " But playgrounds present more difficulties to the child than the open fields where he can roam with his friends . On the city playground a child must learn to adjust his activities to the limitations of space and equipment , and to share the facilities with large numbers of other children . He must take turns using the swings or playing on the ball diamond , and he must acquire the ability to cooperate with children he has never seen before . Children can not be expected to cope with such complex problems without help . They do not have the necessary self-discipline , social experience , or maturity of judgment to appraise each situation properly , or the ability to deal with it satisfactorily . There must be an adult present to see that rowdies do not monopolize the playground , that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and that little children have a place in which to play safely while the older boys are engaged in vigorous activities . THE NATURE OF PLAY LEADERSHIP Leadership on the playground assures the maintenance of discipline and order , but it does much more than that . Park guards can look after the equipment , and policemen , who represent organized force and authority to the child , can enforce good behavior by threatening to arrest him for improper conduct . But this discipline can have only negative results . It can never have the vital , positive influence on the growing child which a competent leader brings to the playground . On a playground where there is no leader the police or guards act only when some disciplinary problem already exists . If two boys get into a fight the policeman separates them or throws them off the playground . Such action does not solve the problem nor does it keep the boys from continuing their battle around the corner or starting it again when the officer 's back is turned . And more important than that , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to prevent future uprising . Since the policeman is not called upon until the problem already has come to a crisis , his handling of it can not be expected to accomplish lasting good . The leader , on the other hand , is in constant association // with the children . He maintains order in an environment of willing cooperation by keeping the child happily engaged in activities which interest him deeply . His is not the discipline of suppression achieved by enforcing rules and regulations set up according to adult standards . He avoids fights and disagreements by keeping the boys and girls happy and busy and by conducting activities in such a way that occasions for dispute are minimized . When fights do occur ? and they sometimes do ? the leader helps the combatants settle their difficulties and reach a solution through understanding . Unlike the policeman who coerces and suppresses , the play leader seeks to enlist the children 's active cooperation in curbing an undesirable activity for an understandable and worthy end . In this way children learn self-control and restraint in their social relationships @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ learn the value of discipline by experiencing the good it brings them ? not by fighting against its restraints . Leadership and Character. ? The playground under competent leadership is an excellent place for a child to learn right conduct . The social situations a child meets there bear a close resemblance to the situations he must cope with in later life . The child comes into free association with other children as individuals and in groups . He is rarely compelled to attend or participate in the program of activities . If he does choose to participate , however , and the playground is under the guidance of a good leader , the child learns to give and take with others , to win graciously , and to accept defeat without complaint . The rules that govern the child 's conduct are chiefly the rules of the game and the rules of social living . The child may even have a share in preparing these rules and in enforcing them . The leader helps the child to conform to them , not through coercion but through the indirect , effective @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the background and exercises direct control only when it is absolutely necessary . Consequently , the children learn by firsthand experience how to get along with others . If a boy chooses to drop out of a game rather than to abide by its rules he is compelled , by his own choice , to stand on the sidelines and watch the game proceed without him . The results of his actions are immediate and direct , and the play experiences afford valuable lessons in social conduct . Under the guidance of a capable leader the child has the opportunity on the playground to develop desirable character traits , individual as well as social . Since the playground is essentially free from compulsion the child makes his own decisions and experiences the results , good or bad , that come directly from them . He has the opportunity to initiate and to lead activities , and through actual practice he acquires judgnment , self-reliance , and the ability to handle responsibilities . // LEADERSHIP OBJECTIVES AND METHODS Character building is not the essential purpose of play leadership , although there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leadership involves a recognition of the fact that a happy childhood through play is essential to a child 's normal growth and personal development . Selfdiscipline and right conduct are natural results of a situation in which a child engages in activities of absorbing interest under wise guidance . The chief purpose of play leadership , therefore , is to fill the child 's play hours with gripping , creative , varied activities which foster the free expression of his play interests , and to conduct these activities in such a way that every child on the playground is assured of a happy and richly satisfying playtime . To the extent that the leader succeeds in achieving this objective , he is contributing to the children 's happiness and personal development . According to Glenn Frank the problem of leisure for children is " so to organize a kind of play life for children that out of it the skills will be developed , the capacity for cooperation developed which will make them function more intelligently and more effectively as individuals and as members of social groups as they move on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of leadership are designed to achieve this result . The play leader provides not merely the opportunity for children to play the games , to sing the songs , and to make the things they want , but the infectious enthusiam which gives a zest to the activities . Neither lie nor the children are hampered by a fixed schedule or curriculum . Direct guidance is given chiefly where it is needed to take care of particular difficulties or to make participation more enjoyable . The leader sees that the necessary equipment , playing space , and materials are provided for the activities in which the children have a definite interest . Ile organizes the program in such a way as to minimize quarrels arising out of the conflicting desires of different children and to effect solutions t lirough understanding when they do occur . In planning and conducting the program , the leader is guided by the factors which facilitate selfexpression by the children and make for personality and character development . He takes into account the children 's individual interests and abilities ; he preserves initiative by allowing ample @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ each child 's need for recognition and for experiencing success . He fosters the children 's creative planning ability and encourages exploration in new fields of activity . By getting acquainted with all the children he tries to discover interests which are not immediately apparent . He pays special // attention to the needs of the timid and awkward child . He introduces new activities so the children will have a greater range of choices than they would have if left entirely to themselves . By helping them develop skills , he increases the satisfaction and enjoyment which they gain from taking part in the activities . Leadership Teaches Skills. ? The importance of these last two objectives ? teaching skills and providing a variety of play opportunities ? is sometimes overlooked by people who do not understand the nature and purpose of leadership . The acquistion of skill is a prerequisite to satisfactory participation in many forms of recreation . To a degree , skill is acquired by trial and error , but trained leaders can save individuals costly and discouraging experimentation . A boy who has no one to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ paddle , then the side stroke , and may even attempt to swim the crawl . These self-taught strokes seem satisfactory to the boy as long as he swims with a group who have no greater ability in the water than he has . However , if at a later period he swims with boys who have been taught by skillful teachers and who swim the crawl with speed and form , he at once realizes his inferiority in the water . His awkwardness may prove embarrassing and take away the enjoyment which he formerly gained from his swimming . In fact , some boys may even give up swimming entirely . On the other hand , if the boy has had the benefit of leadership in other activities and has learned that he can acquire skills through guidance and training , he may be challenged to seek leadership which will enable him to become a capable swimmer . The man who is a " dub " at tennis or baseball is usually the man who did not have the opportunity to learn the game as a boy . People enjoy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tend to avoid those in which they have little skill . By arousing in children a desire for self-improvement and by helping them to learn better ways of playing old games and the best ways of performing new activities , the leader increases the satisfaction and fun which they derive from participation . In addition he is helping overcome the reluctance of many children as well as adults to take part in activities which they do not perform well and is preparing them for a richer recreation experience in later life . Leadership Makes Variety Possible. ? Variety is essential in a child 's play life for the fullest development of his interests and of his personality . Some adults seem to think that because children are always active they are never at a loss to know what to do . Parents who repeatedly hear children say , " There 's nothing to do , " know this is not the case . Often when children get into mischief it is because they are bored with playing the same old games . " Life is so full of a number of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ happy as kings , " said Hobert . Louis Stevenson when 1w // was writing for children . Playtime is the time to play games of all kinds , to explore the world of fairies and make-believe and adventure in stories , to become acquainted with the world of song , to build things , to produce plays and learn about drama and the stage , to dance , to discover nature and the world of growing things . Leadership makes possible a variety of such experiences . Children learn best when they are free from compulsion , when the motive comes from within themselves , not from the outside . Playtime is the time when the child is most free , the time when he is most himself . Therefore , the lessons of the playground are quickly learned and long remembered . Suggestion and imitation are powerful influences in determining children 's behavior and because on the playground the child secs others playing happily in various ways , he has the desire and incentive to join them . In this way he tries out new play activities and gains @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the playground the child has the opportunity to experiment with many different activities and to discover the interests which for him have the greatest value and which are likely to afford rich leisure-time resources in later life . The discovery and development of latent skills and potential play interests are among the primary functions of the playground leader . Carry-over Values. ? Leadership for children 's play activities is primarily provided by the recreation department on the playground , but it is not concerned with activities on , the playground alone . The real test of playground leadership is the extent to which the activities engaged in and the attitudes taught at the playground are carried over into the child 's play life at home and in the neighborhood . Its influence is also indicated by the degree to which interests developed on the playground persist in later life and afford rich leisure-time resources . In teaching skills and acquainting children with a variety of activities , the playground leader awakens and encourages interests which may last a lifetime and make the difference between richness and drabness in adult living . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that , play leadership encroaches on a child 's freedom , destroying the spontineity of his play and initiative . This argument reveals a failure - to understand the nature of freedom and of play leadership . As was Pointed out earlier in the chapter , a child is made more free to enjoy his activities as he is helped to acquire skills . He is also made free as a Social being when he learns the submissions necessary to successful group living . Freedom involves , indeed is based upon , restraint and sacrifice . As John Dewey has said , " Without rules there would be no game . . . Hiles are a part of the game . " ' In every game a child gives up some of // his freedom to the other players . If he insists on being " It " all the time , the game breaks up , and he loses not only the chance of being " It " according to the rules but all the fun of playing . As Hughes Mearns has written in his article , " Discipline and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ like a game without rules . The free spirit is most free which has been taught to accept willingly the necessary restrictions of human living . " 1 Freedom is inherent in the playground situation . A child is always free to come or not as he chooses . But on a playground under competent leadership he is more free to play his own games and to follow his own inclinations than on a playground monopolized by older children or dominated by bullies . He learns control , but most of the restraints are inherent in the activities themselves or are established by the play group . If he wants to play he must recognize the rights of his comrades and abide by the rules . When he submits , he does so voluntarily . The leader creates an environment in which the children are free to play , and in which the expression of their play interests assumes forms which make it easier for them to function as individuals and as social beings . Far from destroying freedom , play leadership increases the only freedom which matters ? freedom with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Leadership Must Be of High Quality. ? To accomplish the purposes and attain the objectives described in the preceding pages , it is obvious that trained leaders of intelligence and high moral caliber are necessary . The playground leader is in a strategic position to inspire children with the enthusiasm to participate in games and play activities , and to influence child character . What children play and how they respond to group play situations on the playground are often the direct result of the leader 's own enthusiasms and of his personal attitudes and conduct . Certainly the children can not be expected to develop desirable character traits on the playground unless the leaders themselves possess and demonstrate such qualities in their varied , daily relationships . The tendency for children to " hero-worship " an adult whom they admire either personally or for his accomplishments is well known . Lindbergh 's flight over the Atlantic gave rise to a host of youthful Lindberghs who imitated their hero 's manners , his speech , his interests , and his attitudes . The playground leader by the circumstances of his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chief concern is to serve the children 's interests and to increase their enjoyment of the activities . Children are therefore kindly disposed toward him and are more amenable to his influence than they would be if he compelled them to perform tasks . which they found disagreeable . The whole association between the // leader and the children is a happy one . Since the leader helps the children to have fun , it is natural for them to like him , and liking easily becomes admiration . If the playground leader has a record of success in high-school or college sports , or in some other field which interests the children , or if he has personal qualities which impress them , their admiration for him is that much greater , and they imitate him in countless ways . Since the leader through his position on the playground can exert such a profound influence on the children , only the best and highest duality of play leadership is acceptable . DO CHILDREN WANT LEADERSHIP ? The idea that play leadership is necessary is not mere theory . What boys @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . For instance , as an experiment a playground in a city of 300,000 was thrown open without play leadership . Fifteen or twenty children used it . Unannounced , a play leader appeared . The attendance increased to between 75 and 80 . A thoroughly qualified leader was t hen placed in charge and the daily attendance mounted to 448 . When the experienced leader was later withdrawn and an untrained person substituted , the attendance at once began to fall off . The history of playgrounds at which no leadership has been provided has been universally disappointing and the experience has been little better where incompetent persons were employed as leaders . Children have shown that they want more than just a place in which to play . They want a leader who can make the place interesting and exciting with challenging activities . THE NEED OF RURAL CHILDREN FOR PLAY LEADERSHIP The need for variety in play and for acquiring skill makes play leadership just as important in rural as in urban communities . Most rural children have ample play space and a rich and potentially stimulating play @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in abundance , but he needs leadership to help him make the most of his resources . Parents with wide experience and with cultivated imaginations can make living in the country richly creative for their children But since many parents lack the experience , understanding , or time , there is need in rural areas as well as in the city for play leadership to be provided by some Outside agency ? whether school , church , grange , or club . Such leadership enables children to play happily with other children of the same age , acquaints them with play resources at their disposal , and helps them make use of these resources in the best and most satisfying way . // RECREATION LEADERSHIP FOR YOUTHS AND ADULTS Many communities fail to realize that modern city living has created the need for recreation leadership for youth and adults as well as for children . The argument is frequently raised that young people and adults should have the maturity to look after their own recreation . This shortsighted viewpoint completely overlooks the fact that youth and adults are restricted in their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ much as the children are . Admittedly many adults have the maturity to choose and the ability to direct their own activities . But they can not play in a baseball league unless they have access to a diamond ; they can not play tennis if there are no courts ; they can not swim if there are no pools or bathing beaches ; nor can they play in a community orchestra unless someone takes the initiative to organize one and to provide a meeting place . Leadership is necessary to provide recreation opportunities . The young people and adults who need recreation most can seldom secure the facilities for themselves . Leadership is necessary to bring together people of similar tastes , for in a modern city people often do not know other individuals who are interested in the same activities . Leadership also furnishes young people and adults the opportunity and experience of conducting their own activities and provides instruction in these activities when it is needed . Most adults have fewer recreation interests than children , usually because in their early years they were denied opportunities to play @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ experience the joy of participating in recreation activities except as leadership extended to adult groups makes such participation possible . The Value of Instruction. ? Adults who can afford to secure instruction or assistance in organizing their recreation activities do not hesitate to do so . Private athletic clubs employ directors and instructors in various sports . Country clubs have their managers and golf " pro 's , " riding masters , and tennis instructors . Sketch clubs have their art teachers , and dramatic groups , their coaches and directors . Unfortunately the majority of people are not able to afford such assistance . But where communities have made recreation leadership generally available , adults have demonstrated by their enthusiastic participation in the program that they want not only the type of leadership which provides facilities but the leadership which organizes activities and furnishes instruction when it is needed . The number of older boys and men playing baseball , softball , and other team games has grown by leaps and bounds in cities where athletic directors have been provided to organize and promote teams , leagues , // and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ courts has shown a marked increase in cities where the recreation authorities have opened golf and tennis schools . People who did not know how to play were reluctant to use the facilities at hand but were eager to learn when offered the opportunity . Others attended the schools because they were anxious to improve their skills . Similar results have been experienced in the case of other types of activity . For example in one city hundreds of adults who had formerly taken no part in the recreation program joined a newly organized drama group as soon as a trained director was added to the department staff . Leadership Methods. ? People who question the value and need of providing recreation leadership for youth and adult groups ignore the fact that every such group involves leadership either from within or from the outside . This leadership may be represented by one individual or it may be exerted by the cooperative action of certain members , but no group can function without it . " There is no question of whether there shall be leaders or not ; that was settled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recreation leadership for young people and adults is to draw out , strengthen , and put into action the leadership capacities inherent in the members of the group . It is common for the recreation leader gradually to withdraw from continuous direct leadership of an adult group after an activity has been started and t he group has learned to carry on successfully under its own leadership . It , is in this respect that the functions of leaders of adult groups differ most from those of the playground leaders . Because in general adults are more disciplined than children , more experienced in group relationships , and have more defined though fewer recreation interests , they can lake greater responsibility for determining and directing their own activities . They can assume a larger measure of self-government and selforganization , and the paid recreation leader does not need to give as ' rout inuous or direct guidance as is necessary in dealing with children 's groups . Young people may often select and direct their own activities but it " requires skillful leadership to inspire them to seek perfection . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leader can milder is to advise and assist people in forming their own recreation groups and to help their lay leaders acquire the skills and techniques which are essential to effective self-leadership within these groups . Group leadership of youth and adults is involved in the organization and promotion of athletic leagues , orchestras , drama groups , and social and hiking clubs . Its functioning is perhaps best demonstrated by the ronununity center leader who like the playground leader comes into direct relationship with individuals and groups of diversified interests . Ile must be able to help the participants discover interests , introduce // variety when it is needed , and furnish instruction where it seems advisable . But the community center leader , because he is working primarily with adults , is more often able to remain in the background . He assists individuals in getting together with others who have a similar interest , and he helps groups in organizing their activities and getting their programs under way , after which he withdraws except for occasional contacts and help with specific problems . When he offers suggestions he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the active sharing of ideas the participants acquire the experience of functioning as a group and increase their skill in managing their own activities . This experience , especially in recreation activities , is denied to large numbers of young people and adults except as leadership is provided by the recreation department . OTHER ASPECTS OF RECREATION LEADERSHIP So far the discussion has dealt only with the leadership of group activities for children , youth , and adults . Several types of leadership are required for the successful operation of a well-rounded community recreation program . Activities such as picnicking , horseback riding , bathing , tennis , and golf are largely self-directed , and are engaged in by individuals rather than groups , but the provision of the necessary facilities requires a certain form of leadership . This type of leadership involves little , if any , direct contact between the leader and the participants in the activities which these facilities make possible . Effective operation of these facilities , however , calls for a close and friendly relationship between the persons using them and the officials in immediate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recreation activities but are not interested in joining a highly organized group . They want to learn to dance , to play a musical instrument , to make jewelry or some other type of handicraft . Here the leader 's primary function is to give instruction , but he also has an opportunity to develop a feeling of fellowship among the members of the class and to make its meetings a pleasant social experience . Furthermore , by introducing the class to related , diversified activities the leader is often able to arouse the members ' interest in other parts of the program and to broaden their field of recreation activity . Leaders Serve Many Functions. ? In serving the varied recreation interests of individuals and groups , leaders are required to function in several different capacities . Most members of the recreation department leadership staff , as the following chapter points out , have titles and duties which relate primarily to some specific function . Their chief responsibility is that of executive , supervisor , organizer , director , instructor , or activity leader . However , the types of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ certain degree in most recreation positions . The superintendent of recreation , for instance , has responsibilities which are chiefly executive in nature , but he must also inspire , supervise , and oversee the work of his staff , assist in training his workers , and perhaps personally direct certain parts of the program . The community center director serves as an executive in managing his staff , as a supervisor in directing the work of his paid and volunteer leaders , and as an instructor or group leader in conducting activities in the center program . A supervisor of a special activity such as dancing or dramatics , whose chief function is to furnish information and guidance to the playground and center leaders , must first of all be a good teacher , for it is by instructing leaders that he better equips them to teach their particular activities . He functions as a supervisor when he assists them in planing and conducting the phase of the program for which he is responsible ; but if he organizes and directs a dance pageant or a drama festival or conducts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the position of director or specialist . The extent to which a recreation worker is called upon to exercise these various leadership functions depends largely upon the nature of his position and on the size and degree of specialization of the department staff . However , since all types of leadership are involved in most recreation positions , the ability of a worker to function as an executive , supervisor , director , activity leader , or an instructor , as the occasion demands , is a large factor in determining his success . LEADERSHIP AIMS Regardless of the capacity or position in which a recreation worker serves , all recreation leadership is governed by the same aims . Whether person is working with children or adults , with individuals or with groups , or is functioning as a supervisor , executive or instructor , the fundamental purposes of his leadership are : to guide and serve the leisure-time interests of all the people ? not to dictate them ; to enlarge and deepen interests so that they will be more richly satisfying ; to provide organization and instruction where it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recreation activities so the hours of leisure will make for joyous living . The achievement of these objectives is possible only if trained , sympathetic leadership is provided , and their attainment assures the success of a municipal recreation program . Communities , therefore , which value recreation and expect a fair return on their investment in areas and facilities , can not afford to stint on providing competent leaders . They must insist on the kind of dynamic leadership that vitalizes and energizes the whole recreation life of the community . CHAPTER VII LEADERS IN THE RECREATION DEPARTMENT The recreation department , like every other phase of municipal service , can function effectively only if it has a staff of competent , loyal workers . Such workers are particularly essential to the recreation department because they have a direct personal relationship with the individuals and groups who use its facilities and participate in its program . To plan and conduct the various activities and services comprising its comprehensive program described in later chapters and to operate and maintain its many areas and facilities , personnel of diversified qualifications , training @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is needed in planning and directing the work of the department ; supervisors are in charge of special features ; directors or managers are responsible for operating areas or facilities ; and leaders and instructors conduct activities . Maintenance workers keep the recreation plant in good condition ; clerical assistants handle the department records ; and many other types of employees serve in varying capacities . Each worker in the recreation department has an important place to fill , but of special significance are those employed to perform the leadership functions which are peculiar to the recreation department and which differentiate such service from work carried on in other branches of local government . They are the workers who comprise the group which has become recognized as a new and distinct profession . This chapter considers the types of leadership positions in municipal recreation , the duties performed , and some of the essential qualifications for workers in each of these positions . GENERAL QUALIFICATIONS FOR ALL LEADERS " The leader must be an individual of well-rounded personality and upright character , with power to influence character and personality in both @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ points out the qualifications without which the recreation leader can not be successful . He also recognizes the influence which the leader continually exerts in his relations with individuals and groups . Important as it is to select recreation workers for their technical abilities , it is equally essential to take account of their general qualifications . Experience in the field of leisure-time activity liars taught that 92 // technical skill in directing activities is of limited value to the recreation leader unless he has the proper attitudes , interests , and native abilities . The more responsibility the recreation worker is to have , the greater should be the emphasis on his personal qualifications . But no worker should be accepted even for the least responsible position in a profession where dealing with people is the prime concern unless he has a broad cultural background and potentialities for growth and development . As the requirements for recreation service have become higher and higher and as recreation leadership has sought a place among the professions , the educational standards required for employment have taken on greater significance . At present college @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for employment in practically all leadership positions in the recreation department and graduate study is recommended for persons planning to serve in an executive capacity . Exceptions are made in the position of play leader where high-school graduation is considered sufficient and in the case of special instructors who because of some technical skill or special ability are able to render valuable service to the department even though their educational background is limited . Because of the demands which the profession of recreation leadership makes upon those who would undertake it , only those who have the personal qualities essential for success should consider it as a life work . Individuals interested in the possibilities offered by this field will find a valuable guide in an editorial entitled Reasons for Not Becoming a Recreation Leader which contains the following statements : The number of men really qualified to find supreme happiness and rewarding service in the recreation movement is not large . It is much easier to teach , to preach , to write , to build bridges and skyscrapers . The quality of leadership possessed by the best recreation workers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ persons born . For these few the rewards are very great . Until we care enough for the art of living and the art of playing to discover , develop , educate , the individual youngsters who have the natural gifts for recreation leadership it will be necessary to call upon many to serve in the recreation profession who are much better qualified for other work , who would find greater satisfaction elsewhere . The recreation field is the place for men who want to live and to see every one else live and who have satisfaction in forgetting all about themselves in the common life about them , to which they give themselves completely . ' Personal Requirements. ? The personal qualifications desirable in any individual serving as a recreation leader have been listed frequently . One of the most critical analyses of such requirements appeared in the report of a committee of recreation executives dealing with qualifications 36. // for community recreation work . ' The following list is condensed from this report : Owing to widely different local conditions there is no uniformity in the types or titles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there is an increasing tendency for cities to adopt a standard nomenclature . This is due in no small measure to the work and published reports of a committee of recreation executives appointed by the National Recreation Association , which has been working for several years on the problem . Many of the statements in this chapter are based upon or adapted from one of the reports of this committee.2 The follow- // ing is a brief description of the titles generally used and of the major responsibilities usually assigned to the representative positions : Superintendent , the chief officer in charge of a department or division and its personnel . General supervisors , executive officers in charge of a group of recreation centers of similar kind , their personnel and the general program of activities carried on therein , or of some special function such as construction and maintenance generally applicable to all centers ; e.g. , Supervisor of Playgrounds , Supervisor of Community Centers , Supervisor of Construction and Maintenance . Supervisors of special activities , specialists in charge of special phases of program development . Examples are Supervisor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Supervisor of Girls ' and Women 's Activities , Supervisor of Dancing , Supervisor of Arts and Crafts , and Supervisor of Nature Activities . Directors of centers , executive officers in charge of administering the facilities , staff , and program of a recreation center such as a playground , community center , swimming pool , golf course , or camp . Examples are Playground Director , Community Center Director , and Camp Director . The title of Manager , rather than Director , is often applied to the person in charge of a golf course , swimming pool , or bathing beach . Play leaders , employees who , under the close direction of directors or assistant directors , exercise general oversight over the play of children or adults on a playground or in a community center , lead groups in organized play activities , or assist with special projects . These employees are often employed part time and frequently they are students preparing for professional work in recreation . Specialists , employees who serve as instructors in a special activity , usually at more than one center @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , tap dancing , and archery instructor . It is clear that many recreation departments do not employ all of the types of workers mentioned in the preceding list . With the growing diversification in recreation programs and the expansion of recreation facilities , however , cities are finding it necessary to employ more and more workers who are particularly equipped to assume responsibility for special features and services . A superintendent of recreation is needed as executive director in every recreation department . In cities where there are more playgrounds and centers than can be supervised effectively by the superintendent , one or more general supervisors are needed . In ease the department operates and maintains its own areas and facilities , it , needs a supervisor of construction and maintenance . Most departments today employ one or more supervisors of special activities to promote and direct special phases of the program such as athletics , music , and drama . In some of the larger systems there are several such workers . Playground directors are found in every city , and community center directors are employed by departments operating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ municipal camp , or bathing areas , a director or manager is required for each . Assistant playground and center directors and play leaders are needed in all cities to assist the directors // and to help in conducting activities . More and more cities are employing specialists to provide instruction in special activities . Duties and Special Qualifications. ? In the light of experience , recommended standards have been adopted for the several positions listed . These standards set forth the special qualifications , experience , age , and education considered necessary for satisfactory service . They are not to be applied rigidly to given positions , but they set forth normal requirements which should be met by persons being considered for employment in recreation . In general the duties , special qualifications , and education considered essential do not vary according to the size of the city in which the service is to be rendered . In the case of the executive and supervisory positions , however , a differentiation in the minimum age and experience requirements is made between cities of varying populations . As a rule , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more complex the executive and supervisory problem ; therefore , greater experience and maturity are required in handling them . The following pages contain brief statements outlining the essential duties of workers in the various leadership positions and a few of the basic qualifications for effective service . Superintendent . Duties. ? The superintendent of recreation as chief executive of the department is responsible for assisting and advising his board or superior officer in formulating policies and basic procedures governing the work of the department and for putting them into effect . His duties are comparable in many respects to those of a superintendent of schools . Most of his time is devoted to planning , organizing , supervising , and promoting the work and interests of the recreation department . Among the specific duties which he assumes either directly or through assistants are : planning , care , and management of areas and facilities ; determining the activities and services to be provided by the department , and planning of the department 's program ; selecting , supervising , and training the department staff ; preparing the annual budget and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ research and special studies relating to the work of the department and the city 's recreation needs ; interpreting the program to the public and informing it as to the department 's objectives and activities ; cooperating with other local agencies in developing plans to meet the city 's leisure-time needs . In the small community the superintendent also performs duties of a supervisory or directive nature which in the large cities are performed by other workers .. Qualifications. ? The superintendent must be well grounded in the philosophy of recreation , fully understand the significance of leisure , he familiar with the many activities comprising the recreation program and // with the principles and methods essential to effective program building . He must have a general knowledge of recreation areas , facilities , and equipment , and must understand the principles underlying their effective development and use . He must be familiar with personnel practices in order that he may select , organize , supervise , and train his staff and secure their fullest cooperation . He needs to know the principles and methods involved in setting up a recreation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ work of his department , in handling its business affairs , in conducting studies , and in building up cooperative relationships with other community agencies . In short he must have those qualities which characterize the student , promoter , organizer , and executive . From one to five years ' experience in a subordinate executive capacity in recreation is considered essential . General Supervisor . Duties. ? Except for the supervisor of construction and maintenance most of these workers are responsible for supervising playground and community center programs either for the entire city or for a given district . Among their specific duties are selecting the areas or centers to be operated , training and supervising the playground and center staff , securing cooperation among workers , assisting them in planning , organizing , and conducting their activities , advising on equipment and maintenance problems , assisting with publicity , cooperating with neighborhood agencies , recommending expansion in areas , facilities , and programs , and assuming general responsibility for the playground and indoor center service . An important duty is that of assisting the special supervisors in developing playground @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crafts , and other special services . Qualifications. ? These workers must have a thorough understanding of recreation activities and of the ways in which they may be made available to the people . They must be familiar with principles of supervision and be able to work with others and to inspire , train , and guide them . They must have a thorough knowledge of the philosophy of recreation , of the scope and service of other social agencies , and the ability to meet the public and discuss recreation problems intelligently . From two to four years ' experience as a supervisor or director is considered essential . Supervisor of Construction and Maintenance . Duties. ? This worker alone among the types mentioned in this chapter has no responsibility for the supervision or conduct of activities , but he is responsible for the design , construction , maintenance , and repair of areas , buildings , and facilities essential to the program . He prepares , or collaborates with technicians not on the department 's staff in preparing , detailed plans for t lie general development of new areas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as buildings , pools , apparatus , and game equipment . // He supervises their development and construction including such operations as planting , grading , surfacing , and drainage . His responsibility includes the general care , upkeep , and maintenance of all types of outdoor areas and of all buildings and other structures . In some cities he builds playground apparatus and much of the other equipment used in the department . Qualifications . Originality and resourcefulness in designing areas and facilities to serve a maximum recreation use , and ability to prepare plans for their effective development are essential . This supervisor must have ability to lay out work and to supervise a construction and maintenance staff , and must be in sympathy with the objectives of the department . He should have a practical knowledge of several crafts such as surveying , drafting , plumbing , and carpentry , and construction and horticultural experience are sometimes required . Supervisors of Special Activities . Duties. ? These workers are responsible for promoting , introducing , organizing , and conducting activities in some special field such as music , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the individual playgrounds and centers in initiating and conducting activities in their special fields , prepare instructions , select materials and develop projects , provide staff instruction , and demonstrate methods of conducting these activities . They sometimes plan and conduct city-wide events and organize groups or classes in their specialty . They assist in evaluating the effectiveness of staff workers and cooperate with other supervisors and directors in working out wellbalanced programs . Their function is to expand service in their special fields , not only within the department program , but elsewhere throughout the city . The supervisor of women and girls , who often serves as an assistant superintendent , gives special attention to phases of the program affecting women and girls . Qualifications. ? Among the many qualifications required of all special supervisors are practical knowledge and appreciation of the varied activities within the special field for which the worker is responsible , an appreciation of their recreation values and ability to interpret them , personal skills in several types of activity within the special field , ability to organize and direct groups , to supervise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ events featuring the special activity . These workers seek to secure participation of the rank and file as well as the development of the special abilities of the talented few , and they must be ready to relate their special field to other phases of the recreation program . The position of supervisor of women 's and girls ' activities , unlike the other types , calls primarily for a person with broad rat her t Ilan specialized experience , since the worker is called upon 10 advise and assist , directors and supervisors in planning and conducting activities for women // and girls in all phases of the department 's program . As a matter of fact , the value of any special supervisor is likely to be much greater as his knowledge extends to fields other than his own particular subject . Playground and/or Community Center Director . Duties. ? The playground director and the community center director are to the playground and center what the principal is to the school . This type of worker is in direct charge of a single playground or center and is responsible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sure that the playground or center renders the maximum recreation service to the people in the neighborhood . To this end he studies the neighborhood 's needs , organizes and develops an appropriate program of activities , divides the work among his leaders , assists them in every way possible , keeps playground records and reports , and sees that buildings , facilities , and equipment are properly maintained . He cooperates with other neighborhood agencies in recreation projects , often organizes a neighborhood council , and enlists , trains , and supervises volunteers to help with parts of the program . Qualifications. ? These workers must combine the qualities of an executive with those of a teacher or leader . They must understand the value of such activities as athletics , storytelling , dramatics , nature study , music , handicraft , folk dancing , social recreation , and informal discussion , be familiar with their forms , and know how they may be introduced in the playground or center program . The worker is expected to have personal skills in at least three of these activities . He must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to direct his assistants In carrying out the work assigned to them , to organize leagues , tournaments , demonstrations , entertainments , and other special features . The director must be able to work with groups at the playground and center , to deal intelligently with parents and neighborhood leaders , to write publicity , and to speak in public . Special interest and ability in children 's activities are of primary importance to the playground director . ' ' Tile center director requires , in addition , greater maturity and special ability in working with young people and adults . Play Leader . Duties. ? The duties of this worker include organizing and conducting activities such as games , nature study , hiking , crafts , storytciting , dancing , or dramatics . He assists the playground or center director or the camp manager in preparing for special events and programs , gives guidance to clubs and other groups , supervises special rooms or facilities , and assists in various other ways . He works under the director and is never in full charge of a playground or center @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in several activities and a knowledge of first-aid methods . Experience as a participant in play activities and as a leader in recreation or a related field // is desirable . High-school graduation or its equivalent is the educational requirement for this position , although some recreation executives believe that at least two years of college or specialized training beyond high school are essential for successful work as a play leader . Specialist . Duties. ? The chief duties of this worker are to organize classes in a special program feature such as archery , dancing , puppetry , or tennis , and to provide instruction for groups in his special activity . He may work at a single center , but more frequently his time is distributed between groups meeting at various places throughout the city . He is sometimes called upon to instruct other members of the department staff and to organize tournaments or special programs featuring his particular activity . Specialists , who usually serve on a seasonal or part-time basis , are not to be confused with supervisors of special activities who have a much larger responsibility @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interest people in a particular type of activity and to organize and teach it successfully . In most instances the position requires a high degree of personal skill in the activity . The worker must be able to conduct the activity in such a manner that participants find joy in it for its own sake . This calls for ability as an instructor and a readiness to adapt teaching methods to the capacity of the group and to relate it to other phases of the recreation program . Experience as a participant in the activity and also as an instructor is essential . College graduation is desirable but it is not a strict requirement . Some cities , for example , have employed Indian chiefs as archery instructors , who in spite of their limited schooling have proved successful leaders . Manager of Special Facilities . Duties. ? These vary somewhat according to the type of facility ? whether camp , golf course , or swimming center ? but in general they include broad responsibilities for program planning , supervision of personnel , and property maintenance . This worker supervises the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ charge to make sure that they are attractive , safe , and sanitary . He plans for the most effective use of the facilities , arranges an attractive program of activities , and supervises the collection of fees , the handling of funds , and the keeping of essential cost and service records . Qualifications. ? The manager of a special facility must have ability as an administrator and must know something of business management , public relations , the supervision of a staff , and maintenance methods . He requires a special knowledge of the activities carried on at his center . The manager of a bathing center must have expert skill in swimming and lifesaving , and the camp director an understanding of children and of educational methods . // Other Workers. ? As mentioned earlier in the chapter there are other types of workers in the recreation department most of whom do not serve in a leadership capacity , but who are responsible for other phases of the department 's work . Among such workers are lifeguards at the swimming pools and beaches , cashiers at the golf @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mechanics , janitors , camp cooks , clerical and research personnel . The nature of the tasks performed by many of these workers involves their meeting and dealing with the public ; in some cases they have frequent relationships with children . For this reason character , personality , and ability to deal with people in a courteous , friendly , but efficient manner are important . In most of these positions it is not necessary or practical to demand the same educational and personal qualifications as in leadership positions . However , training , skill , experience , and personality traits which make for success in them must be considered in employing personnel for these nonleadership tasks . CONDITIONS VS . STANDARDS The general and special qualifications outlined in this chapter for leadership personnel in the recreation department represent standards which have been accepted by the recreation profession . They obtain In practice in some cities ; in others local recreation department standfink fall far short of meeting them . The chief discrepancies are generally In respect to educational requirements and personal qualifications of the L workers . Naturally , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have not received the type of training which is now considered essential . Yet in most cities the executive and supervisory positions in municipal reservation are held by graduates of colleges or special schools and such posit ions are open only to college graduates with special recreation train , Sag and experience . A common requirement for work on the playground 1 two years of college study ; in several cities playground directors Must he college graduates . There is also a growing appreciation of the importance of desirable personal qualifications as well as educational background . Therefore , in spite of unsatisfactory conditions in some cities , a . Slowly advance toward higher standards and toward the acceptance of the standards recognized in the profession is being achieved . More adequate training opportunities , more honest and intelligent methods Of selecting workers , and greater assurance of promotion for persons who render satisfactory service , are contributing to this end . Some of these lectors affecting recreation leadership will be considered in the chapters that follow . CHAPTER VIII TRAINING RECREATION LEADERS Recreation leadership obviously can not take its place @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and adequate means of furnishing such training are made available . Training opportunities and methods designed to prepare persons for employment as recreation workers are largely provided by schools , colleges , and universities . In-service training after employment , on the other hand , intended to make leaders more effective in their work , is furnished primarily by the recreation department itself and by other agencies in the cities where the individuals are working . Both types of leadership training are essential . PRELIMINARY TRAINING As pointed out in Chap . VII , standards adopted by the profession make college graduation or its equivalent in education a basic requirement for most recreation positions and recreation agencies are more and more accepting these standards . Until recent years educational institutions showed little concern over the preparation of men and women for recreation service and training opportunities were comparatively few . Courses offered in schools of education and social work afforded valuable basic preparation , and the art , music , athletic , and other divisions provided instruction in subjects useful to the recreation worker . However , no institution offered an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and in the courses offered little consideration was given to the problems involved in the operation and administration of the municipal recreation department . Because of this lack of training opportunities , especially for persons looking toward supervisory or executive positions , the National Recreation School , a one-year graduate course , was established in 1926 by the National Recreation Association . After nine years this course was temporarily suspended when , owing to the depression , great difficulty was experienced in placing its graduates in suitable recreation positions . The recent increase in people 's leisure , the rapid expansion in recreation programs under Federal auspices , and the gradual development of recreation leadership as a profession , have caused educational institutions to face seriously the problem of training workers for this field . Leader-102 // ship training has been a frequent topic of discussion at the National Recreation Congress , and the reports of the Committee on Training and Experience in Recreation Work have helped focus attention upon and secure the acceptance of leadership standards . A great number of colleges and institutions have established one or more courses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have developed curricula providing for recreation majors and designed to prepare men and women for the profession . The importance which has been attached to this problem is illustrated by the conferences on the college training of recreation leaders held at the University of Minnesota in December , 1937 , and at the University of North Carolina in April , 1939 , which were attended by invited delegates from universities in all sections of the country and by representatives of Federal , national , and local agencies concerned with recreation . Among the questions to be faced in considering the preparation of recreation leaders are the positions for which persons are to be trained , the types of institutions which should provide the training , the nature of the courses that should be offered and of the training methods to be ployed , the length of the training period , and the probable demand for ' red leaders . Obviously the answers to these questions depend on y factors , a few of which are considered here . TRAINING FOR EXECUTIVE LEADERSHIP Increasingly , persons most familiar with the field of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leadership could consist of a general four-year undergraduate college course supplemented by two years of graduate training . Opinions differ as to specific subjects which should be included in such a course , but it is eyed desirable that the emphasis during the undergraduate years should be upon subjects of cultural or general educational value and that professional preparation should be limited primarily to the graduate There is considerable agreement as to the types of knowledge which Id be possessed by all recreation leaders serving in an executive it city , and which should therefore be included in any program designed prepare people for such service . With a few exceptions , the same of knowledge are essential to all persons engaged in recreation leadership in any capacity . These general subjects may be summarized briefly as follows : // botany , or astronomy have not only a general educational value but an immediate relationship to nature recreation and physical activities . 2 . English and Literature. ? Every recreation worker should be familiar with the best in literature . Reading is perhaps the most universal form of recreation and a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ best in literature is of great importance . Furthermore , ability to speak and write effectively is essential . 3 . Social Science. ? The recreation worker must have an understanding of the society of which he is a part and be acquainted with its history and the record of man 's development as a social being . This is important because he must take his place along with others in whose work social relationships play such an important part . History , government , and sociology should have a part in the training program . 4 . Education. ? In many of its aspects recreation is closely related to education and the recreation leader often functions in the role of a teacher . He must therefore be familiar with educational principles , methods , and procedures in order to enable him to work effectively with individuals and groups . He must understand the child and his various stages of growth and be familiar with the problems of human behavior . Therefore courses in such subjects as principles of education , child psychology , aid teaching methods are essential . 5 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the arts and the study of their significance in civilization have a great contribution to make in the preparation for recreation service . Drama , music , arts and crafts play an increasingly important part in recreation programs . It is important that recreation workers have a general knowledge of the basic arts and of their application in the recreation program and also a considerable degree of skill in at least one of them . 6 . Games and Physical Activities. ? Athletic games and sports , table games , social activities , and forms of outdoor recreation such as hiking , camping , and aquatics , play a major role in recreation programs . Therefore workers must have sound training in a variety of these activities and must develop , in addition to general motor ability , considerable skill in several of them . 7 . Recreation Administration and Theory. ? Among the chief duties of recreation workers are the conducting or management of playgrounds , indoor centers , and facilities , the planning and conducting of recreation programs of various types , and the organizing of community groups for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the best methods of administering recreation as a municipal function is of primary importance . Workers also need to have a knowledge of the theory and function of play , of the significance of leisure in the modern world , and of recreation objectives . Practice teaching and group leadership under careful supervision , and participation in study and work projects , are important . Club organization , recreation service to special groups such as homes , industries , churches , and institutions , methods of interpreting recreation service , office management , fiscal policies , budget , making and record-keeping methods are subjects with which a recreation worker should also be familiar and which should be included in training courses . 8 . Recreation Areas and Facilities. ? The recreation worker needs to have a general knowledge of the principles and problems involved in the selection , design , and equipment of recreation areas and facilities such as playgrounds , playfields , athletic fields , and other special areas for winter and water sports , camping , picnicking , and golf . He should be familiar with such problems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of these areas and facilities . The importance and place of recreation planning in the general field of city planning should be understood ; also the fundamental principles in planning and operating recreation buildings and in adapting and using school buildings for community recreation purposes . // Many other subjects could be studied to advantage by a person preparing for service as a recreation worker but most of the important ones fall under one of the groupings suggested . In general it is considered advisable for the undergraduate period to be devoted largely to physical science , literature , social science , education , and other fields , which will afford a background for the more professionalized and specialized subjects such as recreation administration and recreation areas and facilities which should largely come in the two years of graduate work . Much value is derived from extracurricular activities such as athletics , music , dramatics , debating , and clubs of various kinds , either as an active participant or in a leadership or administrative capacity . Of equal importance with the subject matter offered in the professional courses is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and investigation of recreation problems and for engaging in laboratory work under competent guidance . By devoting his summers to leadership in camp , club , or playground the student secures valuable practical training which enables him more quickly to assume a position of responsibility upon completion of his course . It is recommended that every recreation student spend at least one of his mummers in a recreation position and seek opportunities for volunteer ' service as a Scout , club , or church group leader , as well as leadership responsibility in college life . The Demand for Trained Executives. ? The establishment of professional graduate courses is justified only as there is a demand for trained orkers , particularly in positions of a supervisory or executive nature . f the 23,975 recreation leaders reported employed by localities for community recreation service in 1938 , only 3,345 were serving on a fulle , year-round basis . Many of these were not executives or superrs but were in subordinate positions . Yet in spite of the small tuber of openings , there is almost universal agreement that training supervisory and administrative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Committee on Curriculum at the Minnesota Conference mentioned previously reported , " To offer such curricula at the undergraduate level is to do violence to the significance of the work involvcd . " The limited demand for executive leadership and the high standard of ring required for such work present a practical problem for the traininstitutions . It is obvious that enrollments in professional courses the graduate level must be limited and students selected with the greatcare . Some leaders believe that students should be drawn as far as possible from men and women who have had experience in the field of align and who have shown the capacity for positions of greater risibility . A graduate course requires a highly specialized faculty // experienced in and familiar with the everyday problems and developments in the recreation field . The Committee on Teacher Training Institutes at the Minnesota Conference expressed the opinion that possibly three or four properly located schools should offer training courses for full-time administrative positions . Dr. L. P. Jacks on the basis of his observations believed that because the success of such a course demands a faculty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plan and conduct the course without reference to formal educational restrictions , the task should not be assigned to any existing university but could best be performed by an institution created primarily for this specific purpose . TRAINING FOR ACTIVITY LEADERSHIP Although a basic cultural undergraduate course followed by professional studies on the graduate level is considered the ideal training for all types of recreation positions , the limited employment opportunities and the salary rates prevalent in many cities make such preparation impracticable for many individuals . To a large extent students must be trained in a four-year course . Opinions differ as to whether universities or colleges setting up a training course should place it under an existing school or department , should create a special department to administer it , or should appoint a coordinating committee to plan and direct the training program . The first method has been followed in many institutions which have placed the course under a physical education , education , music , social science , or other existing department . This tends to make recreation training subordinate to these other fields and the faculty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ field of recreation . The second method , although sound in principle , is impracticable under present conditions because of the limited demand for leaders and the necessarily small enrollment in the course . The coordinating committee assures consideration of the problem from many points of view and makes possible cooperative planning on the part of the various divisions and departments which have some interest in , and contribute to , the training program . This method is being followed in several institutions which are setting up an experimental curriculum . In any plan for an undergraduate curriculum providing a major in recreation the cooperation of all departments which have a contribution to make should be enlisted . Many believe that such cooperation and a proper organization of the curriculum are of greater importance than the form of administration under which the curriculum is set up . In a particular institution , the plan is conditioned by the types of recreation positions leaders are being trained for , tiie faculty available , the courses // which are already being given , and the essential requirements for graduation . If leaders are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ service in industries or institutions , or with group work agencies , the courses must be adapted to the special needs of these groups . The curriculum must naturally meet the general requirements of the institution governing graduation , majors , minors , and other factors . It is of special importance that the individual courses that deal indirectly with recreation be somehow related definitely to this field . Opportunities for practical leadership experience , problem solving , and personal participation in extracurricular activities are necessary as a supplement to , and testing ground for , classroom work . A Four-year Undergraduate Curriculum. ? The following outline contains a suggested grouping of courses from which a selection is to be made by a student preparing to enter recreation work immediately after graduation . In any institution each individual student would naturally choose the particular available courses which most fully met his own interests and needs . In the allotment of credit hours and the various grouping of courses it is assumed that a total of 120 hours is required for graduation and that the distribution of courses also meets the general @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the umber of credit hours for each course . figure Training for Specialized Service. ? It is desirable that supervisors of music , drama , arts and crafts , and athletics have graduate training of a specialized nature following a general college course . In any case these workers as well as the specialists need training in college or in a school offering special instruction in the activity which they are to teach , lead , or supervise . It is very important , however , that these workers supplement the training in their particular field of activity by taking courses that will help them understand the philosophy and practice of recreation and the objectives of community recreation service . The Probable Demand for Trained Leaders. ? The present interest of colleges and other institutions in recreation training is apparently based upon the expectation that there will be a marked increase in employment opportunities in the recreation field . Large numbers of individuals are engaged in recreation under Federal emergency programs , but the expansion in municipal recreation personnel has been slow and gradual . In 1938 , for example , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as recreation leaders in community recreation service throughout the United States and Canada as compared with 20,762 leaders Ill years earlier . Opinions differ widely as to the probable demand for trained leaders in the years ahead . Nevertheless , it seems desirable that , to a large extent recreation leadership courses be so planned that persons completing them will be prepared to secure positions iii some other type of service which may be supplemented by part-time recren1 work . // NONPROFESSIONAL COURSES Perhaps the greatest contribution that colleges and universities can make in the field of training for recreation leadership is by offering courses which will appeal to the entire student body . Such courses would be presented not from the standpoint of vocational opportunities but because of their contribution to the enrichment of the leisure-time resources of the students . Two types of courses would contribute to this end , ( 1 ) those dealing with the significance of leisure in modern life and ( 2 ) others offering opportunity for participation in crafts , social recreation , drama , music , and related activities . Such courses are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ create an interest in the recreational arts on the part of the individual students . They have value as a means of introducing students to activities which promise genuine enjoyment and satisfaction in their own leisure hours and they equip students to serve as volunteer recreation leaders and as enthusiastic supporters of recreation in their own communities . Suggestions on the content of such courses are offered in Chap . X. IN-SERVICE TRAINING Owing to the limited training opportunities afforded by colleges and iversities in the past , a large percentage of the men and women now gaged in recreation work have undertaken their tasks without adequate reparation for the duties and responsibilities which have been placed pun them . Many of these workers had a general cultural education or re trained for other fields such as teaching , physical education , music , social work , religious education , or drama . Their studies have been carried on in departments concerned primarily with training for some other field . Much of the knowledge of recreation activities , organization , facilities , and leadership which these workers have acquired was gained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ afford to neglect this phase of its training program and the need for in-service training will continue regardless of how adequately institutions may prepare recreation workers in the future . The recreation field is so wide in scope and is changing so rapidly that workers must continue study , to observe , and to keep abreast of new developments in recreation and find in related fields . The comprehensive in-service training program is not only continuous , It includes all workers in the department . It is in no sense considered $ substitute for professional education , but it continues the teaching by " stimulating thought , challenging ideas , developing strength , encouraging growth . " t Among the methods most commonly used . // by recreation departments to accomplish in-service training are institutes , conferences , staff meetings , supervised reading , workers ' committees , group discussion , observation trips , and demonstrations . Training Institutes. ? Most recreation departments conduct some form of training institute . Such courses differ widely in nature and purpose , but perhaps the most common type is that for seasonal workers , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before the opening of the summer playground season and usually extends over a period of about a week , with all-day sessions . In some cities where appointments are made following the institute , all applicants for positions are required to attend . Workers already employed or individuals who have served in previous seasons are sometimes excused from some of the courses . The program at these institutes generally includes inspirational addresses , discussions of program planning , lectures on safety , first aid , and care of supplies , practice demonstrations and group participation in games and play activities , workshop classes in handicraft and other special subjects , and an interpretation of the objectives , relationships , techniques , rules , procedures , schedules , and assignments to be in effect during the playground season . In cities with a year-round staff the responsibility for planning the institute is sometimes assumed largely by these workers who also have a large part in the actual conduct of the sessions . Leaders from agencies in the city or recreation officials from other cities are sometimes brought in to present special subjects @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ essential training for successful playground leadership but it supplements general training and helps prepare individuals to meet the specific problems which they are expected to deal with in any particular city . General Recreation Courses. ? In a number of cities training courses have been conducted by recreation departments , usually in cooperation with other local agencies , for the purpose of providing general supplementary training for their workers . In one city where such a course was offered the topics presented included cooperation among recreation agencies in the city , responsibility of the municipality for recreation , group organization and clubs , effects of competitive athletics , mental health , community night programs , special playground features , folk dancing , problem children , and the care of equipment . This course was held in the evening and included 15 sessions of two or more hours each . Recreation department employees were encouraged to take the course and all persons seeking employment with the department were required to attend it . It was open , however , to all in the city . Like the playground institutes these general courses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for group consideration of special problems . // An outstanding example of the general recreation institute is the type which has been conducted over a period of years in a large number of American cities by the National Recreation Association in cooperation with local recreation departments and other agencies . The major purpose of these institutes has been to bring new inspiration and a fresh point of view to paid and volunteer leaders , present a new interpretation of objectives in the field of recreation , establish high standards of excellence in recreation work , and help workers increase their skills in conducting activities . These institutes have extended over a period of four weeks , classes being held five days per week and comprising a total of approximately 90 hours . Much of the work presented in these institutes has consisted of practice in organizing , performing , and leading . Some of the earlier institutes included courses in several subjects ; others have been devoted to a limited number of subjects such as nature activities , arts and crafts , and music . Many recreation authorities have felt that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ understanding on the part of their leaders . Institutes in Special Activities. ? A third type of course which plays $ major part in in-service training programs is the institute in some pecial phase of activity such as song leading , folk dancing , social recreaon , puppetry , or crafts . Such courses are conducted by a specialist this particular activity , frequently by a national authority in the Id . In cases where they are under the leadership of a person from outs the city , they are usually intensive in nature . In other instances y extend over a longer period , with weekly sessions . Music and drama institutes frequently terminate in a production by the persons taking the course . This type of institute affords an excellent means by which staff ricers can enlarge and increase their own skills and learn the techniques group leadership in specific activities and effective methods of organg special projects . It often helps to initiate an enlarged program in special field and furnishes an opportunity for training and enlisting volunteer leaders in the activity . New leadership methods learned in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other parts the department program . Institutes for Lay Leaders. ? Paid workers also receive valuable traineither as instructors or participants in the institutes which are fretly arranged primarily for the training of volunteers and for the lit of the general public . Sometimes in these institutes major emphais is laid upon interpreting the significance of the recreation movet and the importance of the local recreation program . More fretly , however , they afford opportunities for participation in activities . One city an annual recreation institute sponsored by a committee of lion department . workers is conducted primarily for men and women servo as leaders of adult , groups . Programs vary from year to year , // but the six weekly sessions include instruction and demonstration in such activities as table games , parties for large groups , progressive games , community dancing , informal dramatics , and creative activities . In another city the course comprises several weekly sessions and each of the meetings is divided into three periods . The first consists of a general assembly at which outstanding speakers present subjects of general interest . Following @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ topics are considered such as recreation in the home , games and sports , or dramatics . The evening is concluded with a third period when the entire group participates in social recreation , indoor picnics , old-time dances , or campfire programs . Although intended for the general public and for lay leaders , these institutes afford excellent training opportunities for members of the department staff and are also frequently attended by local university students who are preparing for work in recreation . Local recreation departments frequently cooperate with other local agencies in planning institutes and courses from which their workers receive benefits . A number of recreation executives and other staff workers serve as instructors in courses offered by local colleges or universities . Such courses afford a recruiting and training ground for persons who later are employed in the department . Institutes conducted by the Federal emergency agencies , often in cooperation with the local recreation authorities , have furnished training for large numbers of emergency leaders assigned for service with recreation departments . In a few cities such courses have continued throughout the entire year ; in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ institutes . Staff Meetings. ? The staff meeting is a widely used and effective means of in-service training . In cities with a year-round program staff meetings are usually held once a month but during the summer playground season workers in many cities are called together each week . As a rule all workers are obliged to attend staff meetings , which serve the following purposes : to inform the staff as to department rules , regulations , policies , and plans ; to afford instruction in specific recreation activities and projects ; to plan city-wide and other special events ; to confer on staff relationships ; to hear reports on special problems submitted by staff members ; to discuss community events affecting recreation ; and to consider methods of self-improvement . Sometimes outstanding leaders on some phase of recreation address the group . Members of the department staff increasingly share in the responsibility for planning and conducting staff meetings . Individual workers are assigned topics which are presented before the group ; of hers are called upon to provide instruction in special activities and projects . Commit tees of workers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discussions at staff meetings . Such methods stimulate study and research , furnish training in public speaking , and keep workers in touch with new developments in the recreation field . The staff meeting , if wisely planned and conducted , affords a splendid opportunity for raising standards of work in the department and for developing a spirit of cooperat ion among the members of the staff . Conferences. ? Opportunities for exchanging ideas between workers in different cities and of learning about new methods of conducting recreation work are stimulating to workers . Progressive recreation departments therefore encourage their workers to attend national and district conferences where the subject of recreation is discussed . The most outstanding of these gatherings is the National Recreation Congress which is held annually and is attended by hundreds of recreation leaders and representatives of related fields . At the Congress workers gain inspiration from addresses by outstanding speakers , participate in discussions of techniques , trends , and problems at the many section meetings , observe exhibits and displays of recreation products and local recreation service , take part in informal sessions devoted to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other activities , observe local facilities and activities , and most valuable of all , exchange ideas through informal conferences and meetings with individuals who are confronted by the same kind of problems which they are facing . M any opportunities arise during the year for workers to benefit by attending other meetings . Conferences of municipal recreation executives , under the sponsorship of the National Recreation Association , are held each year in various sections of the country . Unlike the Congress , attendance at these meetings is restricted largely to professional workers and discussion is limited primarily to technical problems . Local , district , or national meetings of groups interested in some phase of recreation such as camping , athletics , or girls ' work afford recreation leaders opportunities for extending their knowledge . Recreation workers are encournged to take part in local conferences arranged by city-wide groups for discussions of problems touching the recreation field . Other Training Methods. ? Directed reading is used in many cities as a means of in-service training . Workers ' attention is called to publcations of unusual value and interest , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ each week to professional reading , or special books on recreation are made available through the department , city , or municipal reference library . Many departments subscribe to magazines which are useful to their workers and in a number of cities several copies Recreation are distributed each month among the members of the staff . Reports of publications relating to the recreation field are sometimes submitted at stall ' meetings . // Supervision provided by the department staff is one of the most effective in-service training methods . Through their visits to centers , through meetings with junior workers , through demonstrations and guidance in the development of projects , supervisors help workers acquire skills and understanding . Some executives make it a point to call the workers ' attention to local events and happenings which are in some way related to the work of the department and from which the leaders might gain useful suggestions . Typical of such happenings are exhibits , demonstrations , music , dance , or athletic programs . Short local courses in special subjects related to recreation are called to the attention of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them . The value of apprenticeships in the field of local government is becoming widely recognized , but only a beginning has been made in the use of apprentices in recreation departments . However , the National Recreation Association is financing several apprentices each year in local recreation departments in the belief that the training , experience , and guidance which they receive during their apprenticeship will better equip them for positions of responsibility in the field . Likewise the possibilities which an exchange of workers offers for the growth of workers and the benefit of programs have only begun to be appreciated in the recreation field . In a few cities , especially those with a year-round staff , workers have formed clubs or associations , the objectives of which are to increase the effectiveness of the members , to promote good fellowship , and to further the interests of public recreation . In achieving these objectives problems confronting the department are studied and discussed , and research projects are undertaken . Picnics , outings , week ends in camp , or social recreation evenings are also arranged , when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interests . These volunteer organizations of recreation workers are a useful means of developing morale among the members of the department staff and also encourage the workers to suggest ways and means of improving standards of recreation leadership and service . CHAPTER IX SELECTING AND MAINTAINING THE LEADERSHIP STAFF Municipal recreation must compete with other fields of employment for people of the qualifications outlined in Chap . VII . In order to secure and retain the right kind of personnel , the recreation department must make its conditions of employment attractive to qualified workers . Recreation authorities have no task more important than the selection of their leadership staff . ESSENTIAL FACTORS IN SELECTING WORKERS Conditions and factors which affect the ability of recreation authorities to select and retain competent leaders include the following : 1 . The interpretation of opportunities offered by the recreation field 2 . The establishment of broad qualifications for employment in various positions 3 . Freedom to select and employ individuals who are most competent 4 . The adoption of satisfactory procedure for the selection of workers 5 . Ability to pay salaries commensurate with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ year-round employment 7 , Assurance of reasonable security for workers 8 . Ability to make recreation a career service by offering opportunities for advancement 9 . Adequate provisions for retirement The ability of recreation authorities to influence or control these factors varies widely from city to city . In some cases they have the , r to fix conditions relative to the selection and retention of their keys ; in others these conditions are largely determined by other inls . Because of the limited employment opportunities in the field , Cation authorities have not paid adequate attention to some of these factors . Noteworthy progress is being made , however , toward the attainment of satisfactory conditions as they affect recreation workers . The report of the Committee on Training , Experience , and Compensation in Community Recreation Work ' has helped focus attention only on the need for adequate standards but also on more satisfactory employment practices . The Society of Recreation Workers of America , organized in 1938 , lists among its aims and objectives the main- 115 // tenance of high standards of professional qualifications , the promotion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the interests of recreation workers as a group . The report of the Commission of Inquiry on Public Service Personnel , ' outlining procedures for the establishment of career service in government , has received wide publicity and support and will unquestionably aid in meeting the personnel problems in municipal recreation service . Interpreting the Movement. ? The possibilities for professional service which the recreation field offers must be interpreted widely and effectively in order that persons with the proper qualifications for this service may consider recreation leadership as their life work . Methods of interpreting the movement and of advising the public as to the work of the recreation department are considered in Chap . XXXIII . It is especially important that the recreation profession be represented in vocational and guidance conferences arranged for students in schools and colleges . Only as the recreation movement is adequately interpreted will it attract persons interested in a career which demands unselfish personal service , and will it weed out persons interested merely in a job . Interpretation is also essential in order that the public may realize the necessity for well-qualified @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon qualified workers . Qualifications. ? The general and special qualifications for recreation service presented in the committee report2 are being used more and more by recreation departments as a guide in setting up standards for the selection of its workers . Local conditions sometimes require or justify variations in the qualifications recommended by the Committee but the standards have proved useful in raising the general level of local requirements for employment . Freedom in Employing Workers. ? Because recreation authorities are responsible for the quality and quantity of the service rendered by their workers , they must have freedom to choose the best qualified personnel available . Political pressure and personal favoritism must obviously be eliminated in the selection of workers . Local applicants are entitled to full and fair consideration , but restricting employment to persons residing in the city , county , or state may handicap a locality in securing the best , personnel . As a rule , competent workers can be secured locally for the positions of minor responsibility . It is particularly important , however , that the position of chief executive and others of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of residence , because in many instances suitable candidates are not available within the city . Increas // ingly , applications from experienced persons outside the city are welcomed , if not actually sought , by recreation authorities . Salaries. ? Competent workers can be secured and retained only when salaries are adequate . The salary scale presented in the Committee report ! was determined after a careful study of the different positions , the responsibilities involved , and the salaries in related fields of public service requiring comparable training and experience and involving equal responsibilities . Local salary rates in such fields must be kept in mind iii fixing the compensation of recreation workers in a particular locality . l in fortunately , in most localities , recreation leaders are paid considerably less than the minimum standards recommended in the report.2 Full-time , Year-round Service. ? One of the difficulties in attracting competent personnel is that to a great extent the direction of playgrounds end indoor centers and various types of supervisory and executive service till afford only part-time employment . Recreation is only a secondary cans of livelihood for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ field for professional advancement . The percentage of community creation leaders employed on a full-time basis is increasing but the best Wrests of the community program demand a further trend in this direction . SOURCES OF WORKERS Many persons who are serving successfully in leadership positions with local recreation departments were trained for and gained their experence in other fields . With the growth of the movement , however , a larger percentage of these positions , especially of an executive or supervisory nature , are being filled from within the profession . Furthermore , because more recreation courses are now available , many of the persons who are being employed by recreation departments for subordinate and time positions have had some professional training . The Executive. ? Several sources are available to the city seeking a ation executive or general supervisor . In a large city with a highly organized departmental staff , the position may be filled by the promotion of a worker who has demonstrated his ability and capacity for larger visibilities . Otherwise , the authorities are likely to canvass the best ! able personnel in comparable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these workers to apply for the position . In a smaller city they so the same sources , but in addition they may seek a person in a city system who has been particularly successful in a less responsible tion , such as playground director . When there is a change in exec- // utive leadership or when a new department is created , pressure is often brought to bear upon the recreation authorities to appoint a local citizen . Sometimes there is available a worker in a related field such as a supervisor of physical education , a school principal , a Y.M.C.A. or settlement worker , or an athletic director , who has the proper personal qualifications , training , and experience . More often , however , the position can be filled satisfactorily only by appointing an individual experienced in municipal recreation work . Other Full-time Employees. ? Other positions offering full-time employment are those of general supervisor , special activities supervisor , and playground or center director . These positions are sometimes filled from outside the city although competent local applicants for them are more likely to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a supervisor , the authorities look to the following sources : ( 1 ) persons who have served in a similar position on a part-time or seasonal basis , ( 2 ) playground or center directors who have demonstrated unusual ability and the capacity for higher responsibility , or ( 3 ) instructors or specialists in a particular type of activity , either within the department or in related fields , who have shown a special aptitude for such service in the recreation department . For example , a person who has taught manual training or natural science in the schools , who has worked vacations as a specialist at camps or playgrounds , and who has made a special study of municipal recreation , may be selected for the supervisor of crafts or nature activities . The position of playground and center director , on the other hand , is more likely to be filled by promoting individuals who have successfully served as assistant director , group leader , or special instructor , or by employing recent graduates of colleges offering recreation courses , who have had some experience in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ employment and remuneration are comparatively limited , part-time or seasonal workers are usually recruited from the city employing them . Schoolteachers , kindergarteners , and teachers or supervisors of physical education , music , ' crafts , and science are employed in large numbers for work during the summer months as supervisors , special teachers , playground directors , and assistants . In many cities summer workers are drawn largely from the ranks of recent college graduates or students who are specializing in recreation or a related field or who formerly served as junior leaders while attending the playgrounds themselves . School , college , and university faculties and student bodies furnish much of the leadership personnel employed at camps , swimming centers , and other special features . Indoor center directors and assistants , specialists , and club leaders are drawn from a great variety of sources . Day-school teachers of physical education , manual training , and other subjects are often employed // one or more evenings a week to conduct center groups or classes . In some cities the use of employed schoolteachers is avoided because of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expected to give their best service after a day in the classroom . An attempt is therefore made to find other people who are willing to serve on a part-time basis . For example , a professional musician is employed to train the orchestras , a dressmaker to conduct the sewing classes , a craftsman to assist the group making jewelry , and an artist to instruct the sketch club . I t , is frequently possible to find women who before their marriage were recreation workers or teachers and who are glad to accept such part-time employment . The possibilities for expanding the program are limited In some communities because properly trained workers are not available in the locality . METHODS OF SELECTING WORKERS Regardless of the specific method used , it is agreed that recreation workers , especially those employed full-time the year round , should be selected on the basis of merit . Competitive examination is perhaps the most practical and common method of selection , whether under civil service , the recreation authorities , or some other municipal agency . In the case of part-time or seasonal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ done satisfactory work in short institute courses and without competitive examination ; sometimes a personal interview and references followed up carefully are the chief basis for selection . In rare instances the selection is restricted to persons who have been certified by a designated agency . In any case all applicants must measure up to certain personality and educational requirements considered essential for the particular position . Civil Service. ? On the whole , recreation authorities feel that civil service is probably the most practical method yet devised for the selection their workers . According to the Recreation Year Book for 1937 , howor , civil service was used in only 103 cities in the selection of recreation on net . Most of these are large municipalities or are in states where civil service procedure has been widely adopted . The underlying principle of civil service is the selection of the best Milled personnel available , and to the extent that it achieves this objective it protects the taxpayer as well as the worker . Procedure for putting the plan into effect rests with the local civil service commission . Among @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proper and adequate classification system with the positions clearly defined as to the duties involved and the essential qualifications ; to work out adequate minimum ' rance requirements ; to prepare examination questions after consultawith recreation authorities ; to conduct examinations designed to test // the applicants ' technical knowledge and personal qualifications ; to secure information as to the applicants ' past record , character , and physical condition ; to submit to the recreation authorities a list of satisfactory candidates from which appointments are to be made ; to fix a probationary period before the appointments become permanent ; and to establish and administer efficiency ratings . These conditions are being met with varying degrees of satisfaction in different cities . If the civil service authorities are selected with care , and if they give advance publicity to examinations , seek competent advice in setting up qualifications and in preparing and grading examinations , and provide the recreation department with lists of the best qualified candidates , the results are satisfactory . Several recreation departments have extended effective assistance to the civil service authorities who have sought their cooperation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ employed to assist in preparing and conducting examinations and in grading the applicants . An alert , informed public opinion is effective in causing civil service authorities to consider carefully the special requirements of recreation service and to adopt acceptable selection methods . It is worth mentioning that , although they usually set rather high standards for their workers , boards of education do not use civil service generally . Therefore , however effective this method may become as a means of selecting recreation workers with Federal , state , or municipal agencies , there will be many workers , particularly in part-time and seasonal positions , who are not employed through civil service . Certification. ? Certification or licensing of individuals as a prerequisite to employment in recreation is in effect in two states , New Jersey and California , and it affects only recreation workers in school systems . Under this method only persons who have been certified by a central body in the state are eligible for local employment in recreation leadership positions . Few recreation executives favor this method and most of them feel that it can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ controlled by the recreation profession . Such a body would have administrative freedom to establish classifications for recreation positions and standard requirements for them , and to fix fees and conduct necessary examinations . Special certificates would be issued for each major classification . Persons licensed by this body would provide a reservoir of personnel from which positions might be filled after further examination by the employing agency . Other Methods. ? In cities where there is no civil service commission or certification system , other methods must be developed of ensuring I Inc selection of competent , adequately trained personnel . Many attempts have been successful ; others have failed because of powerful and host Ho // opposition . In cities with a merit system along the lines of civil service , positions are classified , examinations held , and selection based on the best judgment of the recreation authority . Rating scales which eliminate the necessity of examinations have been used in one or more cities where the large number of applicants for summer playground positions makes personal interviews and written examinations impracticable ; but this practice is not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ course before employing seasonal workers who are selected on the basis of their record during the course . Some systems select their workers without providing any special training and without any examination . This arrangement has worked out successfully when the managing authority is free from political control and where applicants must meet standard qualifications . In general , however , it is wise to select workers on the basis of an examination which assures competent and unbiased consideration of the merits of all applicants . EXAMINATIONS Examinations for the selection of recreation workers generally include three types of tests to determine the fitness of candidates . A witten test is designed to reveal the applicant 's knowledge of the field vered by the examination , his understanding of its relationships to her fields , and his ability to organize and express his thoughts in written form . A practical test requires the applicant to organize or lead a group people in selected activities or to perform some other task related to ( ' particular position . A personal interview reveals the applicant 's personal qualities , character , general fitness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It also affords an opportunity for evaluating the erences and records of previous experience which each applicant is required to submit and to appraise his possibilities for growth in the service . All candidates for positions are expected to meet minimum standards age , education , and experience before they are permitted to take the mination . Evidence of good character and a certificate of sound physical health are also considered prerequisites . Before appointment physical examinations should be given all who pass the preceding tests . The relative weight to be given to each of the three tests varies according to the nature of the position . Four out of a ten-point total is lowed for the written test in the case of most positions . The practical I counts for more than the personal in examinations for such positions lifeguard , play leader , specialist , or supervisor of special activities . personal interview , however , is considered relatively more important examinations for the position of superintendent or general supervisor . // Content of Written Examinations. ? The questions asked in written examinations are intended to reveal the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the position which he is seeking and of the methods of solving them . Examinations for the different positions naturally vary widely . Candidates for executive positions are asked questions relative to the broad scope of municipal recreation and are designed to indicate his knowledge of administrative methods . The activity leader on the other hand is expected to show familiarity with specific leadership methods , activities , and materials . In an examination applicants for the position of superintendent of recreation may be asked to prepare an organization chart for a recreation department for a city of a given size , to outline a plan of procedure for establishing a year-round recreation program , to prepare a budget , to describe a system of departmental service and business records , to outline a program for interpreting the work of the recreation department , or ; ; o discuss an adequate system of recreation areas and facilities for a city . Applicants for this type of position are frequently required to write a thesis on some general phase of the subject such as the relation of organized municipal recreation to other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ life . Candidates for supervisory positions are tested on their fitness for the specific job ; for example a supervisor of athletics is required to demonstrate his knowledge of athletics , games , and sports , and also to indicate how these activities may be organized on the individual playground , at the indoor center , or on a city-wide basis . Playground and center workers are asked questions which for the most part relate to problems involved in operating these facilities . Typical subjects are the reasons for playgrounds or indoor centers , play interests at different ages , descriptions of games and other activities , program planning methods , the selection and care of supplies and play materials , safety on the playground , methods of enlisting neighborhood cooperation , the use of volunteer leaders , and methods of solving problems of conduct . Lifeguards , golf course managers , and other special workers are questioned primarily on the particular phases of the work for which they are to be held responsible . APPOINTMENTS Under civil service , lists of qualified personnel eligible for appointment on the basis of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prepared by the civil service authorities , and the recreation authorities are required to make their appointments from the names on this list . In any case , if merit is the sole basis for selection , the individuals who have made the most creditable showing in the // examination or who have passed some other test receive the appointment . Whether civil service is in effect or not , experience has shown that a probationary period of at least six months is highly desirable for all appointees ; many authorities believe a two-year period is necessary in the case of some types of workers . The probationary period enables the department to observe the worker 's attitudes , the quality of his work , and his suitability for the position . During the period he should be helped in becoming effective in it . It is desirable for the superintendent of recreation to report regularly to the civil service commission and to his superiors , and to recommend that the worker be dropped if he has demonstrated that he is not fitted for the position . This is highly important @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after final appointment , except for serious offenses . If at the end of the probationary period the worker has demonstrated his fitness for the position , his appointment becomes permanent . MAINTAINING STANDARDS OF EFFICIENCY Practices and policies which enable the recreation department to retain , protect , and promote the successful worker and also to release the effective one are just as important as those which assure the securing of mpetent personnel . A successful personnel program calls for the five cooperation of the civil service commission or other general rsonnel agency of the city , the recreation authority , and the workers themselves . It involves the adoption of procedures which are fair to the ricer , give him reasonable protection on the job , and provide opportuniies for advancement . On his part the worker must perform his duties faithfully , maintain a sustained interest in his work , respond to reasone rules of personal conduct , and continue his professional training . corkers are entitled to reasonable security of tenure and to protection m demotion or dismissal except for legitimate reasons , just as the department @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ part of its workers . Rating Workers. ? A system of rating recreation workers is desirable a Basis for salary increases or decreases , promotions , transfers , renew , and adjustments in the assignments of individual workers . Many recreation authorities have established effective rating systems or are cooperating with civil service commissions in the rating of their workers . departments where the staff is small , the executive can personally ) w the work of each employee closely and with the aid of his supervisors ran easily appraise their efficiency . In systems employing large numbers of workers , however , definite rating schemes are required . It is commonly agreed that ratings should be made frequently and periodically throughout the year , that several competent individuals // should have a part in the rating process , that as far as possible ratings be objective and have a uniform basis , that workers be rated on specific qualities or factors , and that rating systems facilitate the checking of individual scores . It is desirable that each worker 's record be analyzed at least once a year and that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for . Some authorities make it a practice of having each worker 's rating reviewed annually with him by the person to whom he is directly responsible . Advancement ? Promotion of workers within the department is desirable whenever possible because it helps to attract capable individuals to the service and to maintain the morale of workers . Recreation can be developed into a career service only when promotion is on merit and is based upon efficiency , service records , and examinations , rather than on seniority . Definite periodic salary increases offer an incentive to workers , but should be granted only if deserved . Frequently examinations for positions in higher classifications are restricted to persons already employed and giving satisfactory service in subordinate positions . Supplementary training secured by employed workers is sometimes taken into account in making promotions , but it is desirable that such training count only as it is reflected in increased effectiveness on the job . Academic credits alone are not considered a justification for salary increases or the assignment of greater responsibility . Retirement. ? Full-time , year-round recreation workers employed by agencies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ systems on the same basis as other governmental employees . CHAPTER X VOLUNTEER SERVICE IN THE RECREATION DEPARTMENT Volunteer service has played an important role in the development of community recreation . As pointed out in Chap . V , the sand gardens of Boston were first conducted by volunteer leaders . Many present-day public recreation departments grew out of the work of the voluntary playground or recreation associations which sprang up in the 1890 's or later . When the municipality took over the program some of the members of these associations were appointed to serve on recreation commissions , advisory boards , or committees . Each year thousands of individuals contribute time and service to municipal recreation departments . In 1938 , more than 300 cities reported the enlistment of 25,000 volunteer workers , one-third of whom served as leaders of activities . In spite of the large number of volunteer recreation leaders , increase in such service has not kept pace with the growth of the movement and volunteers are used less extensively in municipal recreation than among a umber of private leisure-time agencies . Since in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what municipal governments will he able to supply , there should be opportunity for a vast amount of oluntcer recreation service . Every community contains men and omen of talent , leisure , and personality who might be drawn into the work . Greater resourcefulness in attracting them and more effective organization for using them are necessary in order that the values and possibilities of volunteer service may be fully realized . As a matter of fact. , since the recruiting , training , and guidance of volunteers calls for initiative , tact , and ability , the extent to which a recreation department enlists volunteer service is one indication of the caliber of its leadership . Some of the major problems and methods in the use of volunteers are considered in this chapter . TYPES OF VOLUNTEER SERVICE The many different ways in which volunteers serve recreation departments may be grouped according to the following types : // recreation council . Under this type are also the persons who assist with referendum campaigns or who accept assignments to help interpret the work of the department to the local authorities or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This type involves organizing , guiding , or instructing people , such as advising a hobby club , conducting nature hikes , or teaching a craft class . Other examples of such leaders are playground storytellers , tennis instructors , social recreation leaders , or persons who assume responsibility for organizing and conducting a bowling tournament , softball league , or doll show . 3 . Nonleadership Help with Program Projects. ? Officiating at athletic games or contests , serving as a judge at special events , or helping in the preparation of a playground pageant are examples of such service . In addition , many individuals perform without charge at department entertainments , serve as ushers or help with the scenery or lighting equipment at dramatic productions , or furnish transportation for playground groups on special occasions . 4 . Miscellaneous Services. ? These consist of such services as marking game courts , helping with playground registration , constructing game equipment , or giving clerical assistance in the department office . It is clear that different kinds of volunteer service require persons of widely different training , experience , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ service whereas others make demands upon the individual 's time and attention throughout the year . A great variety of possible volunteer services suggest themselves to the alert executive . For example , in one city which used nearly 600 volunteers during the year , 5 were members of the Recreation Commission , 49 served as storytellers at play streets and in institutions , 100 performed for the traveling theater , 8 served as play leaders , 180 took part in radio , entertainment , and institutional programs , 75 helped during girls ' week , 100 gave automobile service in connection with the traveling theater , 2 taught folk dancing groups , and 47 served on the Christmas committee . In another city more than a thousand individuals assisted in the recreation program of the park department during one year . Junior Leaders. ? Volunteer service is not restricted to adults , for boys and girls display a desire and capacity for leadership and service which express themselves in various ways , especially on the playground . Children are helpful in telling stories to younger children , guarding them at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , giving instruction in simple crafts , caring for supplies and equipment , carrying responsibilities in athletic organizations , and instructing younger children in the use of apparatus . Safety patrols , junior police , junior leaders ' corps , playground town governments , and junior towns give opportunity for voluntary leadership by boys and girls and also provide valuable training in leadership . Often these activities are considered parts of the playground program rather than as volunteer service . Services of Organizations. ? Local organizations or groups interested in leisure-tithe activities , as well as individuals , also render valuable // assistance . Frequently the cooperation of an organization has made possible the starting of a new program feature such as a drama or nature club , the development of new facilities , or an increase in the department 's budget . In a number of cities when the program has been threatened because of a drastic reduction in the budget , agencies like the parentteacher association have enlisted from their membership a corps of volunteer workers to help carry on the playgrounds or centers . In other instances they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ organizations have donated playgrounds , swimming pools , or other recreation facilities to the city , have met the expense of operating camps , or have provided leaders for specific program features such as storytelling , a nature museum , or an indoor center . The recreation council , on which local agencies interested in recreation have representation , is a means of stimulating volunteer service and securing support for the recreation program . This form of organization , which has proved great asset to many recreation departments , will be discussed later in the chapter . VALUES IN VOLUNTEER SERVICE From the examples just cited it is clear that the active interest of paid lay men and women is vital to the larger success of the movement . ere are so many tasks to be done that were it not for volunteers much rk would remain unaccomplished . Among the chief advantages of unteer service to the recreation department are these : 1 . Volunteers bring a fresh point of view and an enthusiasm valuable alike to the professional staff and to the participants in the program . In some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , attitudes , and interests of the ple served than the paid workers . 2 . I t mobilizes the skill , intelligence , enthusiasm , and support of persons interested the development of a particular part of the program , such as nature study , chess , puppetry . 8 . Participation of volunteers in recreation work tends to make the program more vatic and contributes to the principle of self-direction. 4 . The fact that people are willing to serve the department gladly without cornt ion gives the employed staff a renewed sense of the value of the work . 8 . The trained volunteer , through his work on committees and in the conduct of vit ien , can make easier the acceptance of high standards . 0 . lly taking responsibility for performing specific functions or by helping with b the volunteer frees part of the paid worker 's time and makes possible a larger Scher program . 7 . Volunteers have an advantage as interpreters . In " speaking up " for recreation can not be accused of trying to preserve their jobs . They are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ educating the public to needed and advances in recreation . Frequently the layman has a more influential ' whip with the public than does the professional worker . // As a superintendent of recreation has pointed out : " Volunteers of wealth and prestige have the power to safeguard , interpret , and promote any program for public good to which they may care to commit themselves . " Realizing the truth of this statement , forward-looking recreation authorities are enlisting the interest and support of prominent men and women in their communities . DIFFICULTIES IN THE USE OF VOLUNTEERS It must not be taken for granted that because volunteers can and do render valuable service , no difficulties are experienced in using them . As a matter of fact , some recreation workers do not use volunteers extensively because they believe that it requires more time to secure , train , and supervise them than it does to do the work themselves . What are some of the difficulties experienced with volunteer service ? Except in rare instances , the volunteer 's recreation interest is a secondary one which is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ difficult to hold to strict account persons who are giving their services than paid workers . Unless volunteers accept a definite responsibility for reporting for duty promptly and performing the duties expected of them , they are not likely to sacrifice a social engagement in order to attend a club or committee meeting . The different basis upon which volunteers and paid workers serve has sometimes given rise to problems in their relationships . Programs dependent upon lay leaders have less assurance of being completed or maintained continuously than when paid workers are used . If the social status of the volunteer and the people served differ greatly , a lack of sympathetic understanding and confidence may result unless the volunteer is a person of good judgment . Sometimes a person willing to serve has had little or no specific training for the job . On the other hand , individuals who have had highly specialized training in some form of recreation are not acceptable if they do not understand leadership principles and methods , or share the ideals and standards of the department . Occasionally persons feel that after a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spite of these difficulties , experience has shown that the intelligent use of volunteers has yielded exceedingly worth-while results . PROCEDURES IN DEVELOPING VOLUNTEER SERVICE The effective use of volunteers in municipal recreation service requires careful planning and administration on the part of the authorities in order that the maximum benefits may be secured . The principal procedures in the development and use of volunteer service are recruiting , training , assigning , supervising , and evaluating the workers . ' flue following discussion of these factors relates primarily to volunteer service // involving activity or group leadership or assistance with program projects . For the most part it does not apply directly to administrative or advisory service involving membership on boards , committees , or councils . The special problems and procedures in dealing with volunteers of this type will be considered separately . Recruiting. ? The recruiting of volunteers requires time and studied effort on the part of the recreation and staff . In times of crisis it has proved easier to recruit volunteer leaders than during normal conditions . When budgets were cut early in the depression , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the number of volunteers rapidly increased . In several cities where the playgrounds were about to be closed , relays of volunteers undertook to operate them and to conduct the daily program . However , when emergency workers were later assigned to recreation positions , thereby removing the urgent need for this type of service , the number of volunteers quickly declined . Essential Qualifications. ? In recruiting , recreation authorities keep in mind the general qualifications desirable in all volunteers and the particular requirements called for by the work to be done . Among the qualities which are considered essential in all individuals who are to be used by the recreation department , regardless of the type of service to be performed , are : ( 1 ) character and high standard of personal conduct , ( 2 ) dependability , ( 3 ) adaptability , ( 4 ) a conscientious workmanlike approach to their tasks , ( 5 ) a willingness to accept the department 's methods , policies , and philosophy , ( 6 ) readiness to take and benefit by training , supervision , suggestions , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ carry projects through to completion , and ( 8 ) emotional stability . Additional qualifications for activity leadership are a knowledge of activities , a certain amount of personal skill in them , and ability to rgaaaize , teach , and deal with groups . Board membership , on the other hand , calls for a person with broad understanding , good judgment , standing in the community , forcefulness , and an enthusiastic belief in the recreation movement ? to mention only a few desirable traits . While the volunteer who comes to an organization equipped with skill , education , experience , and a sympathetic attitude finds readiest acceptance , this does not mean that the inexperienced youngster or adult . whose only apparent asset is a desire to serve is useless . The rereation department has so many types of tasks covering so wide a rang of responsibilities that there is certain to be a place where every intelligent individual can serve effectively . Sources of Volunteers. ? In view of the great variety of tasks permed by volunteers , they are recruited from widely different sources . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are trier recreation workers , teachers , hobbyists of all kinds , experts in // activities such as swimming , tennis , or birdlore , and young people who have been trained in leadership methods and have enjoyed their experience as participants in various forms of recreation . Adults and youth who have benefited from the department 's program , parents of playground children , retired men and women , and young women with leisure are often willing to help . Older boys and girls taking part in playground or center activities can frequently be enlisted for some form of volunteer service . If technical ability or special skills are required for a job , the sources of volunteers are thereby limited . A leader for an orchestra or choral group is sought among persons who are actively engaged in music or who have had experience in this field . For help in conducting a track meet or water sports carnival , the recreation department turns to individuals who have been members of college track or swimming teams or to athletic organizations promoting these sports . The ranks of the archery @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ instruction or take charge of a tournament in this sport . If a group of playground children need transportation to a swimming pool or museum , the best source of volunteers may be the parents of the playground children . Groups regularly attending a playground or center are sometimes called on to help care for game materials or apparatus , assist with registration or program features , or mark off game courts . When a piece of work needs to be done , the recreation authorities often turn to local organizations which might be expected to have an interest in the project . The American Legion is asked to take charge of the Fourth-of-July celebration , the parent-teacher association to sponsor a back-yard playground contest , or one of the service clubs to help finance an overnight camp . A little-theater group may provide volunteer leadership for a children 's drama club , the local garden club for a community garden project , or the women 's club for a girls ' activity . The resourceful recreation executive can usually find an organization which will assist with a worth-while project which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chaps . XXVII and XXXIV , contain numerous references to successful activities sponsored by or carried on with the help of local organizations . Enlistment Methods. ? Experience has indicated that it is usually necessary to ask people to help . Occasionally people apply on their own initiative or because of the urging of friends , but in most cases they will not volunteer unless they are asked to do so . The most successful means of enlisting volunteers are personal contacts with individuals who have special interests or hobbies and appeals to organizations known to be interested in recreation . Talks to parent-teacher associations , church groups , women 's clubs , and colleges are often effective . Newspaper appeals , tho                     