@@774341

txt  | They had a definite respect for better-quality goods . The knowledge of their merchandise possessed by these outstanding salespeople had convinced them of the economy of better quality . They knew that customers often can save money by spending a little more and getting better-quality merchandise . Consequently , these salespeople presented higher-priced and better-quality goods with an assurance and confidence that was contagious . In many cases the shoppers were encouraged to look at better merchandise and were given convincing reasons why this merchandise would be more economical in the long run . They were friendly but not familiar . A criticism often made of salespeople in many stores is that they either assume a superior or snobbish air , become overnice to the point of condescension , or are completely disinterested . Such attitudes arouse suspicion and convince customers that either the salesperson 's prime interest is in making the sale or that he is completely disinterested in the customer 's problem . Friendliness , but a complete absence of overfamiliarity , was characteristic of all of the salespeople shopped . Athough they represented @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made the customers feel as comfortable and welcome as if they were shopping in their neighborhood store . Their friendliness aided in making their interest convincing and added authority to what they said . The close relationship between a friendly , cooperative attitude and high productivity was shown recently in the selection of a group of outstanding salespeople in one large store . The selections were made exclusively on the basis of the attitude of the employees toward customers and coworkers . Factors considered were friendliness , cooperation , courtesy , and helpfulness . After the selections were made , the production records were studied . Eighty per cent of those chosen were top producers in their departments and the others were rated above average in production . They avoided obvious pressure . One of the most interesting things learned in these shoppings is that salespersons need not  | use pressure in order to become top producers . Obvious pressure was conspicuously absent among the salespeople shopped . The customers were never given the feeling of being urged to buy or of being rushed into a decision . Rather , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suited to their needs and in pointing out how it would satisfy those needs . As observed before , these salespeople knew their merchandise thoroughly and were able to express selling points convincingly . It was this intelligent point-by-point building up of value that made the customers want to buy . They did not annoy shoppers who expressed a desire to " look around . " In order to observe the attitude of outstanding salespeople toward " lookers , " the shoppers , in a number of instances after having engaged the salesperson 's help , expressed the desire to look around the department . In every one of these cases the shoppers were immediately made to feel that it was their privilege to look . In no instance were they annoyed while looking , although in each case the salesperson was always ready to give information and assistance when requested . In one instance , the salesperson replied , " Well , I am not busy now , and if you wish , I 'll be happy to show you some of the interesting things we have in the department @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and exhibited no resentment when a purchase was not made . Several of these outstanding salespeople met the " I want to look around " problem with statements somewhat as follows : " We are happy to have you look around . If you are looking for such and such , you will find it on this side of our department . If it is our so and so 's you are interested in , we have them over here . Incidentally , you might care to look at these specials we are featuring today . Here , for example , is a .... " This approach , with complete absence of the attitude of pressure , often leads shoppers to look at and become interested in specific merchandise in the department . They showed no disappointment when customers did not buy .  | In the majority of shoppings the customers did not buy , yet not one of these top-notch salespersons showed any outward resentment or disappointment . In every case the customers were invited to return . In many instances , the salespeople gave the shoppers their personal cards @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In those cases where the shoppers had revealed a special interest in some specific item but still wanted to look elsewhere before buying , they repeated the selling points of their merchandise and suggested that the customers compare values . Not once during the survey did the customers feel obligated to buy . They were average-looking people . The salespeople shopped were no more or no less physically attractive than the average retail salesperson . They ranged from short to tall and from thin to stout . Several of the saleswomen were no more than five feet and one inch in height . The average height for the women was approximately five feet and four inches ; for the men , five feet and eight inches . The average age of the group was around thirtyeight years . Relatively few young people were among these top producers . The group was composed roughly of two-thirds women and one-third men . The only conclusion that could be drawn in regard to the appearance factor was that appearance does not enter strongly into the picture . The shoppers obtained the impression of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but not overconcerned about their personal appearance . In other words , the appearance of these salespeople was such as to be unnoticeable either from the point of view of carelessness or from that of overdress . In addition to the characteristics discussed above , many of the top-notch salespeople had developed a habit that may have had a significant bearing upon their success . In those departments where the type of merchandise made it possible , many of the salespeople had developed a personal following of regular customers with whom they communicated on occasion .  | A study of fifty expert salespeople in a large midwestern department store revealed that they , too , possessed characteristics and practiced selling methods quite similar to those described in the foregoing paragraphs . ' The elements of good salesmanship , as observed through careful study of sound recordings of sales transactions conducted by these fifty experts , are summarized under the following headings : 1 . The salespeople greeted customers appropriately and sincerely in the instances where the customer did not take the initiative . 2 . They asked questions to determine customer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and consistently . 4 . They put customers in a good frame of mind through acts of friendliness and courtesy . 5 . They showed a sincere and friendly personal interest in their customer . 6 . They expressed their opinions freely in regard to selling points of the merchandise being shown . 7 . They also supplied facts regarding merchandise . 8 . They answered questions specifically with both factual information and advice . 9 . They removed objections affirmatively and expertly . 10 . They agreed with their customers ? they never argued with them . 11 . They showed and explained how products should be used and cared for . 12 . They suggested additional merchandise .  | It is frankly conceded that most of the characteristics of topnotch salespeople that were revealed by these studies have been emphasized before as being associated with real sales ability . The value of the studies lies in the fact that they present a description of the actual selling methods and attitudes of a number of salespeople whose ability has been proved . They also show that salespeople can be successful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their customers and a sincere desire to help them buy intelligently . A study of the methods and attitudes exhibited by top-notch salespeople everywhere , as well as an observation of their work , reveals that their characteristics and methods , basically similar , may be classified under the following four chief headings : 1 . A constructive attitude toward the job . 2 . A thorough knowledge of the merchandise and the store . 3 . An understanding of people . 4 . An effective selling technique . Although these four essentials overlap and are somewhat interdependent in their development , they are the fundamentals of successful retail selling . To become really outstanding , a salesperson must like his job and the organization for which he works , know his merchandise , understand and he interested in people and their buying problems , and employ selling techniques that will make customers want to buy . Since these fundamentals are so important , they will be explained briefly here and treated in detail in subsequent chapters .  | The attitude of any worker toward the work he performs has a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ defined as the pattern of thought and feeling created in the worker by the total job situation . It consists of the worker 's feelings toward the organization for which he works ; his attitude toward associates and supervisors ; his respect , or lack of it , for the merchandise he sells ; his feelings toward the customers he serves ; and his reactions to the immediate surroundings of the job . Attitude and personality are closely related . Personality is the outward expression of one 's individuality ; it refers to the social and personal traits that distinguish one person from others . Attitude is the basis of personality . The individual who has developed a constructive attitude expresses his feelings with personality traits such as tact , courtesy , interest , enthusiasm , thoughtfulness , and understanding . He instinctively likes people and is liked by them . Success in any type of selling is particularly dependent upon the right attitude . No salesman can succeed who does not have the proper attitude toward himself , toward his job , and toward his customer . This fundamental of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is composed and the way in which they can be cultivated are discussed in detail in Chapter 6 . The second fundamental of sales ability is knowledge of the merchandise and the store . Knowledge is as important as attitude . In fact , attitude may be largely a result of knowledge or a lack of it . The salesperson who likes his job usually knows a good deal about it . Indifference , self-consciousness , fear , self-limitation , and other hindering attitudes usually exist because of inadequate knowledge or understanding .  | A thorough knowledge of the merchandise and the store gives salespeople self-confidence . It enables them to describe the selling points of the merchandise clearly and to answer customers ' questions and objections convincingly . The salesperson must know his merchandise in order to help customers buy intelligently . This fundamental is likewise of sufficient importance to warrant complete consideration . What the salesperson should know about his merchandise and where he can get this information are discussed in Chapter 7 . Successful retail selling is also dependent to a large extent on an understanding of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ salespeople must be able quickly to visualize and interpret customer needs and to present merchandise selling points so that they tie in with those needs and result in wants on the part of the customer . This ability rests on good judgment , knowledge , and on an understanding of the influences that motivate people . Salespeople frequently have the responsibility of serving people who do not know what they want or need . Some such customers readily admit their uncertainty and immediately place their problems in the salesperson 's hands . In these cases , the problem of discovering the exact nature of the need and of finding an intelligent solution to it is somewhat simplified . Many of these customers , however , believe that they understand clearly their needs and are sincerely suspicious of the salesperson who openly attempts to interpret their needs differently . For example , the sizeconscious customer raises a problem of this nature . People who are size-conscious often insist on buying a given size regardless of whether or not it fits . They believe that they know what they need and are skeptical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advise them differently . Yet , these customers are nonetheless critical of the store and the salesperson if the merchandise they buy is uncomfortable . Unsatisfactory situations such as this demand a real knowledge of human nature and an ability to re- direct people subtly so that they may interpret and satisfy their needs intelligently . The ability to understand people is not developed quickly . It involves a knowledge of the basic principles of psychology and the ability to apply them in human relations . In other words , the good salesperson must be a practical psychologist . He must be a constant student of human nature and develop the ability to judge people and to understand their problems . An understanding of people is the third fundamental of sales ability . It , too , is of sufficient importance to deserve thorough study . The problems associated with customers and their needs and wants are investigated in Chapters 8 and 9 . No two salespeople employ identical selling methods , yet the techniques of most top-notchers are strikingly similar . Outstanding salespeople show their merchandise willingly , demonstrate it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ addition , they radiate a friendly but not familiar attitude , state their opinions with definiteness and conviction , and show a keen appreciation for higher-quality goods . All these characteristics actually are selling methods and techniques . The closest relationship exists between a salesperson 's selling technique and his attitude , knowledge of merchandise , and understanding of people . In fact , selling technique is a composite of these things . On the basis of knowledge and experience , salespeople develop the selling methods which seem to bring the best results . An effective selling technique is concerned with the methods the salesperson uses in meeting customers , handling merchandise , developing selling points , meeting objections , and generally assisting customers to buy . Obviously the methods used will have a direct bearing upon the success of the job . Consequently , a study of these methods is most important . Effective selling techniques are discussed and amplified in Chapters 10 to 18.  | For some years , and especially since World War II , business and industry has experimented with and often adopted various kinds of employment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Employers hope , by means of tests , to take some of the guesswork and subjective evaluation out of the procedure for selecting new employees . Retailers too have been using various tests as an aid in selection of employees , including salespeople . The use of employment tests in retailing is confined chiefly to department stores ; and in the department store field , the larger stores make far more use of tests than do smaller ones . The following table , based on a nation-wide survey of better known department stores , shows the degree of usage of various types of tests .  | A comparison of the data shown in Table 2 with data from earlier surveys shows that the use of employment tests in department stores is becoming less prevalent . The popularity of various types of tests fluctuates , but it appears that at no time have a majority of even the large stores found any type or types to be particularly helpful except in the employment of office workers . In the measurement of mechanical skills such as typing , shorthand , and various clerical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tests of mental ability . The various types of mental ability or intelligence tests have also proved to be reasonably valid in measuring this quality . It appears , however , that sales ability and mental ability are not necessarily closely related . While average intelligence , or better , is certainly an essential for successful selling , it does not assure the store that such individuals will be successful . As has been pointed out on page 104 , effective retail salesmanship depends upon the salesman 's attitude , his knowledge of the merchandise and the store , his understanding of people , and his skillful use of selling techniques . A person may have a high degree of intelligence and still not possess these traits . On the other hand , a person of only average intelligence may have these characteristics well developed and therefore be a most skillful salesman . It is for reasons such as these that intelligence tests by themselves are of little more than negative value in selecting salespeople . Because intelligence tests did not effectively measure sales ability , some retailers turned to other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accurately . Interest tests . Interest tests are designed to measure the degree to which the interests of the person being tested correspond with the interests of people who are successful in a given occupation . If the degree of correspondence is high , it would be concluded that the person being tested should have the interests that would make him successful in the occupation in question . Questions  | such as the following might be used to determine interest in selling . figure Two of the most widely used interest tests are the Strong Vocational Interest Test and the Kuder Preference Record . On the surface , it would appear that interest tests constitute a valid method for , at least , eliminating applicants who have no intrinsic interest in selling . This might be true except for one drawback ? it is quite possible to fake on interest tests by checking such answers as would seem to be approved for the position being applied for . Not too much insight is required , for instance , to know that the approved answers for the three questions listed above are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and ( 3 ) working with people . To the degree that a test can be faked , its usefulness as a selection tool is impaired . Aptitude tests . Sales aptitude tests are designed to measure selling ability by determining how an applicant will react in certain sales situations . Questions such as the following two might be asked . ' 1 . You are a saleslady and in trying a coat on a small child candy is smeared on it . It would be best to : Insist that the coat be bought . Say nothing , but send the coat to the cleaning room . Call the mother 's attention to it and ask her what she will do about it . Tell the child to be more careful about soiling things .  | 2 . Suppose you are selling an expensive piece of silk to a woman . After you have cut three yards from the bolt she tells you she called for a piece three and a half yards in length . It would be best to : Cut three and a half yards from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you will cut one-half yard more , but that she must take the three yards . Ask her to take the three yards , and if that is not enough to come back for more . Insist that inasmuch as she called for three yards it is her duty to take it . In questions such as these a skillful salesman might well find it difficult to choose the " correct " answer because of the incomplete information given . Moreover , stores might have prescribed procedures for handling similar situations and these procedures could well vary from one store to another . Thus while a given answer might be right for one situation it could well be wrong for another . Hence , it is quite possible that aptitude tests might not really measure sales aptitude very well at all . Moreover , being able to give the proper answer on a test and being able to make a proper decision in an actual situation are quite different things . Success on a test will not by any means indicate success in action . Personality tests . It is generally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ salesmanship . Salespeople continually work with others and must make rapid personality adjustments to different types of individuals . Much of the salesperson 's success depends upon his ability to inspire the confidence of his customers and to establish pleasant relationships with them . Personality , however , is the least measurable of all the qualities of sales ability . Although a number of tests of personality have been developed , none has gained any wide acceptance in the retail field . Undoubtedly , the best-known test is the Bernreuter Personality Inventory . ' This test , which has been used  | in some stores , consists of 125 questions on habitual behavior in common situations . The scale is intended to measure the degree to which the individual possesses the six traits : extroversion , nervous stability , self-sufficiency , social dominance , self-confidence , and sociability . The following are examples of test questions : figure Those who criticize this Personality Inventory believe that it can be answered untruthfully by an individual who wants to appear as though he possessed the qualities desired for a specific job . For @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stores as an aid in selecting salespeople . However , it has proved valuable in vocational guidance . Individuals who honestly desire to have the nature of their personalities analyzed may , provided they answer the questions accurately and to the best of their abilities , obtain intelligent guidance from this test . Selling arithmetic . Because salespeople must be able to make change and figure simple arithmetical sums , many stores require candidates for sales jobs to take a simple selling arithmetic test . Such tests normally are constructed in the store and consist of problems of graduated difficulty . The problems involve the types of calculations a salesperson is required to make , examples of which might be :  | What is the cost of two-thirds of a yard of silk at $2.47 a yard ? A customer exchanged a book which cost $2.19 for one which cost $2.85 . If the customer gave the salesperson $1.00 , how much change should she receive ? Employees purchasing in the store are allowed a discount of 15 per cent . What would be the price to an employee of an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such a test , provided that it is constructed to cover actual selling problems , should prove a useful guide in determining whether or not a person possesses this particular ability necessary in the sales job . Merchandise information . A thorough knowledge of merchandise is essential to success in all selling jobs , regardless of the item or items sold . In some lines , however , merchandise facts are so complicated or technical that many stores prefer to place only well-informed salespersons in these selling jobs . Books , furniture , liquor , and furs are examples of such merchandise . Salespeople selected to sell in these lines the store and normally constitute a thorough examination on the subject . The following summary of an information test on books is indicative of the type of material covered : The test is divided into three sections . The first consists of a series of names of authors and a series of book titles which must be properly matched . The second is devoted to questions on sources of information about books . The final section consists of questions on literary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ test must be thoroughly informed about literature and book manufacturing . A measure of this type , therefore , is definitely valuable in selecting salespeople . A serious need undoubtedly exists for some reliable objective measure that may be used as an aid in selecting and placing sales- people . Selling is unquestionably the chief function of retail establishments , and the persons who do this work are without doubt the most important employees in the stores . Any assistance , therefore , that might genuinely help select them more intelligently would prove to be of great benefit . The tests that exist at the present time , however , fall short of their objectives . Those designed to provide an over-all measure of sales ability are not , as yet , adequately reliable . On the other hand , those that are sufficiently discriminative in measuring specific qualities are not comprehensive enough to serve as reliable indicators of the total ability to sell . For example , a candidate for a sales job may pass the arithmetic and merchandise-information tests with high honors but still lack the other qualities necessary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chief value of a study of tests of sales ability lies in the light that the tests themselves throw on the qualities necessary for successful salesmanship . Most constructors of scientific tests are experienced job analysts . Before setting up test scales , they analyze the job thoroughly in an effort to discover the qualities necessary for its performance . The test in its final form , therefore , becomes in reality something of a job sample . A study of the tests presented in this chapter reveals further evidence that the general qualities of sales ability consist of a proper attitude toward the job , a thorough knowledge of the merchandise and the store 's selling policies and systems , an understanding of human nature , and selling methods that make customers want to buy .  | The right point of view is the first fundamental of success in any job . A person 's attitude is the foundation of his personality ; it shapes his desire for self-improvement and vitally affects the quality of his job performance . Salespeople in particular must have constructive attitudes . Their continued success @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ think of themselves and their jobs than upon any other single factor . The chief difference , in the final analysis , between salesclerks , stockkeepers , pressure people , and merchandise advisers is largely one of attitude . People who lack initiative , who dislike their work , or who are self-centered can not be permanently successful in the selling field . No matter how intelligent , well-informed , or self-sufficient a customer may be , she needs and looks to the salesperson for constructive help . The impression the salesperson makes upon her determines her attitude toward the store and toward the merchandise purchased . Whether this attitude is one of satisfaction or disappointment is determined by the type of service she receives . Many people continue trading with a store not so much because of the quality of its merchandise or the prices charged but rather because of the courteous attitude of its salespeople . One customer says , " I like to shop at store A because its salespeople are so friendly , alert , and enthusiastic . I feel as if they  | have my interest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ salespeople are so indifferent . I am never fully satisfied with anything I purchase there . " Customers like to be served by salespeople who , without being overaggressive , carry an air of self-assurance . They definitely resist the help of those who have a patronizing , superior air . These salespeople create an atmosphere of distrust , and customers avoid them if they possibly can . Customers feel that such salespeople are too self-centered to be interested in their problems . Many salespeople make the mistake of assuming a patronizing , " know-it-all " attitude . Some even seem to take delight in belittling the customer and in making her feel inferior . Some try to interpret the shopper 's needs without getting a clear picture of those needs . For example : A customer had just read in a popular fashion magazine that bright blue gloves would be one of the fashion high-lights of the spring . She approached a salesperson in a well-known store asking to see gloves in this particular color . The salesperson arched her eyebrows and replied , " You do n't want bright @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this season . " Apparently , in this case , the store had not yet stocked the gloves ; but in any event , the salesperson did not show evidence of a constructive attitude . Seeing many bright blue gloves on the counters in this store a few weeks later only helped to renew the customer 's determination to avoid being served by that salesperson again . Not only do customers dislike being served by salespeople who have superior airs ; they also resist the services of salespeople who have an apologetic or inferior attitude toward their work . Customers justly feel that these salespeople could not have a thorough knowledge of or an appreciation for their merchandise . A salesperson who lacks confidence in himself surely can not inspire confidence and respect for his merchandise . Customers often need to be helped when they are making a decision to buy , and they are sincerely grateful to the salesperson  | who gives them this help in a friendly , courteous way . They feel that every purchase they make is important and they like to believe that the salesperson recognizes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ willingness to show merchandise , to describe its many uses , to tell how and of what material it is made , and to show as nearly as possible how it will fill their specific needs . Salespeople complain , often with justification , about the inconsideration of many customers . They say that shoppers are often " high-hat , " thoughtless , and difficult to serve courteously . Much of this attitude , however , can be traced directly to the salespeople themselves . Salespeople who are alert , courteous , and helpful usually find that their customers respond in a like manner . By and large , it is when the customer feels that she is not being shown the merchandise she wants in the way she wants that she becomes irritated . Attitude , as defined in the preceding chapter , is the result , expressed in action , of a person 's feelings toward himself , his work , and his surroundings . It is the pattern of thought and feeling created in the worker by the total job situation . A constructive attitude , as the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It stimulates the individual to greater self-development , builds a clearer understanding between himself and those with whom he is associated , and acts as a constant incentive to more efficient effort . All the desirable qualities normally associated with the socalled selling personality are characteristic of a constructive attitude . In other words , retail employers who are searching for men and women to be trained as successful salespeople are  | looking for people who , first of all , have the proper point of view . In attempting to outline the personal traits of which a constructive attitude is composed , it is difficult to avoid generalizing . In other words there is the ever-present temptation , in discussing attitude , to list all the desirable traits which make for success in life in general . Such a description would not be particularly helpful to the student seeking a clearer understanding of what it takes to sell successfully . Consequently , the traits outlined and described here are those desirable characteristics associated directly with attitude as it applies to sales ability . These traits may be classified under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 2 . Mental qualities . 3 . Social qualities . 4 . Character qualities . Physical Qualities Attitude is vitally affected by physical well-being . A person who is permanently or temporarily handicapped physically usually finds it extremely difficult to concentrate on the task at hand or to apply himself to it effectively . Physical qualities are particu-larly important to the salesman . His job requires a considerable amount of stamina . His physical well-being affects his attitude and quickly influences the customer 's point of view toward him , the store , and the merchandise . Some of the more important physical qualities desirable in successful selling are health , posture , personal appearance , and voice quality . Health . Sound health is the foundation of success in almost any line of activity , but it is particularly important in retail selling . Salespeople need considerable physical stamina in order to  | stand on their feet most of the day , to handle merchandise , and to meet the many fatiguing situations associated with their jobs . Even more important , they must make good impressions on their customers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quick first impressions of salespeople and have little confidence in those who lack enthusiasm or the physical vitality to make favorable contacts . Good health is fundamental to energy and enthusiasm . Posture . Posture has to do with the physical alertness or lack of it that a person shows in the way he carries himself . Posture is an outward expression of attitude . It is an indicator of enthusiasm and a gauge of a person 's respect for the work he is doing . Salespeople who slouch at their work , whether while standing or sitting , give an impression of indifference toward their merchandise and lack of interest in their customers . Good posture , on the other hand , denotes vitality , interest , and a willingness to serve . Customers become quickly infected with the obvious enthusiasm of salespeople who are alert and on their toes . A good posture can be vitally important in creating favorable first impressions and in giving the customer confidence . Voice quality . The quality of the salesperson 's voice is the first thing that strikes the customer 's ears @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expression as posture has to physical expression . An individual may look alert but if his voice is apathetic it will belie his actions . Ordinarily , carelessness in voice quality accompanies slouchiness in posture . Both are common evidences of disinterestedness and lack of vitality . Salespeople should practice alertness in oral expression . How a thing is said is often more important than what is said . The qualities of friendliness and enthusiasm in the voice can do much  | in themselves to attract attention , hold interest , and secure confidence . Effective oral expression and voice culture , although closely associated , are not synonymous . A salesperson may have good oral expression but the physical quality of his voice may be distracting or irritating . Although voice quality is more inherent than oral expression , it , too , can be improved through practice . A person whose voice quality is distracting can , with effort and determination , improve it . As a matter of fact , an unpleasant voice quality is more often the result of carelessness than of any fundamental disability . Personal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which he works and the merchandise he sells . As a matter of fact , to many customers , the salesperson is the store . Impressions of the store and its policies come largely from its representatives ? the salespeople and the few other store workers who come in contact with the public . The salesperson 's personal appearance is usually the first thing the customer sees . From this appearance , customers form their first , and often lasting , impressions of the ability and interest of the salesperson , the quality of the merchandise , and even the character of the store . For these reasons , carefulness in personal appearance can not be overemphasized . Personal appearance is composed of physical features , dress , and posture . If a person is in good health and has an average physique , his physical features are not particularly important . Every study of outstanding salesmen has revealed that of the factors which comprise over-all appearance , dress , posture , neatness , and other acquired characteristics are more important than attractiveness of physical features . As a matter of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ point of view of personal attractiveness , average people . Neatness and good taste in dress , plus physical alertness , are the important elements of which good personal appearance is composed . Neatness and good taste in dress imply that one 's clothes should be clean , well pressed , properly fitted , and appropriate .  | Appropriateness is particularly important . Salespeople must not be overdressed to the point of conspicuousness . In appearance they should form the background and not the foreground for their merchandise . In many stores , dress regulations dictate the type of clothes that may be worn . Gaudy or startling colors or color combinations are never in good taste in business and are expressly forbidden in many stores . Appropriateness in dress implies that a salesperson 's attire should bear some intelligent relationship to the type of merchandise he is selling . Salespeople in apparel stores or departments , for example , should show definite evidences of good taste and style consciousness in their own dress . On the other hand , salespeople in hardware , automotive , and farm implement stores should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the type of selling job they are required to do . In these stores practicality rather than style would be the determining factor . Customers always buy more confidently from salespeople who not only speak with authority but who obviously practice what they advocate . A constructive attitude and a good personal appearance are inseparably related . An individual loses self-respect when he knows he has been careless in any of the details of his personal appearance . The salesman who neglects to shave , forgets to shine his shoes or to have his clothes pressed , or is slovenly in any respect becomes self-conscious and therefore less effective in his work . Attention to details of personal appearance pays generous dividends in self-confidence and the confidence of others . A constructive attitude , as it affects sales ability , is also dependent on qualities such as alertness , interest , self-reliance , enthusiasm , memory , and imagination . Because these qualities are closely associated with one 's intellect , they are grouped here under the heading of mental qualities . Some of them have already been referred to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which the personality is composed are so  | interrelated and interdependent that it is difficult to distinguish where one ends and the other begins . These characteristics are discussed separately here because of their importance and also because detailed consideration helps clarify them . Alertness . Alertness is the mental state of watchfulness and readiness . It is the state of present-mindedness as distinguished from absent-mindedness . The alert individual is on his toes , wide-awake , and fully conscious of what is going on . Alert salespeople exhibit a willingness to serve and a keenness in interpreting needs that build confidence and help customers to solve their buying problems with intelligence and speed . Alertness is the first step toward knowledge . To become well informed one must remain constantly alert . Salespeople who know their merchandise thoroughly are invariably alert . Alertness is also essential in understanding customers and in helping them with their problems . The following example illustrates how an alert salesperson helped a customer buy : A customer came into the ready-to-wear section of a large medium-priced store and asked for a simple tailored street dress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ showed her several styles , and the customer picked out three dresses and asked to try them on . She talked only when making a request and appeared perfectly at ease . The customer tried on the first dress and scrutinized herself in the mirror . She seemed much pleased as she smoothed out the lines of the hips but looked critically at the length of the sleeves . " These sleeves are cut in such a manner , " explained the salesperson , " that their length can be altered to suit your own preferences . " The salesperson showed her the tailoring in the sleeves to indicate how this alteration could be made . The customer tried on the next dress and looked at herself carefully . The skirt attracted her attention ; it was a trifle short . " You see , " explained the salesperson , " the dress has a three-inch hem so that it may be lengthened . " She showed the customer the hem . The last dress seemed tight through the hips . This did not please the customer .  | " This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them out , " again explained the salesperson ; " However , I do n't think that would be entirely satisfactory , since the stitching sometimes leaves a tiny mark . " The customer nodded and took off the dress , and asked to try on the first again . " This dress fits you perfectly and gives your body such a trim appearance , " the salesperson said as the customer again smoothed it clown . " If you will try sitting down , you can tell whether or not it is comfortable . There is nothing more annoying than a dress that creeps up when you are seated . " After the customer had followed the salesperson 's instructions , she decided upon this dress and made the purchase . ' Alertness is closely associated with intelligence . Salespeople who are normally alert are quick to see relationships and , because of their knowledge , are able to give intelligent advice to their customers . Interest . Interest and alertness are closely related . Interest , however , goes beyond alertness in that it implies actual concern or the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ An interested salesperson is one who takes a genuine concern in the customer 's problem and tries sincerely to help her solve it to her best advantage . Any salesperson who is really interested in his customers will not try to force them to buy . He would rather lose a sale than encourage someone to buy something not needed . The interested salesperson is more concerned about helping people buy than about trying to sell them something . Customers are flattered by sincere interest . It is a quality essential to a real , constructive selling attitude . Self-reliance . Confidence in oneself is another quality essential to a constructive attitude . A person must have trust in himself in order to approach any problem or situation with determination and assurance .  | Customers are particularly influenced by the self-reliance , or lack of it , displayed by the salesperson who serves them . In many instances , buying to satisfy a need is a serious business . Many people , in most of their buying , do not know what is best for them . They often approach the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ salesperson will give them intelligent assistance in their buying . All too frequently customers are net by salesclerks who know their merchandise only superficially , who have little or no confidence in themselves , and who care little about even attempting to give intelligent service . The result , naturally , is indecision and postponement of the purchase or the buying of something about which the customer is only partially certain . Self-reliance builds confidence . Uncertain shoppers who meet well-informed , self-confident salespersons are immediately favorably influenced , and , most frequently , come to quick , sure decisions . To be successful , salespeople must have faith in themselves . It is important that the salesperson understand the distinction between self-reliance and over-aggressiveness . Self-confidence carried to the point of arrogance is an unfortunate trait which will do much to overshadow all other favorable qualities . There is an important difference between self-reliance based on interest in the customer 's problem and arrogance arising out of selfcentered egotism . A snobbish , egotistical salesperson drives customers away from himself and from the store . The self-reliant , interested , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Enthusiasm is one of the surest indicators of a constructive attitude . Salespeople who exhibit sincere enthusiasm are almost invariably the top-notchers of their groups . They know their merchandise thoroughly and enjoy helping customers buy it . They like their jobs and are proud of their stores . They understand people and get pleasure out of helping them solve their buying problems . Real enthusiasm is a derivative of all these things . An enthusiastic person is one possessed of keen and ardent  | interests , The term enthusiasm implies eagerness on behalf of a cause or a subject . The really enthusiastic salesperson must be sold on what he is doing . He must believe in his store and in his merchandise and must be convinced of the importance of the service he performs . Such convictions , when translated into enthusiasm , are contagious . A salesperson with such an attitude is bound to influence others and to cause customers to rely on what he says and to seek his advice in the solution of their problems . Consequently , enthusiasm becomes one of the central qualities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most of the other traits desirable to a good sales personality . The principle of enthusiasm . Although some people are clever actors , real enthusiasm can not be faked for long . As a matter of fact , insincere or exaggerated enthusiasm is nearly always readily detected . This fact is the basis of the principle of enthusiasm as illustrated in the following diagram : figure Elbert Hubbard once said , " The man who is fired with enthusiasm for his job is seldom fired by the boss . " It is true that a love for one 's work is one of the most essential factors of success . One of the striking characteristics of successful people is that , regardless of the type of work in which they are engaged , they always find something about it to arouse their interest and enthusiasm . Building enthusiasm . Knowledge is the backbone of enthusiasm . Those who know little about their work find it difficult to see the interesting instead of the routine side . Information that helps to build up enthusiasm for selling may be grouped under two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ part that the retail store plays in the life and development of the community ; ( 2 ) a realization of the key position that sales- manship occupies in the store . These subjects are discussed in Chapter 1 . Far too many salespeople become engrossed in the routine of their jobs and fail to visualize the work of the store as a whole . Failing to see the important function of the store itself , they lose sight of the importance of their own jobs . " Store-mindedness " is a phrase coined to mean a visualization of the work of the store as a whole and an understanding of its reason for existence . Complete success on the job is difficult without this broad attitude . Memory . The ability to observe and retain important facts is another mental quality that distinguishes the successful retail salesperson . As previously pointed out , salespeople need to be well informed about a large number of items sold in the store . Unlike most contact salesmen , who sell one item or a limited line of goods , the top-notch retail salesperson @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of merchandise . To do so requires an alert , retentive mind . In the final analysis , knowledge of merchandise is wholly dependent upon memory . A salesperson must have a good memory for another reason . Top-notch salespeople make a serious effort to remember their customers and call them by name . A good memory makes possible intelligent selling on a friendly personal basis . For example , a customer , passing through the men 's furnishing section of a large retail store , was surprised when a salesperson approached him and said : " Good afternoon , Mr. White . How are those shirts you bought in February wearing ? " ( The customer had purchased three shirts in the store some five weeks before but had not expected the salesperson to remember him or the sale . ) Customer : " Oh , they 're fine . In fact I have one on now . " Salesperson : " 1 was sure they would give you satisfactory service . By the way , I 'm glad you happened to drop in today . We just put into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you had a preference for colored shirts that could be worn with a blue suit . " The customer looked at the shirts , liked them , and bought three .  | In this instance , as was learned later , the salesperson kept a personal record , where possible , of sales involving three or more items . Customers ' names so recorded became his prospect file . To familiarize himself with the details about his customers and their purchases he had formed the habit of looking over his customer list each morning . In this way he stimulated his memory and in the event some of his customers did come into the store , he was prepared to meet them in a friendly personal manner . Good memory can be developed . The ability to retain facts and impressions accurately is the first step to knowledge . Salespeople who desire to be successful must develop this quality . Imagination . Top-notch salespeople must have the ability to visualize a sales transaction from the customer 's point of view . They must be able to see the situation as the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of service that they themselves would like to receive were they making the purchase . Furthermore , good salespeople should be able to look at merchandise and visualize quickly the various circumstances under which it might be used . Such abilities imply keen vision and the capacity to create new relationships out of known facts . This ability to visualize the possibility of constructing ideal and practical new situations and things out of existent materials is called imagination . People with imagination can see possibilities where none is apparent to people with less vision . A salesperson with imagination realizes quickly how he can assist the customer in the buying process . He interprets her needs and anticipates her objections . He visualizes promptly how his merchandise fits into her buying needs and is able convincingly to show her why . Salespeople with imagination appreciate quickly the values their merchandise possesses . The opinions of such salespeople are accepted with confidence and their suggestions are likely to be followed . Imagination is based upon alertness and knowledge . Those who develop this quality are usually keen discerners and are mentally and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an understanding of people and the ability to get along with them . The personality qualities associated with this ability are those classifiable under the heading of social qualities . Some of the specific traits involved are tact , courtesy , good oral expression , and social ability or extroversion . People who possess these qualities are able to establish effective and pleasant communication with others . Salespeople who have developed such traits become genuinely interested in their customers ; they remember their names ; they are good listeners ; they talk in terms of their customers ' interests ; and they carefully avoid all practices that might injure the other person 's pride . Tact . A keen discernment of what is the appropriate thing to do or say in dealing with others is a quality essential in successful salesmanship . Tact implies delicate and sympathetic perception of what is fit , graceful , or considerate . Tactful people say and do the right thing at the right time . They make the other person feel important through understanding and consideration . Tact is unquestionably one of the most important @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the other desirable traits and abilities , but , lacking tact , he would offend and irritate both his associates and his customers . " Wisecracks , " obvious remarks , irrelevant suggestions , disparaging statements , and contradictions lead the list of faults which can be laid at the door of tactlessness . Some of the remarks in which tactless salespeople indulge are : Customer : " May I see something in a nice tie ? " Salesperson : " Why , all of our ties are nice , sir . " Customer : " Let me see a pair of pink gloves . " Salesperson : " You do n't want pink , madam . They 're not wearing pink this season . " Customer : " I 've used this merchandise before and I have found that it fades . "  | Salesperson : " You are absolutely wrong , sir . This merchandise does not fade ! " Salespeople exhibit many other less obvious evidences of tactlessness . The shoe salesman , for example , who realizes that it is quite natural for a person 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ customer 's attention to this fact by remarking , " As you know , one foot is usually slightly larger than the other . " The more tactful salesman will express the same fact by saying , " As you know , one foot is usually slightly smaller than the other . " Other less obvious examples of tactlessness are : ignoring customers ' requests , keeping people waiting unnecessarily long , implying that the price is higher than the customer can afford to pay , and failing to show appreciation for the customer 's business . Salespeople who intentionally or unintentionally engage in these practices build resistance rather than acceptance . Anyone can develop tact by considering the other person 's point of view . To be tactful , salespeople must try to sense the thoughts , emotions , and feelings of their customers in order to avoid antagonizing them by words or actions . Courtesy . Studies of the qualities of sales ability and analyses of customers ' attitudes toward salespeople all reveal that courtesy and courteous attention rank at the top of all practices that make for success @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , respect , and politeness . The opposite of courtesy is discourtesy or rudeness . Salespeople who have a constructive attitude are always courteous . They consider their customers as invited guests and treat them accordingly . Some of the more obvious evidences of a courteous attitude consist in a prompt greeting of customers , a genuine willingness to serve , an unaffected smile , a sincere effort to make the customer comfortable ( as providing a chair or offering to relieve her of cumbersome packages ) , patience in helping her to solve her buying problem , and real appreciation for her business . A training manual prepared by a large store lists some of the more obvious evidences of a discourteous attitude as follows :  | Whispering , talking , or laughing loudly , calling across the floor , or calling people by the first name , interrupting a sale , discussing the store or your families or customers so that you can be overheard ? all these show discourtesy and lack of consideration . Do n't forget that carelessness in one of these may lead to discourtesy in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that if you are thoughtful and unselfish you are going to be naturally courteous . Start now to train yourself in consideration and courtesy . There is no secret involved in developing courtesy as a personal trait . Courtesy comes from being courteous . To be genuinely interested in the other person and to be sincerely desirous of pleasing him is to be naturally courteous . Courtesy is the opposite of selfishness . The person who loses himself in the service of others is bound to practice courtesy . Good oral expression . The ability to speak effectively and convincingly is one of the more important attributes of successful salesmanship . Customers gain their impressions of the qualities of merchandise through the senses of perception . Of these impressions , what they see and what they hear are most important . In appearance the merchandise may seem desirable , but if the salesperson 's tone of voice and his oral description are unpleasant , inappropriate , or actually ineffective the customer 's enthusiasm will wane and the sale may be lost . Salespeople may know their merchandise thoroughly , but if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a convincing manner the values of the merchandise will not seem impressive . Oral expression is discussed briefly here because the ability to speak well is a social quality . Full communication with others can not be established without good oral expression . Salespeople must develop this ability before they can become really outstanding in their jobs . The subject is sufficiently important , however , to warrant more detailed consideration . The principles involved in good oral expression as it affects selling technique arc discussed in Chapter 9.  | Extroversion . The whole of the foregoing discussion is concerned with those personal qualities or traits that help a person to form pleasant associations with others . Extroversion is the ability to project one 's self outward into the experiences and problems of others . The person who tends toward extroversion thinks more of other people 's problems than he does of his own . As a result , he develops the ability to get along well with others and to establish pleasant personal contacts . Salespeople who have extroversive qualities tend to be more tactful , more courteous , more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can usually express themselves more effectively than non-extroverts . In other words , extroversion is a comprehensive term embracing , by and large , all the social qualities . Students of salesmanship are agreed that a successful salesman must be one whose interests are directed outward and centered in external things and people . Many of the tests designed to detect sales ability , as described in the previous chapter , are created to measure this tendency . Salespeople who have developed social-ability are always normally extroverted . They take a keen , sincere interest in their customers and try conscientiously to help them buy the merchandise best suited to their needs . A rather wide-spread misconception exists among salespeople and among some teachers of salesmanship that those who sell have the right to resort to a little dishonesty , if necessary , in their sales presentations . One of the chief arguments given to support this theory is that prospects and customers want to be mildly misled because they need to be able fully to justify their purchases to themselves and to others . Furthermore , they argue , customers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his product and his desire to sell will lead him to exaggerate a little . Those who claim that salesmen have the right to exaggerate point out that customers , in expecting some exaggeration ,  | discount enough of what is said to arrive at an approximately true picture of the value of the merchandise or proposition . The theory of " puffing the wares . " One of the heritages handed down from the era of pressure salesmanship is the idea that salesmen may justifiably " puff their wares . " This belief was widely held many years ago and has exerted an important influence upon the thinking of modern students of salesmanship . As a matter of fact , one of the so-called principles of salesmanship advanced by many writers in the field of general selling was based upon this idea . The essence of this principle was that a good salesman should find out quickly which features or selling points of the product his prospect considered favorably . The salesman should then expand on or emphasize these favorable features and ignore or minimize those that might be considered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the implications of pressure are nonetheless present . If a customer buys after having visualized only the favorable aspects of a product and learns later that it has some unexpected shortcomings or disadvantages , the result is certain to be dissatisfaction , ill will , and , in retail selling , quite likely , returned goods . Salespeople , unquestionably , owe it to their merchandise to present it in its most favorable light . They should not , however , leave the unfavorable aspects undisclosed . Rather , where practical , they should give their customers a complete picture of the merchandise by pointing out how and why the advantages more than offset the disadvantages , and thus forestall potential disappointment . For example , a customer is examining a dress made of a sheer material . She is favorably impressed by the beauty of the material , by the way the dress hangs , and , in general , by its  | flattering appearance . The salespeson knows that this particular sheer material is a fragile material and that in order to give the customer reasonable use satisfaction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it be assumed that the customer knows this , or should the salesperson recognize the fact that in the minds of most people good appearance suggests also satisfactory service ? The modern practical answer is that the salesperson must provide the customer with the facts so that she will not be dissatisfied . Actually , skill in presenting the unfavorable aspects of an item in such a way as not to harm the possibilities of the sale is one of the tests of real ability . In the situation referred to above , the salesperson might say , " As you know , beautiful , light , material is one of the most delicate and flattering of fabrics . In order to get the greatest satisfaction from it you should care for it by ? " ( and give detailed cleaning and care information ) . Stores and store salesforces owe it to their customers to let them know what they are buying . They have the right to present their merchandise as favorably as possible , but they . must not mislead , deceive , or give their customers only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ might lead to dissatisfaction or disappointment . ' Evidences of dishonesty . Salespeople who really want to make a profession of their jobs must remember that there is no such thing as a little dishonesty . An act lacking in honesty is a dishonest act . The fact that the degree of dishonesty involved is slight and the result not serious does not alter the situation . This theory of the acceptability of a little dishonesty is chiefly responsible for the attitude of mistrust in which many customers hold all salespeople . They fear , and justifiably so , that if the salesman will cheat and lie a little he will , if necessary , cheat and lie a lot . Through experience they have learned that a person who can not be trusted in small things will not be found trustworthy in circumstances of greater importance . Some of the " little things "  | which , to the customer , are evidences of dishonesty are overstatements , overenthusiasm , misrepresentation , misuse of the word " guaranteed , " and " loading " or encouraging people to buy more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the dishonesty is intentional or unintentional makes little , if any , difference to the customer . What impresses her is the net result of the act and not the intentions with which it was committed . For example , a salesperson who does not know the answer to a customer 's question may take a chance and guess . If he guesses wrongly the effect , upon the customer , is just as wrong as if he had lied deliberately . Furthermore , if the salesperson , because he is uncertain of the correct answer to a question , asks a fellow worker or even the department or store manager and receives misinformation which he passes on to the customer , the effect , again , is just as serious as if misinformation had been deliberately given . The customer has no way of knowing , and is little interested in , the nature of the salesperson 's intentions . Customers are influenced by the facts and , if they have been misled , judge the salesperson accordingly . Good salesmanship builds confidence . Successful salespeople are those who are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to seek their advice and assistance . The inability to develop a constructive selling attitude may arise out of factors or conditions associated with the person or with the job itself . In either case a clear conception of the nature of the difficulty is the first step to its elimination . The following are the more common hindrances classifiable under these two general headings . Factors Attributable to the Individual The " too-proud-to-sell " attitude . Some people who accept retail sales jobs feel that the work is of a service nature and hence below  | their dignity . They take the job with misgivings , thinking of it as temporary employment which they have been forced to accept until something better comes along . Such individuals often assume a " too-proud-to-sell " attitude and treat customers with condescension . They rarely take a genuine interest in their customers ' problems and are often impatient , curt , and tactless . Such excessive pride is due to a misunderstanding of the importance of the sales job . Salespeople who exhibit this attitude have failed to realize the opportunity that is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discussed in Chapter 1 . Knowledge of the job is probably the best remedy for excessive pride . Alert people who know their jobs well see countless opportunities for improvement and soon lose themselves in their efforts to achieve efficiency . Indifference . Another factor hindering the development of a proper selling attitude is indifference . Salespeople who lack interest and enthusiasm can never exert a favorable influence on their customers . Even the best merchandise can hardly seem desirable if the salesperson presents it apathetically . Indifference and ignorance are closely related . Salespeople who know little about the merchandise they sell can rarely be enthusiastic about it . Knowledge , therefore , is the best remedy for indifference . The salesperson who earnestly studies his merchandise will find many facts about it to stimulate his interest and imagination . Well-informed salespeople are rarely indifferent . Self-consciousness . Overconsciousness of oneself disturbs the normal functioning of the mind and the body and drives the individual inward toward himself . The self-conscious person is uncertain , unsocial , and generally not helpful . Salespeople of this type often confuse customers more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is to a large extent a product of insufficient knowledge . Salespeople who think about their merchandise and their customers turn their thoughts outward away from themselves . The more they know about their jobs the less time they have to think of themselves . Knowledge helps to  | overcome fear and self-consciousness and to build self-reliance . Self-limitation . The fixed idea held by some people that they can do so much and no more is another hindering factor in the development of a constructive attitude . Salespeople who believe that they can sell some items but not others and who are convinced that they can not handle two customers at a time or meet certain types of objections are self-limited . Such people are inhibited by an attitude of defeatism that is not conducive to the development of a wholesome , constructive point of view . Ideas of self-limitation grow out of unfortunate past experiences and also out of the fears associated with insufficient knowledge . People who are sure that they can not do the things expected of them in their jobs are usually inadequately informed . A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ much to dispel the fears of self-limitation . Knowledge , again , is the remedy . Over f amiliarity . Through a mistaken application of friendliness , some salespeople assume an attitude of overfamiliarity with their customers . Shoppers like friendliness but they quickly detect any evidences of insincerity in its application . Salespeople who exaggerate their enthusiasm , who " dearie " their customers , or who assume an attitude of insincere overattention invariably create resistance rather than acceptance . A customer encountering an overfamiliar salesperson is immediately put on the defensive . She feels that anything said by such a person can not be taken at its face value . In many respects , overfamiliarity is similar to false pride . It , also , arises out of a misconception of the real functions of the sales job . Salespeople who resort to this practice are misled regarding the nature and importance of personality in their work . They are unaware that their real function in helping customers buy is to emphasize the qualities of the merchandise rather than their own personal characteristics . Customers should be encouraged to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because of a feeling of obligation to the  | salesperson who assisted them . Salespeople who know their jobs realize the importance of sincere friendliness and enthusiasm . They know that confidence is never built on overfamiliarity . The wrong attitude toward sales resistance . People may assume any one of four attitudes toward obstacles encountered in their work . They may : 1 . Give up and turn and run away from those obstacles . 2 . Attempt to get around them , or imply that they are not important . 3 . Admit the objection , give proper weight to its importance and point out offsetting advantages . 4 . Remove the obstacle by pointing out why it does not apply in this particular case . Both the first and the second of these attitudes are indications of the wrong point of view toward sales resistance . Salespeople who fear customer objections and turn from them fail to realize that most objections arise out of questions that customers must have answered before they can buy confidently . Those who try to get around the objections usually do so either @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the customer or by actual deceit or falsification . Such a point of view destroys customer confidence . Successful salespeople realize the importance to the customer of the objections she raises . Consequently , they attempt to answer those objections frankly and sincerely . In acting thus , they build confidence and make sales . Types of cus tomer objections and practical methods of answering them are discussed in detail in Chapter 15 . It is an indisputable fact that many conditions associated with the job have a vital influence upon a worker 's attitude . A salesperson may develop all the qualities essential to a constructive point of view ; but if certain fundamental aspects of the job cause  | him to dislike it or to mistrust his employer , he will find it impossible to develop the right attitude . A worker 's attitude toward his job is influenced by factors and conditions that arise even before his employment and extend on down through his entire contact with his work , his employer , and his associates . How a person feels about the organization in which he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ work . His first contacts with the employment department , with the work , and with the attitudes of his fellow workers all exert an important influence on him . In general , stores operating under fair personnel policies and with good working conditions are most successful in stimulating and maintaining favorable employee attitudes . It is not the purpose here to present a detailed discussion of the job factors that influence the salesperson 's attitude . Such problems are beyond the scope of this book . This brief reference is made because of the importance of the nature of the job in the development of a constructive attitude . Retail employers must provide favorable working conditions if they expect their employees to work efficiently . Salespeople who find themselves working under job conditions not conducive to the development of a constructive point of view should seek employment in bettermanaged establishments . Those who sincerely wish to make professions of their jobs of helping customers buy must recognize that a constructive attitude is essential to their success . As is apparent from the above discussion , knowledge and good working conditions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in hindrances to the development of the proper selling attitude . Salespeople who know their merchandise , who understand the wants of their customers , who are aware of the elements of good selling methods , and who are working in well-managed stores normally develop constructive selling attitudes .  | Salespeople who help customers buy must be well informed . They must know their merchandise thoroughly , have a full knowledge of the duties of their jobs , and be familiar with the services and policies of the stores in which they are employed . As emphasized in the previous chapter , knowledge is the foundation of a proper selling attitude and one of the basic fundamentals of sales ability . Modern customers expect intelligent help from the salespeople who serve them . They want full and accurate answers to the questions and objections they raise and expect not to be misinformed about any detail connected with their purchases . They quickly lose confidence in any salesperson who is unable to give them merchandise facts or who appears uncertain in his presentation of the merchandise . Salespeople must be well informed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ respect and enthusiasm for their jobs .  | 2 . To develop reliance on their own ability . 3 . To be able to select merchandise intelligently and to describe it fully and clearly to their customers . 4 . To be able to answer any questions or objections that might be raised during the buying process . 5 . To create customer confidence . 6 . To be able to inform customers about uses and care of the merchandise . 7 . To be able to complete the transaction promptly and accurately . Customers readily detect whether or not the salesperson is well informed . If he is uncertain or unenthusiastic or if he attempts to guess about or to fake the facts , the customer loses confidence and becomes skeptical of all information given . Two shoppers , walking through a well-known department store , observed a large display of blankets on the counter . They noticed that the blankets were priced moderately and stopped to examine them in greater detail . Since the blankets were large and fluffy , the shoppers inquired of the salesperson , " These @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weigh ? " Salesperson : " Why , I do n't know . I never heard of weighing a blanket before . " Customer : " The price is so low . Could they possibly be all wool ? " Salesperson : " Certainly not at this price . Wool is very expensive now . These blankets are made of 68 per cent rayon . " Customer : " I have never heard of rayon in a blanket before . Does it have sufficient warmth ? " Salesperson : " I do n't know . I should n't think it would be as warm as wool . " The customers , their curiosity satisfied , left the store . In another store , however , they saw a similar display of blankets . Here , the salesperson pointed out that many of the newer blankets are made partly of rayon , not only because of the scarcity of wool but  | also because it has been discovered that rayon possesses many properties that make it desirable for use in blankets . Being a nonconductor , he explained , rayon holds in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ blanket . Furthermore , it may be used advantageously by people who are allergic to wool , for , being manmade , it does not throw off a lint which might irritate susceptible individuals . In this case one of the customers was allergic to hair lint , and she was thrilled to find a blanket that she could use safely . She immediately purchased four . Customers expect salespeople to know their merchandise thoroughly . They resent exaggerated claims and are quick to detect when a salesperson is bluffing . They lose confidence in such a person , discounting everything he says . On the other hand , the salesperson who knows his merchandise and can offer interesting information about it wins the shopper 's respect . People buy more from those who know their goods and also know how to describe its selling features . Salespeople who are fully informed must know many varied facts about : ( a ) The specific items of merchandise they sell . ( b ) The stock carried . ( c ) The store 's services , policies , and advertising . ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Each of these important divisions of the salesperson 's knowledge is covered in detail in the following discussion . In the process of helping customers buy , salespeople may be called upon to give many varied facts about the items of merchandise they sell . The following outline indicates how comprehensive this information should be .  | 1 . Facts about the history and development of the product . 2 . Facts about the manufacturing organizations . 3 . Facts about the materials used . 4 . Facts about the newer man-made fibers . 5 . Facts about the manufacturing processes . 6 . Points of superiority of the product . 7 . Limitations of the product or potential sources of objections . 8 . Uses and purposes of the product and its relationship to other merchandise . 9 . Facts about the care and servicing of the product . History and Development The salesperson 's enthusiasm for the merchandise he sells is at least partially dependent upon what he knows about its history and development . Behind every item sold in retail stores is an interesting and often romantic story @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , hosiery is an item sold widely in retail stores that it is now taken for granted . Yet , this common merchandise has had an uncommon and interesting history . Some oddities in its early history follow : During the centuries there have been many idiosyncrasies in the development of hosiery as foot coverings for warmth and protection . King James of England thought so much of knitted stockings that he slept with a new pair every night . Queen Elizabeth was a collector of silk hosiery , of which she possessed over 2,000 pairs . This was really a great accomplishment because during her reign silk hosiery was as valuable as the masterpieces found in the Louvre . During the time of Louis XIV of France , the decorations on men 's and women 's hosiery became so fantastic that a Royal Decree was enacted forbidding these bizarre displays of vanity . Women have always been vain about their legs , and during the seventeenth century French women walked with their skirts lifted so  | that passersby could admire their beautiful hosiery . During this same period , women @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attract attention . One of the most treasured gifts a lady-in-waiting could receive , during the time of Napoleon , was a pair of stockings knit by the Empress Josephine . During the reign of Julius Caesar in Rome , only members of the aristocracy were privileged to wear hosiery . Severe penalties were inflicted on commoners who were found wearing this item of apparel . During the fifteenth century in Greece , it was the fashion to wear a very long stocking on one foot and a short one reaching only to the ankle on the other . It is said that in Abyssinia two wives can be purchased for one pair of stockings , and three wives for a more attractive pair . In India , today , it is a prison offense to buy a pair of stockings for any woman other than a man 's wife , mother , or sister . The Hindu women of India carry a knitted stocking in their pocketbooks for protection against the evil eye . Although information such as this is not essential , a salesperson selling hosiery should be acquainted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not often have an occasion to tell a customer what he knows about the history and development of the merchandise he sells . It is highly desirable that he have the information , however , if for no other reason than that it forms a background for his knowledge and increases his enthusiasm and respect for the goods . The history of almost any product is a fascinating field in which to explore . The salesperson who avails himself of such knowledge is likely to be enthusiastic about his work and to make a good impression upon his customers . Customers frequently want to know facts about the manufacturers of the merchandise they buy . If the product is not well known or if it may require servicing or is backed by a guarantee , the reputation of the manufacturer is particularly important . As  | a matter of fact , statements such as " this is made by the  - -  Manufacturing Company , famous for its quality products " are often the strongest selling arguments for particular items . Advertising has made most people conscious of manufacturers ' names . People @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Well-informed salespeople know who makes the merchandise they sell . More than this , they know facts about a specific manufacturer 's organization : where its plant is located , how long it has been in business , other items it makes , and its important operating and marketing policies . Such information may be used not only as a part of the sales argument but also as a valuable background for giving the salespeople more confidence and enthusiasm . Well-informed salespeople must know a good deal about the materials from which the finished products are made . Although some types of merchandise ? furniture , for example ? are made of a relatively small number of basic products , other types are becoming more and more complicated because of the inventiveness and initiative of manufacturers . This is especially true in the field of textiles . Though always broad and complex , it has become vastly more so during recent years . For many years textiles were made primarily from three natural fibers ( cotton , silk , and linen ) plus two synthetic or man-made fibers , nylon and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of new man-made fibers began to find their way into textiles and textile products , thus complicating the job of salespeople who must sell these products . In the following paragraphs are found summaries of what the salesperson should know about the older types of fibers . Cotton . Cotton fibers are seed hairs which grow on cotton seeds , ranging from less than one to almost two inches in length . The fibers are inelastic , so that cotton materials crush easily and remain  | crushed . Cotton fibers have little natural affinity for dyes . This is not a disadvantage except in the case of inferior-dyed cottons , because cotton may be so treated with chemicals that it is possible for manufacturers to guarantee the fastness of its colors . When cotton is mercerized , it acquires a luster and may be treated to imitate silk . Cotton may also be treated to imitate linen and wool . Cotton is a good conductor , which means that heat or cold can pass through it readily . Hence , cotton is worn in the summer because it allows the heat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ moisture is present in cotton , it feels clamp or very moist . Cotton fibers absorb moisture readily and dry rather slowly . Wool . Wool fibers come from the sheep , and range from about one inch to eight inches in length . The fibers are kinky or curly and feel springy and alive . Because of the scaly surface , wool has a tendency to feel scratchy , especially the coarser grades . In spite of this tendency , the finer grades feel soft because of their springiness and elasticity . A fabric of wool is comfortable to wear , since it conforms to the body and will give slightly with the movements of the wearer . The interlocking of the scales of wool fibers and the intertwining of the fibers are thought to cause the shrinkage and the felting of wool . Some kinds of wool shrink or felt more than others . Wool fibers have a soft , dull luster and possess great affinity for dye , enabling wool to obtain a richness in colors , either soft or brilliant . A great advantage of wool is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contain fifty per cent moisture without feeling wet or uncomfortable . Since wool is a poor conductor of heat , it helps to keep the body heat in and extreme temperatures out . Wool will thus protect the body from sunburn as well as from cold . Linen . Linen is one of the oldest known textile fibers , coming from the flax stalk . It may vary in length from a foot to a yard . Because linen fibers are so long , there are no short ends to work out of the fabric . This makes linen free from lint , a valuable asset in napkins and tablecloths . Since the surface of linen fibers is not broken by short ends , it has a lustrous appearance . Linens are very inelastic , and so crush easily and remain crushed and wrinkled . Linen is second to silk in strength . For this reason , it is very durable , and a thread made from it is strong . Since linen has little or no  | natural affinity for dye , much care is required in order to produce @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ collect germs rapidly , and may be easily cleaned , boiled , and made sterile . Linen absorbs moisture readily , as does cotton , but has the advantage over other textiles in that it gives up moisture rapidly and dries more quickly than other textiles . Hence , linen is desirable for towels and handkerchiefs . It feels tough , leathery , and cool . It is even a better conductor than cotton , which means that heat or cold can pass through it very readily . Silk . The silk fiber is unwound from the cocoon of the silkworm . It is the longest of the natural fibers , being from 400 to 600 yards in length . The great length makes the surface of silk fabrics smooth , since it does not have short , fuzzy ends . This causes a beautiful luster . Silk is the finest of textile fibers , and as a result it can be woven into sheer and dainty , as well as heavier , fabrics . Silk fibers are pliable , which makes silk fabrics drape gracefully . As these fibers are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prevents silk fabrics from crushing quickly , makes wrinkles shake out readily , and causes the fabrics to wear well . Silk fibers have a great affinity for dyes and take deep , rich , and fast color . Silk is hygienic because dust shakes off it easily . It may be laundered or drycleaned , perspiration stains , oil , and dirt spots being removed without injury to the fibers . Silk readily absorbs moisture , and this makes it a good fabric for hosiery and underwear . Since it is a poor conductor of heat , it keeps the body heat in and excludes cold air . This makes silk a warm textile , but for a unit of thickness it is slightly less warm than wool , as wool has a lower conductivity . Silk feels smooth , slippery , and supple . It will absorb as high as 200 per cent of its own weight in metallic salts ; therefore , weighted silk feels harsh . When silk has no more weighting in it than 15 per cent for black and 10 per cent for other silk @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ amounts of weighting give body to silk and give an impression of better quality . Large amounts of weighting are detrimental , as they will , in most cases , injure or cut the silk , and chemical action which decomposes the fabric may take place . Rayon . The name " rayon " was officially adopted in 1924 . The word was chosen as significant of the gleaming fiber reflecting the sun 's rays , and has no definite meaning . Rayon is made from cellulose ( the structural part of all plants ) and , at present , either wood or cot- ton is used . The fiber may be made in almost any length , and thus may be longer than silk . This causes rayon fabrics to have a smooth surface . Rayon is inelastic , but it is flexible and springy . Therefore , it will not wrinkle easily but will remain creased if it does become wrinkled . Rayon has a great affinity for dye , making possible a fast and permanent depth of color surpassing even that of silk . Rayon does not soil @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is a good conductor of heat , allowing the body heat to pass out readily , a fact which makes this fabric a satisfactory summer material . Rayon absorbs moisture and so takes up perspiration , keeping the skin dry and comfortable . It dries slowly and so prevents chill due to sudden drying . Rayon possesses a definite beauty and luster . Formerly , the luster was thought to be too high and metallic , but it has since been partially or fully subdued . Nylon . Nylon is officially defined as a man-made protein-like chemical product which may be formed into fibers , bristling filaments , sheets and other forms which are characterized , when drawn , by extreme toughness , elasticity , and strength . The term is a generic one developed by the du Pont Company for the synthetic linear superpolymers developed in its research laboratories . Nylon refers to the basic class of materials and is used as an adjective to describe the actual forms , such as nylon yarn , nylon film , nylon-coated wire , nylon bristling filaments . Nylon fibers are not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " protein-like " chemical product , which means that it has somewhat the same chemical composition as the proteins of which silk , hair , and wool are common examples . Nylon does not , however , have an exact counterpart in nature and fibers made from it can not , therefore , properly be referred to as synthetic silk , although they resemble silk in certain respects . The material or materials known as nylon are not only new , but are different from any existing natural product or any other man-made material . In addition to knowing the features of these long-established fibers and fabrics , the salesperson also owes it to his customers to become familiar with the great variety of new synthetic fibers  | It must be emphasized that this is not a complete list of synthetic fibers nor a complete description of the characteristics of each . Other fibers for which generic names have been recognized include saran , azlon , nytril , spandex , vinal , olefin , vinyon , metallic , and rubber . Definitions of the various generic terms have not been presented @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interest to the consumer . As one example , polyester fiber has been defined as " a long chain synthetic polymer at least 85% by weight of ester of a dihydric alcohol and terephthalic acid . " For official definitions of other fibers the reader is referred to the Federal Trade Commission Rules and Regulations pertaining to the Textile Fiber Products Identification Act . The salesperson should also be familiar with the basic nontextiles which are used in the products he sells . His studies in this field may lead him into a knowledge of leathers , metals and minerals , woods , plastics , or into the complicated and interesting food and drug fields . In any event , he should know the basic qualities and characteristics of all the materials of which his merchandise is composed . Such information may be in almost constant demand during the selling process . Customers want and need to know the facts about merchandise materials so that they may select intelligently and get the utmost in utility out of the goods they buy . Many of the qualities of merchandise arise directly out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are constructed and decorated often influence their ultimate desirability more than do the materials used . For example , in textile merchandise , cloth may be constructed by weaving , knitting , plaiting , or felting . Each of these methods produces quite a different finished product which has different characteristics and is suited for different purposes . Weaving alone , for example , is a complicated process . There are approximately ten thousand different types of weaves . The basic ones , however , with which salespeople should be thoroughly familiar are plain , twill , sateen , jacquard , pile ,  | doublecloth , gauze , lappet , and swivel . Of these , the plain weave is the simplest , most important , and most economical . When the yarns are strong and packed closely together , it makes a very durable cloth . Some examples of plain-weave fabrics are cotton sheeting , voile and nainsook , wool challis and homespun , silk taffeta , and handkerchief linen . These facts about textile merchandise are given to illustrate how comprehensive and detailed the salesperson 's knowledge should be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the merchandise . Well-informed salespeople know these details and are able to answer customers ' questions and to give facts that will make apparent the real values possessed by the merchandise . Every salesperson who has a thorough knowledge of his merchandise must know in what respects it excels . These advantages or points of superiority constitute the product 's selling points , and if the salesperson can describe them convincingly customers can more readily see the advisability of making the purchase . In general , the advantages of any item can be summarized under one or more of the headings of suitability , serviceability , durability , comfort , convenience , appearance , economy , and prestige . If the salesperson knows his merchandise well enough to be able to explain convincingly how it excels in any of these , he is in an excellent position to help his customers buy . For example , if he can show why his merchandise is most suitable for the occasion or to the customer 's needs , or if he can point out why it will wear longer , fit better , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ easily , or be bought more conveniently , the customer may be convinced and , after having made the purchase , be more satisfied with its use . Nearly every piece of merchandise has some advantages or points of superiority . Even in the field of low-priced goods , where quality has obviously been sacrificed , the advantage may be in the low price itself or in the elements of availability and replace- ability . On the other hand , if the price is high the salesperson can justify it by emphasizing the quality of materials and workmanship , the potential durability , the prestige of the manufacturer , or the exclusiveness of use . The salesperson should know the actual and potential limitations of his merchandise in order to answer customers ' objections and to be able to offset the disadvantages with advantages or points of superiority . Salespeople can not be fully prepared to meet customer objections if they do not know in advance what is likely to be objected to . If the merchandise has some inherent limitations , the customer is likely to recognize and inquire about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a previous chapter , top-notch salespeople make sure that their customers fully understand the limitations and weaknesses of the merchandise they buy . They recognize that continued satisfaction is based upon complete understanding , together with the type of service that eliminates potential sources of disappointment . Salespeople who know the limitations of their merchandise need not raise objections unnecessarily . In other words , it is not suggested that good salesmanship consists merely in presenting the advantages and disadvantages of a product and waiting for the customer to come to her own conclusions . Such a procedure would not help people buy . Actually , it would be more confusing than helpful . Customers need and want constructive assistance . They want to know how the merchandise will satisfy their needs , what its points of superiority are , and how the greatest amount of satisfaction in use can be obtained from it . This latter involves a full understanding of how to use the merchandise , how to care for it , how to prolong its life , and how to keep any inherent weak- nesses in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ certain types of leathers crack , some metals tarnish easily and others become dulled with use , some types of textile fabrics shrink more readily than others , and certain dyes are inclined to run . Many users of such merchandise are fully aware of these conditions and govern their purchases and the use and care of them accordingly . All customers should know these facts before they buy . Use satisfaction is dependent upon such knowledge and upon the information that well-informed salespeople can give regarding how to protect against these limitations and how to keep serious flaws from developing . As implied in the discussion above , salespeople should be prepared to tell their customers the purpose of the merchandise they buy and how to use it . This knowledge is often of a technical nature and involves considerable study . For example , salespeople selling apparel or accessories should be well informed about fashions and about color and line harmonics . They should be able , as the occasions arise , to advise their customers about what to wear and what constitutes good taste in the selection of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be experts in interior decoration . They should be well informed about period designs and how to use them tastefully in the decoration of the home . Modern customers are rapidly coming to expect such advice from retail salespeople . Those who are able to give it gain customers ' confidence and patronage and are the successful salespeople in stores today . A knowledge of the uses and purposes of a product includes such information as regular purposes or uses , special or unusual uses , advantages of certain specific uses , and how , when , where , and by whom used . Information of this nature is most helpful to customers who want to get the greatest amount of utility out of the things they buy . The following situations illustrate the importance of this information :  | A customer , discovering a sizeable ant hill in his garden , called at the garden department in a department store for some advice and some merchandise . He wanted , first , to know how to get rid of the ants , and , next , to buy the necessary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ request a salesperson recommended a certain type of ant killer , and when asked how to use the preparation replied that full directions were on the bottle . The customer , satisfied , made the purchase and took the product home . Upon reading the directions he discovered that the preparation , to be used effectively , required a certain type of spraying equipment which he did not possess . He experimented with spreading the preparation but found this method to be ineffective . The net result of this salesperson 's failure to give complete use information was that a good product was wasted and a confident customer was disappointed . A situation of a different nature developed when a customer , on a hot , sultry day , stopped at an electrical appliance store to look at electric fans . The salesperson presented a model particularly appropriate - for home use and demonstrated fully how it should be installed and used . In helping the customer to decide he also pointed out that , in addition to circulating air and cooling the room on hot days , an electric fan had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ placing it over and back of a radiator , to circulate warm air on cold days . It could be used to expel kitchen odors , to air out closets , and even to dry clothes in a hurry . The customer bought the fan and , as a result of full use information , has been well satisfied with his purchase . Another type of important information salespeople should have about the specific items they sell is how to care for and service them . Many types of merchandise , in order to give full satisfaction , need to be cared for in special ways . Customers often do not know the best ways of caring for the goods they buy ; they depend upon salespeople to inform them . Care and servicing information covers all instructions about assembling the product , washing and cleaning it , replacing its parts , oiling and inspecting it , and all other facts that might  | affect satisfaction in its use . Obviously , such information is highly important . Even the most carefully selected high-grade merchandise might prove wholly unsatisfactory if improperly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ always be prepared to give accurate and complete care information . If care has been simplified to the point where it is an additional advantage of the merchandise , this fact should be emphasized as a part of ' the selling argument . If care and servicing are somewhat complicated , then it is usually good procedure for the salesperson to give detailed written or oral instructions after the customer has decided to make the purchase . In any event , customers should always be given accurate and complete information about the care of the merchandise they buy . Top-notch salespeople keep themselves informed about the specific items they sell by fully utilizing every possible source of merchandise information . The alert salesperson may get facts from many sources , the most important of which follow . The store 's training department . In stores where organized training programs have been set up , the training department assumes the major responsibility for helping salespeople become informed about their merchandise . In addition to specialized training courses , the training department assists the department heads with their training problems , prepares bulletins @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and tours , and makes available in a centralized place a wealth of printed material about all types of merchandise . The training department that functions properly is the best source of information for alert salespeople . There are , however , . additional important sources . The buyer . The buyer who selects the merchandise for a department is usually in possession of many details about it and its selling points . In many cases the buyer is a natural teacher who enthusiastically imparts all this information to his salesforce . In  | cases where the buyer does not impart such information freely , it is possible that the assistant buyer has been given sufficient information to pass on to the salespeople . Those who have acquired basic information through previous training or through other contacts will frequently find an opportunity to talk informally to the buyer or assistant buyer about the merchandise . The customers . Of course , stores desire their salespeople to know more about the merchandise they sell than do the customers who come to examine it , yet there are times when a customer offers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ traveled where the merchandise was secured or has had interests in factories where the material was made . The salesperson who is alert can use this opening to secure additional information about the goods . Fellow salespeople . It has been said that experience is the best teacher . If this is true , fellow salespeople , especially those who , have been in the department for some time , may have acquired valuable points about the merchandise . They may be hesitant about passing on this information unsolicited , but an intelligent salesperson who inquires can learn much from those who are better informed than he about the merchandise . The merchandise itself . A salesperson can gain a wealth of knowledge by carefully examining the goods in stock . While caring for stock and while waiting for new customers , salespeople can study the merchandise in their departments . A careful comparison of merchandise variously priced will aid in answering the question , " Why is this item priced higher than the other ? " Salespeople can even make their own tests of merchandise ? for example , tests @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Other information that can be learned while studying the goods is a knowledge of its location and of the quantity in stock .  | It is , of course , important to be able to locate readily the sizes , grades , and colors of merchandise in one 's department . It is also wise to know the quantity of merchandise in stock in order to report the need for replenishing the stock when necessary . This subject is discussed at greater length on pages 166-168 . Labels on merchandise . The labels on merchandise should be thoroughly read , especially all information on packaged goods . One who neglects to do this is likely to be placed in a predicament similar to that of a salesperson in a seed department where a customer asked for perennials . The poorly informed salesperson , evidently thinking that this was the name of a plant , looked over the names on the seed packages and said , " No , we do not have any perennials . " As a matter of fact , there were seeds in the department for both @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the seed packages , but the salesperson had failed either to read it or to grasp its significance . The consumer movement , sponsored by both retail and consumer organizations , is playing an active part in having all merchandise , such as articles of clothing , labeled in regard to their content as minutely as is merchandise sold under the National Food and Drug Act . This movement has also been interested in securing for the customer information in addition to that concerning the content of the merchandise . This demand is difficult to supply because of the uncertainty about just what facts the consumer wants to know . However , it is quite evident that the consumer wants to know facts such as the following : 1 . Quality and grade . 2 . Quantity and size . 3 . Raw materials from which the article is made . 4 . Instructions for washing and ironing . 5 . Instructions for use . 6 . Instructions for special care .  | Master Label Outline1 As recommended by the National Consumer-Retailer Council , Inc. , New York , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ informative label is to enable the consumer to buy wisely and the store to sell intelligently , to the end that the consumer gets the maximum satisfaction for the money expended and the store handles the transaction with the minimum possibility for returns and adjustment . An informative label should give the consumer a definite idea of the quality of the product by telling its composition and construction , what it will do , how to use it , and how to care for it ? as a basis for intelligent choice , and to enable her to compare qualities . A definite idea can only be conveyed by specific facts . It is suggested that these facts be grouped under the six headings listed below . The order and the form used here are not significant . It is understood , of course , that labels should conform to local , state or federal regulations where such exist . Degree of color permanence ; shrinkage or stretchage ; breaking strength ; seam slippage ; resistance to water , perspiration , wind , wear ; light , heat and power tests @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kind and quality of fiber , metal , wood , leather , ceramics , cement , rock , fur , plastics , petroleum products , rubber , paper , bone , chemicals , drugs ; ingredients of food products ; etc . Size , weight , number of yarns per inch , weave , number of stitches per inch , finish , ply , cut , hand or machine made , pressed , molded , stamped , inlaid ; etc . Detailed instructions for washing and/or cleaning ; precautions to be observed in cleaning or in storage ; refrigeration ; oiling and greasing ; polishing ; etc . Purposes for which it is most suitable ; recipes ; etc . Name and address of the manufacturer or distributor .  | Personal experience with articles . A customer looking at wearing apparel may be irritated when a salesperson says , " I wear it myself . " Customers like to feel an exclusiveness about the wearing apparel they purchase . To say , " I wear this myself , " may have weight with a close personal acquaintance , but to say @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ acquainted may be entirely out of place . In general , it may be better to omit personal references in one 's salestalk rather than to take the risk of being misunderstood . Customers are often impressed , however , if the salesperson explains , from knowledge gained through experience , the selling points , uses , and care of an article which is not identical or in which style is not an element . If a salesperson himself uses the merchandise that he sells , he has an opportunity to learn important facts about it . If a customer asks him his personal opinion , his answer will then naturally convey conviction . Whether or not it is always expedient to mention personal use of an article , a salesman can acquire valuable information through personal experience with his merchandise . Advertisements . Well-informed salespeople read regularly and carefully the advertising of their stores . A study of advertisements usually reveals useful information about the merchandise . People who write advertisements are highly trained to secure facts about the merchandise that will sell it . Also , advertisements are sources @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ talk with points presented in the advertisement of the particular merchandise have the advantage of emphasizing the very points that have already impressed the customer . A double impression is effective in bringing out the full force of a selling point . Manufacturers . Manufacturers are an important source of merchandise facts . The maker of the merchandise knows best its qualities and characteristics . Salespeople using this source , however , should recognize and discount the manufacturer 's natural enthusiasm for his own merchandise . Information from manufacturers may be obtained from four sources :  | 1 . The salesman representing a manufacturer is often able to give helpful information about the merchandise he is selling . Salespeople who have the opportunity to talk to these salesmen should profit considerably by such contacts . 2 . Publications of manufacturers often provide accurate and reliable information . These publications are to be valued as the original sources of information . 3 . When any of the numerous chemical or technical tests that are made by manufacturers apply to the merchandise the salesperson is selling , he should familiarize himself with those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and abrasion tests of the fiber composition used as their trunk coverings . The impact test was one in which a ten-pound ball was dropped nine feet upon a trunk . The fiber composition was not punctured , although the wood beneath it was . Such tests help to give conviction in many salestalks . When using a test as a selling point , it is necessary to be specific ; that is , one should not say , " This color will not fade , " but rather , " This color was tested 168 times in the sun and did not fade . " 4 . A trip through a factory is often revealing . Although customers may not be interested in many of the technical details learned by the salesperson from such a trip , they do have more confidence in the salesman who can state a few technical facts about the merchandise . The great importance of such a trip is that it adds to the salesman 's knowledge and makes him more enthusiastic about his work . Trade journals and trade associations . Trade associations are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ classification of merchandise sold in retail stores . These sources are usually used by store training departments . However , where training departments are not functioning , alert salespeople go directly to these sources for information . One of the major objectives of trade associations is to stimulate the sales of their members ' products . They normally make available , therefore , much information that could be useful to the salesperson . The Federal government and public agencies . Various departments in the Federal government have gathered and prepared large quantities of booklets , pamphlets , and printed material on  | merchandise of various kinds . Most of this material is free to any individual who may care to write for it . Books . Books may be invaluable sources of merchandise facts in many lines of merchandise . Authoritative books have been written in the general fields of textiles and non-textiles and on many specific kinds of merchandise . The well-informed salesperson should be familiar with the best books written about the merchandise he sells . Merchandise manuals . A number of book companies , publishers , colleges , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the National Retail Dry Goods Association , Good Housekeeping Magazine , the Research Bureau for Retail Training of the University of Pittsburgh , and the New York University School of Retailing , have prepared merchandise manuals . These manuals cover all types of merchandise facts about various products and also often give helpful hints on how to sell these products . Special courses . A variety of special courses may not be available , except in the larger cities , to one who has left a regular day school . However , many public evening schools give courses in subjects for which there is a sufficient demand . Many valuable courses are given in art museums , mechanics ' institutes and various associations , and extension courses of universities . Salespeople should investigate all the educational possibilities of their local communities . The study of merchandise in use . When visiting in the homes of friends or acquaintances , salespeople can frequently discover their tastes , likes or dislikes , and the reasons for their preferences . This discovery often leads to a more intensive interest in such merchandise ? an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ magazines , popular periodicals , and news items . Numerous periodicals contain articles of merchandise information . The daily press publishes news items of merchandise fairs and of unusual or new merchandise arriving in the shops . Papers that feature a woman 's page frequently contain illuminating information about various lines of merchandise .  | Tests . It is very important for salespeople to find out , either through reliable information given to them or through tests they themselves make , the exact content of the merchandise they sell . When in possession of this knowledge , salespeople can answer customers ' questions confidently . Such honesty creates respect for the salesperson and good will for the store . Consumer agencies have been formed to make laboratory tests of merchandise . These agencies distribute to their members information about merchandise investigated in stores , and as a result stores are more and more anxious that their salespeople shall not misrepresent the merchandise they sell . Numerous books that have been written in the interest of consumers report tests and findings on different kinds of merchandise . The Bureau of Standards of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has developed a number of ingenious machines for use in testing fabrics . These machines imitate the wearing processes to which fabrics are subjected under usual conditions . Manufacturers , stores , and others perform similar tests . Some of the tests of the Bureau of Standards are : 1 . The wearing quality of a fabric is tested by rubbing two samples against each other for a definite number of rubs . After this , the reduction in the strength of the samples is measured . 2 . The tensile strength of a fabric is found out by the use of a machine that grips two opposite edges of a sample and pulls both ways . When the goods weakens under the strain to the final breaking point , the force of the pull is shown by a pointer on a dial , and its rate of yielding is indicated on a paper chart by an automatic pen . 3 . The bursting strength of cloth is made by clamping a sample , circular in shape , in a horizontal , watertight steel frame . Beneath the frame passes a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stopcock . The water that is admitted into the closed place beneath the cloth forces the cloth upward . The pointer on a dial indicates the number of pounds to a square inch which corresponds to the pressure . The dial indicates whether the cloth bursts at 30 pounds or at 50 pounds . Closely woven cloth will wear longer than a loosely woven fabric . 4 . The strength of textile fibers is measured by a machine which  | subjects fibers to a steady pull gradually increased to the breaking point . 5 . The wear on trousers is imitated by another machine . For instance , the kind of cloth prescribed for army use is one that would permit a man to seat himself at his desk , pull his chair closer , then push it away , swing around in his chair , get up , and sit down again 97,000 times before the seat of his trousers gives away ! 6 . The heat-insulating quality of various fabrics is determined by stretching a piece of cloth under very slight tension over a copper plate on top of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ definite temperature and air humidity with no air currents . This procedure permits the determining of the rate of flow of air through the fabric and the permeability of the fabric to water vapor. 7 . The resilience , or elasticity , of fabrics is measured by placing a sample of material , such as a blanket , beneath the disk-shaped foot of a vertical rod which has a cap on top of it upon which weights are placed . On a dial a pointer connected to the rod shows the exact depths of the maximum compression . After the weights are removed and the foot lifted , the degree of resilience of the blanket is shown by the difference of level . A perfect mark would be given to the blanket that showed no difference in level . Merchandise testing bureaus . Although a few large stores have done testing for some time , it is only recently that any great number of stores have established testing bureaus to assist their buyers in maintaining merchandise standards . A merchandise testing bureau is a store laboratory designed to discover technical facts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ salespeople . The bureau draws up standards for goods to be carried by the store and tests new merchandise to be sure that it is the best obtainable at the price , and that it will be suitable for the purpose of the store . There arc three important Federal laws of which many salespeople should have some knowledge , namely , The Wool Products Labeling Act of 1939 , The Fur Products Labeling Act of 1951 ,  | and The Textile Fiber Products Identification Act , which became effective in 1960 . These laws are important to salespeople of all products made in whole or in part of fur or textiles , because they directly affect the labeling and advertising of such products . Of the three laws , the wool and the fur acts are the oldest and most familiar . The Wool Products Labeling Act simply requires that all products containing wool must carry a label that indicates the percentage of virgin wool , re-used wool , and reprocessed wool contained in the product . ' Thus both the salesperson and the buyer can readily determine the composition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Act prohibits the false labeling or advertising of fur products by requiring factual labeling and advertising . Specifically the requirements are that advertisements or labels must show the following : ( 1 ) the actual name of the animal from which the fur was taken , ( 2 ) whether the fur has been dyed , bleached , or artificially colored in any way , and ( 3 ) that the fur is " used , " if that is the case . The fur act was aimed at correcting a confusing situation in the selling of furs arising from applying exotic sounding but misleading names to less desirable furs . Both salespeople and consumers have benefitted from this legislation . The Textile Fiber Products Identification Act is similar in purpose to the wool and fur acts but broader in its scope . Need for such legislation became increasingly apparent during the 1950 's because of the tremendous variety of synthetic textile fibers that were developed by the chemical and textile industries . In some instances several manufacturers would produce the same basic type of fiber , but each would apply @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ textile products were being la- beled and advertised under an ever-growing welter of generic or trade names , to the mounting confusion of consumers and retailers alike . The law provides , in essence , that various specified textile products ' must be adequately labeled and advertised so as to indicate the generic name and percentage of each type of fiber used in the product . Thus if a certain garment is made entirely of cotton , a generic name , the advertising and label must read 100% cotton . If it is made of orlon , a DuPont trade name , it must be labeled 100% Orlon Acrylic ? the latter term being the generic name of the fiber . An item made of several different fibers must show the proportion of each , as , for example : 50% Rayon , 40% Cotton , 10% Nylon . More important to the salesperson than the technicalities of the law is the ability to associate the various generic and trade names of both natural and synthetic fibers with their important characteristics . Because of the number of relatively new fibers and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ task . Even so , knowledge of this kind enables the alert salesperson to extend his area of service to his customers . Customers expect salespeople to know what merchandise is carried not only in their own departments or sections but also throughout the whole store . Furthermore , they expect accurate directing . When they inquire about a particular item they assume that the salesperson will know immediately whether or not the store carries it and , if in stock , exactly where it can be found . It is not difficult , in small stores , for salespeople to keep them- selves continually informed about the merchandise carried . In large stores , however , getting and keeping this information presents a real problem . A large department store may carry as many as several hundred thousand separate types of items . The nature of this stock , furthermore , may be rapidly changing . New merchandise comes in , old goods are closed out and discontinued . Yet the salesperson is expected to keep his knowledge up-to-date . To do so requires continuous effort plus the application of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ might be subdivided into : ( a ) keeping informed about the merchandise stock carried in the department or section , and ( b ) keeping informed about the stock carried in other departments or sections of the store . In many stores the salesperson is given the responsibility for maintaining stock assortments in the section of the department or floor in which he works . It is his job to see that floor stocks are kept complete and that no customers are told the store is out of an item when it actually is in stock in the reserve . To carry out this responsibility necessitates a complete and up-to-date knowledge of what stock is carried both in the reserve and on the floor ; its sizes , colors , and types ; its location , and the quantities on hand . All salespeople should have such a knowledge . Customers expect as a minimum requirement that salespeople know whether or not they have a specific item and , if they do , where it is located . Customers expect all salespeople to be able to direct them accurately . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the salesperson will be able to tell them whether or not it is carried in the store and , if it is , where it can be found . Well-informed salespeople , therefore , make a continuous effort to learn what is sold in the store . They keep themselves informed about new merchandise being offered and old items being dis- continued . More than this , they know what is being featured in - other sections of the store so that they can advise their customers intelligently . It is particularly important for salespeople to know the location and a few important facts about the merchandise throughout the store that is directly related to the goods they sell . Fnsemble and suggestion selling play an important role in modern merchandising . Much merchandise , particularly in the apparel and home-furnishings fields , is featured in related groups . Salespeople who are able to make intelligent suggestions about merchandise outside their own sections are most helpful to their customers and most valuable to their stores . A thorough knowledge of the job implies that salespeople be well informed about store policies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ way with the merchandise they sell . Some of the more common of these items follow . A number of store policies have a direct effect upon the desirability and usefulness of the merchandise . For example , the store 's policy in respect to returns , refunds , and guarantees is often as important to the customer in making her decision as are any of the merchandise facts themselves . Successful salespeople frequently close difficult sales by explaining the details of a guarantee or of a refund policy . The salesperson should also know the nature of the store 's price policy . Most merchants try to maintain a one-price policy and therefore give their salespeople authority to sell at marked prices  | only . A few stores still operate on a modified bargaining basis and allow salespeople to sell at reduced prices if necessary . Wellinformed salespeople must be acquainted with these facts and govern their sales arguments accordingly . Another aspect of a store price policy includes its attitude toward competitive prices . Many merchants advertise a " will-not-be-undersold " policy . In such stores , when customers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ elsewhere , salespeople are instructed to arrange to have the items shopped and , if necessary , to have the price reduced to meet competition . Other store policies with which salespeople should be familiar include certain general specific policies in buying , advertising , selling , and personnel . At any time during a transaction a question may arise involving one of these policies . For example , a customer may want to know whether or not the store follows the policy of having regular sales , of featuring unadvertised specials , of buying from local manufacturers and producers , and of hiring local help . Such questions , although not frequently asked , might seem important to some customers and the salesperson 's ability to answer might have an important bearing upon the sale . The well-informed salesperson should know the facts about his store 's selling services . Many of these are intimately connected with the sale and exert an important influence upon the customer 's satisfaction . For example : Delivery service . Most stores provide some means whereby customers may have their purchases delivered . If @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what area is serviced , how frequently deliveries are made , any special requirements about the type of merchandise deliverable , the area covered , requirements for special deliveries , if any , the delivery schedule , and any other details that might influence the customer 's actual receipt of the goods . Wrong information about deliveries often results in dissatisfaction and disappointment on the part of the customer .  | Adjustment services . If the store follows the policy of assuring customer satisfaction it must maintain an adequate adjustment service . Salespeople should know how to advise customers about the use of this service . Dissatisfied purchasers frequently return to the salespeople from whom they bought the merchandise . If the salesperson can not handle the adjustment himself , he should be prepared to advise the customer accurately regarding the proper store procedure . Credit facilities . The short-term financing of customer purchases is another service provided by many stores . Well-informed salespeople should know the necessary details of operation of the store 's regular thirty-day open-credit plan , the time-payment plan , and any special credit services that may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may be described as a means of helping the customer to overcome the price obstacle and as an additional advantage of buying the particular merchandise . If the item being considered has a potential long life or if it involves the expenditure of an amount beyond the ability of the ordinary purchaser to make at one time , the use of a credit or timepayment plan may be both necessary and advantageous to the customer . Shopping aids . Many stores have found it profitable to provide a number of special shopping services or aids for their customers . Some of the more common of these are : Personal service bureaus , composed of a special group of employees or specially trained salespeople who shop for or with the customer , act as interpreters , conduct store tours , give special telephone service , and provide other services . Style information and interior decoration services , which exist to assist the customer in the solution of certain technical problems connected with the selection of apparel and home furnishings . Cutting and fitting service , for customers who buy materials by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to patterns . Gift boxes and free wrapping service , for customers who want  | their purchases wrapped specially for gifts , or mailing , or for carrying convenience . Free telephone service from outlying sections . This service is found most commonly in large metropolitan department stores that attract trade from wide areas . Customer garages or parking facilities are a relatively common service provided by stores located in busy shopping districts . Some offer the service free ; others charge for it under various plans . Salespeople should be fully informed about these services . They should be able to describe them and to help their customers to take advantage of them . Reference , in the salestalk , to one of these services often constitutes the clinching argument in favor of the purchase . Miscellaneous services . Some stores provide a number of additional customer services . Some of these are : special discounts to special types of customers , doormen and package carriers , hospital and first-aid service , a store paper that carries news of interest to the trade , information desks , a post office @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's playroom and nursery , various types of free instruction , free correspondence paper , weighing machines , auditorium service , a ticket office and travel bureau , a church directory , rest rooms and lavatories , and telephone pay stations . Although there are probably few retail stores now operating that offer all the services listed above , every one of them may be found in stores throughout the country . A few of these services are operated in such a way that they make a direct profit for the store . Most of them , however , are provided free of charge and with the idea that through them the job of selling may be made easier . Salespeople who take full advantage of them are usually most successful in their work . Store advertising . Customers expect salespeople to know about merchandise that is being advertised or specially featured . Many shoppers come into a store as a result of advertisements they have read . If they inquire of a salesperson about the advertised or spe- cially featured merchandise and find him uninformed , they lose confidence in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the advertisement . Salespersons ' knowledge of advertised goods should include an intimate acquaintance with the advertisements of their own merchandise and also a general understanding of what is being advertised and featured throughout the store . Such a knowledge gives them added selling power in their own presentations and assists them greatly in making intelligent suggestions . Furthermore , advertisements are an important source of merchandise facts which no alert salesperson should overlook . The copywriters who prepare the advertisements are usually skilled merchandise analysts who have studied the items thoroughly in an effort to find and express the most impressive selling features . Customers often ask questions or raise objections that can not be properly answered unless salespeople know something about the merchandise and policies of competing stores . For example , if price is objected to on the basis that the item may be purchased for less elsewhere , the salesperson should know whether or not the item is identical and , if it is , the reason for the discrepancy . Furthermore , customers inquiring about store services frequently point out that better or additional services are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ questions or observations satisfactorily lose sales . A difference in price or service can usually be adequately justified if the salesperson knows the facts . He should , therefore , make it a point to find out what his competitors are offering in his own line , what their prices are and how they compare with his own , in what respects their merchandise is different from or identical with his , and what the differences and similarities in policies and services are . Keeping up-to-date on such information is not easy , but the rewards of so doing are well worth the effort . Some merchants , realizing the importance of this type of in- formation to their salespeople , make the facts available to them through their regular comparison-shopping services . Where such a progressive procedure is not in operation , the alert salesperson should get the facts himself through visits to the competing stores and a careful study of their advertising . Facts about other stores , however , must not be used by the salesperson to " knock " his competitors . The information should be obtained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ customer raises the question . The conscientious salesperson encounters two basic problems in acquiring the knowledge needed for a successful selling job . The first is the problem of getting the proper facts , and the second is that of keeping those facts up-to-date . The information necessary for intelligent retail selling is constantly changing . The alert salesperson must regularly check his facts , discard those no longer applicable , and add new ones as they develop . Merchandise changes rapidly in the average retail store . Some old items are discontinued ; new ones are added . Details of staple merchandise frequently change . Often these details have an important influence upon customer satisfaction . Some stores operate a regular training plan , designed to keep all salespeople upto-date in their merchandise and store information . Manuals , bulletins , fashion , shows , meetings , and other methods are used to keep the force well informed . In other stores the solution of the problem is left up to the individual salesperson . It is his responsibility to keep his merchandise and store facts up-to-date . In any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be used by salespeople as a self-test of their knowledge can be an effective aid ' to keeping well informed . The following is a check list suggested for this purpose .  | The ultimate success of any retail salesman depends upon how intelligently he helps his customers to satisfy their wants . Helping customers buy requires a thorough knowledge not only of the merchandise for sale but also of the customers themselves . Good salespeople must have a practical knowledge of human nature . They must be able to put themselves in their customers ' shoes and actually forget about themselves in their desire to be of service . In every selling situation the salesman must constantly remember that the customer and her needs , wants , and desires dominate . Salesmanship and selling technique will be improved only to the extent that the salesman and the store realize that customers are the center of every retail transaction . One of the perplexing problems faced by every alert salesperson is how to become better acquainted with the customers he serves . To help them buy , not only should he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he also should know something about basic motivating forces , desires , responses , and actions . In other words , he should know in general what pleases or displeases people , what convinces or confuses them .  | There need be no mystery associated with a knowledge of human nature . Although much has been said and written about " the psychology of selling , " the facts remain that customers are human beings and that they respond favorably to tact , courtesy , interest , friendliness , and intelligent help . Retail salespeople as practical psychologists enjoy one distinct advantage over other students of human nature . Every salesman is at the same time an experienced customer himself . All salespeople buy merchandise from time to time and are , therefore , in a position to know from first-hand experience what customers want from those who serve them . By applying this knowledge to their own selling methods , they use the most logical and practical approach to the problem of handling people . Although a knowledge of human nature is not a mysterious thing , still , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not be learned overnight . A salesperson 's ability to meet customers intelligently is the result of experience , observation , and study . To every customer contact the salesperson brings his own personality and his acquired knowledge . His personality , as discussed in Chapter 3 , is the outward expression of his individuality formed since his earliest contacts with others . His knowledge consists of the body of facts that he has gained through experience and study . Successful salespeople constantly study human nature . They have learned that they can best apply their personalities and get the most out of their experiences through intelligently planned study . It is the purpose of this chapter and the following chapter to point out a few practical approaches salespeople might use in getting better acquainted with their customers . Everyone , regardless of occupation , age , or sex , is an actual or potential customer . The sooner salespeople recognize this , the sooner they will realize that the customer is an average human being and not a special species that should be analyzed and classified . This fact is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Appendix of this book . Nearly all of the over two thousand customers surveyed expressed displeasure at being classified by salespeople into types such as talkative , silent , deliberate , hasty , impulsive , well-to-do , or middle-class . They resented all efforts so to type them and to handle them according to any standardized formula . They wanted to be served , rather , as individuals , courteously and cheerfully . " Do unto others as you would have others do unto you , " is especially applicable in helping customers buy . Salespeople should remember to give the customers they serve the same courteous consideration as they themselves would expect . As pointed out above , salespeople are particularly fortunate in this respect , for they are also experienced customers . They buy goods in retail stores and know the kind of service they like . They should find it easy , therefore , to " put themselves in their customers ' shoes . " Wise salespeople remember that customers are people like themselves with similar needs , desires , and wants . Each customer , however , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and characteristics . Of course , many customers are suspicious of salespeople and their motives . This suspicion develops because many thoughtless salesmen have insincerely attempted to stimulate customers to buy merchandise that they neither needed nor wanted . It also comes from the practice used by some salespeople to base their salesmanship on the overstimulation of emotions . The two emotions most often abused in this respect are vanity and fear . Salespeople recognize , for example , that people normally take great pride in their personal qualities and appearances , and that the average person seeks approval and genuine praise . All too frequently , however , this vanity is flattered insincerely by the salesperson , with the result that the customer later feels that she has been tricked into buying something she did not want .  | The emotion of fear is abused when the customer is lured into buying merchandise for which she has no immediate need . This happens when salespeople make statements such as " These are the last at this low price , " or " This is the last one in stock @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " in an effort to force an immediate decision . This type of selling , when not based on facts , creates suspicion and does not build permanent business . The typical customer is an average person with a desire to satisfy an actual or potential need . She is normally limited financially and actuated by a desire to get the best possible value for her money . She wants to satisfy her needs intelligently so that she will not be forced to worry about exchanges , wrong sizes , or poorquality merchandise . Customers do not expect to be treated as if they were always right . They do , however , believe that they have certain rights which the salesperson must learn to understand and respect . Chief among these rights are : ( 1 ) the right to look at merchandise unhindered and unannoyed by the salesperson , ( 2 ) the right to receive intelligent and pertinent merchandise information , and ( 3 ) the right to be helped in the solution of their buying problems . Salespeople must realize that the customer expects them to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mechanical clerks . As already emphasized , successful salesmanship is based upon a knowledge of practical psychology . The salesman , in his work in meeting customers and fitting their needs , constantly applies the principles of psychology . For this reason , every salesman should be a student of the psychological approach and should study and appraise psychological principles and methods to determine how they can be used most effectively in his work . The study of psychology is a complex subject . Numerous books have been written and many courses are offered in universities dealing with this important field . The scope and nature of this book are such that it is impossible to delve extensively into this  | subject . Only those basic elements with which every salesman should be familiar can be touched upon here . Some of the approaches the salesman can use to get an insight into these important subjects are : ( 1 ) the study of the mental processes , ( 2 ) the study of individual differences , ( 3 ) the study of buying motives , and ( 4 ) the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these approaches are treated in this chapter , the remaining two in Chapter 9 . One of the most emphasized methods of gaining a fuller understanding of human nature is the study of the functioning of the mind . Many books have been written and much has been said about the psychology of dealing with people and the psychology of selling and advertising from the point of view of the mental processes . Although some of this material is definitely enlightening , a considerable portion of it has been pseudo-scientific and therefore has resulted in making students of salesmanship believe that there is some magic associated with this phase of the psychological method . Students , for example , have been told about magical words and phrases that are supposed to open customers ' pocketbooks . They have been encouraged to find and use socalled powerful emotional and psychological appeals in an effort to make people buy . This perversion of the principles of psychology is not only largely responsible for the existence of pressure selling but it has also clouded the important role that practical psychology might play in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ encountered the principles misapplied , have become afraid of the word psychology . They think of it as a device used by unscrupulous individuals in an effort to force people to actions which they do not want to take . In its strictest sense , psychology is the science that treats of the mind in any of its aspects . The term has been expanded to include  | however , it is concerned with the mental processes that precede or stimulate action or behavior . In studying people through the psychological approach , the salesman learns how customers think through their buying problems . As he gains and uses this knowledge , he becomes more helpful to his customers in his ability both to understand their problems and to assist them through each one of the mental stages which lead up to the conclusion to buy . Hole people think through their problems . The steps in the thinking process and the mental stages in the buying process are basically the same . Buying to satisfy a felt need is like any other problem involving analysis , consideration , and decision @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the thinking process should enable salespeople to do a more intelligent job of helping their customers buy . The steps in the thinking process have been decribed as : ( 1 ) realization of a problem , ( 2 ) location of the problem , ( 3 ) search for a solution , ( 4 ) experimentation , and ( 5 ) application . The development of these steps may be clearly illustrated with a simple example : Assume that while a person is walking in the park his foot begins to hurt . This is a felt difficulty or the realization of a problem . He stops , moves his foot a bit in his shoe to find out whether or not the difficulty is caused by the shoe itself , a pebble or some other foreign particle , or the protrusion of a nail through the sole . He believes the difficulty to be caused by a nail , so he removes his shoe and studies the situation . This is the second step , that of the location of the problem . After having determined the nature @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ search for a solution . In this case , a number of possible solutions may suggest themselves . For example , he might try to pound the nail out with an available rock , he might try to borrow a hammer from the nearest source , he might try to find a cobbler near by , or he might try to walk on with one shoe removed . Having a number of possible solutions , the next step consists of a state of study or experimentation to determine the most intelligent solution . This experimentation may be purely mental or it may be both mental and physical . In any event , after adequate consideration the solution which appears  | to be most satisfactory will be applied . This is the fifth step , that of application and , depending upon how accurately the problem was analyzed and how appropriately the solution was selected , satisfaction or dissatisfaction will result . The time element involved in the thinking process as illustrated above is highly variable . In some cases , the mind passes through all the steps in an instant . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is also true that in many instances some of the steps are omitted . People are constantly " jumping " to conclusions or applying improper solutions to inaccurately analyzed problems . In other words , we are not always logical in our thinking . In most cases where judgment is poor , however , the fault lies in failure to follow the simple steps of the thinking process . Following these steps insures more intelligent judgments and ac-tions . The mental stages in the buying process . The mental stages in the buying process , as pointed out above , are merely a restatement of the steps in the thinking process . These mental stages have been listed as : ( 1 ) attention , ( 2 ) interest , ( 3 ) desire , ( 4 ) conviction , ( 5 ) action , and ( 6 ) satisfaction . The following simple comparison shows the close relationship between these two sets of steps .  | In the buying process , the customer 's attention is first called to the fact that she has a need or a buying problem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the buying need and in finding possible solutions . As she discovers merchandise that will satisfy the need , desire sets in ; but action does not take place until the possible solutions have been explored or experimented with and until the customer is fully convinced that she has made the right decision . The following example illustrates how the entire buying process might transpire on the sales floor : A customer enters a store and walks down the main aisle toward the rear . As she reaches a counter upon which scarves are displayed , a salesperson picks up a scarf , shakes it out , and begins to fold it . The customer glances at the movement of the color . Salesperson : " This is one of the new South American importations . Are n't the colors interesting ? " Customer : " Well , they certainly are vivid . " Salesperson : " Yes , South American colors are characteristically vivid . But , at the same time , pleasant . Take these contrasting oranges and blues , for instance . Notice how skillfully they have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Customer : " Yes , they are interesting . " Salesperson : " As you know , our stores are now beginning to import a considerable amount of South American merchandise and we are amazed at the demand that exists here for it . These scarves , for instance , came in only yesterday and already over half of the shipment has been purchased by our customers . Our stylist has forecast that these colorful scarves will prove to be the new high-fashion note of the season . " Customer : " I thought the more subdued colors were being featured this fall . " Salesperson : " Let me show you what the latest fashion magazine says about fall accessories . Here are two pages on South American scarves showing how they can be used to pick up the touches of color in other parts of the costume . ( She hands the customer the magazine . ) Observe how , in several of the illustrations , the scarf is used to pick up the color of the handbag . " Customer : " Yes , that does make @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one that would go beautifully with the bag  | you are now carrying . Let 's just put it on and see how pleasing an effect it creates . " Customer : ( after the salesperson has adjusted the scarf ) : " They do look well together . But I had no intention of looking at a scarf . How much is this one ? " Salesperson : " It 's a real value at $3.95 . The colors are so gay and refreshing . It 's the type of thing we need more of these days . " Customer : " Yes , I think I 'll take it . " All the steps of the buying process , except satisfaction , are clearly apparent in this sale . The customer 's attention was attracted by the movement and the color of the scarf which the salesperson deliberately unfolded . Interest developed as the salesperson gave specific facts about the merchandise . Desire set in when the salesperson demonstrated the relationship between the merchandise and the customer 's needs . Conviction developed when the questions and objections were answered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ place when the customer was convinced that the value of the scarf to her more than outweighed the money cost of it . Satisfaction will result because a real need was uncovered and the customer was made to want the merchandise and was convinced that it would be the best solution to the need . Why the salesperson should understand how customers think through the buying process . It should not be inferred from the above example and discussion that all the mental steps of the buying process always take place on the sales floor . As a matter of fact , in most cases the customer comes to certain conclusions before coming into the store . When she meets the salesperson she may be at any point along the buying process . In the above example , the customer entered the store as a typical shopper , perhaps with a desire to look at some specific item but , according to her own statement , with no intention to look at scarves . If she had not been distracted by a display and by a salesperson 's special efforts , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made her requests , received her desired merchandise , and left the store . Much of the salesman 's selling effort is confined to the type of  | situation where the customer has come to certain conclusions before entering the store . In the average sale the full buying process does not take place on the sales floor . The customer either has a definite desire to satisfy or has had her attention and interest attracted and aroused and wants to look at goods . Only in the suggestion sale does the full buying process take place in the store . Salespeople who really help their customers buy detect quickly how far the buying process has developed and meet the situation accordingly . If it has progressed to the interest stage , they present specific facts about the merchandise and relate them to the customer 's needs . If the problem is one of conviction , they offer convincing arguments , give evidence and proof , and anticipate or answer questions and objections . The ability to detect the progress of the buying process and to know what to do requires @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ salespeople may not be actually conscious of the step-by-step progress , nevertheless , through experience and a knowledge of how people think , they instinctively give the kind of service the customer needs . How salespeople can assist in the development of the buying process is described in detail in Chapter 12 . The psychological approach to the study of people in its broader sense includes a consideration of individual differences , appeals , motivating forces , and behavior . These subjects , also , have broad sociological and physiological implications . The study of individual differences is concerned with the development , functions , and characteristics of individuals in their personal and group relationships . Applied to the problem of getting better acquainted with customers , it becomes the study of different types of purchasers : their qualities and characteristics and what the salesperson can do to give them the most intelligent service . Attempts to classify customers . A number of attempts have been made by authors and teachers to classify customers into a relatively few definite types . Since the salesperson serves many different people , it was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could be simplified through grouping customers according to the similarities of their characteristics . One of the most widely suggested classifications recommends that customers be grouped according to their buying moods . ' The theory advanced is that at times all customers are either decided , deliberate , undecided , suspicious , talkative , silent , hurried , timed , high-hat , tired , nervous , impatient , inconsiderate , confident , and so forth . Those who have suggested this method of classification give , first , detailed descriptions of each type so that the alert salesperson can not fail to recognize them , and second , minute instructions as to the best way to handle each so-called type . This approach to the study of people has many inherent weaknesses and even dangers . Although it is true that every individual is at times subjected to varying moods , these moods are generally of a highly passive nature . For example , a customer who starts the sale suspiciously may not remain suspicious throughout the entire buying process . On the other hand , a perfectly confident person may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reason for doubt . The chief danger with this theory is that some inexperienced salespeople may try to apply it too literally . Having been given something definite , they are likely to try to put all customers into certain definite groups and to handle them accordingly . Salespeople who operate in this fashion are likely to be wrong about 100 per cent of the time . They commit two unpardonable errors . Cust0niers do not want to be typed nor do they like to be handled . Another approach to the classification of customers suggests that they be grouped according to : ( a ) the amount of thought they give to selecting the goods , ( b ) the amount of care they use in selection , ( c ) the number of items they must have to select from , ( d ) the degree of knowledge they have of the goods they are buying , and ( e ) the standards they use in judging the merchandise . The author of this approach points out that varying degrees of each of the suggested headings exist and that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , under the lastnamed heading , that of standards , he points out that some people fudge merchandise by its price , others by its appearance , still others on the basis of prestige , and a few through a knowledge of its quality . Salespeople who can detect these individual differences can present their sales arguments accordingly . Although this recommended procedure is more objective and considerably more useful than is the classification according to buying moods , it still gives the impression that individual customers should be classified and handled as types . Unquestionably , under certain circumstances , some people do select the things they buy more carefully than do others . It is also quite true that at some times some customers want a wide selection to pick from while at other times they are satisfied with the first thing they see . But to attempt to classify all customers and to handle them in some standardized way is a misapplication of the salesman 's function . The first step toward intelligent salesmanship is to recognize that the customer is an individual and a human being . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , tact , sincere interest , and a confident presentation of the merchandise selling points . Individuals differ in personality and in response to given situations . No two customers will necessarily react the same way under any given circumstances . Furthermore , individuals themselves respond differently at various times under apparently identical conditions . Human nature is extremely inconsistent . A person who responds a certain way or displays a certain temperament at one time may not act in a like manner under similar circumstances at another time . It is this problem of individual differences that makes the job of selling both interesting and difficult . As observed above , a good salesperson is a practical psychologist . He is a student of human nature and a keen observer . He recognizes that the customers he serves are subjected to the varying moods and temperaments char- acteristic of human nature and that it is his job to try to understand them and to help them buy . When his customer is in a hurry , he gives her prompt and efficient service , but he does not attempt to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the customer is looking at something with which she is unfamiliar and is therefore timid , he meets the situation tactfully , but he does not think of this customer as the " timid person . " In other words , he recognizes that his customers are individuals with buying problems . He may analyze and classify these buying problems , but he never tries to type his individual customers . In most buying situations customers must make their selections from a broad variety of goods . Because of the wide range of merchandise offered to satisfy each desire , the decision often becomes a difficult problem . Regardless of the extent of general merchandise knowledge possessed by the customer , it is quite impossible , or at least unlikely , that she will know enough about each article she buys always to make a wise purchase . In many cases she needs the help of the salesperson , and what the salesperson says may have a definite influence on her decision . In dealing with this problem , the salesperson should remember these two facts : 1 . Customers may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about the merchandise . 2 . Customers differ in the extent and nature of help they need in making a decision . Consideration of these two points begins logically with the first . It is true that many people buy unwisely . One needs only to ob- serve people on the streets to realize that much merchandise sold should not have been sold to the people who bought it . When a customer makes an unwise purchase , someone is at fault , and the store usually gets the blame . Modern salesmanship , therefore , prescribes that the merchant and the salesperson should do everything in their power to encourage intelligent buying . Immediate sales should he sacrificed where there is a possibility of their injuring future buying confidence . The prudent merchant no longer instructs his salespeople to " push off " his own buying mistakes onto unsuspecting customers . Complete satisfaction results only when the merchant does everything possible to " sell merchandise that will not come back to customers who will . " The second point , listed above , states that people differ in the amount @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the salesperson who is attempting to serve them . This fact forms the basis of the salesperson 's classification of customerbuying problems . In general , the buying problems of a store 's clientele may be classified under the following three headings : 1 . Customers who know their needs and know how to satisfy then . People in this group have given careful thought to the merchandise they wish to buy . They have decided definitely just what articles will best satisfy their wants . For brevity 's sake , customers with this type of buying problem will be called " decided purchasers . " 2 . Customers who know their needs but do not know how to satisfy them . These customers feel the need for merchandise but are open to suggestion and conviction as to exactly how the need should be satisfied . These will he called " uncertain purchasers . " 3 . People who do not realize that they need anything . This group is made up of inquisitive people or " casual lookers " who have no intention of buying but who merely visit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ individuals have been called " shoppers " by some writers on retail salesmanship , the term being used to designate those customers who feel a need but wish to compare merchandise and prices before buying . The term shopper should  | not be so limited . All customers may be shoppers at times . The decided purchaser , who has definitely made up her mind to buy certain articles , may be consciously or unconsciously shopping for something else . The casual looker is usually a shopper . Curiosity brings her into the store , but the things she sees and learns may form the basis for an immediate or future purchase . Helping to solve the different types of buying problems . In preparing to help customers buy , the salesperson should keep constantly in mind that he is not serving a type of customer but rather helping people in the solution of types of buying problems . These buying problems vary with specific individuals under different circumstances . The customer who is a decided purchaser today may be a casual looker tomorrow . As a matter of fact , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attention is called to new needs . The salesperson should observe carefully and learn quickly the nature of his customer 's buying problem so that he may give intelligent and helpful service . The following are suggestions as to how he might meet the three types of situations described above . Serving customers in the " decided purchaser " group . Because customers differ in nature , some require more assistance from the salesperson in buying than do others . People who give forethought to their buying and come to the store definitely decided upon the merchandise they desire usually need little assistance by the salesperson other than prompt , courteous service . Should such customers ask questions about the merchandise , they will expect prompt , specific replies . The salesperson 's problem is not primarily to sell the merchandise , since the customer has already decided to buy . His chief job is to see that it stays sold . In order to do this , he should make as certain as possible that the merchandise will be so used as to give the best results . The information @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ example of good handling of a " decided-purchaser " sale follows : Customer : " I want a cross-cut saw for about four dollars and a half . "  | Salesperson ( bringing out three sizes ) : " Here are three at about that price . " Customer : " I want this larger size , but I must have one that will not break . " Salesperson : " This saw is of first-quality , highly-tempered steel . With proper care , it will last a lifetime . Keep this screw in the handle tight . Always saw with a straight , even swing . Keep it sharp so that it saws easily , and you will get perfect satisfaction . " In addition to serving the decided purchaser 's expressed wishes , the salesperson should also consider him as a shopper . Whenever possible and prudent , it is his duty to tell interesting facts about other merchandise in an effort to help this customer to satisfy possibly unfelt needs . Serving uncertain people . Customers in the uncertain group should be served carefully to avoid losing their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opportunity to see the merchandise carried and should be given the selling points in detail . Such people come into a store to compare and decide , and they require much intelligent assistance from salespeople in order to arrive at decisions . The fact that they are uncertain is an indication that they lack either a knowledge of their needs , a knowledge of how to satisfy known needs , or both . In this event , the salesperson 's first duty is to assist the customer to define her needs . This may be done by tactful questioning and effective demonstration . Questions about the use to which the article will be put are not out of place in retail selling . Customers usually feel that salespeople who ask such questions are taking a genuine interest in their problems . A demonstration of the article in use serves the twofold purpose of helping the customer to define her needs and of showing her at the same time how the article will satisfy those needs . After the need has been defined , the salesperson should proceed with information about the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ For example , note the technique employed in the following situation :  | Customer ( approaching a salesman in a furniture store ) : " I 'd like to look at living-room chairs . " Salesperson : " We have a complete selection on this side of the floor . Here , for example , is a beautiful barrel-back type . " ( The customer looks at several different models , the salesperson describing the important features of each . ) Customer : " I do n't know exactly what I want . I am so afraid I will get something in the room that wo n't look well with my other furniture . " Salesperson : " Suppose you tell me a bit about your room . Perhaps I can help you . ( He directs the customer to a scat and gets out his pencil and a large sheet of paper ? ) Now , what is the approximate size of your living room ? " ( The salesperson roughly sketches the room and then asks the customer about rugs , wallpaper , and other pieces of furniture , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the information acquired in this manner , the salesperson was in a position to make intelligent suggestions . Knowing the sizes , types , and colors of the other furnishings in the room , he could make specific recommendations . Salespeople should take a genuine interest in the problems of all their customers . Particularly must they be ready and able to help those who do not know exactly what they want . Helping the looker to buy . Approximately three-fourths of the people who visit stores are lookers . Most people are interested in merchandise and their curiosity leads them to the store to learn what new or different articles are being featured . Their prime purpose may be to buy some specific article , but their natural interest in all merchandise causes them to look around the store . Because such a large percentage of customers are lookers , the salesperson has an important duty in helping these people to buy . Casual lookers , like other customers , have merchandise needs , and it is the salesperson 's duty to help them discover their needs . Showing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ways to discover these needs . The casual looker oten tests the real ability of a salesperson . To effect a sale , such a customer 's mind must usually be Icd through the entire selling process .  | Means of attracting attention , arousing interest , creating desire , and stimulating action are discussed in Chapter 12 . The steps in the buying process and the customers ' buying problems . Obviously , then , the closest relationship exists between the steps in the buying process and the customers ' buying problems . The accompanying diagram shows that customers who know what they want and how to satisfy their wants have , before entering the store , progressed in the buying process to the point of action . Those who know they have a need but do not know how to satisfy it are , when they come into the store , at the point of desire . Lookers , or customers who do not know that they want anything , are at the point of attention in the buying process . This diagram shows the interrelationship of the steps @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Lookers , or those whose needs are not crystallized , must be taken through the entire buying process , whereas decided purchasers need only to take buying action and to have satisfaction assured . Since individuals are constantly striving to satisfy a multitude of desires arising out of basic wants , the average customer , prop- erly approached , is a bundle of sales possibilities . Far too many potential buyers leave the store without making a purchase . A recent survey among furniture salesmen in a large store brought out the fact that at least 50 per cent of the customers interviewed leave without buying . When this figure is considered in the light of the fact that all people are potential customers , it is quite evident that salespeople are not putting forth their best efforts to help them buy . There are three chief reasons why people who have taken the trouble to visit the store leave without buying : ( 1 ) the store does not carry what they want ; ( 2 ) the salespeople fail to make customers want what the store does carry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in several stores before buying . From the angle of salesmanship , the first reason is by far the least important . Because of modern merchandising methods , stores are much more accurate than they were in the past in stocking merchandise in accordance with customer demand . The problem of selling to a larger percentage of store visitors depends to a large extent upon the salesperson and his ability to sell . Good salesmanship is the ability to discover and intensify customer wants . Because all people have wants , salespeople who make earnest and sincere attempts to discover , intensify , and satisfy those wants are most successful . The third reason why customers leave the store without buying ? because of a desire to look and compare elsewhere ? is a customer privilege . Salespeople who tactlessly interfere with this desire often irritate potential buyers . The chief problem of the salesperson in such cases is to lay the foundation for a favorable comparison . He should give such an interesting and convincing salestalk that the customer will either decide immediately or , after comparing value elsewhere , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chapter 7 a number of factors were discussed concerning people as customers . In particular , there were analyzed the mental processes through which customers arrive at buying decisions and the prevalence of individual differences among customers . Equally important are the questions of what people want from a store , why they want these things , and what salespeople can do about it . Approaches the salesperson might use in gaining such knowledge are : ( 1 ) a study of buying motives ; ( 2 ) a study of appeals and buying actions ; ( 3 ) a study of how the average consumer spends her retail dollar ; ( 4 ) a study of consumer surveys and observation of what customers want in merchandise , store equipment , and service . These various approaches are surveyed in this chapter . Through them , the salesperson can become better acquainted with his customers . A fundamental and complex factor in consumer behavior is the matter of the basic motivating forces that cause all people to act as they do . Or more to the point for salespeople ? that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ question " Why do people buy ? " might seem to have a very simple answer : " Because they want something . " That answer is correct , as far as it goes , but it simply evokes another question : " Why do people want what they want ? " Thus the riddle of why people buy is inextricably woven in with the general pattern of  | motivating forces which largely determine the whole pattern of human behavior . One often hears or reads of a distinction between " needs " and " wants . " It has been said , for instance , that man needs little but wants much . This is true if needs mean only the most basic elements necessary to maintain life . In this sense , man differs little from lower animals . He must have food , water , and air . He must maintain a constant bodily temperature between 98 and 99 degrees . To do this in certain climates , he must have the proper clothing and shelter . He also may have natural foes from which he must escape @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the necessities of his life ; they are , in a basic sense , his real " needs . " But once having satisfied these needs , man , unlike lower animals , begins to feel other needs ? or wants . He is literally never satisfied . Even primitive peoples display wants for more than only the bare necessities . Our own American Indians , for instance , created many items for personal adornment ? beaded bracelets and necklaces , elaborate feathered headdresses , beaded moccasins , and many other items that could hardly be called necessities . Once man 's elemental physical requirements have been satisfied , other desires begin to possess him . And the second level of needs may be felt just as urgently as the first . Today 's " want " becomes tomorrow 's " need " ; the luxury of today becomes the necessity of tomorrow . Needs and wants blend imperceptibly into each other and a distinction between the two terms ceases to have much meaning . However , underlying them all are the fundamental motives that are the cause of all our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ basic forces in human behavior , including purchasing behavior , it behooves salespeople to learn as much as they can about the nature and force of such  | motives . It should not be inferred from this that salespeople must become psychologists . Nor should it be inferred that a greater understanding of human motivation will enable salespeople to manipulate their customers as if they were puppets on a string . Though sincere persuasion is often possible and desirable in selling , manipulation is neither desirable nor generally effective . Manipulation presumes that customers have little mind or will of their own ? that they are totally responsive to the salesman 's " pitch . " Though it is perfectly true that some customers are so gullible they can be persuaded or pressured into buying almost anything which a glib salesman presents , this class of customers constitutes a small minority . As has been emphasized in previous chapters , most shoppers resent any suggestion that they can be " handled , " manipulated , or pressured into doing the salesperson 's bidding . Even though some sales may be made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ repeat business that is the lifeblood of most retail stores . In trying to understand more about buying motives , the salesman 's objective should be to understand people better so that he can serve them better . A better understanding of human motivation will often help the salesperson to " tune in on the customer 's wavelength " ? to be more responsive to the buyer 's desires even when they are not overtly expressed . A better grasp of buyer psychology will not make a psychologist out of a salesman but it will make him a better salesman . And it can yield great dividends , not only to the salesperson and the store , but to the customer as well . While progress has been made during recent years in the study of human motivation , there is as yet no complete agreement on a specific list of motives . Even so , most psychologists and most experienced salespeople would probably agree that the following drives or wants should be recognized and understood : 1 . Self-esteem and social approval 2 . Romance and affection  | 3 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Comfort and convenience . Self-esteem and social approval . This is undoubtedly one of the most powerful forces that stimulates the individual to action . Behind nearly everything a person does is the want to feel important and to gain and hold the respect of others . Both the positive and the negative aspects of this drive must be recognized . Most people will strive mightily to achieve some degree of " status " or recognition among their friends and associates . Social approval may be sought through their jobs , through club or lodge work , in the family circle , or within any social group with which people come in contact . The negative or defensive aspects of this drive are also apparent . Most people will go to great lengths to protect their pride ? to prevent " loss of face . " Actions or words that are disparaging are likely to be bitterly resented . Anything that wounds a person 's pride or deflates his ego will be strongly resisted or avoided . This drive for a feeling of self-esteem and social approval is especially important in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for concern over style and fashion . For example , hats were originally worn as coverings for the head , yet today 's customer is far more interested in the feeling of satisfaction she gets from her hat and in the approval of her friends than in any element of practicability . Shoes were intended primarily as protectors for the feet , but most women will suffer many real discomforts , such as narrow widths , high heels , and pointed toes in order to be " in style . " Let the average man begin to lose his hair , or put on a " waistline , " or begin to show his age , and he will submit himself to much expense , many inconveniences , and considerable discomfort to arrest the development of these conditions which he believes may result in loss of self-respect and prestige . In the buying of home furnishings , too , this motive is allimportant . Homes are one of the most important of all symbols of prestige and status . Home-owners and apartment dwellers  | alike want their surroundings and furnishings to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has achieved a respected station in life . In his personal approach to customers the salesperson will do well to recognize this deep-seated drive . When he says , " I see you know a good deal about this merchandise , therefore you will appreciate these fine points , " he appeals to the desire for recognition . When he says , " As a man you will be interested in these important mechanical details , " or " This suit will make you one of the best-dressed men in town , " or " This is the style most in demand this season , " he is appealing to a desire for a feeling of self-esteem and approval . On the other hand , the salesperson who ignores this behavior trait in his customers penalizes both himself and his store . It is common knowledge that indifference on the part of salespeople is one of the most effective ways of losing sales and customers . Even worse is a superior or condescending attitude by the salesperson . These are simply means of showing the customer that she is considered unimportant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ self-esteem are almost sure to be fatal to a buyer-seller relationship . Thus a knowledge of this fundamental drive to action constitutes a long step toward a better understanding of human nature . Salespeople who are tactful , courteous , considerate , and interested stimulate this motive force . Anything that can be done sincerely to make the customer feel important and as an invited guest is not only good manners and good psychology but also good business . Romance and affection . The sex want and the desire for romance also exert a profound influence on the actions of people . Although Freudian psychologists and psychoanalysts may have overemphasized the importance of this drive , its significance should not be overlooked by any student of human behavior , including salespeople . The desire for romance leads people to want to he liked by and be with members of the opposite sex . Translated into a motiva- tion for buying , this want is the basis for most appeals to youth and beauty . The salesperson who emphasizes the alluring aspect of a garment or who says , " This dress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to appeal to the desire for romance . Most cosmetic sales grow out of a stimulation of this fundamental urge , coupled probably with the urge for social approval . Sales of grooming aids for men are also often based on the same motives , as in the cases of shaving equipment , hair dressings , and deodorants . Salespeople who are aware of the power behind the desire for romance will study their merchandise to learn in which ways this motive force may be appealed to . Many customers want to buy aids to romance , and the salesperson can assist them if he is able to imply the romantic aspects of the merchandise he sells . The use of sales appeals based on the desire for romance requires subtlety and finesse , but such skill is well worth cultivating . Closely related to the desire for romance are the other affectional needs that most normal people possess . In addition to the desire to attract the opposite sex , most people have a need to maintain harmonious and emotionally satisfying relationships with other people . This need is most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Parents will go to great length in providing for their children and are of course very responsive to appeals based on the welfare of their offspring . Self-preservation . No one can doubt the prevalence of the desire to preserve life and health . Especially as people reach middle-age and beyond do they become concerned about their physical well-being . At any age , of course , threats to life and physical well-being are strongly resisted , but young people are more optimistic and less likely to take cautionary measures to preserve their health . The tremendous variety of cold , cough , and sinus remedies are evidence of concern about physical well-being . Vitamin pills , sun lamps , vacation trips , weight-reducing diets and special health foods are all sold , in large measure , because of the urge for self-preservation.  | The salesman who mentions that a home heating system will " maintain a warm , even temperature completely free from drafts " is suggesting a health motive , as is the salesman who suggests that a certain mattress will assure restful , undisturbed sleep . Though many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of this motive , those who do will find that it can be a most effective aid in constructing a sales presentation . Gain or profit . Since retail sales are made to ultimate consumers for personal use , profit for the customer in the usual business meaning of the term is not usually a factor . But in the sense of personal monetary gain ? or in the sense of getting a bargain through buying at a reduced price ? it is a most apparent and important buying motive . The rapid growth of discount houses during the 1950 's stemmed largely from the urge for monetary gain . The crowds of shoppers who are present at special promotions and warehouse sales are drawn by the bargain urge . Most of the people who are attracted to such events do not anticipate shoddy , inferior merchandise at low prices . They hope to find items of acceptable quality at prices somewhat lower than they would usually expect to pay ? in other words , real bargains . It may be argued with considerable justification that the drive for money gain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Money gained or saved is valuable because it confers prestige and recognition , it is contended , especially when used to acquire objects that are symbols of such prestige . However , it is highly unlikely that any appreciable number of people indulge in such a line of reasoning while they are solving problems of the family budget . There may be present in the buyer 's consciousness some vaguely defined idea that the dollars saved through economical buying can be used to acquire additional merchandise . But even such a vague awareness is likely to be short-circuited in the buyer 's mind . The ordinary shopper is more likely to act on the premise that " It 's foolish to spend more for an item than necessary , " or that " It 's wise to buy when and  | where you can save money , " without bothering to reason why . Hence it could be said that many consumers have what amounts to a conditioned reflex regarding economy appeals . The stimulus of saving money on the purchase of a wanted item is often just what is needed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ likely that there is still another motivating factor that influences some consumers to yield to price appeals . Though they probably make up only a small minority , there are consumers who receive considerable ego gratification , or a feeling of superiority , from the consummation of a bargain . This is particularly true if the customer has actively bargained or haggled in the process . Regardless of the circumstances , bargain and economy appeals are so often successful in building sales volume because they tie into the important consumer drive for monetary gain . Comfort and convenience . The desires for comfort and convenience may be linked together because they are so closely related , combining , in effect , to form one buying motive . The desire for comfort is essentially physical in nature and is therefore related to other physical urges such as hunger , thirst , and the need for protection from extremes of temperature . Little reflection is needed to discover many examples of products that appeal to the comfort motive . The air conditioning industry is based largely on this motive , , as is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , too , that have been bought for the comfort they provide : upholstered furniture , soft mattresses , bathroom fixtures , and water heaters , to name a few . And of course , household appliances , such as washing machines , clothes dryers , dishwashers , electric mixers , home freezers , and automatic kitchen ranges are widely prized because they bring relief from drudgery and help to satisfy the urge for comfort and convenience . Opportunities for salespeople to appeal to this urge abound in almost every store . The clothing salesman is using it when he says , Please notice how light and porous this fine worsted is . You 'll feel much cooler on the hottest days in this suit than in  | one made of other fabrics . " So is the awning salesman who assures the customer : " Sir , these awnings will keep your house up to ten degrees cooler during the summer months . " The saleslady who points out the light weight of a portable electric mixer , and the one who demonstrates the relief from tension received from a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Because opportunities to appeal to physical comfort , ease , and convenience exist so widely , the alert salesperson should certainly cultivate the knack of using them . Though the buying motives just described have been discussed individually , it is an error to believe that people are usually responsive to only one motive at a time . In most cases the individual responds to a combination of several drives . In such committee is passed on through the store 's training program to as is more likely , one will be dominant and others will be secondary . Thus the husband who is buying an automatic dishwasher for his wife may be actuated chiefly by the affection that he feels for her . But he may also be responding to an ego-bolstering need because he has noticed that the wives of most of his business associates already have dishwashing machines . If he has to help his wife do the dishes , the comfort motive could well exert some influence on him as it most surely does on his wife . The doting husband who likes to see his wife @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a loving and affectionate spouse . In reality , he might well be motivated far more strongly by the desire for social approval and be using furs and jewelry as a means of announcing his importance and affluence . The purchase of a refrigerator by Mr. and Mrs. Jones could be stimulated chiefly by the convenience motive and secondarily by the desire to prevent the bodily harm that could result from poorly kept food . It should be remembered also that identical actions may result  | from quite different motivational drives . When Mr. and Mrs. Brown purchase a refrigerator identical to the one mentioned in the preceding paragraph , their reasons could well be quite different from those of the Joneses . The Browns might be distressed by the rapid spoilage of food and the consequent waste caused because their old refrigerator no longer functions properly . In addition , the freezer compartment of the new box is large enough to accommodate a considerable amount of beef that the Browns can buy at wholesale prices . Hence economy , or money gain , is the dominant motive in the Browns @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ combinations of motives and because different people may not be responsive to the same motives , a fixed selling approach will not always he as successful as the salesman might expect . Wherever possible , it is well for the salesperson to try to understand the motive or motives of each customer . If he can do this , he may well be able to select and emphasize the selling points to which his customer of the moment will be most responsive . In the sale of simple , low-priced items this is probably not either feasible or desirable because the sale is likely to be consummated rather quickly . But where relatively costly shopping or specialty goods are involved , it may well be both feasible and helpful for the salesman to attempt to determine the motivational pattern of his customer . Moreover , by recognizing that most customers are actuated by more than one urge , the salesman will often do well to use different selling points that appeal to several different motives . If he is not sure of his exact motivational target , he is well advised @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ least some of his points will find their way to the unlocated target . During recent years the terms " motivation research " and " psychology of motivation " have been heard on every hand . Motivation research has been widely hailed as the ultimate tool for  | probing the mind and psyche of the consumer to determine why she buys or does not buy . More specifically it is the application of certain psychological and sociological techniques to determine the motives that underlie consumer buying behavior . ' The techniques of motivation research are designed to enable the analyst to understand ( 1 ) the conscious but hidden motives which people recognize in themselves but do not ordinarily discuss or admit to others and ( 2 ) the subconscious motives which exist but are not even recognized or felt by the individual who possesses them . Depth Interviewing . The tools or techniques of motivation research are primarily depth interviewing and various forms of projective techniques . In depth interviewing a skilled interviewer asks questions that are chiefly indirect but are centered around the problem or product being investigated . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to talk freely , while the interviewer observes carefully the various subtle responses and reactions to his questions . It is hoped that under the stimulus of skilled questioning by a trained interviewer , the respondent will uncover unsuspected motivations that have a bearing on the problem or product being investigated . Projective Techniques . Projective techniques in motivation research are also designed to penetrate both conscious and unconscious motivations . This is done by means of purposely ambiguous situations which the respondent can interpret only by revealing his own reactions . He may , for instance , be given a number of incomplete sentences and asked to complete them . Or he may be shown a series of vague pictures and be asked to explain or interpret their meaning . Confronted with such an incomplete sentence or picture , the respondent can react only  | by projecting his own personality into his response , thus unwittingly revealing his own motives . In the hands of well-trained psychologists and researchers , it appears that motivation research has indeed thrown new light on consumer behavior . Much of this research has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regard to specific products . In many eases it has resulted in product modifications and new advertising approaches . Limitations . For retailers , motivation research has added to their understanding of the public image of the store . It may also have stimulated the sale of some products by causing manufacturers to design and advertise them more effectively . Insofar as helping individual salespeople , however , its accomplishments seem thus far to have been of limited value . It is true that more sophisticated methods of research have made considerable additions to the fund of knowledge about consumer behavior patterns . But much of what has been recently learned is in relation to specific situations or specific products and is not necessarily applicable in the great variety of situations and products with which a retail salesperson must deal . Moreover , it seems apparent also that the fruits of much recent research have not vet been sufficiently validated and reduced to really useful generalizations and guides in a form that is available to the average salesperson . Contributions . Despite the comments in the preceding paragraph , there are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ through motivation research . These ideas are not particularly new but their fundamental importance has been re-emphasized in recent years . The symbolic value of material things is such an idea . It has often been demonstrated that many purchases are made because they have some meaning for the purchaser other than their apparent functional use . It is obvious , for example , that women buy furs chiefly because of their symbolic value as badges of prestige and affluence rather  | than because of the warmth they provide . Automobiles are bought not merely as transportation devices but also because of the status and feeling of importance they confer upon the owner . ' The number of examples could be multiplied many times ? home furnishings , jewelry , clothing , air conditioning , exotic foods and beverages , to mention only a few , are all bought at times for their symbolic values . A second important concept that recent psychological research has clarified and emphasized is that people have images of themselves which they seek to fulfill when acquiring material possessions . Thus the man who considers himself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to reinforce this self-image through driving an imported sports car . A man who feels that he is a good provider with high regard for his wife may strengthen his selfimage through providing her with various labor-saving devices . And the teen-age boy who feels that he is really more of a man than he appears to be may take up cigarette smoking to demonstrate his maturity to himself as well as to his peers . It seems likely that motivation research will continue to provide new insight into the complex maze of human behavior . This added insight is not likely to come in the form of vast new revelations , however . It is much more likely to come in little bits and pieces over an extended period of time . In any case , the progressive salesperson should make every attempt to keep himself up-to-date in his knowledge of customer psychology and skilled in the appropriate application of that knowledge . No discussion of buying motives would be complete without some attention being given to that universal mental process called rationalizing . In order to understand this process @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and irrational or emotional ) motives . 2 See , for example , Pierre Martineau , Motivation in Advertising ( New York : McGraw-Hill Book Co. , Inc. , 1957 ) , Chapter 6.  | Rational and Irrational Motives The difference between rational and irrational is usually explained about as follows : A rational person is one who is reasonable and reasoning . His course of action is carefully planned after an evaluation of various alternatives . Therefore a rational motive is one based on the thinking and reasoning processes . Irrational or emotional action , of course , implies the absence of judicious consideration with decisions being made on the basis of feeling , hunch , or intuition . A more meaningful and more useful differentiation between rational and irrational has been presented by Edward C. Bursk in these words : Rational applies to reasons for buying ( or not buying ) which are self-approved  --  that is , which the buyer feels to be right and reasonable because they are in line with his own expectations of himself as a thinking man and/or his understanding of what other people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the part of a thinking man . By the same token , irrational applies to reasons for buying ( or for not buying ) which are not self-approved and socially acceptable , as just defined . Not that a buyer thinks all this out or even formulates it explicitly , but as a result of all his experiences and the current mores of society he just feels some reasons are " all right " for him and others are not . Bursk further points out that rational motives may also apply to noneconomic and intangible values : Most men would consider it reasonable that a man should buy helpful things for his wife . . . ; the fact that he and society think that it is one of his responsibilities makes it reasonable ? even though it may be self-pleasure , too . Similarly , in this sense , it is rational to  | want to live in a good neighborhood , to have a modern-style car , to own a television set . Rationalization means simply the substitution of approved motives to justify an action that springs from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ones . For example , suppose a young man is examining an expensive suit which he likes because he feels that it flatters his appearance and makes him look handsome , or sophisticated , or important . These motives are likely not to be widely approved since they suggest vanity and conceit . They do not jibe with his image of himself as a strong-minded , reasoning individual who is above pampering his ego with purchases that he can not afford . If , however , he can justify the purchase on rational grounds , he can have the suit and still maintain the preferred self-image . The salesman in this case can help to supply the rational justification for the purchase . While he could mention that the suit looks good on the customer or that it " does something " for him , or that it is the very " latest style , " he is likely to be well advised to confine most of his sales talk to down-to-earth , rational appeals such as quality of material , tailoring , fit , price , and the like . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so the customer can maintain his likely selfimage as a practical , prudent man who believes in getting a " good buy " for his money . The salesperson thus enables his customer to satisfy his unspoken desires while at the same time offering him the basis for justifying his purchase on approved rational grounds . Thus even though the salesman in this instance does not appeal directly to the real motive for the purchase , that motive is working for him anyway . His essential role is to provide the rational justification for an otherwise irrational purchase . The widespread tendency of people to rationalize their pur- chases is an essential aspect of buyer motivation that all salespeople should understand . From the psychological point of view , human action or behavior is the result of the stimulation of one or more of the basic drives or motivating forces . These forces , as interpreted in the previous chapter , are : the desire for a feeling of personal worth , the need for a livelihood , the desire for romance , and the desire for variety . Any stimulation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In learning what people want and what makes them want to buy , the salesperson should study the appeals that motivate action in order to understand the nature of those appeals and what makes them effective . Appeals that stimulate buying action may be classified under the headings of ( 1 ) those associated with perception and ( 2 ) those associated with ideas . People become aware of the existence of a want through appeals either to the senses or to ideas and feelings . Sense appeals . The sense appeals are the most apparent and the best understood . They consist of appeals through the senses of sight , hearing , taste , smell , and touch . In merchandising , sense appeals are expanded and interpreted in various ways . For example , sight includes the appeals of color , line , design , proportion , dimension , harmony , and so forth . Touch , or the tactual qualities , may include texture , softness , weight ( or lightness ) , pliability , elasticity , and appeals of a similar nature . The sense appeals arise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be brought to the customer 's attention . They are the actual perceivable selling points that the salesperson may emphasize in his presentation . Appeals to ideas or feelings . Closely associated with the sense  | appeals ? as a matter of fact , actually arising out of them ? are the appeals to ideas , feelings , and emotions . These have been classified as ideational appeals . They include all the mental and emotional processes involving association , memory , or imagination . These processes play a particularly important part in stimulating buying action . For example , brand consciousness and preference , goodwill , and reputation are all parts of these processes . Every selling point the salesperson advances and every quality the customer perceives stimulates ideas and feelings connected either with memory or imagination . When the salesperson says , " Observe how beautifully this dress hangs , " or " You can visualize how well this piece will fit into your living room , " or " This is even better quality than the one you bought last year , " he stimulates imagination , association @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ favorable stimulation of these processes . If the merchandise produces pleasant associations and creates vivid imagination , the desire to buy is automatically present . What the salesperson should know about appeals . In developing the sense and idea appeals of his merchandise the salesperson should remember these facts : 1 . The forcefulness of any appeal varies directly with the number of senses and ideas favorably stimulated . Customers want to see , touch , hear about , and in all other possible ways become aware of the characteristics of the merchandise that may satisfy their needs . The salesperson who hands his customer an item and says , " You can just feel the quality of this merchandise , " or who taps a piece of glassware with a pencil and says , " Just hear that clear ring of quality , " appeals to the senses and the imagination and makes the merchandise more desirable . In all cases , a study of merchandise will reveal many perceptual appeals that may be used . Some of these are too often overlooked by salespeople . For example , certain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not unpleasant . The salesperson , in establishing the fact that the leather , for instance , is genuine morocco , might say , " Another characteristic of morocco is its distinctive odor not possessed by any other leather .  | I believe you will readily detect it . " He then smells the merchandise himself and hands it to his customer . The addition of one more sense perception plus the imagination stimulated by the suggestion to smell the item multiplies the power of the appeal . Certain types of textile materials can appeal to the sense of hearing if the salesperson makes them rustle . Metals , glassware , and earthenware can " speak for themselves " if the salesperson taps them gently . If properly explained , the dull thud of high-quality earthenware can be equally as powerful an appeal as the clear metallic ring of expensive bone china . The important fact is that people perceive through the senses . The more sense perceptions the salesperson can bring favorably into his presentation , the stronger his appeal becomes . 2 . People act more readily on appeals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reason . Appeals that stimulate emotions favorably are most likely to result in buying . To most people , logical reasoning is a laborious process . Most people like to have their heavy thinking done for them . They would rather jump to conclusions than arrive at them through a step-by-step process . People , however , do not like to be reminded of this fact . They like to believe that they arrive at their conclusions logically and only after due consideration . As a result , they are more likely to try to justify their emotional actions through rationalization than they are to reason to a logical conclusion . " We are more likely to think our way into our feelings than we are to feel our way into our thinking . " This may explain why women claim that , in buying shoes , comfort is their first consideration ; yet , in the actual purchase , fashionableness is the appeal that sells . ' Salespeople who understand the role the emotions play in buying seek out and emphasize such emotion-stimulating qualities of their merchandise as appearance , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ points such as these often constitute the strongest appeal to buying action . Salespeople who have studied emotional appeals are also careful not to question their customers ' rationalizations . They recognize , instead , that many individuals need emotional justification for their decisions . Purchases for merchandise , other than real necessities , are often difficult to justify on a logical basis . Such pur- chases , which make up a good part of the American standard of living , are made primarily on appeals to the emotions . Salespeople , therefore , must understand these appeals in order to do a good job of helping their customers buy . 3 . The forcefulness of specific appeals varies with different merchandise and different customers . It is an elementary fact that individual interests differ and that some lines of goods lend themselves better to certain appeals than to others . However , many salespeople discover certain selling points and use them over and over again without any effort to vary the presentation to fit the nature of the merchandise and the interests of the customers . For example , some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the price appeal . Accordingly , they begin all their presentations with a statement that brings out the price and attempts to justify it . Although price might appeal to some customers , it is secondary with many others . The salesperson , therefore , needs to study the various individual differences and interests of his customers and help them accordingly . This problem was discussed in detail in the previous chapter . The problem of what appeals are generally best for different types of goods has been investigated rather extensively . To answer the question , two types of studies are usually made . One method is to ask customers why they buy various items . The other method is to analyze the appeals used in successful sales promotion . The following tabulation is from an investigation made by Dr. J. W. Wingate at the School of Retailing , New York University . Both methods were employed and the results were compared . The investigator interviewed approximately 250 customers and analyzed over two thousand advertisements in an effort to throw some light on the subject . Only the three most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rightness , appearance and beauty of goods , appropriateness or becomingness , usefulness , workmanship and durability , physical comfort , ease of care , prestige of store or brand , and price . "  | As might be expected , when family income increases , larger amounts are spent on all categories listed in the foregoing table . Although larger amounts of income are spent for all items , the proportion , or percentage , spent either remains constant or declines as incomes increase. ? The one item that increases both relatively and absolutely as incomes increase is savings . Occupational differences . Buying practices of families differ somewhat according to the occupation of the household head and his age , or stage in the life cycle . Families of blue-collar workers , for example , spend a significantly larger proportion on food , beverages , and tobacco products than do other occupational groups . Families of farmers , farm laborers , craftsmen , and foremen spend less on clothing than do white-collar families . All in all , however , the differences in consumption patterns among the various occupational @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suggests the possibility of an increasing degree of homogeneity in buying habits of American consumers . Expenditures according to family age . A more important determinant of consumption patterns seems to be the age of the household head and the age of the children in the family . Typically , young couples with no children spend proportionately less on food and medical care but more on furniture , household equipment , automobiles , and recreation than do families with children or older couples without children . The explanation is that young married couples are acquiring the various durable goods normally considered necessary in the early years of setting up a household . Not having children , such families have fewer mouths to feed and lower medical expenses . As children arrive on the scene , food and medical expenditures naturally rise as do costs of hone operation , such as utilities and repairs . Automotive and recreational expenditures tend to become proportionately less as do those for home furnishings and equipment . These declines in spending may be explained in part by the fact that durable goods were acquired earlier and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wo n't stretch  | to cover all of the formerly enjoyed expenditures . Clothing expenditures do not show a relative increase until the children are older ? perhaps pre-teen or teen-age . The reason for higher clothing costs for such families is obvious to anyone who has ever bought clothes for teen-agers . ' What the Salesperson Can Learn about Customers from Consumer Surveys During recent years , progressive business organizations of all types have learned that one of the essentials of success is a better knowledge of the needs , wants , and demands of the ultimate consumer . This has been true even of those firms that sell only indirectly to the consumer . A study of their selling problems has forced the suppliers of the retailers , as well as the retailers themselves , to the conclusion that they can not operate profitably unless the final consumer is pleased with their products , services , and policies . Consequently , a number of investigations have been conducted in an effort to learn more about the customer 's likes and dislikes . ' These consumer surveys have been conducted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of which are specially interesting to the salesperson . Among some of the more common purposes of these surveys are : ( a ) to find out whether or not consumers are in need of a proposed article , ( b ) to learn any new buying conditions or changed consumer point of view regarding a particular article , ( c ) to determine the elements of design , type , style , or other features of the item most favored by consumers , ( d ) to learn how the product is used and what possibilities of use might be developed , to find out what complaints , problems , or special difficulties  | arise in connection with the use of the merchandise , ( f ) to test out appeals and rate their relative strength , ( g ) to study the nature of sales resistance and how it might be surmounted , and ( h ) to check the results of sales methods . Data on any of these problems would be useful to the salesperson both in increasing his merchandise knowledge and in giving him a better @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of alert retail merchants have formed customer advisory committees comprised of groups of representative customers . The purposes of these groups are to learn how a store can , through a better understanding of its customers , provide better merchandise and service , together with the other existing means of giving customers better merchandise information . Customer advisory committees provide an effective means through which the store can keep abreast of the consumer movement . By following customer ideas and advice , the store not only gets closer to its customers and their needs but it taps an invaluable source of information on effective store operation . The formation of customer advisory committees is an effective , up-to-date method of making informal consumer surveys . Through such a committee , the store has an opportunity to study its actual customers and , through a carefully planned rotation of committee members , to get a fair cross section of opinion of what those customers want . Information obtained from the committee is passed on through the store 's training program to the salespeople . Thus , the whole store becomes better acquainted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the accomplishments of customer advisory commissions are as follows : 1 . They have improved merchandise offerings so as to make selections better suited to customer demand . 2 . They have acted as a publicity medium to build consumer goodwill . 3 . They have led to improved salesmanship and service . 4 . They have done something to educate customers concerning the merchant 's problems and thus have tended to reduce unnecessary returns .  | Another development through which stores and their salespeople can get better acquainted with the ideas , interests , and wants of their customers is the various consumer membership organizations . Most of these organizations have grown up since the early nineteen thirties . They are designed to give consumers specific facts regarding what brands and types of merchandise to select from the many competing ones on the market . The best known and most widely patronized of these organizations are Consumers Research , Incorporated , and Consumers Union of the United States , Incorporated . Their services have been described as follows : Both organizations report the results of tests of a number of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reports . Products are purchased through regular retailer-consumer channels , tested either in the laboratories of these organizations or under their direction in private or governmental laboratories . The brands tested are listed by name in three classifications . Consumers Research classifies products as A-Recommended , B-Intermediate , C-Not Recommended . Consumers Union lists them as Best Buy , Also Accepted , and Not Acceptable . Organizations of this type help to make customers better informed and to supply them with specific facts that can be used in judging merchandise values . People who subscribe to such services often approach their buying problems with a different attitude toward the store and the salesperson . They are usually more critical and more interested in technicalities than are other customers . Salespeople who are familiar with the reports of these organizations are in a better position to understand the attitudes and interests of their customers . They are prepared to answer the questions and criticisms raised and also to emphasize those  | qualities and features stressed by the reports . Furthermore , the reports of consumer membership organizations constitute a valuable source of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ informed should make it a point to read regularly what these reports say about the merchandise he sells .  | The development of an effective selling technique is the Fourth fundamental of successful sales ability . In helping people buy , the salesperson must meet his customers , handle his merchandise , develop its qualities and selling points , answer questions and objections , build acceptance and conviction , help secure buying action , and give intelligent advice and suggestions . Although every salesperson develops his own methods of meeting these problems , the method he finally adopts constitutes his selling technique . If he has employed good judgment in his selling methods , his technique is an effective one . If he adopts his methods haphazardly without due thought and consideration , his technique becomes poor and his selling efforts unsuccessful . Fortunately for those who want to study and improve their selling methods , the selling techniques of successful salespeople are surprisingly similar . As described in Chapter 5 , outstanding salespeople develop a technique of meeting customers pleasantly , of showing their merchandise willingly , and of demonstrating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ customers ' objections and of developing the selling points of their merchandise in an effective and convincing manner . In addition , they know how to close sales and how to introduce and to suggest other merchandise in ways that please the customer . Students and observers of sales ability are aware of the fact t hat successful salespeople employ these methods . What they are  | interested in knowing , however , is how they employ them and how they themselves can apply them to their own selling problems . In this chapter and in the following chapters selling technique is analyzed and studied . Each chapter discusses an important element of effective selling technique and points out how the proved methods of outstanding salespeople might be employed by anyone interested in increasing the success of his own efforts to help customers buy . The first step in an analysis of selling technique is to look at it from the customer 's point of view . As the customer sees it , good selling technique consists of the type of willing and intelligent assistance from salespeople that helps her buy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Customers do not like the term " selling methods . " They do not like to believe that good salespeople use selling " devices " in an effort to make them buy . Rather , they like to think of salesmanship as courteous , intelligent service , devoid of methods but filled with sincere and conscientious interest in their buying problems . Customers like to be treated as individuals and not as subjects upon whom the salesperson is apparently trying out selling sentences and techniques . People are quick to detect stereotyped methods of selling . Obvious standardization of selling methods eliminates that atmosphere of personal interest so essential to complete satisfaction with a purchase . Most shoppers , when entering a store , subconsciously build up a resistance to salespeople . One customer made the remark , " I distrust salespeople . They try to sell me what they happen to have in stock and not what I need or want . If I am buying clothing for my children , often I come home with a size too large or too small which I have purchased because of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " This type of selling not only injures goodwill but causes the store unnecessary  | expense and the customer great inconvenience . Purchases so made are almost invariably returned . A large percentage of returned goods can be avoided if salespeople forget selling techniques and concentrate on helping people buy . Salespeople often complain that many customers buy merchandise they do not intend to keep , or that they refuse to decide between two articles and ask to have them both sent . Customers generally will readily admit both these faults , but most of the returns are due to improper selling . People buy merchandise they are not sure they will keep for three reasons : 1 . Salespeople make them feel obliged to buy . 2 . Salespeople use high-pressure selling . 3 . Salespeople suggest , in an effort to make the sale , that they take the item and return it if they do not like it . It is true that a customer , finding it difficult to decide between two articles , often takes them both with the intention of making the final decision later @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ help , and the salesperson is in a position to give this help better than anyone else . To do this , however , the salesperson must inspire the customer 's confidence by being self-assured , by stating definite opinions , and by exhibiting a thorough knowledge of the merchandise . Looking at the problem of salesmanship from the customers ' point of view , five simple principles may be laid down to guide every salesperson in the development of his selling technique . 1 . Selling methods should never be obvious as such . Salespeople should avoid selling methods that customers might recognize as deliberate devices employed to make them buy . Customers resent being trapped , tricked , or deceived into buying . For example ,  | the " turnover method " of closing sales has come into universal disrepute among customers because many salespeople have used it with obvious intent to pressure them into buying . The " turnover method " is the procedure of turning the customer over to another salesman when the first realizes that he is unable to close the sale . When properly used @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the advice and assistance of another merchandise adviser . When abused , it degenerates into a desperate effort on the part of the salesperson to close the sale at any cost . In too many cases it has resolved itself into the latter , with the result that customers recognize it as a selling method and resent it . Salespeople who assume insincere enthusiasm , who are overgracious , or who say , " Will you take this with you or have it sent ? " before the customer has shown any indication of final decision , are all using obvious selling methods which are likely to build resistance rather than acceptance . " Art lies in the concealment thereof , " and there is often only a fine line of distinction between a selling effort that pleases and gets results and one that displeases and builds suspicion . The difference is one of technique . 2 . Selling methods should be devoid of all evident effort to sell . ' Customers like to buy but resist being sold . They normally resent any selling effort that they can interpret as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ make a sales than to his desire to help them buy . Retail customers come to stores as invited guests and they expect to be treated as such . When salespeople are overanxious to greet them , try to get ahead of other salespeople in order to get their business , ignore their objections , and try to force their own opinions upon them , customers detect an aggressive effort to sell and become skeptical of the salesmen 's motives . To develop selling methods that do not suggest pressure , the salesman must be able to exhibit willingness without over-anxiety , friendliness without familiarity , and knowledge and confidence without arrogance . These are important principles and will be applied to selling methods discussed in greater detail in subsequent chapters .  | 3 . Selling methods should be positive rather than negative . Salespeople should assume that customers who come into their stores want to buy and they should gear their selling methods accordingly . Questions and objections should be answered in a positive manner and all selling points should be presented with confidence . Salespeople who greet their customers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " Oh , you do n't want that , " do not employ positive selling methods . Other examples of negative presentations are , " Something else today ? " or " You would n't like to look at ties , would you ? " In making suggestions , salespeople who use positive selling methods always give their customers a choice between something and something rather than between something and nothing . They say , " Do you prefer the black one or the blue one ? " and give their customers a choice between alternatives both of which are favorable to the purchase . They refrain from arguing and are careful not to contradict . If a customer makes a comment or raises an objection that is not based on fact , they answer the observation with an indirect rebuttal , such as , " I do n't blame you for thinking that , " or , " Many of our customers have the same idea but , as a matter of fact . . . . " Such a method answers the statement indirectly but positively and leaves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Selling methods should stimulate the customer 's natural desire for a feeling of personal worth . As pointed out in Chapter 9 , one of the strongest urges in the subconscious is the desire for a feeling of personal worth . Every person wants to think of himself as being important , of his opinions as carrying weight , of his knowledge as being substantial . Selling methods that stimulate this basic urge favorably produce acceptance and confidence . Those that violate it injure the individual 's pride and create resentment . One of the most useful lessons any salesperson can learn is never to say anything or employ any selling method that might injure the customer 's pride . For example , some thoughtless salespeople have developed the habit or method of meeting price ob- jections with disdain in an effort to shame the customer out of her position . Such a method injures the customer 's pride . Another example of this same error is handling or talking disrespectfully about the customer 's own merchandise . Automobile dealers , in an effort to beat down trade-in allowances , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ old car . Some retail salespeople have fallen into the error of making a " wisecrack " or some disparaging remark about something the customer has bought or is wearing . Other examples are : discrediting what the customer says , not showing what the customer asks for , showing disrespect for the lower-priced merchandise the customer wants to buy , contradicting , arguing , or ignoring the customer , and keeping her waiting unnecessarily . All these methods build resistance because they violate the customer 's natural desire for a feeling of personal worth . Selling methods that compliment an individual 's pride are invariably associated with good manners , tact , courtesy , and consideration . Salespeople who show deference for the customer 's opinions , who are interested in her problems , and who try to help her find what she wants stimulate her desire for a feeling of personal worth and inspire her confidence in themselves . Some statements that show evidence of such consideration are : " I see you have had considerable experience in buying this merchandise , " or , " As one who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fine features of this item , " or , " You show excellent taste in what you select . " Such statements , when made sincerely , normally produce favorable customer responses . 5 . Selling methods should not be spectacular . Dramatic and spectacular selling methods amuse or annoy customers or actually arouse suspicion . For example , salespeople should avoid greeting customers with exaggerated enthusiasm . Some salespeople overdo their efforts to make the customer feel welcome and thereby give an impression of insincerity . A similar feeling is created by salespeople who over-gesticulate , assume dramatic poses in presenting their merchandise , overemphasize certain points , or employ what might be detected as obvious exaggeration  | in any respect . In this connection , the principle of enthusiasm , as depicted on page 126 , applies . The salesperson who can develop the ability to present his merchandise in a natural , friendly manner is likely to inspire confidence . Customers , being human , like to be served by salespeople who give evidence of being human beings too . The elements of selling technique are the various @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the process of helping customers buy . In this discussion they are interpreted as : 1 . Getting prepared for the day 's work . 2 . Meeting the customer . 3 . Developing the salestalk. 4 . Building acceptance for the merchandise . 5 . Making the merchandise speak for itself . 6 . Making the salestalk convincing . 7 . Helping customers over their buying obstacles . 8 . Securing buying action . 9 . Using suggestion selling . 10 . Maintaining a helpful attitude . It should be emphasized that the division of the selling process into these specific steps or problems is done purely for the purpose of study and analysis . The process of helping customers buy is a continuous and often non-divisible one . Successful salespeople are not aware of any step-by-step process leading , after they have met their customers , up to the close of a sale . They realize that a successful sale is , for example , as dependent upon how they meet their customers as upon how they present selling points and answer questions and objections . They understand also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of any selling problem depend upon many variables , among which are included the customer and her attitude , urgency of the purchase ,  | the merchandise being bought , and the point of view of the salesperson himself . The selling process , accordingly , is subdivided into these headings in order that it may be studied more minutely . Through a detailed analysis of successful methods , alert salespeople may improve their own techniques and thus be in a better position to help their customers buy . Much of the success attainable in any line of work is dependent upon adequate preparation . The salesperson who begins his day 's work without plans or forethought as to what he hopes to do has no more right to expect success than would a lawyer who enters court without a brief . The need for preparation is a dynamic one . Owing to changing conditions and circumstances , an individual who is prepared today may be unprepared tomorrow . The salesperson 's preparation , particularly , must be a continuous process . New customers come in , old ones have new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and sales opportunities ebb and flow . Salespeople who are determined to achieve success need , every day . to prepare themselves through ( a ) preapproach preparation and ( b ) reviewing the duties of the day . Preapproach preparation consists of preparation by the salesperson to meet a specific customer . This type of preparation is practiced regularly by contact salesmen who must find their own prospects . For example , before a good insurance salesman or a salesman for a manufacturing firm calls on his customer , he makes it a point to find out something about his prospect that will enable him to make a friendly , interesting approach . He will try to find out specifically what kind of problem his prospect  | faces . He will , if possible , learn something about his prospect 's personal interests and hobbies . Above all , of course , he will know his prospect 's name and will understand fully how his merchandise or service will fill his prospect 's needs . Because the store salesman does not usually know in advance who is coming in to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in any specific preapproach preparation . They are satisfied to prepare themselves in a general way to sell their merchandise , and then try to make quick , intelligent adjustments to meet their customer 's specific problems . Alert retail salespeople , however , can do much to prepare themselves to meet a specific customer . This is possible even though they do not know beforehand which customer is coming in next . Some of the methods used by the better store salespeople follow : 1 . Helping the customer to get the most favorable impressions ft out her " before-the-sale " contacts . These contacts , such as with store advertising , display , store layout , and special store services , help to formulate the customer 's opinions of the store and her attitude toward the salesperson . Every good salesman should take an active part in assuring that these " before-the-sale " contacts will be pleasant . 2 . Keeping customer records . Undoubtedly , the most specific preapproach preparation in which any store salesman can engage is to keep an individual record of his customers . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the customer 's name , the nature of the purchase , when the purchase was made , and any specific information about the customer or the purchase that will help the salesperson make a more favorable subsequent contact . Such a record , usually kept in a small , handy notebook , serves as a ready source of reference for the salesperson . It will assist him to remember his customers ' names . It will help him to familiarize himself with certain of his customers ' characteristics that will help him to make more intelligent contacts with them . Salespeople who keep such records usually refer to them each morning . In  | this way , they are always prepared to meet on a friendly , personal basis any customer whom they have previously served . Furthermore , such records often become valuable sources of extra business . A salesperson frequently uses his record of customers as a mailing list . He may write or telephone to many of his regular customers and inform them of particular items of special interest to them . 3 . Studying store advertising @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are engaging in an indirect form of preapproach preparation . Many customers come to the store as a result of advertisements they have read . The salesperson who opens his presentation by saying , " This is the which was featured in today 's advertisement , " will quite often approach the customer with the idea that is uppermost in her mind . Furthermore , the salesperson who knows what merchandise has been advertised and the specific qualities it possesses makes a good impression upon his customers . No one of these three methods will provide such complete preapproach preparation as is possible in the contact sale . However , the retail salesperson who employs these three methods is much better prepared to meet his customers than the one who fails to avail himself of them . Although a salesperson 's duties vary according to the type of merchandise he is selling and the type of store in which he is working , certain fundamental responsibilities exist which are characteristic of the work of all who are endeavoring to make a profession of their jobs . These duties are classifiable under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ b ) routine duties , and ( c ) executive duties . The customer 's attitude toward the store and the salesperson , and , as a matter of fact , her continued patronage , depend on the extent to which her goodwill can he cultivated . The salesperson plays a key role in the development and maintenance of goodwill . Most of the lasting impressions customers carry away come from contacts with salespeople . If  | these contacts are pleasant and efficient , the store is judged as a desirable place in which to shop . If they are curt and unsatisfactory , the customer will often take her business elsewhere . Goodwill-building duties . Goodwill is not developed haphazardly . It comes as a result of careful planning and execution . Some of the things salespeople can do to help develop it are to give efficient service and accurate directions , to make pleasant adjustments of complaints , and to assume a positive attitude of loyalty toward the customer and the store . Efficient service is a general term the details of which are discussed throughout this book . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the job and the willingness and ability to put this knowledge into practice . To maintain himself at this level , the salesperson needs constant and daily preparation . Accurate directing of customers to merchandise throughout the store is a constant and regular responsibility of all salespeople . In both large and small stores , customers unacquainted with the merchandise layout ask questions about the location of specific items . Salespeople should be prepared to answer these questions courteously and accurately . It inconveniences customers to be misdirected and they are likely to leave the store without buying . Directing customers is one of the daily duties of salespeople . Large stores that maintain training departments include information on directing customers as an important part of new salespeople 's initial training . No new employees are allowed to sell permanently on the sales floor until they are thoroughly acquainted with merchandise locations throughout the store . If this training is not given , the new salespeople should , on their own initiative , make a sufficient number of merchandise-locating tours through the store to enable them to direct customers accurately @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ give such information . The following are the instructions for directing customers that one store gives to all its salespeople : Often your customer will ask you for directions for reaching some  | advertised merchandise . Although we have Information Clerks in the store whose job it is to answer the Vheres and Hows , and although Section Managers are equipped with a thorough knowledge of store locations , you , too , must be prepared to direct customers . Giving information is one of the most important ways of serving customers . Know what is being advertised from day to day in our store . Study the ads in the newspapers , watch the window displays , and notice the Bulletin Boards near the elevators . A quick , correct reply to a customer 's question gives an impression of real service which is prompt and intelligent . Daily observation in your travels through the store will teach you much about location of merchandise . Read the signs in front of the escalators , remember the things you see when shopping , refer to your Store Directory , and you @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ However , never tell a customer something when you are not sure of it . A wrong direction only irritates her , causes her to waste time and to grow weary from unnecessary steps . Three things should be remembered when you are directing people : Accuracy : Be sure that you know precisely what your customer wants and then direct her to the exact floor , or the exact spot on your particular floor . Clearness : Do n't mumble your directions . Pronounce your words distinctly . Courtesy : Direct your customer in a friendly way . If you do , her journey through this great store will be very much more pleasant . Adjusting customer complaints . The handling of customer complaints is a responsibility that does not normally rest wholly upon the salesperson . Many stores maintain bureaus of adjustments for the purpose of hearing and handling all complaints . Complaints , however , are expressions of dissatisfaction and , as such , can not be confined to any section or bureau within the store . Under any circumstances salespeople play an important part in the adjustment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ go directly to the salesperson who sold them the merchandise . Even if the fault is the customer 's own , or if it is with some store service , the sales- person is likely to be the first to receive the complaint . When the store system does not permit the salesperson to adjust the complaint , the customer must be courteously directed to someone who has authority to do so or to the Bureau of Adjustments . The story is told of a customer who approached a store with fire in his eye , all keyed up to meet opposition . " I am not at all satisfied with these shoes ; they are not perfect and I expect you to make good , " he burst out contentiously and expected a similar reply . " I 'm obliged to you , Mr. Smith , for bringing them back so that we may discover the cause of the trouble , " the salesman replied ? and the customer was without defense . The customer had planned to meet opposition but discovered that the salesman was with him rather than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of mind to listen to reason . Some stores allow salespeople to adjust the complaints for which they are responsible . Where this is the case , salespeople should have the ability ands patience to handle irate customers . Many people seeking adjustments feel that they have been wronged , and even a small discourtesy on the part of the store 's employees is sufficient to arouse their anger . Still others return to the store in an irritated mood . Ill temper is contagious , but the salesperson must be immune . He must meet these people courteously and tactfully , making them understand that it is only human to err occasionally but that it is a mark of real service to be willing to adjust the wrong to complete satisfaction . Many people , thoroughly indignant toward the store because of some real or fancied wrong , have returned home in a new frame of mind and with even greater confidence in the store after the complaint has been promptly , courteously , and satisfactorily adjusted . The policy that " the customer is always right " has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be a profitable policy . Salespeople should bear this in mind when handling complaints . When they have the authority to adjust only the chronic complaints , all unusual complaints should be brought to the attention of someone higher in authority . Making exchanges . The most common type of adjustment that  | salespeople are called on to make consists of exchanging merchandise for customers . In many stores , salespeople have the authority to make even exchanges ( those that involve no difference in price ) . Uneven exchanges , because they involve an additional payment or charge , or a refund or credit of money , often require the signature of someone of higher authority . In any case , the intelligent handling of exchanges is important . Technically , an exchange is a complaint . It is an expression of dissatisfaction on the part of the customer . If the salesperson handles it tactfully , he will make a friend of a partially dissatisfied customer and avoid a possible return . Exchanges always involve reconsideration of the merchandise . The customer usually requires considerable help from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of her problem , and the salesperson not only has the responsibility of avoiding another return but often may encourage the customer to buy additional merchandise . Exchanges should be handled willingly and with courtesy . The salesperson 's attitude toward them will exert an important effect upon customer goodwill . Loyalty to the customer and to the store is another self-evident essential of the salesperson 's goodwill-building duties . Loyalty to the customer means a sincere interest in her buying problems and a determination to help her buy only the merchandise best suited to her needs . Loyalty to the store implies confidence in and respect for the management and its policies and a knowledge of ' and enthusiasm for the job . To keep such loyalty constantly at the proper level , the salesperson must keep up-to-date his knowledge of merchandise and customer needs and be sure he is regularly informed about policies and procedures as they develop and change in the organization . Routine Duties The routine duties of the job are those which are necessarily connected with the selling process . Some of the more important of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ efficiently , follow . Daily stock-keeping duties . The retail salesperson has certain  | definite daily stock-keeping duties . These may differ in various stores and types of stores , but usually they consist of : 1 . Replenishing depleted stock in the department with fresh merchandise from the stockroom. 2 . Keeping stock neat , clean , well arranged , and in place during the day . 3 . Covering and properly caring for the stock at the close of the day . In some stores , the replenishing of depleted stocks is done in the morning immediately after the store opens . In others , the salespeople are required to do this work after closing hours at night . In the event that restocking is done in the morning , the work should be accomplished before the flow of customers begins . In case early customers arrive in the store before the work is finished , they should be served immediately . Although stock work is an important duty , everything is subordinate in importance to the customer . The customer should never be allowed to wait while the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bringing the forward stock in the department up to a previously determined model quantity . Store people doing restocking should keep two points in mind : First , all merchandise carried by the store should be represented on the selling floor . No customer should ever be told that the store is out of a given article when the salesperson has merely been negligent in bringing it from the stockroom to the department . Second , unnecessary amounts of merchandise should not he stocked in the department . If the management has not set model stock figures , then it is the salesperson 's duty to sec that the stock is always kept fresh . This is impossible where large amounts of merchandise are allowed to accumulate in the department . A frequently used model stock figure is an average week 's sales . In the case of faster-moving articles , it may be necessary to maintain a hree days ' supply , but in any event the quantity may be ascertained by the salesperson.  | On the other hand , some stores find that they do not have enough space @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This condition may be corrected by installing a new type of display counter . Display counters have been changing in design . Instead of old-style , full-view showcases , counters are now constructed to show merchandise at the top and side or front , or only at the top . The space underneath the counter can be used for reserve stock , thus allowing a larger quantity of forward stock to be carried . One store so utilized space for forward stock that it was able to carry and display other merchandise which formerly could not be carried because of lack of space . As a result , it secured S225,000 worth of new business . Filling orders . Some large stores can do business with a smaller amount of merchandise in forward stock by filling " send orders " from the reserve stockroom . Thus , only taken transactions arc filled from forward stock . This method is used for such departments as toilet goods , groceries , china and glass , toys , and other goods that may be difficult to store on the selling floor . Keeping @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , neat merchandise is an important aid in selling . Many customers buy because an article pleases their eve . This fact emphasizes the importance of keeping the stock neat and clean at all times . Merchandise displayed or demonstrated to customers should be put back neatly in its proper place as soon as possible . However , this work should not , under any circumstances , be done while customers are waiting to be served . Stock listing and inventory taking . Stock-listing and inventory taking are distinctly duties of the salespeople . A neat , clean , and well-kept stock makes it possible to do this work quickly and efficiently . Stores usually provide special time for this work to be done so that it will not interfere with regular selling work . Stock-listing and inventory taking are done at frequent intervals ? weekly , semimonthly , or monthly ? for the following rea-sons : 1 . To ascertain what merchandise should be reordered.  | 2 . To check stock against stock-control records . 3 . To act as a follow-up on old or prior stocks . 4 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Stockroom duties . Other duties of the salesperson which are directly related to sales work are stockroom duties . In addition to regular visits to the stockroom to obtain merchandise for restocking purposes , the salesperson may be required at times to work in the stockroom . In the stockroom , salespeople become acquainted with the merchandise as it is unpacked and learn new prices and new selling points . Work in the stockroom usually consists of cleaning , rearranging , and stocking the merchandise on the stockroom shelves or in the bins . The secret of successful stockkeeping in a reserve stockroom is the continual rearrangement and condensing of the remaining stock as the merchandise is withdrawn . Marking-room duties . In the marking room , the salesperson may be assigned to assist in : ( a ) unpacking and checking new merchandise , and ( b ) marking new merchandise . The size and the policy of the store will determine whether or not the salespeople do unpacking and checking , but many stores require salespeople to mark new merchandise . These duties offer good opportunities for a salesperson @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thereby to become a more efficient salesperson . Marked merchandise should be distributed quickly to the reserve stockroom in order to prevent the stockman from reporting merchandise as " out " when in reality it is in the store . An alert stockman watching incoming shipments may save many sales if t lie reserve stock is adjacent to the marking section so that he can notice that merchandise listed as " out " is really " in " but not yet released . Stock care . It is easier to sell fresh and clean-looking merchandise at its original price than to dispose of soiled or carelessly handled merchandise at a markdown . Consequently , the salesperson should consider each day those things that can be done to  | protect the merchandise and keep it in good condition . Some of the causes of damage are : 1 . Merchandise becomes damaged when it is allowed to lie around in a mussed heap or when it has other heavier things piled upon it . Care should be taken not to overload bargain tables with too much stock , in order to prevent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ replenish often than to allow merchandise to be trampled underfoot . 2 . Smudges on hands may soil merchandise when it is handled carelessly or unnecessarily . Dangers arise in the handling of carbon paper . The hands of some salespeople are so damp that after they touch carbon paper they smear the salescheck and the merchandise . Improved saleschecks have thumb cutouts on the carbon paper between the original salescheck and the carbon copy . Where checks have these thumb cutouts , it is not necessary for the salesperson to handle the carbon . When salespeople find that their hands are damp , they should wipe off the moisture with a handkerchief and whenever necessary cleanse their hands with soap and water . In glove departments , it is a common practice to have running water , soap , and towels , so that salespeople may wash their hands frequently . Some departments recommend that employees keep a wet sponge in a small rubber-lined case to clean tips of fingers in an emergency . 3 . Water from wet umbrellas and wet clothing frequently causes trouble . Salespeople should observe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ articles are brought into the fitting rooms or in the vicinity of perishable merchandise . Many stores request customers on rainy days to check umbrellas at the entrance to the store , in order to prevent damage to merchandise . 4 . Dresses may be stained by perspiration when customers are trying them on . Tissue shields placed under the arms of dresses or plain tissue paper placed on the backs of perspiring customers when dresses are tried on help to eliminate this damage .  | 5 . Lipstick may soil garments being tried on . Salespeople should watch for this and exercise tact in preventing it . An executive of one store says that the number of dresses that have to be cleaned because of lipstick marks is appalling . In one store , two neat signs were placed in the blouse department reading : " Customers are requested to guard against damaging blouses with lipstick and rouge . " Similar signs were placed in the dress departments and fitting rooms . Paper lip covers have been manufactured to prevent " lipstick stain " markdowns . If these are not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " Will you please hold your lips in tightly while pulling the dress over your head ? " 6 . Dust may settle during the day on the tops of dresses , coats , and blouses . This may be avoided by placing cellophane or muslin caps over the garments on the hangers and by always replacing t hose coverings promptly when merchandise is not in use . 7 . Sometimes salespeople , fitters , or customers stick pins in dresses , thus causing tears or pin prints . Only fine , sharp-pointed pins should ever be used in garments . Garments with pins in them should be handled carefully , and the pins should be removed as soon as possible . 8 . Sometimes buttons are not fastened very tightly because it is often necessary to change their positions . If the garments are taken off hurriedly , the buttons may be pulled off and lost . 9 . Rings on salespeople or customers may break threads in hosiery and cause runs . Salespeople selling hosiery should not car rings with prongs , and they should tactfully request customers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Rough places on the nails or hands will also catch threads in hosiery . Salespeople need to be on the lookout continually for these conitions . Because hosiery can be ruined so easily , it is advisable t o sell hosiery from samples . Care should be taken that the merchandise is plainly marked " Sample " in large letters . 10 . Yard goods may become damaged by rough edges on the punters . Salespeople should report any poor condition of the punters to the section manager .  | 11 . Merchandise may become soiled because of the use of dirty covers put over it at closing time before the sweeping . Salespeople should insist on having clean covers . The inside of the covers may be kept clean longer by folding them so that the side next to the merchandise is always folded together . Only those salespeople who are endeavoring to make a profession of their jobs recognize them as involving any executive responsibilities . An executive is one who carries out or puts into effect a previously conceived plan . As used in the business world @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and organizing and managerial ability . An executive is one who plans and puts his plans into action . From this point of view , salespeople have many potential executive responsibilities . Some of these are planning the day 's work , avoiding waste and errors , making suggestions , and keeping informed about new merchandise inside and outside the store 's stock . The habit of planning the day 's work is a quality involving initiative and organizing and managerial ability and is characteristic of outstanding salespeople . Most salespeople are given weekly sales quotas which they are expected to achieve . These quotas are normally worked out carefully and constitute a definitely obtainable goal . To achieve them , however , often requires exceptional ability and effort . Many alert individuals have found that a daily plan offers the surest guide and incentive to their accomplishment . As was pointed out earlier in this chapter , the typical salesperson has many duties not directly connected with meeting and serving customers . These duties must be performed ; but if they  | are not planned they may easily interfere with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ therefore , involves , first , organizing these duties so that they can he discharged efficiently , and second , determining the proper proportion of the weekly sales quota that should be achieved during the day . This quota plan is particularly important . Too many salespeople coast along during the early days of the week only to find themselves up against an all-but-impossible task at the end of the week . They then complain that the management has set their quotas too high . A plan will solve much of this difficulty . In setting up this daily plan , the salesperson should consider the normal proportion of the week 's business that he can reasonably expect on Monday , Tuesday , Wednesday , and on each of the other days . He should then make a conscientious effort to achieve this volume as he goes along . It is true that he can not make business out of thin air , change the weather , or cause customers to come in and buy against their wills ; nevertheless , it is surprising what a plan can do for him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ energetic , conscientious , and interested in his customers ' problems . Such an attitude naturally increases his efficiency and productivity . Avoiding waste and errors is another executive duty which demands continuous , self-initiated effort . By such effort , salespeople may do much to keep the store 's expenses down . Salespeople are ultimately responsible for the sale of merchandise , from which all the profits are made . Efficient selling is one of the important keys to profitable merchandising . Some of the causes of wasteful and disastrous expense rates for which the salesperson may be responsible are : 1 . Poor salesmanship. 2 . Returned goods . 3 . Errors . 4 . Lack of care of merchandise . 5 . Irregular attendance . 6 . Wastefulness of supplies .  | 7 . Lack of care of equipment . 8 . Inaccurate weights and measurements . 9 . Dishonesty . Poor salesmanship . Inefficient salesmanship is the cause of much waste in store operation . The management may use the most modern scientific methods to get the merchandise onto the shelves , but if the salesmanship is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by one or a combination of the following weaknesses : 1 . The inability to sell merchandise . 2 . Selling wrong merchandise . 3 . Poor selling of right merchandise . Because of a lack of interest in the customer 's problem or because of a lack of enthusiasm for their jobs , some salespeople lack the ability to sell merchandise . Because of their indifference or independence they drive away customers who would buy if they were given the proper opportunities . Other salespeople fail to sell because they do not know how to make positive suggestions or to give interesting sales talks . These faults exist primarily because of a lack of information about the merchandise and the job . If , after becoming acquainted with his merchandise , a salesperson still has no enthusiasm , he should ask to be transferred to some other line of goods or to a different phase of work entirely . A common fault in selling is that of encouraging customers to buy wrong merchandise . This wasteful practice may be a result of false enthusiasm . The salesperson may be so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The so-called " clever salesman " may force customers to buy articles they do not need , or through misrepresentation he may sell wrong merchandise . Such salesmanship always results in dissatisfaction and , possibly , returned goods . It is wasteful and should be avoided . The salesperson should determine the customer 's wants and satisfy them . If such satisfaction is impossible , he should voluntarily lose the sale . Much merchandise is returned because of wrong size or color .  | To avoid this waste , the salesperson needs to know how to fit his customers . If a woman asks for a size 4 ? shoe when it is obvious that her foot calls for a size 6 , she should be given the shoe which will give her the comfort she demands . The small size will only be returned later . Poor selling of right merchandise results when salespeople sell merchandise without giving sufficient information about how to use it . Certain types of articles do not give full satisfaction unless used properly or for the purpose intended . Therefore , salespeople should know the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for it properly . Giving customers this type of information often makes the difference between a satisfactory and an unsatisfactory purchase . Returned goods . Poor selling is the cause of much returned merchandise . Returned goods mean a loss to the store because of the expense and possible damage incurred . All the costs of selling the article , wrapping or packing it , and possibly delivering and calling for it are wasted when it is returned to the store for refund , credit , or exchange . In addition , the merchandise runs the risk of being damaged or soiled while away from the store ; and if the article has style value , the customer may have kept it so long that the demand has passed and it must be sold at a markdown . Customer returns cost retailers throughout the country millions of dollars each year . Stores where the return rate runs high must maintain additional stock on hand in order to provide sufficient selection for their clientele . In one large city , the merchants estimate that each day in customers ' homes there is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will ultimately be returned to the stores . At the present time , retailers all over the country have united in an effort to reduce the percentage of returned goods , which , in department and specialty stores , now equals approximately 9 per cent of their total sales . Salespeople can do much to assist in this campaign . Efficient selling accompanied by thoughtful and helpful suggestions will do much to make the percentage of returns lower . Errors . The salesperson 's errors are wasteful and far-reaching  | in their effect . A simple error in the recording of a name or a street number may cost the store several dollars in expense , the customer disappointment and dissatisfaction , and the salesperson a demerit . Merchandise carrying a wrong address may cause the delivery driver to call at several homes before finally returning it to the store for a check on the address . Carelessness in writing the salescheck may make the name or address unreadable . In the average large store , the carbon copy of the salescheck must be read by at least six people before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . One store gives the following instructions to its salespeople in regard to wrong addresses : The salesperson must exercise the greatest care in recording the name and address if merchandise is to arrive at its final destination . Questions that might arise regarding certain recommendations to insure accuracy have been anticipated below . Why should all carbons be properly placed before writing the address ? Because the duplicate copy used as our label will otherwise be incomplete . Why should I adapt my writing to the space provided ? Because large writing interlaces and becomes difficult to read . Why should I print all capitals ? Because : 1 . Printed capitals stand out distinctly . 2 . They are easily read . 3 . They are quicker made after the habit is formed . Why should I write out " East , " " West , " " North , " " South " ? Because the entire word is less liable to be misunderstood . Why should I always ask for an apartment number ? Because this facilitates delivery in metropolitan communities . Why should I make my @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ doubtful and , if not distinct , are misleading . Why should I spell back the name ? Because names often have several spellings and only in this way can we be sure they are correct .  | Why should I repeat the house and street number by figures like a telephone number , as two-seven-six , instead of two hundred seventy-six ? Because figures play queer tricks on us , so that we often transpose them unintentionally . Why should I turn the salesbook to the customer for verification ? Because the customer at a glance can detect an error in her own name or address . The careful observation of these directions will insure correct addresses and prompt delivery of merchandise . Errors may occur in other ways than in wrong addresses . The salesperson may carelessly send or inclose the wrong merchandise , color , or size . He may record the wrong price or make errors in totaling his extensions . All these errors cost time and effort to rectify , and every possible effort should be made to eliminate them . Lack of care of merchandise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ waste and expense , and its consideration is so important that it is discussed in detail in Chapter 7 . Irregular attendance . Absence and tardiness of employees cost stores considerable waste and expense and jeopardize the employees ' jobs . In a typical large store , from 5 to 20 per cent of the total working force , depending upon the period of the year , is constantly absent from their jobs . This short-handedness causes much expense and additional planning . It is necessary for the store to maintain a much larger force than necessary for the business in order to provide for those absent . Many latenesscs and absences are preventable . Laziness and transportation facilities are the two main causes of lateness . Both of these may be usually overcome if salespeople will make an effort to get to work on time . The chief causes of absence are sickness , accident , and various personal reasons . Some sickness and accidents are unavoidable , but much absence due to these causes may be eliminated if the employee will establish and practice careful and healthful  | living @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tardiness record in the store is a decided credit to their names . Many stores give this factor a weighting as high as 15 per cent in the employee 's rating record . This record plays an important role when the employee is considered for advancement or promotion . Absence and tardiness records are considered important as an indication of the employee 's dependability . Wastefulness of supplies . Supply expense in retail stores accounts for an important part of the total expense of doing business . One large New York store spends more than $9,000 yearly for pencils alone . All supplies in this store each year cost over a million dollars . These figures indicate the importance of care in the use of supplies . Salespeople handle a large proportion of the supplies used in stores . Wrapping paper , bags , twine , pencils , salesbooks , and so forth all make up a large share of the total supply expense . Carelessness in the use of these items is wasteful and costly to the store . Wastefulness is not a desirable characteristic , and those who form @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Care should be exercised to use the proper and most economical size of wrapping paper or bags when preparing a package for the customer . Pencils should be taken care of and not lost . Salesbooks or saleschecks should not be carelessly mutilated and should always be put away where they can be found quickly . Lack of care of equipment . Store equipment installed for the benefit of customers or employees in many cases represents large expenditures of money . Carelessness in the treatment of these things may result in their ultimate damage and necessary replacement . Showcases , display tables or fixtures , counter cards , price cards , salesbook covers , lighting fixtures , and so on are all part of the store 's furniture and salespeople should care for them as conscientiously as they would care for their own furniture at home . Inaccurate weights and measurements . If salespeople are careless in weighing and measuring merchandise , the store may suffer tremendous losses . When a customer asks for a pound of meat , she expects to get exactly one pound . An ounce or two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as an ounce or two over is an act of dishonesty to the store . It does not seem to be a very important error to give a customer an inch or two more than the yard of cloth she asked for . Those two inches may , however , represent the store 's profit on the transaction . Salespeople should bear in mind that overweights and overmeasurements and underweights and undermeasurements are indicative of carelessness and , in some cases , may be interpreted as dishonesty . Such practices should be carefully avoided , because , in addition to affecting profit and goodwill , they may injure the salesperson 's reputation . Dishonesty . Most store employees are fundamentally honest . Few people will stoop to pilferage , because they are honest and because they realize the consequences of dishonesty . Stores exchange information about dishonest employees as well as about dishonest and unreliable customers . Salespeople should assist in preventing dishonesty among customers . A number of shoplifters are often in large stores . Suspicious-looking and suspicious-acting people , therefore , should be given special attention . Any actual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Salespeople , however , should not make themselves responsible for detaining or prosecuting shoplifters . Making suggestions . The alert salesperson can make many valuable suggestions which the management might use for the improvement of the business . Being close to the customer and to her opinions of the store 's merchandise and service , he can observe how the business functions at the point of sale and pass on many ideas that might cut expense , improve merchandise and service , or increase customer goodwill . Some stores provide suggestion boxes where any employee may deposit his ideas for the improvement of the business . Whether or not a store operates a regular employee suggestion plan , however , every salesperson can make himself more valuable to his employer by observation and alertness to ways of making the business more successful . Keeping informed about new merchandise inside and outside                     