@@774154

txt  | MEASUREMENT OF PERSONALITY The purpose of a personality diagnosis is to define an individual 's behavior pattern and to discover the causes operative in determining his personality characteristics . Most of the current diagnostic methods are inferential , that is , data regarding the behavior of the subject arc obtained by a variety of methods , and a great deal of emphasis is placed upon his past experiences and environment . If , for example , an individual has lived in an environment involving him in economic and social handicaps , the inference is generally made that his behavior has in some way been determined by those conditions . If he has had emotionally traumatic experiences , the inference is made that his personality has been radically affected by those experiences . The interpretation of the effect of the developmental history usually depends upon the " school " to which the interpreter belongs . One psychiatrist attaches great importance to childhood illnesses whereas another believes that family experiences are the most important determinants of personality . The psychoanalyst believes that personality is to a large extent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the libidinal drives . In recent years a number of psychologists have studied personality expression in experimental situations where behavior could be observed under controlled conditions . Physical , physiological and chemical tests and measures have also been used . Paper and pencil tests are , however , the most common ways of making a personality diagnosis .  | In a discussion of the role of general and experimental psychology in the study of mental functioning , Bentley 1 points out how the various theorists may become onesided in attempting to explain behavior . The hormic psychologists , for example , notably McDougall , attempt to explain behavior in terms of purpose , the psychoanalysts in terms of unconscious forces , the psychobiologists in terms of biological energies , the social psychologists in terms of innate dispositions and instincts . Each group has a preferred theory and develops it according to their interests , influence , information , and training . Bentley believes that a study of mental functioning must be directed , at least in part , toward an evaluation of the directive forces of behavior . He classifies the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the effect of the state of the organism , and the historical residues . The extraorganic factors may be classified into ( a ) the physicochemical interchange , illustrated in the problems related to diet , climate , nutrition , and so on ; ( b ) the energies delivered at the receptors , a process which has been emphasized by the behaviorists ; ( c ) the molar objects and their activities , that is , the effect of a wide range of environmental factors ; ( d ) the influence of individuals living in groups and their socialization effects ; ( e ) the effect of human modes and traditions . This involves the effect of customs and ways , and social inhibitions and sanctions . The factors affecting the state of the organism are classified into the structural conditions , the physiological resources , and the functional trends , that is , the changes in neural and neuro-muscular patterns . Bentley subdivides the factors involved in the effects footnote I Madison Bentley and E. V. Cowdry , Editors , The problem of mental disorder , 1934 , New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ residues into the biological history , in which are included the parental and racial influences and the development of the physiological functions , and the biographical history , in which the developmental course of the psychological functions determines to a large extent the subsequent behavior . Dialectic differences are not important if such an outline is followed in the study of personality . Whatever methods are necessary can be used to investigate the various and interacting forces . According to Bentley it is not necessary to postulate a physiological psychology by which all behavior is explained , nor a psychoanalytic theory which , while paying some respect to the sciences , nevertheless considers that all behavior can be explained in terms of instincts and unconscious forces . One may infer from Bentley 's statements that the study of human behavior can be approached only by a study of the factors operative in that behavior and not by a hypothetical assumption of universal causation according to given theories , many of which are determined by logic and philosophical speculation rather than by accurate observation and experimental verification . THE INTERVIEW The interview @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It is essentially a method of securing information from the patient in face to face consultation . Although the discussion is usually informal , the situation frequently involves question and answer relationship between the interviewer and the patient . In consequence , the examiner is forced to depend upon what the patient wishes to tell him . Two  | difficulties therefore arise . The patient , whether child or adult , in most cases does not want to reveal his problems and conflicts , partly because he may be ashamed of them and partly because the very unpleasantness of facing his problems causes him to repress them . Frequently the patient is also unable to reveal his basic problems and conflicts because he actually does not know them . If he is a neurotic patient he may complain of various symptoms of illness , but he has no notion of the basis of his symptoms . He is forced by pressure or by repeated interviews to give information which supposedly reveals the cause of his difficulty . He frequently elaborates upon some chance or insignificant problems . The examiner is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is careful to understand that a patient 's interpretations can never be accepted . Frequently the patient utilizes a great deal of time in discussing problems which are irrelevant . This is one of the many methods he uses in order to evade revealing his problems . Usually a patient seeking advice does not want to spend a great deal of time but insists upon a quick explanation and an immediate cure . Clinical experience has shown that one of the important factors which influences the interview is the difficulty of maintaining rapport . A friendly relationship can be easily maintained if the unpleasant problems are not discussed and if the patient is given immediate advice and remedies . When an attempt is made to discover the history of the past experiences and the basic attitudes and problems of the patient , the process is likely to become unpleasant and he may use many methods to avoid further interviews . He is , in reality , unwilling to discuss the difficulties freely or to solve his basic problems  | even when he appears anxious to obtain suggestions or therapy . Interviews @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the research , and the treatment types . The aim of the diagnostic interview is to discover the individual 's opinions , attitudes , and personal experiences . In the research interview , the purpose is to obtain data regarding a given problem . The treatment interview is intended to utilize the information for therapeutic purposes . Others have classified the interview into the confessional type , the informational , the therapeutic , and the research . In clinical practice it is impossible to make specific differentiations , and the basic purpose of the interview is generally therapeutic . It is obvious , of course , that the therapeutic purpose involves the gathering of information in as complete a form as possible and therefore includes the purposes of many other types . Other classifications of the interview have also been proposed , such as the vocational interview , the employment interview , the case work interview , and so on . As already stated , it is impossible to make specific differentiations , and an interview which proposes to uncover only given items should probably be classified in an entirely different @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's statements can not be accepted either as truthful or as representing a complete history . In consequence , various investigators have suggested that all the case history material that can possibly be collected should be in the hands of the examiner before the interview is begun . Thus it would not be necessary to insist upon information which the patient might be unwilling to give , and the time might footnote 2 Percival M. Symonds , Diagnosing personality and conduct , 1931 , New York , D. Appleton-Century Company , 450-451.  | he spent in observing the kinds of attitudes the individual shows and his emotional responses to given events and experiences . The interview is , therefore , essentially a way of discovering the reactions of an individual to his past experiences rather than a means of obtaining precise information . There are many disadvantages to the interview method . The interviewer is likely to antagonize the patient by seeking information which he does not care to divulge , and the result may be a process of cross-examination which may increase the patient 's attempt to avoid disclosing significant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in an argument or controversy in order to have a reason to justify his hostility . It is imperative , therefore , that the interviewer should never criticize , condemn or praise a patient or make decisions regarding his behavior . To a large extent the therapeutic effect of the interview results from the patient 's verbalizations , that is , from his bringing to the surface memories , ideas , and especially strongly emotionally-toned attitudes which he would not otherwise have an opportunity to express . It has been shown that the best results are obtained by determining a definite time limitation to each interview . Clinical experience has shown that when a patient is allowed to tell his entire story to the interviewer in one session , especially when the story involves many personal problems and guilt feelings , the relationship is endangered . The patient 's feeling of shame because he has related material which he has previously kept secret may result in antagonism to the interviewer .  | THE CASE HISTORY The case history is generally considered to be a prerequisite to the examination of a patient @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ measure personality accurately and quantitatively by means of tests information must be obtained regarding the individual 's past experiences , behavior , attitudes , and personality characteristics . The case history contains essentially the story of an individual 's developmental history which includes his physical , intellectual , personality , emotional , and behavioral growth . The data are obtained wherever possible ? from the parents , school teachers , friends , or others who have an intimate knowledge of the individual . In clinics the person who works most closely with the environmental factor , such as the social worker , is usually responsible for the case history . Case histories generally contain specific and general information . Specific data are obtained on physical development , the methods which the parents have used in training , the early social relationships , the personal and social habits , the likes and dislikes , and educational progress . General information is obtained regarding any deviation of personality or conduct . A detailed family history is also essential . By understanding the problems of the parents it is often possible to interpret the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cultural , and religious problems of the parents may give clues to their attitudes and thus to the influences which have affected the development of the patient . From the standpoint of the psychiatrist and the student of child development , the following information seems to be the most important in gathering the material for a case history .  | Physical development . This should include information not only regarding the health and illness of the child and his physical growth but also of the chronology of his activities . The time the child first sat up , walked , talked in phrases and sentences and reacted specifically to other persons may give the examiner clues regarding the rate of his intellectual development . In addition , it is important to know in what areas the child excelled physically and in what way he was deficient . As an example , a child 's personality may be seriously affected by his inability to compete physically with his playmates . Adjustment to training . Information should be obtained regarding the establishment of the food , sleep , and toilet habits . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the reactions of the child to the demands and methods of his parents . Social and school adjustment . The adaptability of the child to social requirements should be investigated principally regarding his friendships , the ease or difficulty of relating himself to new situations or persons , whether he tended to follow or dominate his friends , whether he sought the protection of his parents when difficulties arose . Regarding school adjustment , it is important to know whether he accepted the authority of his teachers , whether he accepted the routine , and his reactions to the competition for academic prestige and attainment . The predominant method of adjustment should be ascertained , that is , whether the child reacted by aggressive behavior , by close identification with members of his family , by seeking the attention of adults or children , by escaping from unpleasant or difficult situations , or by defensive reactions . Affectional relationships . What members of the family were most closely attached to him and from what per-  | sons did he seek affection ? It is necessary to know the rivalries with his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opinion between the parents . Significance is usually placed upon the methods which a child uses in obtaining affection and the changes in the degree of affection he seeks with growth . For example , the overprotected and pampered child is likely to seek as much affection at the age of fourteen as at the age of five or six . Such a child is likely to have many difficulties as a youth or adult because he is unable to adjust to the relative indifference of others . Special abilities and disabilities . This information can be obtained relatively easily not only from parents but also from teachers . The child who has some special ability which is socially recognized may adjust more easily than a child who has none , but he may also have personal difficulties because he frequently tends to exploit his achievements . In many instances the parents erroneously assume that a special ability exists , such as skill in music . In consequence , when the child realizes the true situation , he is likely to develop conflicts . In other cases , a special ability @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ requirements to which other children must adhere . Interests and goals . What changes have taken place in the personal and social interests ? What changes have taken place in the ambitions of the child ? Does he tend to develop strong attitudes or does he tend to seek information and to reason ? It is often possible to obtain an accurate account of the values which the child has , and of his effort and persistence to attain them . Emotional stability . An accurate account should be sought of the emotional reactions to varying degrees  | of frustration . The frequency of temper tantrums , " moods , " anger reactions and swings of emotional reactions furnish important data regarding personality development . The personalities of the parents . It is usually difficult to obtain the necessary data regarding parents . Clues may be obtained by ascertaining their attitudes regarding their children . Important information may also be obtained from the story of the parents regarding their own childhood , their school and social adjustments , their economic and social problems , and their educational , social , religious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A detailed account should be obtained of its first occurrence , its development , and the difficulties it created at home and elsewhere . The method of dealing with the child and the results may also give significant information . The case history is usually obtained from sources other than the patient himself . Thus a more objective record may be gathered than from the patient 's own story . In most cases , however , the parents or relatives who supply the information may be as biased as the patient . It has been found that parents generally emphasize those problems which have annoyed them , and frequently supply little information which is valuable from the standpoint of understanding a child psychologically . It is usually difficult to obtain an accurate account of the parents ' attitudes and problems . Thus the nature of the parent-child relationships often can not be accurately ascertained by the case history method . When the material for the case history is obtained from the patient , as is frequently necessary when dealing with adults , similar errors of interpretation are likely to arise because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ distortions which the patient intentionally or unintentionally introduces . At best the case history can supply only approximations of the information needed for an understanding of the individual 's personality . The history can never be considered a scientific method , although unfortunately many investigators place a great deal of faith in the information they gather . Nevertheless the information which is obtained may be used for further investigation and may be a starting point for the examinations which follow . The case history obviously can not be used as a substitute for an individual investigation by appropriate methods . LIFE HISTORY The life history method is essentially a type of case history technique in which the events and the experiences of the individual are evaluated in terms of his social experiences . The individual 's interests , attitudes , and experiences are obtained , as well as his own interpretation . The life history has been employed mostly by sociologists who contend that the ordinary case history is circumscribed and does not take into account to a sufficient degree the various social and cultural influences which determine an individual 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a deliberate attempt to define the growth of a person in a cultural milieu and to make theoretical sense of it . It might include both biographical and autobiographical documents . It is not just an account of a life with events separately identified like beads on a string , although this is the form in which footnote3 John Dollard , Criteria for the life history , 1935 , New Haven , Yale University Press , p. 3.  | attempts to present a life history usually meet us ; if this were true , every man would be a psychologist , because every person can give us data of this type . " Dollard ' further proposes the following criteria for the life history technique : 1 . The subject must be viewed as a specimen in a cultural series . 2 . The organic motors of action ascribed must be socially relevant . 3 . The peculiar role of the family group in transmitting the culture must be recognized . 4 . The specific method of elaboration of organic materials into social behavior must be shown . 5 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must be stressed . 6 . The " social situation " must be carefully and continuously specified as a factor . 7 . The life history material itself must be organized and conceptualized . The life history has been regarded as of significance because it enables the investigator to determine the development of attitudes and values and to trace these attitudes through a series of experiences . Sociologists also believe that it is possible to ascertain the nature of " social personality " by means of this method . ' The life history is usually obtained not only by personal interviews but also by written narratives , diaries , personal letters and other documents . In recent years a number of studies have been made of delinquents and criminals by means of the life history . ' These life histories are frequently merely a verbatim statement of the delinquent , at times supplemented by footnote 4 Dollard , p. 8. 5 See Herbert Blumer , Critiques of research in the social sciences : I. An appraisal of Thomas and Znanieki 's , The Polish peasant in Europe and America , 1939 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 6 See for example , Clifford R. Shaw , The jack-roller ; a delinquent boy 's own story , 1930 , Chicago , University of Chicago Press , pp. 205.  | items from diaries and personal letters . Frequently the investigator who uses the life history accepts not only the delinquent 's statements regarding his experiences but also his interpretation of the causes of his delinquencies . Those who have had extensive clinical experience know , however , that the statements of any person can not be accepted as facts , especially the story of a delinquent . Although he may appear to be honest and sincere , his experience in delinquency accompanied by habituation in lying makes it very improbable that he will tell the truth even to an impartial scientist . Therefore the life history of a delinquent can at best be accepted only as material which reveals his attitudes , although he frequently modifies his statements intentionally and unintentionally according to his interpretation of the investigator 's attitudes . METHODS OF OBSERVATION There are only a few objective observational methods . The untrained student may believe that he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adult by observing him in a variety of situations . In order to obtain significant data , the observer must be well-trained , however , not only regarding the significance of given forms of behavior but also regarding the relative importance of different personality characteristics . In many respects the observation and detection of personality characteristics require as much scientific training , say , as the medical student before he is permitted to observe a patient . Otherwise only vague impressions are obtained , and unscientific generalizations made . The literature contains controversial reports regarding the question of whether the observer should partici-  | pate in the activities of the patient whom he is observing or whether he should be a non-participant . The consensus is that the observer must make his observations without interfering with the activities which he is evaluating . If a child is conscious of being observed he may inhibit his spontaneous behavior . If the observer takes part in a child 's activities , he must conceal his critical observations . The older the child the more careful must the observer be to keep him from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ younger children the observer need not be as unobtrusive . The presence of an observer , however , may change even the natural reactions of very young children . Dr. Gesell of the Yale Psycho-Clinic has devised a one-way screen , for example , so that observers may follow the activities of children without being seen by them . By the use of this screen a number of persons may make observations simultaneously . The screen is useful also in checking the observations of several experimenters . In many nursery schools panels are removed from the doors of play and sleeping rooms and screens inserted so that observers may watch the activities of the children without being seen by them . The observer must have a definite knowledge of the traits or activities he wishes to observe . Thus , the method of directed observation is frequently employed . This means that observations are made of specific reactions , such as social play , language responses , or activities with play materials . By observing only one or two items of behavior more accurate data may be obtained than by observing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ used extensively in the past but is only occasionally employed at present . In this method the observer makes notations of his daily observations . No effort is made to follow any given type of behavior ;  | whatever is observed becomes part of the record . Quantification of the data is difficult , and the usual result is a record which is complicated by the impressions of the observer . The diary method can be used effectively only by limiting the scope of the observations and by frequent checks of the previous observations . The check-list method enables an observer to quantify the data . A specific list of behavior items is first prepared , and the observer checks the frequency of their occurrence . Although a relatively small number of activities can be observed , the data are reliable and can be evaluated statistically . Comparisons may be made between children regarding specific types of behavior without relying upon the usual impressionistic methods of observation . The time-sampling method , employed extensively by Dorothy S. Thomas 7 of Columbia University and Florence Goodenough of the University of Minnesota , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's behavior . The periods of observation are short and repeated frequently . Miss Goodenough reports excellent results with one-minute observations . Most observers employ five-minute periods . The reliability of the findings has been found to increase by decreasing the length of the periods of observation and increasing their frequency . Thus , a given total time of observation by the timesampling method results in more reliable data than continuous observation for the same length of time . Naturally , only given items of behavior can be recorded since the periods of observation are short . Generally , items or groups of items are checked as present or absent during the interval the child is observed . footnote 7 Dorothy S. Thomas , Some new techniques for studying social behavior , Child development monographs , 1929 , New York Teachers ' College , Bureau of Publications , pp. 203.  | PLAY TECHNIQUES The method of the play technique is to observe a child in a free play situation . Interpretations are made from the kinds of activities he chooses and the use he makes of his play materials . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is unsatisfactory when employed with young children , and tests can not be adequately administered or interpreted when dealing with children below the age of seven or eight . The child is placed in a situation with given types of toys or is allowed to choose from a large number . He may also be observed in a social situation with other children . Psychoanalysts dealing with children have been enthusiastic about the results they have obtained . They believe that a transference situation can be established between the child and the therapist through the play situation . Supposedly the repressions and conflicts of the child can be discovered and appropriate explanations can be given as he acts out his conflicts . If , for example , a child has an attitude of hostility toward a brother or sister , he may show it by destructive behavior with toys , such as dolls which symbolize his siblings . Use is also made of drawings of children . The drawings supposedly have the same significance as the material brought out by the free association technique with adults . The child 's sympathies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his emotional behavior can be observed in the play situation . Unfortunately , however , there is no clear-cut evidence to substantiate the optimistic reports in the current literature . An interpretation of a child 's conflicts by means of the play technique usually can not be verified . Most of the interpretations of child analysts are made in very general terms and nearly always relate  | only to the Freudian theories . From the therapeutic standpoint these analysts believe that children 's anxieties are relieved when they act out their anxieties and repressions and when they are allowed to express their repressions which otherwise might result in neurotic or abnormal behavior . ' There have been only a few experimental studies in play situations . Most of these have not attempted to uncover the conflicts of children but only to observe objectively their reactions in specific situations . Lewin and his coworkers studied frustration by means of observing the reactions of children in given play situations . Others have attempted to study the effect of toys and of other children upon the behavior of a given child . The clinical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ available have generally come from the psychoanalytic group and have been replete with optimism regarding the diagnostic and therapeutic values . The few experiments which have been reported are not discussed because the method of procedure and the interpretations were such that they can not be rightly considered as experimental . PERSONALITY TESTS The psychological knowledge regarding the basis of personality formation is so meagre and the descriptions so inadequate that personality tests can at best merely give clues to an individual 's characteristics . Very few , if any , personality tests are diagnostic except in a very restricted way . One may be able to discover , for example , an individual 's tendency to withdraw from social footnote 8 See Melanie Klein , The psychoanalysis of children , 1932 , London , Institute of Psychoanalysis , pp. 393  | situations , or , with some degree of accuracy , his egocentric tendencies . It is impossible , however , on the basis of present day tests , to obtain a " total picture " of an individual 's personality . Personality traits , as we have seen , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shown that even the simplest personality trait is extremely complex . Furthermore , traits may show great variability . An individual 's rating at one time may be far different from his rating on another occasion . In the test situation the subject 's ability to relate himself to the examiner , his attitude toward the test , and his emotional state may affect the results obtained . Although this may also be partially true of standard intelligence tests , they are not as greatly affected by the many factors which influence personality test results . The process of standardizing personality tests has involved many difficulties . Reliability is usually obtained by the test-retest method or by the split-half method in which one half of the test is correlated with the other half . The inconstant conditions of administering personality tests , due to the many factors involved , may influence the method of defining the reliability of a personality test . The subjectivity of the items in the usual personality test also makes it difficult to measure reliability . It is even more difficult to measure the validity of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with another criterion of the measures which are attempted . Unfortunately the items which are ordinarily used in a personality test involve descriptions which can not be easily validated in other ways . The descriptive terms in a personality test are usually of the types which are ordinarily used to describe general behavior , and therefore attempts to validate the items frequently result in merely obtaining substantiating proof rather than  | comparison with another criterion . Many personality tests are designed to measure the individual 's behavior in given social situations , and the results are used for predictive purposes . Most personality tests in general measure , however , only attitudes and knowledge of behavior rather than behavior itself . The person who takes a test realizes that he will be judged by his answers . If he is sufficiently intelligent he is likely to falsify deliberately . Some persons may intend to be honest , but their answers are nevertheless untruthful . Furthermore the emotional element involved in actual experience does not occur during a test situation . A person is therefore likely to use his reasoning ability rather @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ importance in everyday , and especially in crisis , situations . Items in a test involving memory for past experiences are especially likely to be falsified . It is difficult to remember whether given fears , for example , occurred at the age of three or four , and especially to recall with what intensity they occurred . Personality tests have been classified into the questionnaire type , from which an impression is obtained of the individual 's personality " tendencies , " and the test type , in which specific scores are obtained . Although the test type is preferable because of its objectivity and because a quantitative measure is obtained , the results have shown that in only a few instances has it been found to be better than the questionnaire type from the standpoint of prediction of future behavior . A third type of test has been designated as the rating scale method . In this method either the individual or others use descriptive terms to define the significant or dominant behavior . One of the first attempts to measure personality objectively was made by Woodworth by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all individual . This questionnaire was later modified by Mathews and by Cady . The Woodworth-Mathews Data Sleet 9 contains 75 questions which the subject checks " yes " or " no . " The following are examples of the quest ions : Are you afraid of the dark ? Do you mind crossing a bridge over water ? Is there any kind of food that makes you very sick ? Do you feel apart , separated , from other people ? Are you troubled with the idea that somebody is following you ? Do you make friends easily ? The questionnaire may be administered to adults as well as adolescents , but many of the questions refer to the activities or attitudes of young children . For example , one of the items refers to the preference for play with other children , whereas another item refers to superstitions . The Woodworth-Mathews Personal Data Sheet has formed the basis of many other questionnaires . For example , Thurstone 10 developed a neurotic inventory based , to a large extent , upon the original Woodworth questionnaire . He proposed a single @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also been made to quantify the method which Woodworth originally used . The results of these attempts at quantification have been both favorable and unfavorable . It has been possible as a result of these methods to differentiate extreme types , such as the very well-adjusted from neurotic , and the psychotic from the normal . There is no evidence , however , that clear-cut differentiations can be made between most persons , that is , between most well-adjusted persons , in spite of the fact that it is possible to assign a given score to each individual . Although a given score may indicate the degree of neuroticism , there is no evi- footnote s Published by C. H. Stoelting Company , Chicago . 10 L. L. Thurstone and T. G. Thurstone , A neurotic inventory , Journal of social psychology , 1930 , 1 , 3-30.  | dence to show that the differentiation between two inch . viduals on most of the tests now used correlates with any known clinical differentiation of the degree of neuroticisn It is obviously much easier to compare extremes of behavior such as neuroticism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reason that many psychologists have devised neurotic inventories . In the inventory for children devised by Brown , ' 1 the items which are emphasized are physical symptoms , anxiety or insecurity , home adjustment , school adjustment , and irritability or sensitiveness . Brown concluded as a result of his studies with this inventory , that neurotic children show reliable differences from normal children in regard to physical symptoms , school adjustment , and social adaptation . A large variety of introversion and extroversion inventories and tests have been devised . The Laird Personal Inventory 12 is a typical example of such a test . One of the forms of this test contains forty-eight items about an individual 's behavior during the past few months . The questions are designed to differentiate between behavior in which there is a tendency to think about oneself and the tendency to externalize one 's behavior . The person tested is required to check one of five statements after each question . For example the question " How have you acted and felt at social affairs " is answered by checking one of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " " Retiring at a few affairs , " " Let others entertain , talk , etc. , " " Liked to do entertaining , " " Usually led . " Scores are obtained and the degree of introversion or extroversion is determined . In 1925 , the Marsten ExtroversionIntroversion rating scale 13 was developed and described . footnote 11 Fred Brown , A psychoneurotic inventory for children between nine and fourteen years of age , Journal of applied psychology , 1934 , 18 , 566-577. 12 Published by the Hamilton Republican , Hamilton , New York . 13 Published by C. H. Stoelting Company , Chicago .  | As in the Laird Scale , it attempted to differentiate between social and self attitudes . For example , the child who was able to express himself verbally before a group , to make friends , to respond to strangers , and to take part in activities was considered to have predominant extrovert characteristics , whereas the individual who tended to worry and be seclusive and secretive , as well as reserved and inactive , was defined as an introvert . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the best index of the adequacy of adjustment . They believe that personality is normal to the extent to which an individual responds to others . The Ascendance-Submission Scales of Allport Y4 are basically modifications of the **25;1034;TOOLONG tests . The test was standardized on 1,86o men and 1,275 women , and separate forms are used for men and women . It is a self-administrative test without a time limit . The subject checks one of three responses to thirty-three descriptive statements for the men and thirty-five for the women . Allport 's Ascendance-Submission Scale is based upon his assumption that each person has both an ascendant and submissive reaction tendency , but of an unequal force . Each represents a different type of adjustment , and although there may be a great deal of overlapping , individuals may be placed in one or the other category . Studies of various groups on this scale have shown that it does measure some constant personality factor , although there is so much overlapping that distinct differentiations can not be made in many cases . The Cowan Adolescent Personality Schedule is one of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to give a more accurate diagnosis than most footnote 14 See G. W. Allport , A test for ascendance-submission , Journal of abnormal social psychology , 1928 , 23 , 118-136.  | other tests and inventories . The test is scored on the basis of 201 questions which are answered by yes , no , or do n't know . It is an attempt to measure fears , family emotional maladjustments , maladjustments to family authority , inferiorities , maladjustments to non-family authority , maladjustment to responsibility , escapes , neurotic symptoms , and compensation . A score is obtained and a profile made which can be evaluated quickly by comparison with the profile of the well-adjusted child . The following items illustrate the method and purpose of the Cowan Personality Schedule : figure  | It is obvious that most of the questions deal with situations which involve some form of maladjustment . To a large extent the maladjustments are of the neurotic type , although reaction to authority and dependence , and affectional relationships are emphasized . Experience with this test has shown that it is a great aid in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ problems of the adolescent involve affectional relationships and difficulties with authorities . The Bernreuter Personality Inventory , which can properly be classified as a test , is used in many clinics . It attempts to measure four trait groups : neurotic tendency , self-sufficiency , **25;1061;TOOLONG , and dominancesubmission . There are 125 questions . The test is selfadministering and no time limit is given . Unfortunately there is a great deal of overlapping . For example , the correlation between the scores on neurotic traits and on **25;1088;TOOLONG is high , and it may be assumed that they probably measure the same group of traits . Although the test does differentiate various individuals it has not been found to be unusually useful in clinical diagnosis or in predicting behavior . A number of studies have shown that this test does not significantly differentiate persons who are known to be neurotic from those who are known to be well-adjusted . Landis and his co-workers , 15 for example , evaluated the Bernreuter inventory and found that it did not differentiate between abnormal and normal individuals . Landis believed that the Bernreuter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ measure complex group traits and habit patterns which are not defined by the terms which the authors employ in scoring the tests . footnote 15 Carney Landis , J. Zubin , and S. E. Katz , Empirical evaluation of three personality adjustment inventories , Journal of educational psychology , 1935 , 26 , 321-330.  | In recent years many adjustment scales have been developed . They are basically of the same type as the usual personality test or inventory , but they differ somewhat by the inclusion of a large number of items dealing with everyday adjustmental situations . By obtaining information regarding a wide variety of attitudes and activities it is sometimes possible to obtain a better understanding of a person than by information regarding a circumscribed area of behavior . As an example , the Bell Adjustment Inventory 16 contains 140 questions which attempt to measure home , health , social , and emotional adjustment . This test is designed especially for high school and college age individuals . The Washburne Social-Adjustment Inventory was developed by John N. Washburne 17 of Syracuse University . Washburne states that the primary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ social and emotional adjustment . The inventory consists of an eight-page booklet and is self-administering . It attempts to measure the individual 's self-control , his judgment and impulses , his purposes , his wishes , and so on . Washburne defines a person as well-adjusted when he is cooperative , happy , and seems to deal effectively with his environment . The maladjusted person is the uncooperative , discontented , disorderly , estranged person who seems to be unable to alter his environment or to adapt himself effectively to it . The inventory is designed for persons of high school and college age , although it may also be given to younger children . A profile chart is used for a rapid survey of the results of the tests . The difficulties with this test are similar to those encountered with tests footnote 16 See Hugh M. Bell , The theory and practice of student counseling , 1937 Palo Alto , Stanford University Press , pp. 138. 17 John N. Washburne , The Washburne social adjustment inventory , 1936 and 1940 , Yonkers-on-Hudson , The World Book Company .  | @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the test it is not only possible but also probable that a person responds to the test items in terms of his understanding of what is expected of him . The test does contain items through which the truthfulness of an individual can be checked , but such checking is rarely effective . The test is valuable in discovering how an individual verbally responds to items dealing with social adjustment problems and this may be of value in obtaining a knowledge of his personality . The inventory of interests and activities of Link " is designed to measure personality by means of the score an individual attains on five groups of traits or habits . Extroversion is measured by the extent to which the individual has acquired or is acquiring useful mechanisms of self-expression . Social aggressiveness refers to the initiative in meeting and dealing with people , being liked by others and participation in group activities . Self-determination is a measure of the ability to do things which are considered right or desirable even though they are unpleasant or painful . Economic self-determination is designed to ascertain the habits of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sex adjustment is measured by questions referring to reaction to members of the opposite sex , such as dancing , going to mixed parties , and so on . Most of the items are scored according to a weighted scale , and the final score may be compared with a table of norms . Hildreth 19 developed a personality and interest inventory consisting of two forms , one for elementary school footnote 18 Henry C. Link , A test of four personality traits of adolescents , Journal of applied psychology , 1936 , 20 , 527-534 . The inventory is published by the Psychological Corporation , New York . 19 Gertrude H. Hildreth , Personality and interest inventory , 1936 , New York Teachers College , Bureau of Publication . An interest inventory for high school personnel work , Journal of educational research , 1933 , 27 , 11-19.  | children and the other for high school pupils . To a large extent it is an inventory of interests from which an interpretation of personality may be inferred . The interests of the child are obtained in regard to the books @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he prefers , the games , the school subjects , and his occupational interests . By comparing the statements the child makes with a record of his conduct further information regarding his personality may be obtained . A questionnaire developed by Symonds 2 ? also attempts to measure adjustment by an evaluation of a child 's responses regarding his adjustment to school studies , the social life of the school , to authority , to teachers , to other students , to the home and family , and to personal affairs . A number of other inventories are available for the measurement of special types of adjustment . For example , Barry 21 developed a test for negativism and compliance . This consists of a questionnaire of forty items . On a zero to five scale , zero represents a random guess , and five , complete certainty . The subject 's responses define his tendencies to conform and his contradictory or dissenting tendencies . Terman and Miles " published a test for the measurement of masculinity and femininity . It is a multiple response questionnaire which can be administered individually @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is considered by the authors to be an important factor in determining the personality of an individual . There are two forms ; form A contains 456 items , and footnote 20 Percival M. Symonds and C. E. Jackson , An adjustment survey , Journal of educational research , 1930 , 21 , 321-330. 21 Herbert Barry , Jr. , A test for negativism and compliance , Journal of abnormal and social psychology , 1931 , 25 , 373-381. 22 Lewis M. Terman and Catharine C. Miles , Attitude-interest analysis test , forms A and B , published by the McGraw-Hill Book Company , New York , 1936.  | form B contains 454 . The questionnaires consist of the following seven subtests ( exercises ) : word association , ink-blot association , information , emotional and ethical responses , interests , personalities and opinions , and introvertive responses . A new type of behavior adjustment test was constructed by Furfey " in which an attempt was made to measure the developmental age . Furfey believed that he was able to measure the stage of maturity of personality as contrasted with special @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Furfey believed that it is possible to measure developmental age from birth to maturity , and that it is a better measure of a child 's adjustment than any one or a combination of other measurements . He recognized the effect of training upon the results of a test of this type , but he believed that the differences which he discovered were not due entirely to differences in social backgrounds . The scale , published in 1931 , consists of six parts . Test I requires the child to choose between things he would like , such as whether he would like to visit museums or play with wagons , to make model airplanes or read adventure stories , to play musical instruments or walk on stilts . Test II evaluates the " things to be when you grow up , " and the child chooses one of a pair of items , such as would he rather be an author or a mail carrier , an Indian or a carpenter , a doctor or a policeman . In Test III information is obtained on the types of books @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Stampede " or " Treasure Island , " " Peter Pan " or " Rex , a Collie , " and so on . Test IV requires the child to decide whether it is more fun to have one or another of paired items , such as a watch or a scout suit , an Indian footnote 23 Paul H. Furfey , The growing boy , 1930 , New York , The Macmillan Company , pp. 192 ; A revised scale for measuring developmental age in boys , Child development , 1931 , 2 , 102-114.  | suit or a wallet , a printing press or a suit of clothes , a necktie or some marbles . In Test V the items relate to what a child would rather see , such as a movie actress or a giant , a chemist working or a knight . In Test VI the child decides on items that he would rather think about , such as success in life or things he saw at the movies , famous men or eating candy and ice cream , getting a job or the days @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ developmental age and social behavior is given in the following examples , cited by Furfey . The six-year-old enjoys dramatic play and is interested mostly in toys utilized in physical activity . He likes to play active games . The eight-year-old has become self-assertive and is interested in games involving individual competition . Complicated group games and gang activities are not evident as yet . The ten-year-old likes team games . Fifty per cent of children of this age show a readiness to join clubs . Boys have a tendency to avoid play with girls . The twelve-year-old has reached the typical gang age . His interests are characterized by restless activity . He readily takes part in team games and develops an interest in cards , checkers , and similar games . The fourteen-year-old group is not homogeneous in its interests . The fourteen-year-old is rapidly approaching physical and mental maturity and his interests depend upon these and other conditions . Some are like the twelve-year-old and others like the sixteen-year-old . The sixteen-year-old has reached the stage of a definite interest in the opposite sex . He likes athletics @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between him and his parents and teachers .  | The concept of developmental age as a criterion of maturity has been criticized by some psychologists . It has been shown that a child 's performance depends upon his social conditioning and that the score which a child attains on such a test depends to a great extent upon the kinds of experiences which his environment made possible . The test is , however , a very convenient way to measure the interests and play activities of a child in a short period of time . Behavior rating inventories by which adults identify a child 's behavior on a scale have been used extensively in recent years as a means of diagnosis . Those who prefer this method to self-rating tests and scales claim that a trained observer can describe the personality of a child , especially by a standardized rating scale , much better than a child can describe himself . In addition to the distortions , evasions and memory failures , a child frequently can not understand the meaning of the questions in a personality test . This is attested @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ given to young children , and even adolescents frequently have difficulty with the simplest tests . The Merrill-Palmer 24 personality rating chart for preschool children illustrates the usual procedure of rating scales . The scale consists of one hundred statements grouped under the following five categories : effective energy , mental effectiveness , emotional control , ease of social adjustment , and skill in work and play . The scale attempts to obtain information regarding the predominant characteristics . The statements are frequently so vague , however , that it is possible to obtain only a general trend rather than a quantitative analysis . The following examples illustrate the vagueness of the items which the footnote 24 Published by C. H. Stoelting and Company , Chicago .  | rater checks : " becomes fatigued easily , " " slow to observe changes in surroundings , " " voice animated , alive . " The Haggerty-Olson-Wickman 25 behavior rating scale is divided into two parts . Schedule A consists of a list of fifteen common behavior problems . The teacher is requested to check one of four columns denoting the frequency of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ B consists of a rating scale for each of thirty-five intellectual , physical , social , and emotional traits . Each scale contains five descriptive phrases which have been weighted in relation to the items in Schedule A. An evaluation of the score of a child is obtained by comparison with a table of frequency distributions of scores . The rating scale is designed for use by teachers who wish to obtain a more systematic understanding of the children in their care than casual or chance observation would give . The authors admit in their manual of directions that an untrained observer may not be able to obtain an adequate understanding of a child , and that a teacher 's bias may result in a deviation from an objective record . The Hayes Scale 26 is a rating scale for the evaluation of the school behavior of children . The scale is composed of one hundred statements and the rater responds by marking each statement as true , not true , or uncertain . Examples of the statements are : Often does little things to make others happy ; Usually makes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other children ; Usually works well without seeking praise . If the rater is extremely careful and is an able observer , a good de- footnote 25 Behavior Rating Schedules , prepared by M. E. Haggerty , W. C. Olson , and E. K. Wickman . Published by World Book Company , Yonkers-on-Hudson , 1930. 26 Margaret L. Hayes , A scale for evaluating the school behavior of children ten to fifteen , 1933 , New York , The Psychological Corporation .  | scription of a child 's behavior can be obtained . The rating scale of Roberts and Ball 27 attempts to measure nine types of responses : Ascendance-submission , sociability , compliance with routine , response to authority , respect for property rights , tendency to face reality , independence from adult affection and attention , attractiveness of personality , and physical attractiveness . All the rating scales have the common fault of depending upon the judgment and ability of persons who may have inadequate training in psychology . Questions arc frequently asked in these scales regarding the frequency of occurrence of a given item of behavior . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rater has kept a quantitative record . Many of the terms are vague , and no two raters can possibly agree on a common definition . Association tests have been considered by some investigators to be much more reliable than other types of tests as a way of discovering the problems and conflicts of an individual . This is supposedly because an individual has to respond rapidly to the stimuli words in such a test , and he therefore can not deliberate and thus distort his responses . The Kent-Rosanoff Association Test 28 was first published in 1910 and has been widely used . The stimuli are one hundred words and are presented orally . The subject replies with the first word he thinks of and not with phrases , sentences , or definitions . The responses to the words were standardized on a thousand subjects . Thus it is possible to compare the responses with those obtained on the standardization . In 1916 footnote 27 K. E. Roberts and R. S. Ball , Study of personality in young children by means of a series of rating scales , Journal pf @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kent and A. J. Rosanoff , A study of association in insanity , American journal of insanity , 1910 , 67 , 37-96 , 317-390.  | Woodrow and Lowell29 published their results of a study of one thousand children , nine to twelve years old , in which they used one hundred stimulus words , most of which were used originally by Kent and Rosanoff . A number of criteria are employed to evaluate the significance of the replies to the stimuli words in an association test . The speed with which the responses are given is important . When the reaction to a given word is slow , the implication is that the blocking is due to some conflict . Consistently rapid responses may indicate that the subject is attempting to avoid a reply with a word which he usually associates with the stimulus word . A subject may consistently give definitions . A consistent failure to understand the stimuli words , a similar response to more than one stimulus word , refusal to respond , and irritability may give clues to underlying conflicts . One of the most important @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ answers as compared with the standardized responses are considered to be indications for further evaluation . The Pressey X-O 30 test may also be considered as an association test . On the basis of the answers it is possible to obtain significant clues regarding the individual 's worries , anxieties , and conflicts . There are two forms of this test , A and B. Form A is for adults and contains four parts . Part i ( test 1 ) consists of 25 five-word lists in which the subject crosses out every word which is unpleasant to him . Test 2 contains 25 words in large type each followed by a list of five words , and the subject crosses out one of these which he associates with the key footnote 29 Herbert Woodrow and Frances Lowell , Children 's association frequency tables , Psychological monographs , 1916 , 22 , Princeton , Psychological Review Company , pp. 11o. 39 See S. L. Pressey , A group scale for investigating the emotions , Journal of abnormal and social psychology , 1921 , 16 , 55-64.  | word . Test 3 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crosses out those which he thinks are wrong or that a person is to be blamed for , and test 4 contains 25 lists of five words in which the person crosses out those words about which he has worried or felt nervous . None of the association tests has been considered diagnostic but they have been found to be extremely helpful in obtaining clues about problems which should be investigated further . They are easy to administer , and in most cases the individual tested does not become suspicious regarding the purpose of the test and thus is likely to cooperate well . Psychiatrists generally believe that the free association technique produces much more significant data than the direct or controlled association methods . The emphasis of many psychiatrists is on discovering ideas , attitudes , and emotional reactions to problems and conflicts which are not easily verbalized . In consequence they claim that a subject 's reaction to a specific stimulus such as a word or an idea is likely to cause him to respond deliberately , and significant data are therefore frequently overlooked . There are essentially two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ subject with a stimulus word or idea and asking him to respond by all the ideas that occur to him , or by asking him to verbalize freely and continuously without reference to any stimulus . The free association method is used quite generally by most psychiatrists , but it has been most widely employed by psychoanalysts who believe that continuous free association for forty-five minutes to an hour over a long period of time is likely to produce better results than directed verbalization which is likely to be influenced by the examiner . When the statements of the patient are evaluated it is supposedly possible to select  | the significant items and thus to make accurate interpretations regarding his conflicts . To a large extent the interpretations depend upon the theoretical assumptions of the psychiatrist . As an example , the psychoanalyst is likely to select and interpret items which indicate libidinal frustrations and problems whereas most psychiatrists tend to attach significance to many other problems . At best the free association method is highly subjective . Even if the patient appears to be verbalizing freely , and therefore without @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that he is not deliberately telling a story rather than revealing his so-called unconscious ideas . To a large extent the free association technique as used by psychiatrists is designed for therapeutic purposes rather than for research or diagnostic purposes . The material obtained is usually not amenable to objective or statistical evaluation . Only recently have experimental attempts been made to evaluate free association material by comparing the verbalization of patients who are well-known to the examiner otherwise . One of the difficulties with the free association method is the inability of some individuals to respond verbally in a continuous way without premeditation and deliberation . In most cases a person usually tells only a specific story and thus he is likely to relate whatever he intentionally wants the examiner to know . This is especially true when free association is stimulated by a single word or a single idea . For these and other reasons clinicians have used the Rorschack Ink Blot Test in the belief that significant material might be obtained by presenting the patient with an unspecific stimulus . The Rorschack test is composed of ten ink @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are in black and white and five are in  | colors . The subject is allowed to talk freely about his interpretation of each ink-blot pattern . He is urged to tell what it resembles , and to verbalize whatever occurs to him by free association . The responses are recorded in as verbatim a fashion as possible , and interpretations are made regarding the contents , the originality of the ideas , the form , color , movements , and other interpretations that the subject makes . The responses are usually tabulated in regard to the percentage of occurrence of a given idea or interpretation . The Rorschack test attempts to interpret personality by an interpretation of the individual 's meanings which he finds in the ink blots . Most investigators recognize the fact that the Rorschack is not a test in the sense of a quantitative description of personality . By means of the material obtained from the responses , an interpretation is made of the types of attitudes , problems , values , and wish-fullfillment thinking of the subject.31 Reactions , such as the responses of the individual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the response time , the elaboration , the tempo of verbal activity , and the extent of projection or self-reference , are evaluated by the examiner . Many attempts have been made to measure persistence as an integral characteristic of personality . There have been various definitions of persistence , but probably the most common is that it is the ability to persist at a task in spite of obstacles , or the ability to change a common pattern of habits in order to deal persistently with a new problem . In the past , persistence was studied by the process of general observation . A person was considered to be persistent when he made a continuous effort in a footnote 31 For an excellent evaluation of the Rorschack Ink Blots and a report of an experimental study , see Samuel J. Beck , Introduction to the Rorschack method , 1937 , Monograph No. 1 , The American Orthopsychiatric Association , pp. 278.  | situation in which he was not specifically motivated by his desire to reach a given goal or when he worked at a problem in spite of intermittent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years ago in an attempt to obtain quantitative ratings , but adequate tests have not been developed , and many psychologists believe that persistence is a quality which can not be measured quantitatively . In 1924 Chapman 32 published the results of his investigation of the persistence of eighth-grade children . The task which these children were asked to perform was to construct words from a set of letters . He used as criteria the number of words which were constructed before they gave up their task , the average time per word , and the total time that they worked between the starting signal and their statement that they had done as much as possible . In many tests , persistence is measured by giving an individual a task in which he is not particularly interested and then measuring the total time that the individual worked at the problem . Another method has been to introduce distractions and interferences . As the child works at a problem a buzzer might be sounded or he might be given painful stimuli . The longer the child can withstand these distractions , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of persistence have shown that it is not related directly to intelligence . The degree of persistence increases up to adolescence or early adulthood . School achievement is affected by the degree of persistence . The more persistent the individual , the greater is his achievement , all of the other factors being footnote 32 J. C. Chapman , Persistence , success and speed in a mental task , Pedagogical seminary , 1924 , 31 , 276-284. 33 See T. H. Howells , An experimental study of persistence , Journal of abnormal and social psychology , 1933 , 28 , 14-29.  | equal . Some studies have shown that in general the least persistent persons are more likely to show neurotic traits than the most persistent persons.34 In attempting to measure persistence care must be taken to take into consideration the individual 's intelligence and his ability to solve a given problem . The motivations must also be carefully controlled . If the child is given a specific problem in the school situation it is logical that he would be more persistent than if he were given the same task after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into consideration . A task which involves attainment of social prestige or which brings rewards will be continued by a child for a much longer time than a task which does not seem to be important . For these reasons , some psychologists have considered persistence as having the same psychological significance as many drives . In other words , the degree of persistence depends upon the motivation and the interpretation of the goal or reward . footnote 34 For an excellent summary of the problems involved in the measurement of persistence see David G. Ryans , The measurement of persistence : an historical review , Psychological bulletin , 1939 , 36 , 715-739.  | DEVELOPMENT OF ATTITUDES Attitudes are probably one of the best measures of personality . They frequently determine the normality or abnormality of personality adjustment and are in turn determined by many factors of personality . Attitudes reflect the way in which a person responds to a given situation . Although intellectual processes influence the formation of attitudes , they are essentially emotionally determined and emotionally toned . Attitudes have been investigated extensively by sociologists , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sociological study in which the origin and change of attitudes were investigated . The sociologists speak of attitudes somewhat synonymously with " values . " An attitude toward a given object , person , or principle is determined by the value which these objects or conditions have for the individual . Attitudes have been defined in a number of different ways . Bernard , for example , believes that attitudes arise when the individual finds it necessary to reorganize his behavior . He stated : " Where the integrated or habitual behavior pattern finds immediate expression in a successful adjustment to environment there is an act complete in itself and satisfying . Where the adjustment behavior is interrupted , delayed , modified , or repressed , that is , where a crisis arises , where a wish or a set can not be realized in consummatory action , an attitude takes its place . The attitude is also behavior , but it is delayed or inhibited rather than comsummatory behavior . The term attitude may also be  | used to include relatively uniform continuous or uniformly changing action , as when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ athletic attitude or a religious attitude . But even here there is an element of delayed or interrupted response , for we apply the term attitude not to that part of the behavior already completed , but to the action in preparation and yet to be achieved . " 1 Thus when old attitudes no longer suffice for a satisfactory adjustment or when old habits or other methods of adjustment are no longer adequate , new attitudes develop . They are therefore preparatory reactions for overt or implicit behavior . According to Bernard , a great variety of attitudes arises out of interrupted or incomplete responses . Some of these are related to the incompleted responses whereas others are directed toward the cause of the inhibition or frustration . Attitudes arise out of crises situations and are related to conflict . The conflict , according to Bernard , usually arises between the requirements of the environment and the individual 's existing behavior , but in many cases may also arise between the unrealized urges to overt expression . Frequently conflicts between an individual 's urges and the environmental conditions are transferred @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ occurs , there is considerable emotional tension . In spite of the belief of some sociologists that attitudes may be " general , " that is , not specifically directed , it is usually necessary to define an attitude in terms of the specific object or concept to which the individual is reacting . One can not speak of " rebellious " attitudes or of " favorable " attitudes . Further definition is necessary . footnote 1 L. L. Bernard , Attitudes and the redirection of behavior , in Social attitudes , Edited by Kimball Young , 1931 , New York , Henry Holt &; Company , p. 47.  | Thus , an individual may have a rebellious attitude toward authority or toward his parents or his brothers . A person may have a favorable attitude toward his equals or his inferiors . Another example of a sociological definition of an attitude is illustrated in the definition made by Faris . ' Faris believes that an attitude indicates a tendency toward a mode of response , that is , toward the object in question . In other words , an attitude @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ According to this concept the existence of a crisis is an important element in the determination of attitudes . Faris states , as an example : " Thus the new convert to a sect is often one who , puzzled and confused at the diversities of the world , accepts the solution that is given to him with convincing assurance , and he is ready to define his world as he is taught even if this means taking on new attitudes that earlier he would have regarded as absurd or impossible . " ' The illustration which Faris gives indicates that individuals who do not have crises or problems and whose behavior is regulated without difficulty do not develop attitudes toward given objects or conditions . In spite of the fact that attitudes can be classified only in regard to specific situations , some sociologists have attempted to classify them into definite groups . House , ' for example , classified attitudes into those involving personal , natural , cultural , and general social reactions , such as fashions and fads . This was an attempt at a functional classification . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ therefore such a classification is of little help footnote 2 Ellsworth Faris , The concept of social attitudes , in Social attitudes , Edited by Kimball Young , 1931 , New York , Henry Holt and Company , p. 8 ; and Attitudes and behavior , American journal of sociology , 1928 , 34 , 271-281. 3 Ellsworth Faris , The concept of social attitudes , p. 12. 4 F. N. House , The range of social theory , 1929 , New York , Henry Holt and Company , p. 194.  | in explaining the origin and function of specific attitudes . Some investigators have attempted to classify attitudes into those involving neuro-muscular and those involving neuro-psychic reactions . Supposedly , the neuro-psychic reactions develop in older individuals whose conceptual and symbolic behavior is already well-established whereas the neuro-muscular attitudes are shown by young children whose reactions are immediate and overt . There have been some classifications of attitudes in which the investigators attempted to define the categories in terms of the kinds of responses . Park and Burgess , ' for example , classified attitudes in terms of behavior in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ approach , to dominate , and to yield . Attitudes arise as soon as a child is old enough to understand the meaning of social relationships and meets competitive problems which he must solve in some way . The young child has very few attitudes compared to the number found in adults . They are also less fixed and less intense , in part because his methods of adjustment are not mature and ch2nge constantly , and in part because he does not meet as many critical problems as the adult . He is not required to develop attitudes because he is identified with his parents and is sheltered from difficulties and frustrations . The attitudes which he shows are for the most part imitations of the attitudes of his parents and immediate friends . His limited understanding of the significance of his behavior and of his environment is another factor in producing few attitudes . Furthermore , he does not need to make many choices . Definite attitudes arise when he begins to differentiate footnote 5 R. E. Park and E. W. Burgess , Introduction to the science of sociology @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pp. 1040 . See also C. W. Allport , Attitudes , A handbook of social psychology , edited by Carl Murchison , 1935 , Worcester , Massachusetts , Clark University Press , 798-844.  | himself from his parents and friends and when he attempts to adjust to a wider environment without the protection which he previously had . In addition to the increasing independence which a child assumes and which is a determinant of attitude formation , the factors of education , experience , and many intangible environmental influences are also important influences . Studies have shown , for example , that given attitudes change very rapidly with growth . As an example , during adolescence there is a rapid and steady decrease in favorableness toward the Church , especially on the part of girls . Less rapid changes are found in adults . According to some investigators this is due to the conflicting problems with which adolescents are involved whereas adults have already established themselves in society and thus are not influenced by temporary or chance experiences . Studies of attitudes toward Negroes have shown that although prejudice develops very @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ presumably with experience with racial problems. ? It has been shown that the kindergarten child has very little prejudice against the Negro . During adolescence when children have more insight into social situations , their unfavorable attitudes develop rapidly . This has been explained in part on the basis of the increasing competitiveness which develops with maturity and the attempt of adolescents to solve their problems by prejudicial attitudes . Such unfavorable attitudes , according to some psychologists , are inevitable , that is , they must develop as part of the personality characteristics of adolescents and adults . Unfavorable attitudes toward some groups or some races footnote 6 E. L. Horowitz , The development of attitude toward the Negro , Archives of psychology , 1936 , 28 , 194 , pp. 45.  | tend to enhance the individual 's prestige and therefore to maintain a feeling of importance and integrity . The factor of intelligence must also be considered as an influence in the determination of given attitudes . In general , it does not play a predominant role in the formation of attitudes . A given amount of intellectual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ however . A person of high intelligence is sensitive to many problems and conditions which an individual of lower intelligence either overlooks or of which he is unaware . The higher the intelligence of a person the more alert and sensitive he is likely to be to many problems he meets , and he is therefore likely to develop conflicts which he frequently attempts to solve by the formation of specific attitudes . A person of high intelligence may have as many prejudices as a person of low intelligence . The overt manifestation of the attitudes may differ in two individuals , but the basic psychological reactions may be the same . The individual of high intelligence may be able , for example , to control his overt behavior , and his expressed opinions are often different from his true attitudes . He is more likely to express the opinions of his group because they serve to adjust him easily to the other members . Attitudes which indicate rebellion against prevailing conditions supposedly develop more frequently in persons of higher intelligence . Thus , religious and political radicals , according to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more intelligent persons . The conservatives are likely to be of lesser intelligence ! Some investigators believe that these findings do not indicate a direct relationship between so-called radicalism and in- footnote 7 See T. H. Howells , A comparative study of those who accept as against those who reject religious authority , University of Iowa studies in character , 1928 , 2 , Iowa City , University of Iowa , pp. 80.  | telligence . They do show , however , that the more intelligent person is likely to seek explanations which are not immediately forthcoming from the environment whereas the less intelligent person is satisfied with ready and common and therefore prevailing and conservative explanations . The range of radicalism , for example , between persons of mediocre and high intelligence is much greater than the range within a selected group . Some corroborative evidence for the influence of intelligence upon the frequency of attitudes is found when investigations of the frequency of conflicts are evaluated . It has been found that the frequency of mental conflicts is much greater in persons of high intelligence than in those of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that persons of high intelligence are emotionally disturbed to a greater degree than other people . In spite of the greater frequency of conflicts they may be able to control their behavior better than persons of low intelligence . A high level of intelligence expresses itself in unusual alertness , and this results in an awareness of many problems which are likely to create conflicts and necessitate attitudes . It can not be assumed , however , that a high level of intelligence is a determinant of desirable attitudes or that a person of high intelligence can change his attitudes easily . Persons with radical attitudes are as difficult to change as those with conservative attitudes . It has also been shown that so-called radical attitudes frequently develop not because of intelligence or insight but as expressions of mental conflicts which are projected into social principles . It is difficult to weigh the factor of cultural influence when intelligence is correlated with attitude . On the one hand , the more intelligent person is likely to seek a wide variety of cultural relationships and , on the other  | hand , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Murphy and his co-workers make the following summary of this problem : " While similar cultural influences surround individuals of varying intelligence , those influences which are effective for any individual follow a selective process , conscious or unconscious , by that individual . And selective range is Iimited by capacity . Cultural phenomena which are beyond one 's ken are not , for such a person , cultural phenomena at all . This is not to say , of course , that lack of comprehension is necessarily the handmaiden of conservatism in the fields of politics and religion . But among large groups during the recent past , so far as our present evidence shows , the majority of those who adopt more radical positions on certain issues are at least capable of better understanding the complicated social fabric than most of their more conservative contemporaries . This may mean no more than that those with greater capacities are more sensitive to currents moving in a particular place and time . If so , it is equally probable that in other times and places the more intelligent individuals would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this is true , the fact remains that interests are in part selected by capacities , and that interests provide the soil without which attitudes do not develop . " 8 THE EFFECT OF THE ENVIRONMENT footnote 8 Gardner Murphy , Lois Barclay Murphy , and Theodore M. Newcomb , Experimental social psychology , 1937 , New York , Harper &; Brothers , p. 932 . The complexity of the environment determines to a large extent the nature and number of attitudes . In communities of complex social organization the individual must face a larger number of problems than in com-  | munities with a relatively simple social organization . A complex environment not only presents an individual with a large number of personal problems but also involves him in making many and varied choices and decisions . As a result , he must develop definite attitudes which not only aid him in making choices but frequently also serve to solve his problems and conflicts . The number of social adjustments which the individual must make also affects the number and kinds of attitudes . In a relatively simple social order @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ There is , therefore , less need for definitive attitudes than in a complex social situation . Communities with a complex social organization involve a person in the necessity to respond to many social pressures and to avoid social taboos , factors of great importance in the development of attitudes . Studies of the differences between the attitudes of persons living in rural and urban communities illustrate the effect of the complexity of social organization and the kinds of problems the individual faces on the development of attitudes . Smith , ' for example , found four factors which influence the attitudes of farmers : selection , isolation , domestication , and the kind of occupation . He found , for example , that farmers have contempt for those who do not work with their hands . They have attitudes of self-sufficiency , that is , an unfavorable attitude toward persons who are dependent on employers . Their conservative attitudes are due to ownership of land or expectancy of ownership . The solitary character of their work supposedly also causes them to be suspicious of others . It is well known @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Smith , The rural mind : A study in occupational attitude , American journal of sociology , 1927. 32 , 771-786.  | unless the problem is of sufficient importance to involve the individual emotionally . Attitudes are rarely found which involve a reaction toward persons whom we do not know and who do not influence our lives . It would be absurd for anyone to develop an attitude regarding the kind of headdress a person in Africa should wear . It is quite common , however , for many people to develop attitudes regarding the problem of immigration of Japanese into this country . The problems which involve the individual 's economic , social , and personal adjustments are therefore the factors in the development of attitudes . The direct influence of the immediate problems which a person must face on the development of attitudes is illustrated in another study . ' ? In this study the attitudes of children living in five different mountain communities were investigated . The environmental conditions varied greatly in the different communities . These communities consisted of four mountain hollows and a small village . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an attempt was made to correlate the results on these tests with the level of social complexity of the five communities . It was extremely difficult to compare the social complexity of the communities , and specific factors were therefore weighted and compared for this purpose . As a method of making a comparison of the intellectual levels of the four mountain hollows , data were collected on the following items : the length of the school term , church facilities and meetings , the number of general social meetings , the number and kinds of newspapers received , telephone facilities , frequency of mail delivery , size of the families , the number of radios , bank accounts , automobiles , the methods of footnote to Mandel Sherman , The development of attitudes , 1933 , New York , Payne Fund , pp. 54.  | cultivating the land , and several other items which were less reliable from the standpoint of quantitative measurement . The scale separation on the basis of the judgments of a number of judges on the basis of these factors for the four mountain communities in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 4.77 . By means of several attitude scales the attitudes of the children were obtained and correlations were established between the cultural level of the community ( according to the way they were measured ) and the types of attitudes which the children showed . It was found that the frequency of specific attitudes increased with the increase in the cultural level of the community . This was due not only to the fact that the children of the communities of higher cultural level had more problems and conflicts but also because they were more intelligent and better informed . For example , the children of the hollow of the lowest level were concerned mostly about immediate problems of food and clothing , and their conversation usually involved the weather , their siblings , and their food . In the hollow of the highest social order a great many other interests were observed . The children talked about their families , their school , and frequently also about their social relationships . The establishment of complex social pressure determined to a great extent not only the frequency of the problems with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . To a large degree the children of the communities of the lower cultural levels lived relatively individualistic lives . The other children were influenced by the community habits , practices , and beliefs . It was observed that the attitudes of the children in the simplest of these communities tended to coincide with their outward behavior . In the other communities it was sometimes impossible to differentiate between the  | children 's attitudes and opinions . This was thought to be the result of insight on the part of these children into the meaning of their social relationships which resulted in the expression of opinions which they believed the examiner might want them to show . These children also responded normally to a variety of hypothetical questions whereas the other children were unable to understand a question unless it related to their own situations . In the communities where prestige and recognition were relatively unimportant few definite attitudes developed . In the other communities the recognition of the importance of social relationships and the understanding of the attitudes of others influenced the children to develop and express specific attitudes . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attitudes has been investigated by many sociologists . Bolton , ' for example , studied the effect of knowledge upon the attitudes toward the Negro . The purpose of this study was to determine the effect of knowledge about the social and educational problems of Negroes upon the attitudes toward them . Two groups of students were given a questionnaire to determine their knowledge of the Negro . The experimental group studied Negro education in the South while the control group did not . At the end of the course of study they were retested . A comparison of the average scores made on two forms of the Hinckley Attitude Scale showed that study of the problems of Negro education had no effect upon the attitudes of the students . There was , however , some change in the attitudes which showed an increase of prejudice . Many questions are raised by such a study . The term " prejudice , " for instance , can not be defined footnote 11 Euri Belle Bolton , The effect of knowledge upon attitudes toward the Negro , Journal of social psychology , 1935 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in an arbitrary fashion . For example , the attitude on race intermixture did not change after the course of study . This attitude was not interpreted in terms of prejudice but it might very well be so interpreted by some people . The students were college women and therefore already had developed strong attitudes regarding Negro problems . It is also difficult to evaluate the amount of information which these individuals assimilated during the study . It appeared as if the information they received about Negro education and social conditions , instead of being assimilated and integrated in their evaluations , remained merely as abstract items . Also , the students were in a state college in Georgia , and it is obvious that their attitudes toward the Negro would be more deeply rooted than in students in the North or West . Another study of the relationship between knowledge and attitudes was made by Boldt and Stroud.12 The Harper test of Social Beliefs and Attitudes was given to 738 students at the Kansas State Teachers College at Emporia . The average scores were computed for each of five classes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between the responses of students in the social sciences , in the physical and biological sciences , and in the humanities . It was found that the students of the higher classes showed greater liberalism . Those majoring in the social sciences showed a greater degree of liberalism than students in the other fields . The authors also found a direct relationship between the degree of liberalism and the number of semester hours which were completed in the social sciences . This study apparently indicates that the degree of education deter- footnote 12 W. J. Boldt and J. B. Stroud , Changes in the attitudes of college students , Journal of educational psychology , 1gg4 , 25 , 611-big.  | mines given attitudes . The evidence that students in the social sciences show a greater degree of liberalism supposedly indicates that an individual who is exposed to given information tends to develop different attitudes from the person who lacks that information . The effect of information and ability upon political attitudes has been studied extensively . A study which Allport 13 reported in 1929 received a great deal of attention . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prior to the Presidential election of 1928 , an attempt was made to correlate the attitudes of the students with their scholastic ability and their information . In addition , information was obtained regarding the subject 's choice of candidate , his religious affiliation , his father 's political preference , and other items . It was found , for example , that information was associated with low prejudice . The amount of prejudice or favorable attitude toward Alfred Smith and his opponent depended directly upon the religious affiliation of the student as well as other factors . Allport believed that the nature of the attitude expressed depended to a great extent upon the personality of the individual . Even political attitudes , according to Allport , reflect the characteristic modes of an individual 's adjustment rather than discrete reactions . This might be interpreted as indicating that a given amount of information obtained from a course or from other sources is not as important in the formation of attitudes as those personality characteristics which reflect the individual 's general method of adjustment . As has already been mentioned , sociologists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ values . The development of given values therefore de- footnote 13 Gordon W. Allport , The composition of political attitudes , American journal of sociology , 1929 , 35 , 220-238.  | termines given attitudes . According to this interpretation of attitudes , individual problems and conflicts are relatively unimportant . It is known , however , that the values an individual develops are not always the result of the practices and beliefs of the group to which he belongs . Very frequently given values develop gradually or suddenly as a result of specific problems and conflicts . Hence , the development of a value depends upon the same conditions as the development of an attitude . From this standpoint it is extremely difficult to differentiate between a value and an attitude . THE INFLUENCE OF CONFLICTS Strong attitudes , sometimes identified as prejudices , are not likely to change easily as a result of social pressure or new problems . The stronger the basic conflict , the more intense the resulting attitude . When an individual finds himself in a critical situation and when he is forced to make a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be strongly toned emotionally . The emotional tension which accompanies the conflict determines to a large degree the strength of the attitude and therefore its persistence . Most attitudes arise without premeditation , and those which develop out of conflict are rarely determined consciously . The attitudes which arise in this way frequently represent a mechanism for the solution of the very conflicts which were their basis . These attitudes therefore serve in some respects as a method of releasing emotional tensions . It is extremely difficult to trace the origin of attitudes which result from conflicts . In most cases a person is unaware of his conflicts . Thus , he is forced to continue to maintain those attitudes indefinitely . When a corn-  | plete solution of a conflict is made , there is no reason for the maintenance of the attitudes . Hence they lose their intensity or disappear entirely . A common example of an attitude which results from a conflict is the rebelliousness which often develops during adolescence . A rebellious attitude serves as a compensatory reaction to a sense of insecurity . The hostility which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reaction . Aggressive reactions frequently arise from feelings of insecurity . For example , persistent criticism of friends or acquaintances may serve as a temporary solution for a conflict of inferiority . A critical attitude toward others is found by some people to be a satisfactory defense against being criticized . Some attitudes serve not only as a defense for one 's insecurity but also tend to maintain the individual 's prestige . A favorable attitude toward some people or some social groups tends to identify the individual with these people or groups . The prejudices toward other groups tend to strengthen his identification with his own group or the group to which he aspires . Persons belonging to other groups are considered undesirable and thus inferior . By means of his prejudicial attitudes a person justifies his identifications and beliefs . The ardent Republican or Democrat frequently considers the Socialist as somewhat abnormal . Thus , he attains an importance for himself which mere membership in a given political organization would not ordinarily attain . In the same way regional and national prejudices often arise from the attempts of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The attitude that the foreigner or alien is undesirable can arise only when a person feels insecure or is threatened with some form of insecurity . A member of a minority group frequently develops pre j  | udicial attitudes not only to the dominant group but also to the members of his own group . His prejudice against the dominant group is due mainly to his rejection , and the unfavorable attitudes he develops toward the members of his own group are frequently determined by his belief that they are responsible , because of their inferiorities , for his ostracism from the groups to which he aspires . In most cases group solidarity is maintained , and prejudices are developed toward other groups as a way of emphasizing given values which symbolize prestige or importance . An attitude which develops because of a traumatic experience in one situation becomes generalized and is carried over to other similar situations . Thus , an unpleasant experience with , say , one Negro may develop into an unfavorable attitude toward all Negroes if the person has not had many and varied experiences previously . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ member may result in an unfavorable attitude toward all members of fraternities . Psychiatrists have emphasized the importance of the attitudes toward parental authority as an important factor in the development of later attitudes toward other forms of authority . For example , the child who develops antagonistic and rebellious attitudes toward the authority of his parents is likely to have difficulty in adjusting himself to teachers and later to his employers . Such a person is likely to be excessively critical of the implications of authority , and his prejudicial attitudes are likely to cause him to become antagonistic to all forms of authority . Some political scientists believe that persons who join rebel political groups are likely to do so because they have been thwarted by their parents and their attitude toward authority is unfavorable . The result is identification with groups  | who are fighting the existing political situation and authority . In this sense some sociologists rightly conceive of attitudes not as an outgrowth of individual experiences but as the end result of a long process of personality formation . The dominant attitudes of adults are from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pattern of the personality . For example , the egocentric adult is more likely to have positive and inflexible attitudes than the person who is well-adjusted . The person who is aggressive because of a personality problem is likely to be more prejudiced than the individual who adjusts himself more easily . When attitudes change suddenly , it is probable that the new attitudes are the result of strong conflicts . The strength of the new conflict is frequently intensified as a result of the attempt of the individual to defend his method of solving his conflicts . Some psychologists believe , for example , that the religious convert represents an individual who has released his emotional tensions , resulting from his conflicts , by a sudden attitudinal change . Some evidence for the validity of this belief is the vehemence with which the new religious convert defends his behavior . Supposedly , the convert actually defends his attitudes because he is unconsciously aware that his conversion is not only the result of his conflicts but also that he has not solved them by his behavior . Further evidence of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the prejudices which such people develop . The greater the underlying conflict , the greater are the resulting prejudices . While he preaches tolerance , he may be intolerant of others . To a large degree his strong beliefs may be a defense of an underlying conflict because of a sense of guilt regarding his moral and religious drives .  | A similar explanation is made by some psychologists regarding the attitudes of the professional vice crusader . Such a person supposedly suffers from conflicts of morality and his strong attitudes regarding morality are the result of his attempts to solve his conflicts . His crusades against vice serve to absolve him of his own sense of guilt . The greater his basic conflicts , the more intense his attitudes and the more ardent he is in discovering vice in others . Such a person may gratify his own desires by vicarious satisfactions resulting from discovering undesirable and immoral activities of others . The desire for erotic experiences , regarding which he has a sense of guilt , can thus be satisfied vicariously . TYPES OF ATTITUDES Attitudes may be classified @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1 . Imitative attitudes . Attitudes do not arise by direct imitation but are transmitted from one individual to another or from a group to an individual because the individual identifies himself with the problems of the person or group . Thus a child may develop the same attitude as his parents principally because his identification is so close that he also absorbs their problems and thus is forced to develop similar attitudes . It has been shown that there is a high positive correlation between the attitudes of siblings reared in the same home , but a low correlation between those of siblings reared apart . The correlation between the attitudes of parents and children is also very high . The attitudes of children change only slightly from their parents ' attitudes even during adolescence , and it is only during adulthood that the parent-  | child resemblance disappears in some areas , especially in the religious field . In many cases the drive of a person to identify himself with a new group forces him to accept the attitudes of the members of this new group as a method @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ especially in individuals who attempt to pass from one cultural level to another or from a minority group to a dominant group . In many cases serious conflicts develop because an individual is unable to assume the attitudes of the new group . Although he may accept some of the practices of the group to which he aspires he can not accept their basic attitudes . 2 . Pressure attitudes . Attitudes may develop because of the pressure of the environment in which the person lives . Essentially , such attitudes do not differ greatly from those which develop from imitation . An example of pressure attitudes is those which a person who moves from the North to the South develops toward the Negro . Such a person finds that he can not adjust well to the new social groups unless he also assumes their attitudes . He may have a fairly favorable attitude toward the Negro but he soon realizes that such an attitude causes him to be socially ostracized . He gradually assumes the prevailing attitudes , and although he may have some conflict about his new attitudes he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the attitudes assumed because of social pressure may be more intense than those of a person who had always lived in that environment . It has been shown that the intensity of such attitudes may be developed as a basis for being quickly accepted by the dominant group and for receiving approval .  | 3 . Conflicts as the basis of attitudes have already been described . The attitudes which result from conflicts are likely to be intense and enduring . They are not easily changed unless the basic conflicts are solved . They also frequently involve the individual in further conflict in his attempt to maintain the basic attitudes . 4 . Traumatic experiences . A single intense experience may produce a strong and enduring attitude . The more intense and more traumatic the experience , the more intense the resulting attitude . It must be pointed out , however , that a traumatic experience occurs frequently only in those areas in which the individual already has had conflict . It may therefore be assumed that the basis of the attitudes already exists and the traumatic experiences merely bring them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " language " and " habit " attitudes . Language attitudes are similar to opinions , that is , they are predispositions to given forms of behavior which are not always manifested because of adverse circumstances or because of conflicting attitudes . Language attitudes frequently precede habit attitudes ; they are forerunners of actively manifested attitudes . Habit attitudes manifest themselves in varying degrees of overt behavior . They are , in a sense , the end result of language attitudes . Children 's attitudes toward the concepts of right and wrong are frequently employed as examples of the difference between language and habit attitudes . A child is usually taught the differences between right and wrong from earliest infancy . These differences , however , remain as vague generalizations , and the child is frequently unable to carry out his concepts into overt behavior . His supposed attitudes remain as vague and detached concepts until specific experiences  | force him to express them in overt behavior . Many attitudes remain dormant for years because no direct experiences require adjustmental behavior . A young child may be taught that war is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are given to the child in the process of molding his attitudes toward war and peace are conceptual rather than realistic . Consequently there is no specific basis for the development of an attitude . Habit attitudes develop through personal experience prefaced frequently by language training . Behavior can be predicted more accurately on the basis of such attitudes than on the basis of language attitudes or opinions . The greater the number of experiences in which specific attitudes have been expressed , the more accurately may a prediction be made of future behavior . This does not mean that habit attitudes do not change with further training and experience . An attitude may change radically as a result of an experience which is strongly toned emotionally . Attitudes have also been classified as detrimental and useful . In general , emotionally strongly toned attitudes may be detrimental because an individual tends to involve himself emotionally in situations which bring a given attitude to the foreground . A person who tends to develop strong attitudes is also likely to be inflexible . Attitudes which may be useful in one situation may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ example is the result of the frequent attempts of parents to train their children in the supposed masculine attitude of self-defense . This may be a useful attitude because a child is likely to be better adjusted under given circumstances and may refrain from withdrawing  | from difficult situations . Frequently , however , such training results in aggressive behavior in situations which necessitate cooperation or acquiescence . OPINIONS AND ATTITUDES It is frequently difficult to differentiate between an opinion and an attitude . In general , opinions develop as a result of immediate social pressure . In many instances a person may develop an opinion in order to adjust to his immediate problems or situations or in his attempt to please those to whom he attempts to adjust . Opinions also differ from attitudes on the basis of their emotional content . Attitudes are always emotionally toned whereas opinions frequently do not have an emotional core . Opinions generally arise from the influence of the immediate environment and are frequently determined by prevailing opinions . The most dominant opinions of the group are assumed by the individual as a method @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a political opinion , for example , because of prevailing opinions or pressures . Persons in given areas can be expected to vote as Republicans or Democrats from year to year . Given areas are predominantly Republican and others Democratic not because each resident has a specific attitude toward the issues which these political parties supposedly represent but because he has developed given opinions which may change when he moves to a different area . Specific political attitudes arise only when serious preferences arise or when a person believes that his security or social position is threatened by a given political party . Opinions are usually only indirectly related to an individual 's basic problems or conflicts and are therefore easily modified by changing  | environmental conditions and at times even by incidental influences . Some psychologists believe , however , that it is virtually impossible to identify a person 's attitudes if it is assumed that the only valid measure is overt action . As sociologists have pointed out , objective information regarding overt behavior in relation to one 's attitudes is extremely difficult to obtain . In addition , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ allow him to manifest overtly a given attitude without some sort of modification . Therefore , some psychologists believe that it is quite valid to identify an individual 's verbal responses as his attitudes . It is argued that if a person tends to conceal his true attitudes by verbalizing only opinions he may also conceal the same attitudes in his overt behavior . Thus , verbal reactions may be no more untruthful than overt behavior . Psychologists who consider paper and pencil tests of attitudes as valid state that even if they do not measure more than opinion these tests are at least informative . They believe that if an individual 's opinions are clearly identified the investigator at least has specific clues to his real attitudes.14 COLLECTIVE ATTITUDES The term " collective attitude " is usually employed to designate those attitudes which result from prevailing social pressure and which appear in a number of individuals simultaneously . According to some investigators a collective attitude is conditioned and organized by the attitudes of other individuals . It is in a sense the result of a process which makes attitudes socially @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ L. L. Thurstone , Attitudes can be measured , American journal of sociology , 1928 , 33 , 529-554.  | most instances , although in critical times or in critical situations they may develop very rapidly . Collective attitudes have been studied by sociologists and political scientists because of their importance in molding public behavior and because the cumulative effect of the emotions involved may change the course of the behavior of large groups . Changes in social structures and in group behavior necessitate collective attitudes . The factors of suggestion , imitation , and identification are extremely important in developing collective attitudes . Social scientists have shown that public opinion which results in public action of one sort or another is the result of the cumulative effect of collective attitudes which express themselves in critical times . Many investigators have shown that an individual who has a given attitude may change it and in a sense capitulate to the prevailing attitude in times of stress . As Meier 15 and others have shown , successful outcomes of elections are based not on appeals to reasoning and judgment but arousal of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ studies in propaganda methods have illustrated this problem vividly . Propaganda which is based upon precise information and appeals to reasoning is very much less successful than that based on creating conflicts , especially fears regarding security or prestige . In the latter type of propaganda critical issues are raised and anticipatory fears created . Suggestions regarding methods of meeting the crises create attitudes which the propagandists wish to arouse . Strong collective attitudes usually develop on the basis of the individual 's conflicts regarding his social prestige and his economic security . This is understandable in view of the fact that footnote 15 N. C. Meier , Motives in voting ; a study in public opinion , American journal of sociology , 1925 , 31 , 199-212.  | these are the most common problems of most people . Insecurity and conflict are therefore easily developed from these problems and the resulting attitudes reflect the attempts to solve the problems . PERSISTENCE OF ATTITUDES Attitudes generally change only under unusual circumstances . The stronger the emotional tone of the attitude the less likelihood is there that a change will occur . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in life only unusual conditions cause change . This is especially true when the attitudes resulted from conflict situations . If it may be assumed that attitudes are a part of the process of the solution of conflicts then it is easy to understand that an individual can not easily give up his attitudes . If he does , the conflicts may reappear , and the maintenance of the attitudes is therefore a defense reaction against the reappearance of the old conflicts . In many cases an awareness of the necessity to change an attitude may intensify the causative conflicts and thus further impede any change . Usually a person is unable to change his attitudes in part because he might lose prestige by changing them . When a change occurs , the person usually attempts to justify himself by the belief that his old attitudes were necessary under previous conditions and that whatever changes he made were due to changing external circumstances . Thus no loss of prestige occurs , and the person is thereafter able to defend his new attitudes with as much vigor and righteousness as he had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about the validity of his new attitudes he tends to intensify them in his unconscious attempts at justifying his new behavior.  | Attitudes are rarely transferred from one object , person , group or condition to others . If , for example , a person who has an unfavorable attitude toward Negroes and Chinese changes his attitude toward the latter his attitude toward the former does not necessarily change . If the attitude toward Negroes is based upon the same problems as the attitude toward Chinese , a change in attitude toward one group will result in a similar change toward the other . The older the person the less frequently does transference of attitudes occur , in spite of the existence of similar causes or identical associations . Most attitudes develop by a process of gradual integration from the influences of many experiences . Not only does the young child have relatively few attitudes , but the attitudes that he does have are also weak . Thus they can be changed much more easily than those of the adult . A young child is dependent upon adults for choices and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have significant and enduring meanings . During adolescence and early adulthood , however , the individual is forced to assume independence and responsibilities , and is thus also required to make choices and decisions without help . Problems which were unimportant in the past may now assume great significance . The less involved a person has been in given problems during childhood , the stronger are the attitudes related to those problems during adulthood . A person who has an intense emotional experience for the first time as an adult is likely to react to that experience with stronger attitudes than if it occurred during childhood . In other words , the less a person is prepared for an experience the more meaningful it becomes and the stronger the resulting attitudes . New attitudes which arise suddenly during adulthood are also extremely difficult to change or modify . Some attitudes ,  | however , are relatively easily modified , especially when the basic causative conditions no longer exist . As an example , many hostile attitudes among siblings disappear when they become adults . The basis for the previous rivalries no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ need for the maintenance of the hostile attitudes . An intense emotional experience of traumatic significance may give rise to new attitudes . As Allport has stated , a permanent attitude may be formed as the result of a compulsive organization following even a single intense emotional experience . Most psychologists believe that attitudes can not be changed or redirected by the usual means of presenting new information . An antagonistic attitude toward foreigners , for example , can not be changed easily by presenting new and favorable information about them . The basis of such an attitude is often related to the individual 's security and his attempt to maintain prestige by prejudice toward a member of a minority group . A knowledge of facts and reasoning can not alter the basic problem . Coercive attempts to redirect attitudes result in conflicts more intense than those responsible for the original attitudes . The stronger the attitude the more likely is the attempt to redirect it to result in further conflict , especially when the change is attempted quickly . As an example , a person who moves into a new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to those he had always maintained is likely to develop intense conflicts . He may be unable to discard his old attitudes and he may also be unable to assume the prevailing attitudes . Thus he remains in a state of " suspense " in which he is unable to make a specific decision in one direction or another . Many methods of changing attitudes have been inves-  | tigated . In general , it has been found that those methods which use a strong emotional context are much more effective than methods in which impersonal information is presented . The most effective method is one in which the subject takes part in an actual experience and in which there are strong emotional elements . Experiences which give the individual an opportunity to attain some desire which he could not obtain previously arc extremely effective . The most common method of attempts to change attitudes has been by giving subjects information regarding a new problem or new information regarding a common problem . Many experiments have been conducted with school children in classrooms . Some investigators found , for example , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of students . Other investigators found definite changes which lasted for some time but most often in areas in which the students had relatively little experience . For example , changes in political attitudes were effected much more quickly than changes in religious attitudes . College courses usually have been found to be of little significance in determining attitudes . Jones , 16 for example , found that a college course had only slight effect upon attitudes . As mentioned previously , investigators have found that when a change occurs in some attitude it is impossible to predict that a similar change will occur in other related attitudes . For example , if a liberal attitude develops toward religious problems , it is not a sign that a similarly liberal attitude will develop toward racial problems . It has also been shown that a single emotionalized experience is much more effective than a series of experi- footnote 16 E. S. Jones , The opinions of college students , Journal of applied psychology , 1926 , 10 , 427-436.  | ences with lesser emotional meaning or which leaves the individual in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regarding some political problem will cause less change in attitude than a single lecture or debate in which there is a strong emotional component . It has been found that information obtained by verbal instruction is much more effective than by reading . Cherrington and Miller , 17 however , in an experiment in which oral and reading material were given to different students found that both the lecture and the reading material were effective . This is somewhat contrary to the findings of other investigators who have shown that oral appeal is much more effective than reading material . The factors of prestige and identification are very important in changing attitudes . Persons are more likely to change their attitudes when they know that people whom they consider important believe in a given way . For this reason a teacher who has a great deal of prestige may be successful in changing the attitudes of his students with material which would otherwise be ineffective . In recent years the effect of motion pictures and radio has been investigated in an effort to determine their effect upon the attitudes of children @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ influence of motion pictures upon the attitudes of high school students . The students were first given an attitude test and then shown a motion picture in which , for example , Chinese life was favorably presented . On the next day the attitudes of the students were again tested , and retested months later . The investigators reported a dis- footnote 17 B. M. Cherrington and L. W. Miller , Changes in attitude as the result of a lecture and reading similar materials , Journal of social psychology , 1933 , 4 , 479-484. 1s Ruth C. Peterson and L. L. Thurston , Motion pictures and the social attitudes of children , 1933 , New York , The Macmillan Company , pp. 75.  | tinct trend toward a favorable attitude which persisted in a large percentage of the students for a year and a half . Other investigators also reported positive changes in attitudes from showing motion pictures to children which presented a problem either very favorably or very unfavorably . Similar results have been obtained with radio addresses . In spite of the findings by some investigators that a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the attitudes of children , other investigators have reported that even a long series of discussions may not affect the attitudes of students toward a given problem . The change in attitude toward the Chinese , which Peterson and Thurstone reported , is not conclusive proof of the effect of movies . The changes which they observed may be explained as shift of opinion rather than of attitude . It is relatively easy to change opinions or some attitudes toward a condition which does not have strong emotional implications . It is doubtful , for example , whether most high school students have strong attitudes toward the Chinese . ( Perhaps strong attitudes have developed since 1937 when the Sino-Japanese War began . ) Therefore a change in their expressed opinion can not be used as a basis for a generalization regarding the effect of movies . It has been shown that changes are very difficult to effect on issues which are strongly ingrained or which have important meanings for the individual . For example , it is difficult to change religious or racial attitudes . It is extremely difficult to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ footnote * The attitude of another group of students toward Germans also became more favorable as the result of seeing the motion picture " Four Sons . " Peterson and Thurstone also reported shifts in attitudes toward war and capital punishment , They concluded that motion pictures have a lasting effect on attitudes .  | shown , but it might be relatively easy to change the attitudes toward Indians with whom most people are not involved and who do not constitute a definite social and personal problem . In a similar way it has been shown that the attitudes of children toward their siblings or parents are difficult to modify , but the rebellious attitudes toward teachers are frequently modified relatively easily by a change of environment or by changing the behavior of the teachers . It is not as difficult to change the attitudes of persons living in the very northern part of the United States toward Negroes , but it is extremely difficult to change the attitudes of persons living in the South . THE MEASUREMENT OF ATTITUDES The beginner in the field of psychology usually assumes that attitudes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Psychologists who have had a great deal of experience in this field have found that the problem of measuring attitudes has never been satisfactorily solved . A common method has been to infer an individual 's attitudes from the answers to questions during an interview or from spontaneous conversation during the interview . Experience has shown , however , that the interview is not only unsatisfactory in many ways but also may create a situation so false that few of the real attitudes are obtained . A person may not know his attitudes toward a given problem and thus is unable to verbalize them . This is especially true of the person whose attitudes have resulted in conflicts . He is likely to repress many of his basic attitudes . In some situations he might verbalize opinions which he believes are expected of him or with which he might please someone . At best the interview is likely to bring out opin-  | ions rather than attitudes especially because most persons in an interview situation do not wish to expose their views . Ordinarily , it is easier to conduct @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to verbalize more easily . Adults , however , usually manifest distortions and inhibitions which a child is not as likely to employ . Sociologists have used the life history method in which the subject either verbalizes or writes his life story . The life history consists for the most part of a narrative of a person 's memories of his past experiences and attitudes . In spite of the many distortions that occur and the conscious modifications which the person makes , because he realizes the significance of some of the items he remembers , the life history may give valuable clues . The very distortions that the individual develops may give clues to the attitudes he is likely to have . In recent years the play technique has been used extensively in work with children . Many valuable clues can be obtained from the observation of children 's reactions toward each other and toward inanimate objects or toys in the play situations . For example , the kinds of games a child chooses , the phantasy he expresses , the imaginative reactions to play materials , and the use @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interpretation of attitudes . A study of a person 's interests may furnish information regarding his attitudes . The play activities of children and the reading interests of adolescents and adults are determined in part by their attitudes . An individual who is vigorously opposed to communism usually refuses to read material on that subject . The person who has favorable attitudes is likely to seek information on communism . The selection of friends , newspapers , maga-  | tines , and books is to a large extent determined by one 's attitudes . Association tests such as the Kent-Rosanoff 19 for adults and the Woodrow-Lowell ? ? modification for children have been frequently employed to discover conflicts and attitudes . The mental blockings which sometimes occur to given stimuli words and the kinds of response words which the subject gives are indicators of his conflicts and frequently therefore of his attitudes . Indirect association tests have also been employed for the measurement of attitudes . Tests such as the Pressey X-O may give valuable clues . The data from such tests , which have been discussed in greater detail in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be used as direct measures , however . Association tests may be employed with some benefit principally because the individual who is examined is usually not aware that his attitudes are being measured . Unfortunately , association tests do not define the nature of the attitudes . The multiple choice method has also been employed fairly successfully in the measurement of attitudes . The subject is usually presented with a specific problem which he is asked to solve in one of several ways . The problem which is presented is usually stated briefly and specifically , and involves , as in all attitude tests , only one central problem . The pattern of the subject 's responses to a series of similar situations represents his attitudes . In the usual test situation it is important that the subject be required to respond quickly and without too much deliberation . Otherwise , he is likely to choose answers footnote 19 G. H. Kent and A. J. Rosanoff , A study of association tests in insanity , American journal of insanity , 1910 , 67 , 37-96 , 317-390. 99 Herbert Woodrow and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ monographs , 1916 , 22 , Princeton , Psychological Review Co. , pp. 110.  | which he regards as socially desirable or as likely to please the examiner . The " projection " method is usually employed when the multiple choice method is used . The subject answers questions regarding other people or hypothetical situations rather than himself . Some investigators have used the true-false method in which the subject answers in terms of his beliefs . Others have used a variety of statements of fact followed by a number of conclusions . The subject checks those conclusions which he believes are established by the facts . His choices are evaluated for an interpretation of his attitudes . The most adequate methods are those which involve rating scales and tests . Three types of rating scales have been used , self-rating , rating by others , and ranking . Self-rating scales may be divided into the following types : i . The subject makes an absolute judgment of the presence or absence of a given trait in himself . This method of rating is likely to cause the subject confusion and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ usually do not think in " absolute " terms . Every individual has desirable and undesirable traits of some form or other . Children can not be classified either as kind or unkind , resourceful or unresourceful , honest or dishonest . Nor can a child be expected to think of himself as one type or another . Consequently children tend to overrate themselves considerably on self-rating scales in which they must give absolute judgments or which contain opposite terms 21 2 . The subject checks the point on a numerically arranged scale which he believes represents the degree to which a given trait is present in himself . This method of self-rating is supposed to be more reliable than the choice of one item of a pair of opposites . Some individuals , however , find great difficulty footnote 21 Margaret F. Washburn and Vlasta Stepanova , Absolute judgments of character traits in self and in others , American journal of psychology , 1923 , 34 , 96-99.  | in deciding upon the degree to which they possess a given trait . Some persons also attempt to strike a balance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . 3 . Man-to-man-comparison method . The subject compares himself with " scale men " on a number of traits . This is a doubtful method because of the difficulty of selecting the " scale men . " In most cases the " scale men " are hypothetical individuals whose traits are sketched and with whom the subject compares himself . Unless the examiner is careful to analyze the results of self-ratings critically he is likely to misinterpret the meaning of the individual 's responses . A number of experimenters have shown " that a child is likely to overestimate the possession of traits which are desirable and under-estimate undesirable traits . Some children , realizing that they have over-rated themselves on some items , are likely to under-rate themselves on others . Rating by others follows the same general methods as self-rating . Ratings necessarily can be made only by those who know the individual well or by those who have observed him for the specific purpose of rating him . Ratings by others are as difficult to evaluate as self-ratings . The person who rates his pupils , colleagues @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to his likes or dislikes . If the rater is inordinately critical he looks for faults in the subject . If he is unusually sympathetic he may over-rate the subject on desirable characteristics . Some psychologists believe that those who are called upon to rate others should have extensive training in the arts of observing and rating . The rater should realize that he is not passing judgment upon the subject but is merely placing him on a hypothetical scale . He should not be concerned with the final results of his ratings at the mo- footnote 22 Elizabeth B. Hurlock , A study of self-ratings by children , Journal of applied psychology , 1927 , 11 , 490-502.  | ment but should leave the interpretation either to another person or another time . The items to be rated should be selected with care . Traits like resourcefulness or courage are difficult indeed to rate or even to define . If it is necessary to obtain an opinion on such traits it is better to construct hypothetical situations in which these traits may manifest themselves and to rate the subject on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It is far better to limit the ratings to characteristics easily observed than to employ terms difficult of definition or observation . Also , the ratings of any one observer can not be taken as final but should be compared with the results of several other raters . Ranking on the basis of a given number of items may be made either by the subject or by observers . Selfranking involves the measurement of maturity of judgment and attitudes . The best way to judge a person on the basis of self-ranking is to hand him slips of paper or cards on which are written words or phrases denoting a variety of opinions . The subject then arranges them in the order of merit he believes they represent . By analyzing the arrangement made by the subject the examiner may be able to make a judgment of his attitudes . In ranking by others the observer ranks the subjects from highest to lowest according to the degree to which they possess given traits . This method has been found useful in classrooms or other situations where there is a fairly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appear in the ranking method . The items selected for rating and ranking scales should concern general rather than specific traits . Experience has shown that different observers agree better on general than on specific traits . The traits should not be selected on the basis of their being " good " or " bad " or  | desirable or undesirable but with a view to judging the subject 's ability to adjust successfully in the social situation in which he finds himself . A common form of test is one in which the subject crosses out words which he considers wrong or antisocial . The list generally contains a large number of words relating to social relationships , or a number of statements are presented which the subject marks by yes or no or true or false . Weinland " constructed a test of attitudes consisting of a number of proverbs which the subject marks either true or false . He selected proverbs because they are statements of attitudes or opinions which have remained in people 's memory . Also , the proverbs being generally known , the subject can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the list of proverbs employed in this test . STATEMENT OF OPINION Directions : If you feel that a statement is true mark it + : if you believe it is false mark it ? . Please mark every statement either +or ? . figure footnote 23 James D. Weinland , An objective method for the measurement of attitudes , Journal of applied psychology , 1g3o , 14 , 427-436.  | more solutions from which the subject selects the one he would use . Another form of test consists of statements of fact each followed by several conclusions . The subject chooses the conclusion which he believes is established by the facts given . The phrase mechanically-objective is employed to designate tests in which physiological and psychological methods are used . A study by Olson and Jones 24 illustrates this form of attitude test . A series of words and sentences bearing upon four controversial issues , religion , race , social relations , and economics and politics , was arranged for college students with a view to stimulating responses which would reveal emotionally toned attitudes toward these issues . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ employed by Luria in his investigation of criminals in Russia . The method consisted of recording on a kymograph the tremors and other movements of both hands preceding and accompanying the verbal responses to each of a series of words and sentences which were presented to the subjects . The subjects were directed to give a verbal response to each word and sentence as promptly as possible and simultaneously to press down firmly with their fingers upon two rubber discs . The fingers rested on these discs at all times and it was therefore possible to study the hand responses just preliminary to the main responses . These preliminary responses were supposedly significant . They appeared to record either amounts of tension prior to the main responses , or else the beginnings of responses which the subject endeavored to inhibit . A statistically reliable difference was obtained between the preliminary responses to the experimental ( or controversial ) and the footnote 24 Dorothy M. Olson and Vernon Jones , An objective measure of emotionally toned attitudes , The journal of genetic psychology , 1931 , 39 , 174-196.  | control words @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ test results and the judgments of fellow-students in ranking the subjects from highest to lowest as to the strength of their emotionally toned attitudes . It was the investigators ' belief that while this low correlation was due in part to the errors of measurement in the test , it was also due in part to the unreliability of ratings . The psychological literature contains a large number of publications dealing with specific attitude tests . There are tests of honesty , reliability , fair-mindedness , rural and city mind-set , ethical discrimination , and so on . In employing these tests one must be careful not to consider them diagnostic . One never can be sure that the child or adult tested is honest in his replies and is free from emotional tension which generally tends to inhibit normal responses . The methods developed by Thurstone and his collaborators have been used extensively in the construction and measurement of many kinds of attitude scales . The principal method of construction consisted essentially in the selection of a number of statements which ranged from the least to the most favorable regarding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such as war , peace , the church , and so on . The selection of the statements is determined according to the following criteria which Thurstone and Chave proposed.25 i . The opinions should reflect the present attitude rather than the past attitudes . Thus conflicting opinions might be avoided . 2 . Each opinion must express only one thought or idea so that there might be no confusion regarding the interpretation of the statement . footnote 25 L. L. Thurstone and E. J. Chave , The measurement of attitude , 1929 , Chicago , University of Chicago Press , 56.58.  | 3 . The statements should be applicable to a wide range of persons and should never be specifically only for the individual . 4 . The statements should be selected in such a way that it would be impossible for subjects at both ends of the scale to endorse . 5 . The statements should be free from related and confusing concepts . 6 . Slang and other statements which are not common in the language of most people should be avoided . The scale values of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sorting method . A large number of subjects sort the statements in a number of groups which appear to them to be equally spaced on a continuum between the least and most favorable . A series of statements is then obtained which represents a continuum representing opinions separated by equally spaced intervals . It is then relatively easy to decide on the attitudes of any person on the basis of his responses to the items with which he agrees or disagrees . The Hinckley Scale for the testing of attitudes toward the Negro illustrates this method of measuring attitudes. = ? It contains sixteen items . The subject places a check mark when he agrees with the statement or places a cross in front of the statement if he disagrees with it . The range of statements is illustrated in the following items : " I place the Negro on the same social basis as I would a mule " ; " The inability of the Negro to develop outstanding leaders dooms them to a low place in society " ; " No Negro has the slightest right to resent or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " ; " The Negro should have the advantage of all the social benefits of the white man but be limited to his own race in practice thereof " ; " The Negro should not be simply the doormat footnote 26 E. D. Hinckley , A scale for measuring attitude toward the Negro , i93o , published by The University of Chicago Press , Chicago .  | of American civilization " ; " Inherently the Negro and the White are equal . " The test for the measurement of attitude toward the Church prepared by Thurstone and Chave is another illustration of the scale method of measuring attitudes . The scale contains forty-five statements . The most favorable of the statements is , " I feel the Church is the greatest agency for the benefit of the world , " and the least favorable is , " I regard the Church as a monument to human ignorance .  | A conflict is usually defined as a pattern of emotional activity involving unpleasant emotional tension . The basis of a conflict is a discrepancy between the individual 's desires or drives and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of contradictory or incompatible desires or drives . The awareness by the individual of the consequences of these frustrations and restrictions and his inability to decide upon a given action as well as his awareness of the attitudes of others toward him determine to a large extent the development of conflicts . Conflicts arise mainly when unsatisfied needs or desires are considered by the person to be unattainable . Every person is thwarted to some extent and realizes that given desires can not be attained . As implied previously , conflicts arise only , however , when these frustrations are evaluated by the person either consciously or unconsciously as of great importance and as threatening his security and integrity . The majority of conflicts are developed unconsciously , that is , the person is not aware of the incompatibility of his desires . It is possible , however , to be aware of some conflicts although it is generally believed that the very awareness of a conflict reduces its intensity . Conflicts may arise very early in life , that is , as soon as the child recognizes the restrictions to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meets , he also begins to compare himself with others . Many of his comparisons may be favorable whereas others may be unfavorable . If he consciously or unconsciously evaluates his unfavorable comparisons in terms of personal failures , conflicts  | inevitably result . In many cases a child may accept his limitations and may realistically adjust to the obstacles which he meets . If he believes , however , that his failure to obtain his desires is due to a personal defect , conflicts develop . Many conflicts are solved , however , as soon as the child learns through training and experience that many of his desires can not be obtained because of circumstantial or social reasons . As some investigators have shown , the process of adjustment in early childhood involves the reestablishment of the primary desires on different levels . Experiments have been conducted on the conduct of children when they attempt to attain a given level of aspiration . It has been shown that when a child meets a difficult obstacle and realizes his inability to satisfy a given goal he usually reestablishes his drive toward @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ important factors in determining the number and kinds of conflicts . The social relationships of the young child are limited , and he is usually protected from realistic problems . Thus , the area of conflict is circumscribed . Conflicts involving economic , sex , and occupational problems which are very common among adults are relatively rare among young children . ( There is some controversy , especially in the psychoanalytic literature , regarding the origin and frequency of sex conflicts in young children . ) The young child 's experiences are relatively few , his frustrations only occasional , and his intelligence is not sufficiently mature to comprehend the common problems of competition , failure , and social frustration and disorder . He is able to attain most of his desires , and because of protection by his parents there is little threat to his security and integrity . Even the young child may face serious conflict-producing situations , however . Many of the early  | conflicts arise because of tension with his parents or because of rivalry with and jealousy of siblings . Even young children may develop strong @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or because they believe that their brothers and sisters have been favored by their parents . The example of the adopted child has often been given to illustrate the arousal of mental conflicts as a result of insecurity in regard to parents . It is customary and perhaps natural that the child depends upon his parents for security and escape from the various problems he faces with other children . Because of common social attitudes regarding foster children , the adopted child frequently interprets his adoption as a threat to his security and integrity . When his foster parents discipline him , he may feel still more insecure . Evidence from the records of social agencies has shown that adopted children are frequently rebellious and aggressive . Their aggressions are supposedly in part a retaliation against their foster parents and in part a compulsive-like attempt to overcome their feelings of insecurity . They complain about their supposed ill-treatment and express a desire to find and live with their own parents . Their persecutory attitudes toward their foster parents become generalized and transferred to many other situations . They may be antagonistic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who attempts a close relationship . The number of problems with which the child is confronted increases rapidly as he becomes of school age . As soon as he enters school he comes into active and direct competition with his playmates , and this increases as he progresses in his grades . With widening experience and increased information the child 's desires be-III  | come greater and correspondingly his frustrations become more frequent . Adolescence has been considered to be a significant age period during which new problems and conflicts arise . The adolescent 's physical and social maturation introduces problems with which he was unacquainted previously and which he can not easily solve . The new drives which develop at this time result in further frustration . It is at this time also that the child begins to detach himself from his parents . He therefore can not readily appeal to his parents for help in solving his problems . Many psychiatrists believe that the conflicts which determine later neuroses usually arise during adolescence . The taboos of society become especially important at this time and feelings of guilt are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to stress the preschool and adolescent periods . Others have pointed out , however , that youth and early adulthood are perhaps the most difficult periods because a large number of new and pertinent problems arise at those times . The problems of obtaining work , occupational and professional attainment , and the establishment of a home arise during the period of early adulthood . The relative protection which school and home afforded no longer exists , and most individuals have not had sufficient training to adjust realistically to the various failures which they inevitably meet . Adult competition is much more intense than adolescent or childhood competition . Sympathetic aid is not as easily obtained , and success is measured in different terms than during the school years .  | SOCIAL BACKGROUNDS The complexity of an individual 's environment and his past training are probably the most important factors which determine the number and types of conflicts . When a child is required to readjust rapidly from a relatively simple environment to a complex situation , the new problems which he must face may result in conflicts . In a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not have to be made , there are relatively few conflicts . In a complex environment in which desires can not be attained easily and in which the individual must make independent choices , conflicts are much more likely to develop . Studies of children and adults in backward rural environments and in mountain communities have shown that there is a direct relationship between the number of social problems which exist and the frequency of conflicts . It has been shown that the more isolated and backward the environment the fewer the personal and social competitions . The demands of a relatively simple environment change but slightly from day to day and necessitate few inhibitions or drives . There is relatively little attempt to control the environment , and therefore few frustrations , and the individual is likely to accept his situation without complaint or dissatisfaction . The person living in a highly complex environment is forced to concern himself with a wide variety of problems . Consequently , frustrations are likely to be frequent . It has been shown that neurotic symptoms are very much more frequent in persons living @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a relatively simple and unchanging environment . It is relatively rare , for example , to find a neurotic mountaineer . He is usually unconcerned about his security  | because he accepts his environmental conditions without protest ; he is unconcerned about prestige ; he has few social competitions or ambitions ; and he has not had enough information or education to be concerned about personal progress . The mountaineer is unlikely to have a strong drive for success , and he considers success or failure in fatalistic terms . He is likely to believe that he is born with a given destiny and whether he is ill or well , whether he has sufficient or insufficient food , whether he is lucky or unlucky are all determined by some " supernatural " power . It is an error to believe , however , that individuals in isolated environments do not have mental conflicts . On the contrary , there are always some individuals who differ significantly from the average and who are concerned about themselves sufficiently to develop feelings of failure . Some psychologists have also erroneously inferred that so-called @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ neuroses . Some anthropologists have shown , on the contrary , that most " primitive " cultures existing at the present time are sufficiently complex to produce individual personal disorders . INTELLIGENCE AND CONFLICTS Intelligence indirectly influences the frequency and complexity of conflicts . The more intelligent person is usually more sensitive to his surroundings and is more alert to the discrepancies between his attainments and his desires . He is likely to make observations quickly , and his curiosity and ambition create desires which may not be present in the less intelligent person . The highly intelligent person is likely to be disappointed with his situation , and his goals are likely to be less attainable than those of the less intelligent person . The intelligent per-  | son , however , is more able to deal with his conflicts , in part because he is more able to understand the meaning of his problems and in part because he has a larger repertoire of substitute and compensatory behavior than the less intelligent person . Persons of high intelligence may also be able to control more adequately their overt symptoms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ types of neurotic conditions , such as hysteria , are more likely to occur in persons of mediocre intelligence than in persons of high intelligence . The intelligent person is more able to understand his limitations and thus compromise his desires . THE EFFECT OF CONFLICTS Psychiatric reports usually imply that all conflicts are detrimental . It is known , however , that a person may have many conflicts without detrimental results . Indeed , some conflicts may be useful in motivating a person to greater activity . Conflicts may be detrimental or useful depending upon their number and intensity and the issues they involve . They are likely to be detrimental when they either become so intense that the emotional balance of the individual is upset or when they involve an undesirable change of behavior . A person 's preoccupation with his conflicts is likely to result in many emotional tensions which interfere with his adjustment to the requirements of his environment . In many instances conflicts involve trivial or unimportant issues . A person may have conflicts , for example , regarding the impression he makes upon others , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attracting attention . The way in which a person solves his conflicts is probably the most important criterion of their benefit or detriment .  | A person may solve his conflicts by increased energy toward the attainment of a socially valuable goal . On the other hand , he may attempt to solve his conflict by escape , especially into neurotic symptoms of illness . As we have seen previously , a feeling of inferiority may result in aggressive and destructive behavior . On the other hand , some individuals may compensate for such a conflict by developing an interest in some skill or ability and thus attain more than they would have attained without such conflicts . It is generally believed that conflicts are useful when they stimulate a person to effort and attainment and furnish motives for increased energy . Those conflicts which involve significant social problems or important personal issues are likely to be more useful to the individual than problems which are relatively unimportant . If the conflicts are not too intense , they serve to energize the person . It is commonly believed that creative work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ person who does not have some systematized conflicts is not sufficiently energized to attempt to attain accomplishments beyond those specifically required by his environment . CULTURE CONFLICT Only recently have psychiatrists become fully aware of the influence of social backgrounds and of cultural disorganization and pressures upon the development of conflicts , and hence upon the determination of maladjustments . A person who is forced to reorient himself to social conditions which differ from those to which he has been accustomed is likely to be involved in difficulties of readjustment which may lead to the development of mental conflicts . Although psychiatrists and sociolo-  | gists have recognized their common interests , there is still a great deal of controversy between them as to the relative influence of social conditions and social disorder upon individual behavior . This is illustrated in the theories regarding the origin of delinquent behavior . Most sociologists recognize the psychiatric implications which determine social maladjustment , but they nevertheless emphasize the effects of social backgrounds and pressures to a much greater extent than personal problems and conflicts . Psychiatrists , on the other hand , recognizing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the fact that individuals react differently to similar social situations . One child may become a delinquent whereas another child remains normal , although both may live in exactly the same kind of environment . The psychiatric implications of a culture have never been defined satisfactorily . Usually a culture has been defined in terms of the prevailing prejudices , beliefs , behavior patterns , social symbolisms , and collective habits as well as the folkways , mores , and sentiments . Circumscribed cultures may exist within a larger culture . Thus a family , a professional group , a religious organization , or even a gang may be considered as cultures which distinguish them from all other groups . But a culture is defined not in terms of the individual or group but in terms of the characteristics of their relationships . The early sociological studies which first systematically pointed out the psychological and psychiatric implications of cultural conflicts were made on immigrants . It was shown that the immigrant living within a restricted geographical area and adhering to the same cultural pattern to which he had been accustomed does @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his  | group . He then comes in conflict with new customs for which he is not prepared . The immigrant who may succeed in adjusting himself to a new cultural group frequently continues with some practices which he can not discard . A common example is the Italian housewife who refuses to buy milk but considers it necessary to buy expensive imported Italian cheese . The immigrant who lives in a restricted area is not exposed to the problems which create conflict . He is usually accepted fully as an equal member of his group and he does not meet the prejudices which he immediately encounters when he attempts to pass from his group to a new one . He is at liberty to continue his old food preferences , his religious activities , and as many other habitual ways of living as circumstances permit . The person who attempts to readjust to a new cultural group , and especially if he is rebuffed , is likely to develop many conflicts . He may not be accepted in a new group because of his religious backgrounds or because of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ differences that come to the foreground when a person is unwilling to give up his old cultural patterns . He may , for example , accept most of the practices of the new culture but may be unwilling or unable to accept some of them . This is illustrated by the experiences of the children of immigrants . If they are dominated by their parents they frequently retain some elements of their parents ' pattern of behavior which distinguish them from American children . Frequently , also , conflicts develop regarding the authority of parents . Native-born children of immigrants are frequently in much greater conflict with their parents than children of native-born parents . They are usually much more anxious to pass into the American culture and to discard the immigrant  | ways . The attempts of the parents to keep them from changing their own patterns may create tensions and antagonisms . A common example of the basis of these antagonisms and tensions is the attempt of many immigrant parents to dissuade their children from the usual recreational activities of the American groups . It is not uncommon for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or to attend movies frequently because they , themselves , have not been accustomed to such activities and believe that their children are wasting time . Immigrant parents also frequently create quarrels because their children attempt to detach themselves from the prevailing religious attitudes and habits . As a result of the inability of these children to free themselves from the influence of their parents and families , they are frequently likely to develop a sense of inferiority . They may be ashamed of their parents but at the same time are unwilling to renounce them entirely . On the one hand they do not want their American friends to know their parents and on the other hand they may have a sense of guilt regarding their attitudes . These attitudes may persist into adulthood . The adult who as a child lived in a foreign settlement of a city frequently attempts to hide the story of his childhood from his friends . The following brief summary of the behavior of a twenty-fiveyear-old man illustrates the attempt of an individual to hide his previous identification with his old cultural group . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when he was three years old . They had sent him to a private school when he was ten years old where he first became aware of the attitudes of the other boys toward foreigners and especially , he believed , toward Roumanians . He was unable to bring the other boys to his home and he dissuaded his parents from  | attending any of the parents ' meetings in the school because he feared that the attitudes of his playmates toward him would become more hostile if they discovered that his parents could not speak English well . When he attended college he believed that his conflict regarding the fact that he was an immigrant had disappeared . He discovered , however , that he still had tensions and conflicts regarding this problem when he joined a fraternity . He was evasive about his parents and about his father 's occupation . He stated that he was unable to make intimate friends because they sooner or later would ask him about his childhood and especially about his family . At times he seemed to compensate for his sense of inferiority @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He told his friends that his father was a famous metallurgist , although he actually owned a small junk yard . He refused to associate with common American groups and evaded friendship with any person who came from an immigrant family . He was financially successful and developed a habit of collecting old American relics . He confided to the psychiatrist on one occasion that at times he felt that this was one way to avoid being questioned about his origin . Culture conflicts arise in many persons other than those who are immigrants or who come from immigrant families . The attempt to pass from one economic level to another may involve a person in conflicts . The individual who grew up in a poor economic background is likely to develop conflicts when he attempts to identify himself with persons on a higher economic level . The behavior of the " nouveau riche " is an example of the attempt of a person to solve his conflicts by compensation . The adolescent or adult who leaves home for the first time is likely to come in contact with social and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He is forced to reorient himself to new social attitudes , to different religious opinions and practices , and to new modes of living . An individual who has lived in a family with conservative religious and social practices often undergoes great hardships in his attempts to reorient himself to a wider and more liberal social situation . His identity and security with which his old group provided him no longer exist , and he must redefine his methods of satisfying his needs , his ambitions , his likes and dislikes , and his social attitudes . ' As Park and Burgess 2 have shown , status and prestige are frequently determined by the individual 's interpretation of the role he plays in his relationships with the members of his group . A person who attempts to readjust himself to a new group quickly discovers that he has no definite role . The status which he previously had no longer exists and he finds himself with a sense of not " belonging . " He further finds that it is impossible to accept complacently the values and attitudes which he previously @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ university , has always lived in a churchgoing , pious family , may develop many conflicts because he is unable to discard his old attitudes and values . His desire to be accepted into the new groups creates many problems . Sometimes he may isolate himself and continue with his old values and attitudes . At other times his attempt to be accepted by the new group creates a drive to accept all the new values and attitudes . In such instances the person exaggerates the importance of the new values . The youth who has lived in a family which footnote 1 R. E. Park , Education and its relation to the conflict and fusion of cultures , Publications of the American sociological society , 1918 , 13 , 38-63. 2R . E. Park and E. W. Burgess , Introduction to the science of sociology , 1924 , Chicago , University of Chicago Press , p. 55.  | considers drinking as a sin may become the drunkard in the new group . The college youth from a conservative family becomes the liberal or the radical . In part the change @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against his family and in part it may be a way , unconsciously developed , of being readily accepted by the new group . Sociologists have shown that the process of passing from a primary to a secondary group may result in many conflicts . Adjustment to a primary group is a relatively simple matter . There are few new choices to make and little necessity for developing new attitudes . The secondary group , being a more formal and complex organization , creates the necessity for the development of a variety of attitudes and values . The problem of readjustment from a primary to a secondary group is first systematically faced by the adolescent . His attempt to free himself from the domination of his family and to adjust himself to a wider social area results in many conscious and unconscious conflicts . If he is unable to free himself emotionally from his parents and family , he is likely to find himself in an " inter-group " situation . This is true also of adults who find themselves in a situation in which they belong to neither one nor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , religious , scientific , family , or school groups creates a great deal of insecurity . In some cases the attempt to be accepted and to adjust to the group to which the person aspires is likely to be met with prejudice and ostracism . At the same time he is unable to reestablish his relationships with his old group . While he has lost status in the old group he has not yet attained status in the new t group . Thus he finds that he does not belong to or is not identified with any group . The youth from the immi-  | grant family who wishes to be identified with children of American families may discover that he can not accent identification with his parents but at the same time is not accepted by the American group . The adolescent boy of poor parents rejects his family but does not have the status or the financial means to become identified with adolescents whose parents belong to a higher economic level . The person who has some mark of identification with a group from which he wishes to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Sociologists have shown that the mulatto is likely to have more difficulties than the Negro who is easily identified . On the one hand the Negro group is likely to be defensive against him because of his light color . On the other hand , even if he can not be easily distinguished as a Negro on casual acquaintance he is likely to be under continual tension if he attempts to pass as a white person and associate only with white groups . Similarly , the Italian or Jew or other national who has physical characteristics which are commonly considered as identificatory is likely to be under great tension if he wishes to renounce his old group as a way of defending himself against his feelings of inferiority . He may attempt to eradicate all signs of his origin or old culture in the attempt to avert prejudice . The following brief account of the behavior of a man who attempted to evade identification with his religious family illustrates the conflicts which may arise from the attempt to identify one'sself with a new culture . As a boy he had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and values of his parents and lived in an environment which was circumscribed by religious practices . From the age of twelve to fifteen he lived in Africa where his father was a missionary , and when he  | returned to this country he attended a school which was attended mostly by children of missionaries . When he entered college , conflicts developed , however , because of the attitudes of the other students . At first they were unusually interested in his stories of his life in Africa but he soon suspected that their questions were not entirely friendly . He did not know how to dance and knew only one card game . At first he attended church regularly but soon stopped attending because of the attitudes of his fellow-students . He moved away from the campus after six months in order to avoid those students who had been especially interested in his religious background . He began to play cards and took lessons in dancing . He stated , however , that he never felt at ease because he had always been taught that dancing and card playing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ careful to avoid meeting any of the other students . During his summer vacations he lived at home but discovered that he could no longer adjust himself well . He quarrelled with his parents regarding the values they had and their extreme religious practices . When he returned after the first summer vacation he wrote a letter to his parents in which he told them that he no longer could accept their religious ideas and henceforth was breaking away from the church entirely . During the next year he became known as a " man about town " because he drank , went to dances frequently , and played cards for high stakes . He reported to the psychiatrist , however , that he felt that he had a compulsion to do all these things , and that he never felt at ease . He married when he was twenty-seven , but until he was thirty he had never told his wife the truth about his parents . They lived about a thousand miles distant , and he constantly evaded a visit to them . He had never discarded the notion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he came from a family of missionaries , perhaps as the result of some chance statement or act . Culture conflicts may arise quickly as the result of traumatic experiences . A common example is seen in the person who comes from a minority racial or religious group and who is accepted in a dominant group under given conditions but experiences rejection under other conditions . The experiences of the high school and college youth involved in such traumatic situations illustrates this . They may be accepted by fellow-students under ordinary school conditions . They may study together , take part in common recreational activities and maintain a friendly social relationship on school grounds . but are never invited to their homes because of the racial or religious differences . In such cases a person may suddenly become aware of prejudices and attitudes which he had not considered important . Sociologists who have studied the problems of Negro children have shown that traumatic experiences often occur during the school years . Six- , seven- , or even eight-year-old Negro children frequently play on the basis of equality with white children . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ frequently becomes aware that he is accepted only under certain conditions and not under others . The person who belongs to a minority religious group frequently has similar experiences . SEX CONFLICTS The importance of problems relating to sex which develop into conflicts has been emphasized by psychologists for a long time . The psychoanalytic movement , however , further emphasized the importance aand frequency  | of sex conflicts , especially from the standpoint of their influence upon the development of the neuroses . The psychoanalysts first systematically drew attention to the study of the role of sex problems in childhood experiences . In the past , adolescence was considered to be the period during which most sex conflicts arise . It was assumed that these conflicts developed principally because of physical maturation . It has been shown , however , that sex conflicts may arise at any period , perhaps even in early childhood . Those who believe that sex conflicts frequently arise in early childhood point to the many erotic experiences which the infant and young child have . For example , the process of nursing supposedly produces the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ oral sensory experiences frequently result in a variety of substitutes when direct stimulation by nursing is no longer possible . Thumb-sucking , fingernail-biting , and other repetitive sensory activities in which oral stimulation is involved are considered by some psychologists to be continuations of the original nursing experiences . At times unusual satisfaction is obtained by the child or adult from the process of eating , and this is supposed to be a less direct substitute for the early oral erotic satisfactions . It has been shown that many children symbolically associate food and sex and frequently conflicts develop in which they are associated . Psychoanalysts believe that the child passes through various stages of sex satisfaction , and that the adolescent and adult are normal only if this process develops in a normal manner . Thus there supposedly are pregenital , oral , and genital phases . The type and frequency of conflicts depends , according to the psychoanalysts , to a large extent upon the orderly process of passing through these  | stages and the kinds of substitutes , inhibitions , and repressions which the individual develops . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when children begin to be curious about their bodily functions . To a large extent this curiosity arises because of the methods which parents use to train children . The efforts of parents to train children to control their toilet habits and their language and attitudes frequently creates misunderstanding and emotional reactions . The process of socialization within the home and in wider areas is probably the basis for the development of abnormal sex curiosity and interests . Children learn very quickly the nature of the taboos which society imposes . They may develop behavior which is sometimes regarded as having a conflict basis as the result of the restrictions which are imposed upon them . Children are generally taught to disguise their language and to inhibit their interests in bodily functions . The effect may be to lead them to believe that bodily functions have some mysterious origin and purpose . In consequence they may take unusual interest in toilet habits and in bodily structure . There have been many studies of the reactions of nursery school children regarding toilet habits and sex curiosity . In one study by Dillon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of children learned to use special names for toilet habits . Because they were inhibited from using ordinary names they employed these terms when they wished to direct derision toward other children . One child called another a B. M. , for example , and the derisive term " number one " was commonly employed by children when they were angry . Sex traumas may occur during early childhood be- footnote 3 Miriam S. Dillon , Attitudes of children toward their own bodies and those of other children , Child development , 1934 , 5 , 165-176.  | cause of the many transgressions of taboos which are likely to take place at that time . The resulting sense of guilt is considered by some psychiatrists as a major cause of later more complex sex conflicts . During early childhood the masculine protest is considered by some psychiatrists as a natural reaction of girls and frequently even of boys . It is believed that girls want to be like boys because they consider that they meet discrimination because of their structural inferiority . The various differences which the parents insist upon in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ due to their bodily inferiority . The reaction of girls to their inferiority is also seen during adolescence when they often attempt to simulate the behavior of boys . The use of profanity , the use of words having sex connotations , and the smoking and drinking of adolescent girls are considered by some psychologists to be in part the result of rebellion against their status and in part an attempted identification with boys . This type of behavior by boys is a way of attempting to be grown-up and sophisticated . The bases of many parent identifications by children are the suppressed or sublimated sex interests . The unusual attachment of a boy to his mother is at times a symbolic displacement of the father . The boy unconsciously assumes the father 's role . Such an attachment also results in rivalry with his father and this generally results in some hostility . Some psychoanalysts believe that every child passes through a stage of undue affectional attachment to the parent of the opposite sex accompanied by hostility to and rivalry with the other parent . If this undue attachment is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ result . The conflicts are further intensified when the individual matures and must relate himself to persons outside of the home . There is p 300 no experimental or other material to substantiate the belief that this mechanism is universal . Statements in regard to stages of psychosexual development , infantile fixations , the Oedipus complex , and other supposedly universal phenomena must , in the light of present evidence , be considered as hypotheses . These hypotheses may be useful at times for a descriptive analysis , but they can not be used for scientific interpretation . Many investigators have shown that interpretations of the behavior of children are usually made on the basis of a preconceived theory . Meltzer ' for example , examined the responses of seventy girls and eighty boys from the fifth to the eighth grades . They were asked to state quickly their first ten thoughts regarding their fathers and mothers after they were given preparation so that their responses were spontaneous . It was found that the responses corresponded to the specific problems of the individual child . The results showed that parent identification with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ studies do not mean that undue parent attachments are infrequent . They may involve subtle and repressed sex manifestations and may later result in many types of maladjustment . The inability of a person to detach himself from an undue affectional relationship may be the basis of a later neurotic condition . Parental fixations may result in abnormal sex adjustments and also in a dependent personality . The individual who has been accustomed for a long time to depend upon his parents may be unable to relate himself in a direct and responsible manner to other people . footnote 4 H. Meltzer , Children 's attitudes to parents , The American journal of orthopsychiatry , 1935 , 5 , 244-265.  | The effect of physiological maturation during adolescence has been minimized by some psychiatrists and emphasized by others . Sex maturation does not account completely for the variety of conflicts observed during adolescence . It has been shown that sex conflicts may arise mainly because of the attitudes of adults . It has also been shown that in some cultures there are few adolescent sex conflicts whereas in the ordinary society @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ areas adolescence is only one phase of an orderly maturational process . The behavior of the adolescent is to a large extent a reflection of his social difficulties and the attitudes of adults . In areas where little emphasis is placed upon the implications of transgressions of sex regulations and upon principles of morality few conflicts arise during adolescence . In societies where adults maintain a watchful attitude toward adolescents and there are many social restrictions and taboos , many conflicts arise . The frustrations which occur during adolescence either through actual experiences or interest in experiences are frequently the bases of the conflicts . There have been relatively few systematic studies of the reactions of adolescents and adults to sex frustration . It is usually assumed that most persons sublimate their sex interests and desires and thus avoid conflict . The study of Taylor showed , however , that relatively few individuals satisfactorily sublimate their sex interests and desires . Taylor obtained extensive info mation of the behavior of forty adults between the ages of twenty-one and thirty . He found that no individual was able to sublimate his sex @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 5 W. S. Taylor , A critique of sublimation in males , Genetic psychology monographs , 1933 , 13 , 1-115.  | he was sublimating he was generally discontented with his behavior . The number of substitutions available to the adolescent and youth is much smaller than those available to adults . The wider range of the adult 's interests and his greater responsibility allow him to obtain substitutes and satisfactions not available to the adolescent . It is also probable that the decrease of the sex drive during adulthood allows the individual to obtain substitutes and satisfactions not available to the adolescent . It is also probable that the decrease of the sex drive allows the individual to obtain satisfactions in substitute activities which were previously inadequate . Homosexual behavior is frequently the result of the fixation of a given stage of sex development because of an unusual affectional attachment to the parent of the opposite sex . According to some psychiatrists the normal stages of sex development are the pregenital , the asexual , the homosexual , and the heterosexual . Given conditions may result in fixation at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ during early childhood , and latent , or incomplete , homosexuality develops during puberty . Most of the evidence shows , however , that homosexuality is the result of sex conflicts due to an abnormal affectional attachment to a parent . The degree of active homosexual behavior does not depend upon the time that the sex abnormality is acquired . It was believed at one time that homosexuals are physically different from others , that is , that homosexual men have specific feminine characteristics . It is true that many homosexuals are frequently " feminine " in physical appearance . The majority , however , are normally developed . Frequently a male homosexual appears feminine because of his gestures and manners  | rather than because of his skeletal development . ' The theory has been advanced that homosexual behavior is often due to accidental homosexual contacts and the habituation of that form of behavior . Although many homosexuals do have their first experience in what sometimes appears to be an accidental contact , the fact that they continue with such activities is evidence of their desires . The identification of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . If he attaches himself to a girl it may be a symbolic indication that he is not faithful to his mother to whom he has an abnormal identification . The homosexual person usually has a great deal of difficulty when he first realizes his attitudes and desires . He frequently develops a sense of guilt as well as anxiety because he realizes the difference between himself and others . A large number of homosexual persons adjust well , however , in part because they accept their behavior and frequently also honestly believe that their behavior is superior to that of others who are considered normal . In part an adjustment is also attained because homosexuals frequently isolate themselves socially . They can thus continue with their behavior without the many pressures to which they were previously subjected . The homosexual person is frequently able to make a superficial adjustment to persons of the opposite sex . They frequently marry and have children , but their basic affectional relationships continue on the homosexual basis . It is well known that many persons who have homosexual desires never express them in overt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ behavior represents an unusual type of neurosis . The homosexuality is the individual 's response to his neurosis , that is , his mode of adjustment . The clinical evidence shows , however , that the majority of homosexuals are not typically neurotic . See Sigmund Freud , Group psychology and the analysis of the ego , The International Psychoanalytic Press , London , 1922 , 6o-61.  | consequence of this repression they may have many mental conflicts . These persons frequently tend to have paranoid-like attitudes . Some psychiatrists claim that paranoid delusions generally arise from homosexual trends . Thus homosexuals who are able to express their desires without conflict or environmental difficulties usually do not develop paranoid attitudes . When they are thwarted , however , either by personal conflict or environmental circumstances , they may develop ideas of persecution . The homosexual man may attempt to negate his love of other men by hating them . A negative idea can not be entertained continually and thus the idea of hating other persons results in the attitude that they hate him . The defense against being hated results in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ function in part as a defense against the guilt resulting from the homosexual desires . Although defensive attitudes are usually found in homosexual persons , it is doubtful whether paranoid delusions are universally the result of homosexual desires . The persecutory attitudes arise probably in part because of the feelings of insecurity and inferiority which result from the attitudes of others . Homosexual behavior is quite common in boarding schools , in camps , and in jails . The close association with persons of the same sex may result in practices which are like those of the real homosexuals but which do not have the same emotional accompaniments . In many cases , the active homosexual persuades a person who does not have homosexual desires to take part in sex activities . It has been claimed , however , that the person who is willing to take part in homosexual activities even in a passive role must have some basic desire which he inhibits under ordinary circumstances . There is a belief  | also that all persons are to some degree homosexually inclined and therefore can easily develop homosexual activities when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ activity do not create a sense of guilt . One of the earliest manifestations of homosexual attitudes may be an intense interest in activities which are usually considered morbid . The histories of many homosexual persons show that they were cruel to animals from a very early age . As an example , the parents of a fourteen-year-old boy reported that he became interested in dissecting mice when he was eight years old . His parents bought him some white mice and they noticed that he was cruel to them , and on one occasion began to dissect one of the mice while it was alive . He frequently said he wanted to be a new kind of doctor who would dissect animals while they were alive in order to see how the " insides " worked . He took an unusual interest in pictures of surgical operations and in reports of accidents . From about the age of ten he showed inordinate fondness for boys , usually attaching himself to only one or two . He generally selected a rather aggressive boy , his own role being a passive follower @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ himself for his recreational activity . Although he did not like active physical activities he was interested in wrestling with boys and was also interested in professional wrestling matches to which his father frequently took him . After a period of psychiatric training he developed some insight into his behavior . Although his outward behavior had improved and he was able to relate himself to a larger group of friends he was unable to make close friendships except with an occasional boy . He realized that he had a strong affectional reaction to boys and frequently asked for advice regard-  | ing a plan by which his feelings could be altered . He stated that he had no desire for physical contact with other boys , but generally selected one with whom he wanted to be at all times . He reported that when he was not in the company of a given boy he thought about him a great deal and took every opportunity to be in his presence . He made no attachments to girls and although there was no antagonistic reaction he remained indifferent to them . 1lany @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ One boy , for example , said that he had a thrill when he saw a fight . He took every opportunity to attend movies of professional prizefights . A boy of fourteen said that his ambition was to be a dictator who could punish those whom he did not like by beating them . These boys also showed a great interest in physical contacts , although they were usually very modest , that is , they frequently refused to undress in the presence of others either during a medical examination or in the gymnasium . They liked to organize wrestling matches , and one boy paid another in order to induce him to wrestle with him . Cruelty and erotic satisfaction are frequently associated , but the relationship to homosexuality has never been explained fully . CONFLICTS AND MENTAL ABNORMALITY There has been much discussion in the literature recently regarding the conflict basis of mental abnormalities . The failure of neurologists to find specific central nervous system lesions in patients with schizophrenia and the manic-depressive psychoses , and the lack of evidence for the previously held theory of an hereditary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ psychia-  | tric quarters to the belief that mental conflicts are causative factors . As we shall see in the chapter on mental abnormalities , some investigators have supposedly found that the prepsychotic personalities are different from those of normal persons . Sullivan , ? writing in 1927 , stated that schizophrenia follows a long series of difficult adjustive efforts . Utilizing one phase of the psychoanalytic theory , he stated further that schizophrenia does not occur in a person who has achieved a satisfactory sexual adjustment . Such conclusions are typical of the impressionistic method of explaining mental abnormalities , for no objective or statistical data are usually presented . It is well known that a large number of persons do not achieve a satisfactory sex adjustment but do not develop a mental abnormality . Similar impressionistic methods have been used by others . Alexander , ' for example , stated that the neurotic is distinguished from the psychotic because he is in conflict with himself , whereas the psychotic patient is in conflict with and rejects external reality . The fact that the psychotic patient does not adjust himself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he is in conflict with it nor does it mean that he rejects it . It may mean that he is unable to adjust to external reality , and whatever conflicts are observable may be the result of this lack of adjustment rather than the cause . The Oedipus complex , homosexuality and other conditions have also been given as the basis for the development of the schizophrenias , and the assumption made that they are universally causative . Thus Ernst 9 footnote 7 Harry Stack Sullivan , Onset of schizophrenia , American journal of psychiatry , 1927 , 7 , 105-134. 8 Franz Alexander , Schizophrenic psychoses : critical considerations of the psychoanalytic treatment , Archives of neurology and psychiatry , 1931 , 26 , 815-828. 9 John R. Ernst , Dementia praecox complexes , Medical journal and record , 1928 , 128 , 381-386 . See also Oswald H. Boltz , Some factors which determine  | reported two cases in which these factors were important , and by implication considered that they were causative rather than chance occurrences . The evidence from the most careful investigations has shown that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ different from the child who develops into a normal adult . This has been shown not only by evidence from external behavior , but also by records which are available of children in schools and clinics who later became abnormal . It is obvious that nearly every person has some conflicts . Therefore , when one individual develops a mental abnormality it is quite presumptuous to point to his conflicts as causative agents without explaining the reason that another person having the same conflicts does not develop a mental abnormality . As we shall see later in a discussion of mental abnormalities , the contents of the symptoms of the mentally abnormal person are probably determined by his social backgrounds and thus perhaps by his conflicts . The person who has never had experience with nor heard of airplanes will not include them in his delusions . The psychotic individual who has had no experience with political problems will probably have no delusions regarding politics . It can be definitely assumed , therefore , on the basis of present evidence that there is no direct relationship between mental conflicts and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a person has may determine the contents of his symptoms . The psychoses must be considered as conditions quite different from the neuroses in which mental conflicts form the causative core . footnote a schizophrenic ( dementia praecox ) reaction in males , Journal of nervous and mental diseases , 1926 , 64 , 456-481 ; 58g-615 . Boltz also speaks of the repressions of homosexual desires in the schizophrenic which are accompanied by a strong ego-ideal.  | THE SOLUTION OF CONFLICTS Most conflicts are solved satisfactorily and without detrimental effects to the personality pattern . In time many basic problems which have been the cause of conflicts are discarded and thus also the conflicts . Many conflicts exist without any serious effect upon the behavior of the individual . Only those conflicts which are intense or have been repressed for a long time or have been systematized result in detrimental effects . By a process of trial and error a large majority of conflicts are satisfactorily solved . A conflict involving a sense of inferiority is frequently solved by compensatory behavior . Although the basic conflict may not have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discarded . The very solution of the conflict by such a method as compensation may , however , involve the individual in further difficulties . It is not uncommon to observe a person whose compensatory behavior becomes exaggerated in his unconscious attempt to overcome a conflict of inferiority . The very drive to attain success and the accompanying egocentric behavior may involve the individual in personal and social difficulties which , while solving the original conflict , may create new ones . Psychiatric treatment of conflicts involves a variety of methods . Basically the most common method is to allow the individual to bring to his awareness his previous experiences , disappointments , and traumas so that he may objectively understand the basis of his emotional difficulties . In the past psychiatric treatment consisted mostly of persuasion and suggestion in the attempt to cause the patients to minimize their difficulties and hence to discard their concerns and anxieties . Experience has  | shown , however , that although temporary success may be obtained by such methods , permanent cures rarely result . Because of the prestige of the therapist , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Sooner or later , however , his original anxieties and tensions recur and either the old symptoms become reestablished or new ones appear . The most efficient method , therefore , is to make it possible for an individual under treatment to bring his repressed memories to the foreground , to allow him to recall the experiences which have been the basis of his conflicts , and to objectify his attitudes so that he may have an understanding of cause and effect relationships . In such a process the emotions associated with the causative experiences may become dissipated , and an intellectual rather than an emotional reaction toward them may develop . The method involves , in essence , a reexamination by the patient of his life history by a process of free association . The contents of his phantasies and dreams also furnish important clues to his conflicts and problems . Some psychiatrists believe that the solution of the specific conflicts that a patient has is merely one of the steps in his treatment . In addition , the reasoning method which the patient develops in evaluating his problems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conflicts as they arise .  | DELINQUENT BEHAVIOR No accurate estimate has been made of the number of conduct disorders and delinquencies of children . Every juvenile court and every clinic has its own way of defining delinquency . Definitions frequently change according to the attitudes of authorities and especially of juvenile courts . The reports of " waves " of delinquency and crime and of marked decreases are not accepted seriously by most scientific workers because these fluctuations are thought to be the results of the methods of apprehending delinquents and criminals and of the attitudes of authorities . It has been customary to expect an increase in the rate of delinquency and crime when social crises occur , such as war or economic disruptions . It has been shown , however , that within a given number of years there is relatively little fluctuation in the rates of delinquency and crime , and that social crises have little immediate effect , although in time they may seriously influence the frequency or even the nature of delinquency . The reports from clinics regarding the number of delinquent children sent for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ frequency of delinquency . There has been a steady increase in the past twenty years in the number of children seen at clinics , but this is due largely to the increasing recognition by parents and school authorities of the need for early diagnosis and treatment . No acceptable systematic theory of delinquency and behavior disorders has as yet been developed . This is not difficult to understand in view of the difficulty of  | explaining even the most simple forms of normal behavior . The theories that have been advanced have never been adequate to explain more than perhaps one type of delinquency or one factor contributing to delinquent behavior . Psychiatric theories have been the most widely circulated , but they have varied according to the preconceived attitudes of the psychiatrists . Some psychiatrists , for example , have emphasized heredity , others the factor of inheritance of given mental traits , and still others have attempted to explain delinquency and crime in terms of the individual 's attempts to adjust to his basic conflicts and anxieties . The sociologist has been a prolific worker in this field and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . A delinquent act is naturally always an offense against society and thus it has been relatively easy for the sociologist to accumulate material and to attempt to explain delinquency in terms of social pressures and social disorders . Psychiatrists have considered almost every conceivable possibility as a cause , including intellectual defects , physical disorders , endocrine disturbances , psychopathic personality , mental abnormality , culture conflicts , and social disorders . PSYCHOGENIC BASIS In the past twenty or twenty-five years there has been an increasing emphasis upon psychogenic factors as an explanation of delinquency . The results of careful investigations have shown conclusively that intellectual defects and physical and environmental factors were not the sole causative agents . It has been recognized that these factors were only indirectly causative , especially as they affected the personalities of delinquent children . Alfred Adler , for example , who emphasized the mechanism of  | compensation as the most important factor in personality formation , believed that the drive to gain superiority and to attain a given status resulted in conduct disorders . Some forms of compensatory behavior may be useful and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an individual 's compensatory behavior begins to be socially undesirable , the pressure that society exerts in order to inhibit such behavior may be a stimulating factor in exaggerating it . According to Adler , social and antisocial behavior originate in a similar way . Accidental factors , social pressures , and family conditions may determine whether the child will be delinquent or socially well-adjusted . When antisocial behavior develops and becomes fixated , the basic problems and conflicts may be repressed still further and the probabilities of a reorientation decreased . The antisocial behavior may then assume the form of compulsive-like activity which the individual can not control . The conflict basis of antisocial behavior has been systematically studied by William Healy . In a book published in 19171 Healy presented case material to show that many delinquent acts are compulsive and that the compulsions arise from a variety of mental conflicts . He also stressed the relationship between sex conflicts and behavior disorders . He believed , for example , that many delinquent acts may be substitute reactions for sex drives . In his later writings Healy has elaborated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ case studies he has attempted to show that an understanding of delinquency can be obtained only by an investigation of the basis of an individual 's conflicts and the motives that have been footnote 1 William Healy , Mental conflicts and misconduct , 1917 , Boston , Little , Brown and Company , pp. 330. 2 See William Healy and Franz Alexander , Roots of crime , 1935 , New York , A. A. Knopf , pp. 305.  | determined by these conflicts . The various types of en vironmental conditions which have been considered to be important factors by other investigators are determinants , according to Healy , only because they become effective in combination with the motivating tendencies of given types of personalities . In recent years the case study method has been used extensively by other psychiatrists in the attempt to discover the psychological basis of delinquent and criminal behavior . The psychiatric explanations of delinquency and crime have not been accepted by many psychologists and especially by sociologists . It has been pointed out that no clear-cut differentiation has been shown to exist between the conflicts of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ behavior deviations or of a child who is welladjusted . The attitudes of psychiatrists toward the objections of sociologists is illustrated by Healy 's statements . He has said , for example , that the sociologists may have discovered some general social factors , but that only an understanding of the conflicts and motives of the individual which are not directly expressed in social behavior can adequately explain the persistent drives of the delinquent person . ' According to this explanation , which is shared by many psychiatrists , the deep-rooted conflicts of the delinquent person can not be observed under ordinary conditions nor discovered by the usual psychiatric methods . It has been shown , for example , that although the conflicts of the delinquent child may not be different from those of the neurotic child , they are more deeplyburied . In consequence the delinquent child can not express his conflicts in the usual neurotic ways . He can not divert them by substitute emotional behavior or by footnote 3 William Healy , Psychiatry and the juvenile delinquent , The American journal of psychiatry , 1935 , 91 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do not function as adequate deterrents . Indeed , one of the novel explanations of recidivism is that the individual , having a basic sense of guilt , exposes himself to punishment by his misdemeanors . The punishment , while consciously disliked and rejected , nevertheless acts as a method of expiating a sense of guilt . There is some evidence which indicates that traumatic experiences , especially those involving activities which are not sanctioned socially , may result in delinquent acts . For example , a given sex experience in early childhood , especially when it is associated with some delinquency , however minor it may be , may later result in persistent delinquent behavior . In some instances delinquent behavior may not express itself for a long time following a traumatic experience . The emotional tensions may be latent , a chance experience reawakens them , and this results in delinquent acts . Healy and Bronner 4 believe that frustration is one of the basic causes of delinquency . The frustrations may be due to a variety of conditions and experiences . The reactions to the frustration may also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The delinquent behavior develops unconsciously , but it nevertheless has a specific meaning for the child . The behavior is essentially a pattern of adjustment ? a way of resolving the emotional tensions resulting from the frustrations . Healy and Bronner classified the following types of reactions represented by delinquency : i . An attempt to avoid an unpleasant situation by escape . 2 . Attempts to achieve substitute compensatory satisfactions . These may be represented by adventure , recognition , attention , and notoriety . footnote 4 William Healy and Augusta F. Bronner , New light on delinquency and its treatment , 1936 , New Haven , Yale University Press , 133-134.  | 3 . The attempt to strengthen the ego as a consequence of feelings of inadequacy or inferiority . This results in identification with a delinquent group as a way of obtaining recognition and status . 4 . The expression of revenge attitudes as a way of obtaining satisfaction , such as the desire to punish parents . 5 . The obtaining of self-satisfaction by aggressive , anti-social attitudes and by hostility and antagonism to authority . 6 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , such as the satisfaction of the desire for independence and emancipation during the adolescent period . 7 . The desire for punishment . This is a consequence of a sense of guilt . Healy and Bronner do not imply that these mechanisms are premeditated or represent conscious mental processes . They are , nevertheless , reaction mechanisms which have meaning for the individual , unaware as he may be of the origin of his problems or of his adjustment to them . Reports from schools and clinics have shown that delinquency is frequently preceded by minor behavior disorders , such as truancy . Frequently aggressive behavior precedes delinquency . In many ways delinquent behavior is a form of aggression against society . Some psychiatrists believe that the basis of many , if not most , delinquent and criminal acts is an aggressive attitude toward all authority . At first the aggressive reaction and hostility may be directed toward a member of the family or toward a given authority such as a school teacher . In time , however , the hostility and aggression become generalized , frequently because the child @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he is basically hostile . Stealing money from a parent is , supposedly , in such cases , a form of aggression . The punishment that results increases the impulse to steal and in time stealing from any source may become the pattern of behavior . Recent studies have shown that the  | delinquent child , especially the one who steals , has a less favorable attitude toward parents and teachers than the well-adjusted child . It is difficult , however , to interpret this as having etiological significance . It may be that the unfavorable attitude results from the punishment and is not the sole cause of the retaliative delinquency . PERSONALITY OF DELINQUENTS Few attempts have been made to classify the personalities of delinquents into discrete categories . The personality characteristics which have been ascribed to delinquents have varied according to the theories of delinquency maintained by different psychiatrists . Some psychiatrists believe that the personalities of delinquents are basically the same as those of well-adjusted children , whereas others believe that all delinquents deviate in some way from the normal . As an example , about I o @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some clinics , whereas almost 75 per cent are so diagnosed in other clinics maintained in reformatories . Obviously this enormous difference in the frequency of this diagnosis must be due to differences in the preconceived theories of delinquency . Psychopathic personalities were at one time classified into the inadequate , emotionally unstable , and the egocentric types . It was believed that the individual with an egocentric type of personality tended to become delinquent . Presumably the egocentric type of person tended to be aggressive and hostile and unable to control his behavior in accordance with social demands . Many studies have been made of the personalities of the inmates of penal institutions . The reports have varied widely regarding the frequency of personality ab-  | normalities . In some institutions a high frequency of abnormality has been reported , whereas in other institutions only a small percentage were diagnosed as having abnormal personality characteristics . The consensus seems to be that the frequency of abnormal personalities among delinquents and criminals is greater than among the general population , but that there may be no direct causal relationship . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ investigators to believe that delinquency may occur as one form of escape reaction . The strong impulse to evade and escape from unpleasant conditions may drive a child to identify himself with delinquents . The excitement of the adventures involved in delinquent behavior supposedly creates mental turmoil which aids in the escape reaction . Careful investigations have shown a variety of personality differences between delinquents and nondelinquents , although most clinicians emphasize the importance of the egocentric reactions and the emotional instability of delinquents . Bromberg and Thompson , ' for example , reported that about 61 per cent of delinquents had personality deviations in the form of aggressiveness , emotional instability , and irresponsibility . Of ten thousand convicted criminal offenders 1.5 per cent were psychotic , 2.4 per cent mentally deficient , and 6. g per cent were diagnosed as psychopathic personalities . Of the remainder , who were not mentally abnormal , the majority had serious personality deviations . The majority of the deviants were classified as aggressive and antisocial , aggressions released by alcohol , aggressive as a reaction to inferiority feelings , emotionally unstable , hysterical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , The relation of psychosis , mental defect , and personality types to crime , Journal of the American Institute of Criminal I , aw and Criminology , 1937 , 28 , 70-89.  | swindler type , unethical types , immature , egocentric , and suggestible . Delinquents are generally more active physically than nondelinquents , and their hyperactivity may be one of the basic factors in determining their behavior . In regard to the conflicts of delinquents , some investigators report that they are more frequently disturbed by their parents , their homes , and especially by rivalry with their siblings . Although it may be true that delinquents have more conflicts and emotional disturbances regarding their parents and siblings , the question arises whether they are causal or the result of the attitudes of their parents toward their delinquencies . It is probable that the delinquent 's emotional instability arises in part from his suspicious attitude toward others who are not delinquent and toward authorities he fears . There have been no adequate classifications of personalities or personality deviations of delinquent children . The underlying emotional disturbances which have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to individual that it is difficult to make a systematic classification . Healy and Bronner , however , have attempted a classification of the underlying emotional disturbances , and they report that 91 per cent of the delinquents they examined gave evidence of being or having been unhappy or discontented or emotionally disturbed . Only 13 per cent of a control group of children showed evidence of emotional disturbance . They classified the types in the following way : 6 ( a ) Feeling keenly either rejected , deprived , insecure , not understood in affectional relationships , unloved , or that love has been withdrawn ? 46 cases . footnote 6 William Healy and Augusta F. Bronner , New light on delinquency and its treatment , 128-129.  | ( b ) Deep feeling of being thwarted other than affectionally ; either ( a ) in normal impulses or desires for self-expression or other self-satisfactions , ( b ) in unusual desires because earlier spoiled , or ( c ) in adolescent urges and desires ? even when ( as in 5 cases ) desire for emancipation had been blocked only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? 28 cases . ( c ) Feeling strongly either real or fancied inadequacies or inferiorities in the home life , in school , or in relation to companionship or to sports ? 46 cases . ( d ) Intense feelings of discomfort about family disharmonies , parental misconduct , the conditions of family life , or parental errors in management and discipline ? 34 cases . ( e ) Bitter feelings of jealousy toward one or more siblings , or feelings of being markedly discriminated against because another in the family circle more favored ? 31 cases . ( f ) Feelings of confused unhappiness due to some deep-seated , often repressed , internal mental conflict ? expressed in various kinds of delinquent acts which often are seemingly unreasonable ? 17 cases . ( g ) Conscious or unconscious sense of guilt about earlier delinquencies or about behavior which technically was not delinquency ; the guilt sense directly or indirectly activating delinquency through the individual 's feelings of the need of punishment ( in nearly every instance this overlaps with the last category ) ? 9 cases . Even though @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ delinquent children they have not shown that they were the specific causes of the delinquent behavior . Many other studies have shown that a large number of normally adjusted individuals may have emotional stresses and many conflicts , but they do not express their emotional tensions in delinquent behavior . It is also possible that emotional stresses are exaggerated by the delinquency itself , that is , a child may have conflicts and emotional stresses but may be able to control them adequately until for some reason he becomes delinquent . The sense of guilt of the delinquent , and the pressure of the family and society against him  | may intensify his emotional disturbance which then manifests itself in such a way that it can be easily recognized on clinical examination . ENVIRONMENTAL CAUSES The explanation of delinquent and criminal behavior in terms of responses to conflicts has not been accepted by many psychiatrists and most sociologists . Sociologists have shown , for example , that the environmental backgrounds of delinquent children differ significantly from those of well-adjusted children . It has been shown that the frequency of delinquency of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ children of high socio-economic status . Many sociologists believe , for example , that poverty is a very important factor in determining delinquency . The reactions of the child to his deprivations , the instability of family life of economically deprived persons , the uncertainty of living arrangements , and inadequate and erratic discipline are all contributing factors . Broken homes , lack of adequate play facilities , and lack of close relationships between parents and children have also been considered to be important factors . There have been many sociological theories of the causes of crime . As it became apparent that the theories which attempted to relate physical or psychological pathology to delinquency and crime were not tenable , the work of the sociologists attracted considerable attention . Of the many recent theories , that of Sutherland ? has attracted the most attention . I  --  Ie proposed the following seven principles in his theory . footnote 7 Edwin H. Sutherland , Principles of criminology , 1939 , Philadelphia , J. B. Lippincott Company , 4-9.  | First , the processes which result in systematic criminal behavior are fundamentally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ systematic lawful behavior . Second , systematic criminal behavior is determined in a process of association with those who commit crimes , just as systematic lawful behavior is determined in a process of association with those who are law-abiding . Third , differential association is the specific causal process in the development of systematic criminal behavior . Fourth , the chance that a person will participate in systematic criminal behavior is determined roughly by the frequency and consistency of his contacts with the patterns of criminal behavior . Fifth , individual differences among people in respect to personal characteristics or social situations cause crime only as they affect differential association or frequency and consistency of contacts with criminal patterns . Sixth , cultural conflict is the underlying cause of differential association and therefore of systematic criminal behavior . Seventh , social disorganization is the basic cause of systematic criminal behavior . Sutherland summarizes his theory by stating that systematic delinquent behavior is the result of differential associations in situations in which culture conflicts exist due to the social disorganization in those situations . He believes that delinquent behavior is due to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in accepted behavior . By differential association Sutherland means that , although the delinquent is not psychologically different from the nondelinquent , association with those involved in delinquency inevitably involves him in antisocial behavior . He points to the fact that college students with few exceptions report an average of eight thefts or series of thefts during their lifetime . As children they were not associated , however , with groups or persons who were systematically involved in delinquency , nor did they live in areas in which delinquency was a normal standard of behavior . He states  | that the ratio of delinquent acts to lawful acts is relatively the same as the ratio of contacts with a delinquent and with the lawful behavior of others . In regard to social disorganization , he points out that a child who is properly supervised may not become delinquent even though he may have the types of conflicts which impulsively drive him to association with delinquents . He also emphasizes the factor of clashes of culture and the unpredictableness of the social patterns in any community because of the various admixtures of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the attitudes and values of the society in which an individual lives are important factors in determining the frequency of delinquency . This is in accord with the findings of other sociologists regarding the direct effect of a given area of a community . The acceptance of delinquency by those in authority without a direct reaction against it may be a stimulus to the repetition of the delinquency . The extensive studies of Shaw 8 have shown that the character of a residential area determines the frequency of delinquency . Shaw showed that areas nearest the business districts of cities have the highest delinquency rates , and these rates , with some exceptions , decrease as the distance from the business center increases . The areas immediately surrounding business districts are usually populated by poor families . The living conditions are extremely undesirable , and the social , recreational , and school facilities are inferior . There is a high rate of migration and thus instability of living conditions . The children are generally poorly supervised and there are no organized cultural facilities . There is also a tradition of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Social factors in juvenile delinquency . Report on causes of crime , vol. 2 , National Commission on Law Observance and Enforcement , 1931 , Washington , United States Government Printing Office , pp. 401.  | delinquency in these areas , and the parents almost expect their children to behave in ways which parents in other areas would not tolerate . Gangs are common , and delinquency is to a large extent accepted . In many of these areas there are mixtures of racial and national groups . The following are some of the conclusions of Shaw and McKay , ' which they presented in their report on the social factors which influence juvenile delinquency : The heaviest concentration of juvenile delinquency is in areas adjacent to the central business district and industrial areas . This concentration includes all types of delinquencies . There are significant variations in the rates of delinquents in various areas , the greatest near the business and industrial centers and the lowest in the residential areas near the periphery of the city . The rate of delinquency thus varies inversely with the distance from the center @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have existed for a long period of time . There has been little variation of the rates in the areas , and this may indicate that the usual explanation in terms of mobility and selective migration is not tenable . In areas of high concentration , a high percentage of delinquent boys become recidivists . For example , the average number of recidivists occurring in areas of high rates is more than twice as great as in areas of low rates . The delinquency areas are closely related to the process of city growth . A residential area which is invaded by industry or commerce tends to deteriorate the adjacent residential areas . In time these areas are populated by families in whom a high degree of delinquency occurs . Areas of high rates of delinquency are characterized by footnote 9 Clifford R. Shaw and Henry D. McKay , 383-393.  | physical deterioration , decreasing population , economic dependency , and admixtures of races and nationalities . Community control becomes ineffective in areas where high rates exist . This may be due to the economic level of the population , their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beliefs and opinions , although it is generally believed that they are not motivated to act to suppress delinquency and crime . There is a confusion of divergent cultures , economic insecurity , and inadequate educational and social facilities . Juvenile delinquency develops into a traditional aspect of the social life of socially disorganized communities , and thus delinquency tends to be transmitted from person to person . The organization of gangs and of persons who make possible disposition of goods which boys steal tends to maintain delinquency . Changes in racial and nationality composition of an area does not effectively change the delinquency rate . When a given nationality migrates from an area and only a few of the group is left in the community , the rate of delinquency of the children of this nationality decreases very rapidly to a proportion greater than the decrease of the nationality in the total population of the city . In each of six cities which were studied , similar distributions have been found tending to confirm the opinion that the character of the area rather than the city as a whole is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in group behavior . For example , only eleven per cent of the offenders charged with stealing committed the offenses alone . Gangs of delinquent boys serve as agencies for the transmission of the traditions of delinquency . Boys  | acquire their knowledge and techniques through their participation in these gangs . The delinquent code is thus developed and transmitted through the traditional gangs which are an important element in delinquent areas . Participation in delinquency and in gang behavior was found to be an important way by which many boys attained recognition and companionship . This is especially significant because these boys can not attain security and recognition in their homes . Broken homes were found to be three times higher in some racial and national groups than in others . The frequency of broken homes among seventeen-year-olds was 42 per cent higher than among ten-year-olds . Nevertheless , a study of a control group showed a frequency of 36 per cent , and the conclusion was reached that the small variation in rates suggests that the broken home is not in itself an important factor . Other ecological studies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ character of a community and the frequency and types of delinquency . For example , as in the case of areas of delinquency within cities , the number of delinquents decreases as the distance of a community increases from a city . This has been explained in terms of the greater amount of social disorganization in the city , the lack of family unity , and also because of selective migration from the country to the city . Although the frequency of given delinquencies is greater during some age periods than others , it has been shown that these differences are due to the nature of social control and the attitudes of police authorities and juvenile courts . For example , a majority of the boys who are arrested during adolescence for stealing have a history of truancy from an early age . Truancy is , however , generally treated as a behavior problem and no  | punitive or other measures are taken until it is associated with some antisocial act having important significance . The interpretation of delinquency in terms of selective migration of persons who tend to be delinquent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an area of social disorganization has been denied by sociologists . It has been shown , for example , that the rate of delinquency remains almost constant in a given area , and it is rather improbable that migration of selected types remains sufficiently constant to account for this finding . The importance of association with others who are also delinquent has been pointed out in the findings of juvenile court records . Between eighty and ninety per cent of boys who are arrested engage in their delinquencies in company with others . In some areas it is also much easier to be delinquent because of the ease with which delinquencies are committed and fostered . In given areas adults directly or indirectly aid in the delinquencies of boys by buying their stolen articles , or by accepting the delinquency as a somewhat normal form of behavior . It is extremely difficult to evaluate the effect of the home in determining delinquency . Some studies have shown that the delinquent frequently comes from a home in which there is another delinquent . In one study by the Gluecks of persons released @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cent were from homes in which there were other adult delinquents and about 87 per cent of the juvenile delinquents were from homes in which delinquency was common . The occurrence of delinquency in families where other members are delinquent may be due to direct imitation . It has also been shown , however , that in such families there is a great deal of disorganization which shows itself in  | poor personal relationships , economic insecurities , lack of parental control , parental neglect , and insufficient education in social behavior . Such factors have been shown to be much more important than broken homes , for example , which were at one time considered to be a very important element in determining delinquency . Statistical studies have shown that about an equal number of delinquent boys come from broken homes as from homes which remain intact . It was thought at one time that there were important disciplinary differences between the homes which were intact and those which were broken . Investigations have shown , however , that erratic or defective discipline is as frequent in the one type @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been found that defective discipline occurs six to seven times more frequently in the homes of delinquents than in the homes of non-delinquents . An evaluation of the homes of a large number of unselected delinquents disclosed that in seventy per cent of the cases the discipline was undesirable or erratic . In most cases the parents were indifferent to their children 's behavior and neglected to control them socially . The results of such studies must be taken with some reserve , however , because it is extremely difficult to evaluate the nature of discipline and especially to quantify it . Children in homes where the discipline is erratic or undesirable frequently develop normally , however , whereas children in homes where the discipline is excellent may become delinquent . Some sociological studies have shown that a child may be impelled to join gangs because of unpleasant experiences in the home . Although he may adjust well to the home situation , he may remain relatively isolated from the other members of the family . Antisocial behavior obviously can not be explained en-  | tirely in terms of environmental @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and many children in " delinquency areas " develop normally . It is probable that a delinquency area may significantly influence two types of children : 1 . Those who seek identification with others may assume the current standards of delinquency . Psychological studies of delinquent children have shown that this is especially likely to occur when their parents show little interest in them and do not supervise them adequately . They are able to obtain security by associating themselves with those persons who are willing to accept them readily . 2 . Those children whose conflicts stimulate them to aggressive activity , and find delinquent behavior a simple and direct method of expressing themselves . It has been shown , for example , that conflicts between members of a family may result in aggressive behavior . When a child who is aggressive toward other members of his family associates himself with delinquents he may transfer his aggressive reactions to a wider environment . The interrelationships between the effects of personal problems and conflicts and environmental conditions has been shown in many studies . The Gluecks 1 ? have reported @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and personality defects . Many of these children showed signs of underlying neurotic conditions such as stammering , nail biting , and bed wetting . They also showed that culture conflicts arising from family problems contributed to the frequency of delinquency . They found that seventy per cent of delinquents were native born , with one or both parents who were foreign born , about thirteen per cent were native born footnote 10 Sheldon Glueck and Eleanor T. Glueck , One thousand juvenile delinquents , 1934 , Cambridge , Harvard University Press , pp. 341.  | of native parents , and about seventeen per cent were for eign born . From these findings it is evident that the culture conflicts which arise because of differences ill drives and motives between children and their parents may result in the children 's identification with delinquent groups . The higher frequency rate among native born children of foreign born parents has also been explained in terms of the attempt of the children to differentiate themselves sharply from the attitudes and motives of their parents in order that they may be more readily accepted by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ antisocial conduct differs according to the age of the individual and to the standards of the society in which he lives . The type of antisocial behavior also depends upon the age of the individual . It is obvious , of course , that a five-year-old will rarely get into difficulties because of stealing , whereas the most common delinquency of a fourteen- or fifteen-year-old is stealing . Ackerson 11 has shown , in a study of the records of five thousand cases , that the greatest frequency of delinquency in children occurs when they are between fourteen and fifteen years old . This is probably in part due to the attitudes of adults toward children of those ages . Adults are likely to overlook undesirable behavior in five- or six-year-olds , but the delinquent behavior of a fourteen-year-old is usually considered seriously . A report by Mallerl ? on juvenile delinquency in New York City showed that seventy per cent of the delinquents were footnote 11 Luton Ackerson , Children 's behavior problems , 1931 , Chicago , University of Chicago Press , pp. 268. 12 J. B. Mailer , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a comprehensive report , Journal of psychology , 1937 , 3 , 1-25.  | between thirteen and sixteen years of age , and the two most frequent offenses were disorderly conduct and stealing . He also showed that most of the delinquents came from large families , from broken homes , and from homes of low economic status , and more than 65 per cent were of foreign parentage . Ackerson classified the problems of the children he studied into conduct problems and personality problems . This is the customary method in behavior clinics , but it is obvious that it is difficult to distinguish between a personality and a behavior problem . It is customary to characterize those problems which involve only the individual himself in his own personal adjustment as personality difficulties and those which involve him in conflict with society as behavior problems . Much overlapping occurs , however , because it is sometimes impossible to differentiate between a problem which involves the individual only , and one which also involves others . Usually a child is sent to a clinic because of some outstanding difficulty which may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shown , for example , that children who behave antisocially have many problems , and that parents as well as clinicians usually select the one or two problems which seem to be the most annoying or cause the greatest difficulties . In some cases it has been shown that a child may have from five to fifty or sixty problems , many of which are related in some way . The difficulty of defining the central core of delinquency is illustrated in the case histories given by Ackerson 13 of a boy and a girl . In the case of the boy , sixty-three conduct problems and thirty-six personality problems were listed , and in the girl fifty conduct problems and forty-nine personality problems . The probfootnote 13 Luton Ackerson , 8-i3.  | lems ranged from boastfulness to carrying a revolver and from lack of interest in school to stealing an automobile . Whether these heterogeneous problems are in some way causally related is impossible to determine . It is probable , however , that a given conduct problem necessitates a large number of other forms of behavior which are considered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most likely not to do well in school and because of his attitudes as well as his reaction to the anticipated attitudes of adults he is also likely to be defensive and therefore aggressive . Although the frequency of problems increases with age up to adolescence , the number of problems seems to decrease after the age of fifteen or sixteen . The probability is that the clinical records show a decrease in the number of conduct problems reported for older boys principally because of the increasing seriousness of the major offenses , and parents usually do not take the time to report problems which are of minor importance . In the young child , however , many problems of minor importance are usually reported . As mentioned previously the kinds of problems observed are determined in part by the purposes of the clinic . Child guidance clinics attached to schools deal mainly with problems involving the children 's orientation to school conditions . Children are seen most frequently for school failure , truancy , inability to follow directions , or disobedience . Clinics attached to juvenile courts deal mostly with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ overt antisocial behavior . In child guidance clinics which deal with children drawn from the general population , the frequency of the problems reported is different from that in other types of clinics . In such clinics , difficulties in the home situation  | are the most frequent problems for which parents bring the children . Disobedience , temper tantrums , truancy , and feeding disturbances are most often observed . Frequency distributions of problems in terms of their relative importance are not reliable because parents often complain about a type of behavior which is not causally related to the children 's personality disturbances . A parent may complain , for example , about a child 's temper tantrums as his most important problems , but the real difficulty may be , say , an anxiety neurosis . In most cases parents , as well as others referring a child to a clinic , select the problem which has caused the most disturbance to adults . Personality disturbances such as sensitiveness or seclusiveness or anxiety are only infrequently mentioned except as their existence is recognized when a detailed case history is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their children in defining the problems for which the children are brought to clinics has been illustrated in studies of the kinds of problems which annoy parents . In one investigation 14 thirty-two parents of good intelligence were selected . They carried small notebooks with them and wrote down the annoying acts of their children . Records kept for a period of one week showed that the parents listed fifty-one separate problems and that they were annoyed by these problems 2124 times . The greatest number of annoyances , 17.9 per cent of the total number , were due to interference with adult activities , such as noisy behavior and interruptions of adult conversations . The next most frequent annoyances were due to disobedience . The parents reported that disobedience not only annoyed them but also caused them to seek aid 14 Mandel Sherman , Why our children annoy us , The parents ' magazine , May , 1931.  | in training their children . All sorts of peculiar annoyances were reported . Some parents were annoyed because their children were too good , whereas other parents were annoyed because they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by looking " blank " when she was scolded . Another parent was annoyed because her child smiled appealingly when she was scolded and the scoldings had no effect . Some parents were annoyed because their children worked at their tasks too quickly and without sufficient deliberation ; others , because they worked too slowly . Most of the parents admitted that they overlooked annoying behavior when free from worries but that they were annoyed easily when troubled by some personal problem . They also admitted that they were particularly annoyed by behavior which interfered with their freedom and household activities . The following were the ten most frequent causes of annoyance reported by the thirty-two observers : Figure Of the behavior problems of young children , the following are the most frequently observed . Food problems . A large number of conduct disorders  | related to likes and dislikes of food arise in young children . These difficulties probably arise because children discover that they can obtain attention and can dominate their parents easily by refusing given foods . Parents are not only annoyed by their children 's dislike of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ health . Children quickly sense the concern of their parents and make every effort to worry them further . Refusal to eat given foods and very slow eating are the most common of the food problems . Spitting out and vomiting of food are also common in children two to four years old . In but few instances is vomiting due to a food idiosyncrasy . Temper tantrums and negative behavior are also frequent conduct problems of young children . The annoyance caused by temper tantrums may lead to further difficulties between children and their parents and in turn create more problems . Dependent or babyish behavior . Nursery school teachers report this problem as one of the most annoying and difficult . The habit of clinging to adults is carried over from the home to the nursery school teachers and other adults . Dependent behavior may result in many personality disturbances in later childhood and adolescence when adults begin to refuse to protect children . Sex and toilet habits . Mention is made elsewhere of the early sex problems arising principally because of inadequate training by parents . One of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by young children . Dominant and pugnacious behavior . Such behavior often arises as a result of overindulgence by parents . The young child who is pampered and given his way may not understand why he can not have everything he wants .  | As a consequence he attempts to domineer other children and refuses to share with them . Some children develop such behavior as a compensation for feelings of inferiority . Aggressive behavior is often a method of compensating for continual frustrations . LYING In older children lying and stealing are usually associated and are the most frequent types of conduct problems . As indicated previously , they probably constitute between 35 and 8o per cent of all delinquencies . Social psychologists who have worked in the field of character development have shown that honesty and dishonesty can not be regarded as specific entities which can be accurately measured . A child may be honest in one situation and use deception in another . The type of behavior which a child shows depends upon his motives in a given situation . It also depends upon the kind of response @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ evidence has confirmed the belief that honest or dishonest behavior frequently changes rapidly from situation to situation . In school tests , for example , a child may be found to cheat in arithmetic tests , but a short time later may be perfectly honest in another kind of test . This variation frequently depends upon the attitudes of the child toward the examiner and also his evaluation of the situation in terms of his security or accomplishment . Children have also been found to respond differently to one parent or another , depending upon their relationships . Some investigations have shown that despite the fact that honesty or dishonesty can not be thought of as enduring traits , some children consistently tell the truth ,  | frequently in the face of a temptation to lie , whereas others may be consistently untruthful . The intelligence factor is a relatively negligible element in honesty . In their responses to tests , untruthful children are usually inclined to overstate and are usually more suggestible . A truthful child , on the other hand , shows less overstatement and a greater stability of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ basis for lying , have been classified by a number of psychologists . For example , Burt 18 classifies lies into seven kinds : ( 1 ) a playful lie which is observed in make-believe play of children ; ( 2 ) a lie of confusion in which children , because of age or other factors , actually are unable to discriminate between fact and unreality ; ( 3 ) a lie of vanity in which the motive is to attract attention ; ( 4 ) a lie of malevolence in which the purpose is revenge upon someone , such as belittling or annoying another person ; ( 5 ) the exculpatory lie in which the child may be conscious of his deception ; ( 6 ) the selfish lie in which the purpose is plainly to gain profit in the immediate situation ; ( 7 ) lies of loyalty and convention in which the child lies in order to support or shield someone . Another classification which was made by TudorHart 17 is as follows : ( 1 ) the social lie in which the child attempts to help someone @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ child attempts to get out of an awkward situation and by which he attempts to protect himself ; ( 3 ) asocial lies in which the individual attempts to avoid something unpleasant or obtain something desired ; ( 4 ) 15W . E. Slaght , Untruthfulness in children : its conditioning factors and its setting in child nature , University of Iowa studies , Study in character 1928 , 1 , 1-79. 16 Cyril Burt , The young delinquent , 1931 , New York , D. Appleton and Co. , 361-365. 17 B. E. Tudor-Hart , Are there cases in which lies are necessary , Pedagogical seminar and Journal of genetic psychology , 1926 , 33 , 586-641.  | antisocial lies which are motivated by the desire to hurt or obtain advantage from someone ; ( r , ) school lies in which the attempt is to deceive someone in authority . The general conclusion of most investigators has been that lies frequently begin as a trial and error process in which the child either attempts to obtain some object or desire or to escape from punishment . When the child @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he may continue with that behavior . Many instances of lying occur in the child 's attempt to compensate for some lack . He may frequently resort to lying , for example , in the attempt to attain prestige among playmates . An exaggerated story about one 's parents or possessions is likely to gain attention , and once the child notices that he does obtain recognition , he is likely to continue such behavior . Pathological lying has been defined as compulsive-like behavior in which the individual lies on occasions not essential to his welfare . In some cases pathological lying may function for purposes of self-accusation . Numerous instances have been found , for example , in which a child or adult confesses a serious misdemeanor which he has not committed . Supposedly the individual attempts to obtain attention by his confession . Adults who obtain notoriety because of a false confession clearly gain a great deal of attention . This can not be the only reason for such behavior , however . Some psychiatrists believe that such pathological lying may be due to an underlying attempt at self-punishment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ guilt by seeking unnecessary punishment . Less dramatic forms of pathological lying are also frequently observed . A child may lie consistently without regard to gain or advantage . It appears to be compulsive-like and not related to any premeditated effort .  | INTELLIGENCE AND DELINQUENCY Intelligence defects were at one time considered to be a major cause of delinquency . At present the consensus is that the frequency of intellectual defects among delinquents is higher than among the normal population , but it is recognized that this greater frequency is due to many factors other than a causal relationship between intelligence and antisocial behavior . Psychologists at one time believed that the mentally defective person is more likely to become delinquent because he is very suggestible and because he does not have sufficient understanding to avoid identification with delinquents . We now know that suggestibility is not characteristic of the mentally defective person . Furthermore , it has been shown that most delinquencies are purposeful , though not consciously so , and that the suggestibility of an individual does not determine his involvement in antisocial behavior . Indeed , some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suggestible than the defective . This may be very desirable , because the normal child thus is able to respond to the various pressures of our society and to behave in a socially approved manner . The first studies of mental deficiency as a possible cause of delinquent behavior were made when investigators attempted to differentiate between mentally defective and mentally abnormal persons on trial in courts . The attempt to differentiate these persons was the result of controversies regarding the legal problems involved in sentencing those suspected of some mental aberration . A mental disease was considered to be a reason for finding an individual not liable to punishment , but mental deficiency as a specific mitigating condition was not ac-                     