@@774359

txt  | their later fortunes can be sketched , something must be seen of the peoples who were then threatening their frontiers . Although Scandinavian freebooters had occasionally appeared in earlier times , it was not until the ninth century that their raids became a source of terror throughout the Christian northwest . The fundamental cause of the outpouring was undoubtedly overpopulation . Besides , the advancing authority of various local kings tended to drive adventurous spirits abroad , and the defenseless condition of the neighboring countries , quickly advertised by the success of preliminary expeditions , encouraged a growing stream of marauders . For the character and activities of these northerners we are dependent on the accounts of Christian chroniclers , supplemented by archaeological evidence and the Icelandic sagas . But the latter , being written at a much later time , give traditional stories in poetic form and must be used with great caution . What we actually know about the primitive Scandinavians in their old homeland is slight ; the main facts can be very briefly stated . In the first place , it should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political units which hardly existed in Carolingian times . Although it may be convenient to speak of Danes , Norwegians , and Swedes as invading southern lands in the ninth century , those names should be understood as merely indicating the vague regions from which threes ' oups of invaders came . Commonly they called themselves Vikings , meaning creekmen or men of the fjords . Being still heathen , they showed no mercy to Christian churches or clergymen . It was , indeed , the wealth of the monasteries and cathedrals that chiefly attracted them ; for their primary object was loot . But they also took delight in sheer devastation . Often they put entire settlements to the torch and slaughtered the inhabitants with a cold fury that spread universal horror . In such respects they closely resembled the original Anglo-Saxons who had terrorized the shores of Roman Britain . As far as institutions were concerned , the Vikings could con tribute little that was new to the semi-barbarous society of the  | west ; their customs were very much the same as had earlier been common to all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the wandering band of warriors led by the Scandinavian jarl . In the material arts of civilization , as in matters of education and morals , the Vikings were learners rather than teachers . Only in one respect they were manifestly superior to the peoples they despoiled : they were beyond doubt the greatest sailors of western Europe . In open boats , propelled by oars or small sails , they not only skirted the coasts of Europe from the Baltic to the Mediterranean but constantly made long voyages into the stormy Atlantic , where days had to be spent beyond the sight of land . As the Scandinavian peoples spread across the seas , geographic position naturally dictated the directions they normally took . The Swedes , facing east , were attracted to the southern shore of the Baltic and thence through the interior by the river routes that led to the Black Sea . Along these routes slaves and furs had long been carried by Avars and other Asiatics to be sold to the Moslem traders of the Caucasus or the Christian traders of Constantinople . Now that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ serious opposition ; lured by opportunities for brigandage , they eventually established themselves on the Dnieper and extended their raids to the ports of the Black Sea . So , by the end of the ninth century , they had gained the attention of Byzantine writers , who called them Russians ( Rhos ) or Varangians . From these beginnings , as will be seen in a following chapter , a great empire was to be developed in eastern Europe . To the west , meanwhile , the Norwegians and Danes had been led to attack the British Isles and the Atlantic shores of the continent . Long before the close of the eighth century Viking raiders had begun to make annual visits to Ireland and Britain , and within the next hundred years both islands had been ravaged from end to end . Everywhere the great religious houses , ancient centers of Irish and Anglo-Saxon learning , were looted and burned . The kingdoms of Northumbria , East Anglia , and Mercia were practically wiped out . The cathedral cities of  | southern Britain were repeatedly taken ; even London @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ story . Beginning with inroads in Frisia , the Northmen , as they were generally known to the Franks , gradually pushed their fleets along the coasts to Aquitaine and Spain . In 859 a great expedition actually rounded Gibraltar and plundered the Mediterranean shore as far east as Italy . Nor did the inland districts escape . Sailing up the larger rivers , the Vikings often captured a walled city or built a fortified camp ; thence , by means of horses taken from the unfortunate inhabitants , they rode across country , spreading desolation far and wide . From such practices it was only a step to effect permanent conquests . Sometimes , as in eastern Ireland , the native population was subjected and forced to supply the conquerors with food ; sometimes , as in what the Anglo-Saxons called the Danelaw and in what the Franks called Normandy , colonists were brought from the homeland to occupy the devastated regions . The political significance of these settlements will be considered below . One important cause of the Viking successes on the continent was assuredly the lack of Carolingian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ continuous scourge of Moslem raids along the Mediterranean shores . All danger of Moorish incursions across the Pyrenees , it is true , had been ended by ' le campaigns of Pepin and Charlemagne ; but the independent emirs of Tunis soon launched an active maritime offensive and continued it throughout the ninth century . While Sicily was being systematically conquered , other Moslem forces ravaged Sardinia and Corsica , terrorized the coasts of Provence and Italy , and even preyed on the commerce of the Adriatic . About the time that the sons of Louis the Pious were swearing the Peace of Verdun , the Moslems took Messina and made it a base for further operations on the mainland . In 846 the great church of St. Peter outside the walls of Rome was looted and burned ; and not long afterwards the monastery of Monte Cassino suffered the same fate . As late as the tenth century it was still  | problematical whether the Italian peninsula would remain a Christian possession . To increase the misery of the Carolingian lands , another horde of Asiatic nomads now appeared on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ancient Huns these invaders came to be generally known as Hungarians , but they have always called themselves Magyars . Like their predecessors , they were apparently forced to migrate by some sort of disturbance in the homeland and they came by the same route , over the grasslands of the Pontic steppe . Crossing the Dniester in the closing years of the ninth century , they advanced into the plain between the Carpathians and the Danube . There the remnants of the Avars quickly became amalgamated with the newcomers , so that ever since then the territory has been known as Hungary . According to all contemporary descriptions , the invaders were of the primitive nomad type ? savage horsemen , repulsive in appearance , rapacious and pitiless . While the Frankish lands of the west were still suffering from the inroads of the Vikings , those of the east were devastated by the Hungarians . Unchecked by the feeble defenses of the empire , they drove through Bavaria , Venetia , and Lombardy . In the following years they turned north , desolating Thuringia , Saxony , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ far west as Burgundy . From the mere recital of these tragic events it should be evident that the glory of the Carolingian Empire did not long survive its founder . Conditions were bad under Louis the Pious ; under his sons they became infinitely worse . Although the royal brothers indulged in fine talk about imperial unity and Christian co-operation , their acts continuously belied their words . While their subjects were being slaughtered by heathen marauders and Moslem pirates , they presented a most unedifying example of selfishness , cruelty , and bad faith . It was only during intervals between dynastic quarrels that their attention was given to the defense of the country , and then their efforts were singularly ineffective . Their reigns merely prepared for the general disintegration that followed . Lothair 's middle kingdom  | was the first to disappear , for he divided it among his three sons ( see Table I ) . None of them is worth mentioning except Lothair II , after whom his nondescript territory was called Lotharii Regnum , Lotharingia or Lorraine . By the last quarter of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their lands were being fought over by their relatives and by local usurpers . By that time , too , the Vikings were beginning to turn from mere plundering to systematic conquest . As the disorder increased , the empire was momentarily reunited under Charles the Fat , a son of Louis the German ; but in the face of a new invasion he quickly proved his incompetence and so was dethroned in 887 . The deposition of Charles the Fat marked the end of Charlemagne 's empire . Despite the titles held by later kings , it was thenceforth as dead as the empire of Constantine . Nor did the old dynasty long survive . In the eastern kingdom the throne was given to Arnulf , an illegitimate member of the house , because lie had the reputation of being an energetic fighter , and he intervened in Italy long enough to be crowned emperor . He was succeeded , however , by a mere child , with whose death in 911 the line came to an end . In the western kingdom the events of 887 led the magnates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and his descendants , after a hundred years of rivalry with the later Carolingians , finally gained undisputed possessi n of the throne as the Capetian dynasty . While France and Gel many thus became independent states under elected kings , the old middle kingdom utterly vanished . The northern end , Lorraine , for a short time was held by the French king ; then it was taken from him by the German . To the south lay the two petty kingdoms of Burgundy and Provence , and beyond the Alps the theoretical kingdom of the Lombards or Italy ? the scene of a murderous warfare that defies narration . The imperial title , disgraced by the local princes who last held it , eventually went begging . Since , according to the Carolingian ideal , church and state were but two phases of one administration , it was inevitable that both should be affected by the calamities of the ninth cen- tury . Down to the time of Charles the Bald learning and literature continued to flourish at the Frankish courts . Then , as all central authority collapsed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or Moslem invaders , the little that remained of Latin culture was threatened with extinction . At the same time the papacy , after a brief period of splendid leadership , sank so low as to forfeit any claim to the respect of Christendom . Nicholas I ( 858-67 ) , the ablest man to hold the see of St. Peter in many generations , asserted his rights in three important respects : by compelling Lothair II of Lorraine to take back a wife whom he had unlawfully repudiated , by enforcing direct papal jurisdiction over the Gallic bishops in the face of opposition from the powerful archbishop of Reims , and by excommunicating the Byzantine emperor for arbitrarily deposing the patriarch of Constantinople . But Nicholas died prematurely , and his successors had the misfortune of becoming immersed in local politics and so of losing their spiritual headship of Europe . By the tenth century the popes had actually been reduced to the rank of ignoble puppets controlled by vicious Roman nobles and their equally vicious women . The age thus seemed to be one of complete ruin . Yet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ From the welter of armed conflict , massacre , and desolation that marked the close of the ninth century were to emerge new political units , characterized by regard for necessity rather than for tradition . These political units were the relatively small fragments into which the empire and its component kingdoms had broken . As a rule , they lacked the appearance of sovereignty , being styled duchies , marquisates , or the like ; but they had the great merit of military efficiency . And among them the strongest were what we recognize as feudal states ? a term that demands fuller discussion in a separate chapter .  | How the once glorious Roman Empire was reduced to the fragment that historians call the Byzantine Empire has been explained in previous chapters . At the opening of the eighth century it was as yet questionable whether even this fragment of the empire could survive the Moslem attack . That it did survive was largely due to the ability of a general named Leo . Having waged a number of victorious campaigns in Anatolia , he was raised to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the defense of the capital against a last great assault by the caliph 's fleet . Again , after months of bitter fighting , the Bosphorus was successfully held , and the opportune weakening of the Ommiad state ended the danger of a renewed offensive . Leo consequently was left in possession , not only of the remaining territory in Europe , but also of Asia Minor as far as a line extending from the Taurus Mountains to the Armenian Highlands ( see Map VI ) . And the respite now gained in the Moslem war was turned to good advantage by a thorough reform of the administration , both civil and military . Leo 's religious policy was not so fortunate . During his early life in southern Asia Minor he had become well acquainted with Mohammedanism , as well as with various Christian sects that condemned many beliefs and practices of the orthodox ? especially what they termed the pagan ceremonial of the established church . While sympathizing neither with heretic nor with Moslem , the emperor seems to have been convinced that :  | both were right in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and pictures in Christian worship was hardly better than idolatry . In 725 , accordingly , he officially denounced it and launched a violent campaign of iconoclasm ( image-breaking ) . Though zealously supported by many of the educated , the decree was intensely unpopular with the mass of the people . Riots broke out both in Greece and in Italy . For opposing the imperial will the aged patriarch of Constantinople was ousted from office , but in Rome no such action was possible . From the beginning the pope gave vigorous support to the traditional cause and eventually pronounced excommunication against all who accepted the iconoclastic program . East and west thus came once more into religious conflict , which intermittently continued until the use of images was formally restored by imperial edict in 843 . Meanwhile , with the passing of the Moslem danger , the Byzantine government had fallen into a chronic state of incompetence . The history of the capital becomes a wearisome recital of palace intrigue , more and more dominated by refined but vicious women . Such was the regent Irene , who had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ might reign as empress ( 797-802 ) and so , as we have seen , to justify the coronation of Charlemagne . After Irene had been dethroned by one insurrection , a series of others kept the empire in constant turmoil . And for a long time no improvement was visible in the character of the sovereigns . Its low ebb may be said to have been reached with Michael III ( 842-67 ) who , from one of his minor vices , was popularly called " the Drunkard . " Being passionately fond of chariot-racing , he singled out for his especial favor a Macedonian horse-trainer named Basil . From the office of chief equerry Basil eventually rose to be co-emperor ; and when Michael gave signs of transferring his affections , Basil secured undisputed title to the crown by having him murdered . Thus , strangely enough , was founded the remarkable Macedonian dynasty , under which the Byzantine Empire enjoyed a last interval of glory . Political decadence , however , did not prevent a noteworthy  | extension of Byzantine influence among the barbarians to the north . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Slavic and other peoples who occupied the interior of the Balkan peninsula in the seventh and eighth centuries remains very obscure . Presumably it was the decline of the Avars , culminating in their utter defeat by Charlemagne , that began a new era for such nations as the Bulgars and Serbs . The latter ? together with the Croats , who were included within the boundary of the Carolingian Empire ? are classified as jugo-Slays ( i.e. , South Slays ) . In the ninth century they were still divided into various tribes and , because of their disunion , were generally dominated by their more powerful neighbors . The Bulgars , on the other hand , were by origin Asiatic nomads who , after settling to the south of the Danube , had intermingled with the Slays and to some extent adopted their language . Now , under independent khans , the Bulgars became a formidable power . In 814 , having overrun most of Thrace , they appeared before the walls of Constantinople itself . Their siege failed , but the ensuing peace gave them all Byzantine territory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this time , furthermore , the Bulgars had conquered a large part of Macedonia and had subjugated the Serbian princes , thus bringing the Bulgarian frontier to the Carolingian march on the upper Adriatic and to the Byzantine province along the Dalmatian coast ( see Map VIII ) . This was the situation when two Christian brothers of Slavic descent ? eventually known as Cyril and Methodius ? undertook a great missionary enterprise among their heathen compatriots . Having been educated at Constantinople and ordained as priests , they decided , about 862 , to preach the Gospel among the Slays of Moravia . But in that country , we are told , they encountered the opposition of Germans devoted to the Roman church and therefore transferred their activities to the Balkan peninsula . So it came about that Cyril , in order to translate the Christian scriptures and liturgy into the vernacular of the South Slays , invented a modified Greek alphabet ? one which , with considerable changes , has remained in use through- out eastern Europe . The first victory of the Cyrillic alphabet came with the conversion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bulgaria ( 852-907 ) accepted Christianity for himself and his people . Since the khan 's action was determined by a peace signed with the Byzantine emperor , the Bulgars were of course subjected to the patriarch of Constantinople ; and in their case the official adoption of the new faith involved that of the Slavic language for both civil and ecclesiastical purposes . It was left for Simeon , son of Boris I , to assume the title of Tsar ( i.e. , Caesar ) and so , after a fashion , to proclaim a Bulgarian Empire . During this time , as we have seen , the Byzantine throne came into the possession of the Macedonian Basil I. Despite its bloodstained inauguration , his reign ( 867-86 ) was not unsuccessful . He actively pushed a much-needed reform of the finances , issued some admirable law-books to supplement Justinian 's compilation of three centuries earlier , and called a general council to re-establish peace in the church . An earlier schism between Rome and Constantinople had been ended by an imperial decree restoring the use of images in Christian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ embroiled with the Latin west in a series of other ecclesiastical disputes . The popes had now come to recognize the Frankish emperor as their official protector and to date their acts according to the year of his reign . Moreover , the able Nicholas 13 had refused to recognize Photius , a distinguished scholar who owed his preferment to the imperial deposition of his predecessor , as lawful patriarch of Constantinople and had objected to the extension of his authority into Bulgaria . Photius had replied by formally condemning a number of Roman usages  --  such as eating eggs in Lent , using unleavened bread in the mass , shaving the faces of priests , and saying that the Holy Spirit proceeded from the Father and the Son ( filioque ) . Such trivial differences obviously disguised the really fundamental issue : whether the Byzantine Empire should or should not accept the Petrine supremacy . It was not until 898 ? after the death of Basil I and Photius , and  | while the papacy was suffering complete degradation ? that a form of settlement was once more agreed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to introduce a final schism will be seen in a later chapter . Basil 's son and grandson were men of scholarly tastes , who not only encouraged learning on the part of others but themselves produced noteworthy books , mainly dealing with phases of administration . With respect to private morals , however , the record of the Macedonian emperors is far from edifying ; ultimately , indeed , it becomes quite fantastic . In the later tenth century the Byzantine court was dominated by the empress Theophano who , it was said , acquired that rank by helping her husband to murder his father ; she then poisoned this husband in order to win a second one , who through her connivance was assassinated by his nephew ; but the latter , ungratefully , sent her to a convent and married her daughter . Whatever may be made of all this scandal ? and it is significant that every one then took such stories for granted ? Theophano 's second husband was the general Nicephorus Phocas , who had gained renown by taking Crete from the Moslems and fighting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ triumphant offensive , completing the conquest of Cilicia , Cyprus , and a portion of northern Syria , including Antioch and Aler ' ) o . Momentarily it seemed as if the Roman state , outliving the empire of the caliphs , might yet revive the glories of Heraclius . But John Tzimisces , the nephew and successor of Nicephorus , was diverted northward by the increasing troubles of the Bulgarian tsar . Simeon , the first to bear that title , had died in 927 and his heirs had been unable to maintain the integrity of their newly proclaimed empire . While , on the western frontier , the Serbs reestablished their independence by a successful rebellion , the Russians crossed the Danube , captured the Bulgarian capital , and demanded the payment of tribute by the Byzantine Empire . These Russians , as noted above , were by origin Swedish Vikings who had gained control of the trade routes between the Baltic and the Black Sea . By the tenth century their scattered bands  | had come to be more or less united under the rule of a prince @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the nomads of the steppe and the Slavic tribes of the interior . From the Dnieper the Russians , at the head of mixed armies , extended their plundering on the one hand to the shores of the Caspian and on the other to the Balkan kingdoms . Down to the middle of the tenth century the princes of Kiev bore Scandinavian names , after that Slavic . For example , it was Igor who led an attack on Constantinople between 941 and 945 . His wife and successor was Olga ; but their son was called Svyatoslav and his son was the famous Vladimir , whose occupation of Bulgaria led to Byzantine intervention . The campaign of John Tzimisces ended with a signal victory . The Russians were driven beyond the Danube and forced to make peace . Although the Bulgarian tsar was allowed to keep the western part of his alleged empire , the eastern part was turned into a Byzantine province . The Bulgarian war was continued by John 's successor , Basil II . After putting down an insurrection in eastern Bulgaria , he turned upon the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recovery the imperial border was thus brought back to the Danube . And in the meantime Basil had established friendly relations with the Russian prince Vladimir , whose dominions had been extended from the frontiers of Poland to the Black Sea . According to the peace now sworn , commercial advantages were assured to both states , while the emperor , for his personal protection , obtained the famous Varangian guard , which continued to serve at Constantinople for well over a century . More important , Vladimir agreed to accept Christianity for himself and his people ? a promise which he faithfully carried out . Thereby the Russians were brought within the pale of civilized nations , like the Bulgarians adopting ecclesiastical rule from Constantinople and all that implied : especially the use of the Cyrillic alphabet and the abiding influence of Byzantium upon Russian arts and institutions . So far as the empire itself was concerned , the political successes of the Macedonian house were naturally accompanied by  | a noteworthy revival of culture . Great zeal was displayed by numerous scholars ? particularly by Photius ( tenth century @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ collecting and studying Greek manuscripts . It is , in fact , to the interest of these men that we are indebted for the preservation of much ancient learning . If the Byzantine Empire , despite the calamities of the seventh and eighth centuries , had not maintained the old standard of classic education , how great would have been our loss ! Yet , in point of originality , it must be admitted that the later Greek writings were generally deficient . Historical memoirs of considerable merit continued to be produced . As already remarked , technical essays on civil and military administration were composed even by the emperors . And there was no lack of hymns , sermons , or theological tracts . The literary revival of the tenth century , however , was chiefly characterized by condensations of earlier works and by encyclopedias based on excerpts from them . Likewise in architecture and the decorative arts , although a number of handsome monuments were raised , they made little if any modification of the forms established during the reign of Justinian . The literary influence of the Byzantines @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fifteenth centuries . During the earlier period Italians and Franks to some extent accepted Byzantine inspiration for their arc itecture and allied arts ; but on the whole , as will be seen , they tended to prefer their own original developments . The greater contributions of the medieval Greeks to the Latins were probably military and commercial . In such matters , assuredly , the barbarians of the west had much to learn from the east . Especially after the reforms of Leo III , the Byzantine Empire was able to maintain a highly efficient army , navy , and civil service ? and all this by virtue of a cash economy which , we may be sure , depended on mercantile prosperity . At Constantinople , as well as in various provincial towns , trade and industry flourished to such a degree that the government , for all its recurrent ineptitude and corruption , found existence comparatively easy . Through lack of study , unfortunately , our information concern- ing the material civilization of the Byzantine Empire , and in particular its customary organization of business , remains very @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ further conclusions in that respect , we should examine the contemporary life of the Moslem world . Just before the coronation of Pepin as king of the Franks the The Arab Ommiads were supplanted in the caliphate by the Abbasids . The second of the new line was al-Mansur ( 754-75 ) , who built the city of Bagdad on the Tigris to serve as his capital . His grandson was the , famous Harun al-Rashid ( 786-809 ) , and the latter was succeeded , after a short interval , by al-Mamun ( 813-33 ) . With these gorgeous princes the Abbasid caliphate reached its height of power ? and so became even more foreign to the ideals of Abu-Bakr and Omar . The last vestiges of its old simplicity had now disappeared . The ruler of Islam was no longer an Arab chieftain who lived on terms of equality with his nomad followers , but an oriental despot of mixed blood who treated all men as his subjects , whether or not they belonged to the great families of Mecca and Medina . Although the Abbasid caliphs emphasized the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the traditions of the Persian monarchy rather than by the precepts of the Koran . It is chiefly as magnificent builders , as patrons of secular learning , as lovers of wine , women , and song , that they are celebrated in the pages of history . Politically , the Abbasid revolution produced a rapid weakening of the Arab Empire . Devout Mohammedans found the new caliphs quite as worldly as their Ommiad predecessors . In the eyes of legitimists , who continued to support the house of Ali , they were equally usurpers . And in so far as the Bagdad government favored the Iranians , it antagonized the Syrians and other western peoples . The result was that , in some fashion , the outlying provinces soon gained autonomy . Spain , as we have seen , came under the absolute control of an Ommiad emir , later styled caliph , at Cordova . In 788 another rebel , claiming  | descent from Fatima and Ali , secured dominion over Morocco , where the succeeding emir established a new capital for himself at Fez . Early in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a virtually independent state , and after 868 a Turkish adventurer obtained a similar position in Egypt and Syria . Meanwhile , to the east , various powerful governors had successfully adopted the same policy . By the end of the ninth century , accordingly , the caliph 's rule was actually restricted to the central portion of his theoretical empire , and even there he lived in constant fear of his own ministers and generals . He kept himself in magnificent seclusion , guarded by Turkish mercenaries , while to maintain authority in his palace he developed a capricious terrorism that has seldom been equaled . Such a despot , known to few outside his harem and his household of slaves and eunuchs , utterly lacked the heroic character of the early caliphs . His headship of the faith remained little more than a legal form ; all semblance of religious unity was lost among the " two and seventy jarring sects " of the Rubaiyat . Nevertheless , the world of Islam continued to be distinguished by a common civilization . From the Oxus and the Himalayas to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ much the same . Despite the endless quarrels of Mohammedan theologians , all recognized the sanctity of the Koran and obeyed the injunction that it be used in 1 le original ? a fact that maintained the supremacy of Arabic throughout all Moslem territories . No one could there be thought educated unless he knew the vernacular of the Prophet . And that flexible language soon proved itself as well adapted to the technicalities of philosophy and science as to the subtleties of the more traditional literature . By the eighth century , of course , relatively few persons outside Arabia were of pure Arab descent , and by no means all the subjects of Moslem princes were themselves Moslems . On every side Hindus , Parsees , Jews , and Christians learned Arabic for the sake of commercial , social , or legal advantage , and so became able to combine lessons from a dozen scattered countries . Largely through men of this sort Abbasid  | culture developed the cosmopolitan richness and variety that characterized it for many generations . Poets had flourished in Arabia long before Mohammed 's time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it continued to enjoy great honor . As the Arabs spread over the world and increasingly adopted city life , the older forms naturally became obsolete and popular demand shifted from conventional accounts of tribal warfare to matters of personal experience ? that is to say , towards lyric themes . Yet the old passion for story-telling lived on ; tales from every land were reworked and put into prose . This was the origin of the collection known as the Thousand and One Nights , which in. some measure reflects the early Abbasid age . For a long time historiography continued to be a closely related form of literature ; for the older writers restricted their interest to the deeds of heroic persons and introduced every alleged fact by enumerating a chain of narrators to link the present reporter with an original eye-witness . But gradually , somewhat influenced by Persian and Jewish example , Arab historians undertook the composition of general annals that began with the creation of the world and presented a chronological record of subsequent happenings . The most distinguished of these annalists was al-Tabari ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eclipsed by that of al-Masudi who , towards the middle of the tenth century , wrote a comprehensive history in thirty volumes , arranged topically and based on his own investigations during the course of extensive travel . In both theology and jurisprudence , of course , the prime authority of Islam is the Koran ; but like other legal and religious compilations it must be continuously applied and interpreted in order to meet the changing needs of various societies . Having no ordained clergy , Mohammedans have never had anything that Christians would recognize as a church . So , throughout Moslem countries , the divine revelations embodied in the Koran have come to be supplemented by a considerable body of tradition . During the eighth and ninth centuries many scholars devoted their lives to recording such deeds and opinions  | of the Prophet as could be attested by his companions and followers . The result was the acceptance by the orthodox of the six books called the sunnah . And these , in turn , served as the basis of elaborate commentaries , justifying no less than four systems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be adopted by all Moslem peoples except those of the shiahthe Persians and others who have stubbornly refused to recognize the historical caliphate or any of its works , and who hold that a rightful supplement to the Koran may be promulgated only by some particular descendant of Ali and Fatima . Aside from the Koran and a stock of vernacular poetry , the Arab conquerors of the seventh century brought with them hardly anything that could be called either literary or scholarly . The rudiments of their science and philosophy , as of their arts , had to be taken from the lands which they invaded . There , especially in the cities of Syria and Egypt , they found great schools with a tradition of study running back to the golden age of Athens . Great libraries were stored with books embodying the accumulated wisdom of a thousand years . The Arabs , it should be noted , carried out no wanton destruction . Only a foolish story of a much later time alleges that Amr , the ruler of Egypt , heated the Alexandrian baths by throwing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ still existed in the occupied provinces were filled with Greek work , which  - -  like the writings of Hebrews , Persians , Chinese , and Hindus ? remained generally closed to the inquiring Moslem until they could be translated into Arabic . Although the Ommiad caliphate had witnessed significant beginnings in this direction , it was only with the development of a cosmopolitan civilization under the Abbasids that conditions became favorable for the introduction of Hellenistic learning on a large scale . The needed intermediaries were readily found . Since the time of Justinian various groups of Christians , particularly Nestorians and Jacobites , had extended their missionary efforts into central Asia , and through their agency a number of Greek works had already been put into Persian and  | Aramaic . Besides there were numerous Hellenized Jews who had been led to acquire a thorough knowledge of Arabic . Thanks to the patronage of the caliphs , the work of translation was rapidly accomplished . Begun under al-Mansur , it was continued under al-Rashid and greatly developed under al-Mamun , who organized a regular school for the study of Greek science @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nestorian Christian named Hunayn ibn-Ishaq ( d. 877 ) , a skilled physician and a prolific writer . Hunayn and his pupils translated Galen , Hippocrates , parts of Aristotle , and many other books , including Plato 's Republic . Ransacking the cities of Egypt and Syria for manuscripts , they formed at Bagdad one of the greatest libraries in the world . Meanwhile other translators had turned their attention to such classics as Euclid and Ptolemy . By the end of the ninth century practically the whole body of Greek writings on medicine and mathematics , together with all of Aristotle and some of the Neo-Platonists , had been made available to Moslem students . And through more obscure channels they had likewise obtained very useful information from Persian , Hindu , and Chinese sources . Having accumulated this formidable mass of learning , the scholars of Islam ? unlike their Byzantine contemporaries ? were by no means satisfied with perusal and admiration of the old . Instead , they carried out an original advance in thought that can best be appreciated by examining particular fields of investigation . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as the author of works based on his own experience as a practicing physician . Among his books we thus find , alongside commentaries on the classics of medicine , a compendium of the subject as a whole and a remarkable essay on diseases of the eye . Al-Razi , who belonged to the next generation , similarly combined much theoretical writing with a very active participation in the medical activity of his day . He is said to have composed well over a hundred books ? among them an encyclopedia that was to enjoy widespread use in Latin Europe and the first scientific treatise on smallpox . As director of the state hospital at Bagdad , al-Razi was intimately connected with all the medical  | projects of the Abbasid caliphate : the establishment of definite courses in pharmacy for men who sold drugs to the public , the extension of charitable treatment among the poorer classes by endowing a regular staff of physicians , and eventually the licensing of all persons who engaged in medical practice . Two other scientists of the ninth century may be singled out for particular @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ distinction of being called the first Arab philosopher . He was , at any rate , the first Arab to make an extensive study of Aristotle and so to become interested in the reconciliation of Greek thought with Moslem theology ? a project that was to occupy his successors for many generations . Al-Kindi was a sort of universal scholar , writing not merely on logic and metaphysics but also on meteorology , optics , and music . The reputation he came to enjoy may be judged from the fact that , rightly or wrongly , 265 books are attributed to him . No such imposing list of works bears the name of al-Khwarizmi ( d. c. 85o ) . Yet he was to have momentous influence on European science ; for he produced the first known exposition of our everyday arithmetic and the treatise through which the subject of algebra came to have that designation , as well as various books on trigonometry , astronomy , and geography . The connection between al-Khwarizmi and modern mathematics must be left for treatment in a later chapter ; that between him and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ point . Thanks to the translations by Hunayn and his school , the Arabs became acquainted with the great work of Ptolemy , which they called al-Majisti ? later made into Almagest . From it they obtained not only the theoretical science of trigonometry but also the basis for all their geographical and astronomical studies . Geometry , together with a few algebraic processes , they learned from Euclid and other Greek writers . On the contrary , the nine numerical symbols that we know as Arabic were derived from India , apparently in connection with certain Hindu works on astronomy that were translated before the end of the eighth century . In themselves , these nine symbols have no especial significance ; for.any series of marks , arbitrarily agreed  | on , will do as well . It is the zero that allows our numerals to be arranged in columns and so , under a decimal system , to represent tens , hundreds , thousands , and the like . To explain the origin of modern arithmetic , we must therefore explain the origin of the zero . The Greeks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ zero , had been forced , like other ancient peoples , to make their larger computations on some sort of abacus ? an instrument with counters set in grooves or strung on wires . With an abacus addition and subtraction are easy , multiplication is not difficult , and division is at least possible . But the Greek or Roman , after working his problem , had to write his answer in numerals that by no means corresponded to the columns of his abacus . The Hindu , with his nine symbols , was not much better off ; for how would he represent a vacant column on the abacus ? Precisely who first thought of inventing a symbol to stand for such a vacant column we do not know . but it was al-Khwarizmi who first described that simple device in a book that has come down to us ; and , having such a book , the harassed mathematician could throw his abacus away . It was likewise al-Khwarizmi who seems , by combining Greek and Hindu elements , to have perfected what we know as algebra . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ title placed on one of his books . Thus established , Arabic scholarship made excellent progress in the following centuries . Under the successors of al-Kindi philosophy remained fundamentally Aristotelian , though somewhat influenced by Neo-Platonism and , in more orthodox circles , subordinated to the teachings of the Koran . Yet the Moslem schools produced many distinguished rationalists , the greatest of whom was assuredly ibn-Rushd of Cordova , better known as Averroes ( d.1198 ) . Medicine continued to flourish and reached a new height of excellence in the work of ibn-Sing , or Avicenna ( d. 1037 ) . He , like al-Kindi , was an encyclopedic writer of broad interests , including poetry , religion , and mathematics . It was ,  | however , his Canon , a comprehensive summary of medical theory and practice , that caused him to be regarded as the peer of Galen in the later universities of the west . Much profitable study was also given to mathematical subjects , especially astronomy , for the benefit of which the caliph al-Mamun had erected a fine observatory at Bagdad . There and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the astrolabe for determining the movements of heavenly bodies , and enormously extended the tables of observations made by the Greeks . Within the field of astronomy during the tenth and eleventh centuries the three outstanding scholars were alBattani , al-Biruni , and Omar Khayyam . The first , by means of original research , proved that even the Almagest should be amended in certain particulars . The second wrote a series of books to des ribe the measurement of time among various peoples , the earth 's rotation on its axis , and many aspects of physical geography . The third , though best loved as a poet , made noteworthy contributions to science , including an improved calendar and a developed system of algebra that to some extent anticipated the analytical geometry of Descartes . And in the meantime a distinct advance had been made in the related subjects of music and optics . In addition to numerous essays on philosophy , government , and mathematics , al-Farabi ( d. 950 ) was able to  | produce the first known work on the measurement of music ? i.e. , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time , or measures . The contemporary al-Haytham ( Latinized as Alhazen ) was another prolific author . While holding the post of chief astronomer to the Egyptian emir , he carried out experiments that disproved the Greek theories with regard to eyesight and led to a better explanation of such phenomena as light , color , reflection , magnification , and refraction . Finally we should note that , beginning with al-Razi , the physicians and other scholars of Islam continuously devoted their energies to the science of chemistry ( i.e. , alchemy ) ' and that , for all their misapplied efforts , they attained many results of lasting worth . To our minds , of course , the Arabs perpetuated and further developed many absurd ideas . Their alchemists spent much time in the vain search for a medium by which to transmute metals , or for an elixir of life . Despite their original work in medicine , they held to the physiology of Galen.8 Their astronomy was never divorced from the Ptolemaic system , according to which the earth is the center of the universe and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by that of the fixed stars . Many also accepted the ancient lore of the Persians and Egyptians concerning the influence exerted by the heavenly bodies on the destinies of men . Yet , whatever its shortcomings , the science of the Arabs was infinitely superior to that of the Latin west and in certain respects marked an advance over that of the ancient Greeks . It may be added that the casting of a horoscope then , as for centuries to come , seemed no more mysterious than the prediction of an eclipse . If the sun could affect the growth of crops and the moon could control the movement of the tides , why could not Mars govern the course of a war , or Venus that of a love affair ? And before we condemn alchemy as sheer foolishness , we should remember that to the Arabs the true elements were the earth , air , fire , and water of Aristotle ;  | The subject here presented for discussion should be understood as being limited by a dominant interest in the history of western Europe . However @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ own sake , our attention must be concentrated upon the influence of eastern civilization within the Latin world . Even as thus defined , the problem is not at all easy . Most historians have concerned themselves with the political and ecclesiastical developments reported by chroniclers and have been satisfied with the vaguest of generalizations regarding the life of ordinary people . As a consequence , we can ask a dozen questions about actual conditions in the Byzantine or the Arab Empire for every single answer that we may hope to obtain . And when we suddenly discover an important novelty in Latin Europe , we often have no idea as to whether it was owed to Greek or Moslem , or as to how it was introduced . In the following pages , accordingly , we can merely glance at some of the more prominent features that distinguished eastern from western culture in the tenth century , and leave to experts the task of determining the origin of these features and their particular significance in oriental history . It has been noted above that the effective organization of the Byzantine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Greek cities . It is likewise evident that the establishment of the Arab Empire was made possible by the wise economic policy of the early caliphs as well as by their military genius . The Moslem conquest by no means ruined the cities of Syria , Egypt , and Africa . Their connections with Greece and Italy , it is true , were largely destroyed ; but to make up for that severance they were now brought into much closer contact with Persia and the far east . The caravan trade of central Asia naturally fell into the hands of the Arabs , who had long been expert in such business . They brought precious things from China and the Indies direct to the Syrian ports . On the Moslem architecture  | north they had access to the Black Sea and , through the nomads of the steppe , dealt largely in the furs and slaves of eastern Europe . From Egypt they penetrated into Ethiopia , and from the Sahara into the gold-bearing country about the Niger . By sea their ships linked the coasts of India , Persia , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Much of this traffic converged on Egypt , where Alexandria and Cairo gained enormous wealth through the trans-shipment of exports to the west . The Mediterranean , except for the Adriatic and the Aegean , became virtually a domain of the Moslems ; from the mountains of Asia Minor to those of Spain the shores of the mainland were all theirs . In the ninth century one or another of the nearby emirs secured the Balearic Islands , Sicily , Malta , and Crete . A hundred years later it was still doubtful whether Italy could be successfully defended by the Christians . The Moslem dominions , though now divided among rival princes , were thus characterized by a commercial and industrial activity that certainly approached , and perhaps surpassed , the standard of the Graeco-Roman world . An important factor in that activity was , of course , the linguistic unity of Islam , and it stimulated the interchange not only of goods but also of ideas . The result was one of the finest cultural achievements known to history . As we have seen , the Arab scholars took @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which they developed in many original ways . Their splendid art was much the same kind of product . So far as architecture was concerned , the nomads of Arabia had literally nothing of their own . It was not until they had occupied Syria and Persia that they could learn the first principles of monumental construction in stone . Then , however , the caliphs were soon led to the erection of new structures for the use of their followers , and so to the creation of an architectural style that may properly be called Moslem . The characteristic building of Islam has always been the mosque , which is essentially a place where persons may congregate at fixed hours for the divine worship prescribed by the Koran . The first mosque was that established by Mohammed at Medina  --  principally a courtyard which was attached to his own  | residence and which was partially covered by a wooden roof . Later , as the Arabs spread into the neighboring regions , they naturally came to use the existing basilicas and temples , either Roman or Persian , for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seeking to rival the Christian churches of Syria , undertook the construction of glorious new buildings in their principal cities . The earliest of these was the Dome of the Rock at Jerusalem , which was put up by Byzantine workmen in the last decade of the seventh century . The dome itself is of timber and metal set on an octagon of masonry and all is gorgeously decorated with mosaic . A greater monument of architecture is the mosque of Damascus , erected early in the next century . Here , for the first time , we encounter a mosque that was designed to be not merely a place of worship but also a center of political and educational activity . Internally , it is an aisled structure occupying one portion of an ancient temple . Externally , the two stories are marked by a double arcade , and the whole is dominated by a series of minarets , slender towers from which the muezzin calls the faithful to prayer . A series of remarkable mosaics on the adjoining walls have now again been uncovered after being whitewashed by some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Abbasids at Bagdad survived the Mongol conquest of the thirte nth century . So our knowledge of the later Moslem architecture is largely restricted to the monuments of the emirs in Egypt , northern Africa , and Spain . Among their mosques those of Cairo and Cordova are outstanding . The latter , now transformed into a Christian church , is distinguished by no less than 1293 columns , mainly of antique origin , and by extremely rich adornment . In Spain , likewise , are to be seen the most splendid of all the palaces constructed by Moslem rulers : the Alcazar at Seville and the Alhambra at Granada , both dating from the period after 1200 . Throughout the architecture of Moorish Spain and Africa , as of Moslem countries generally , the horseshoe arch remains very prominent ? especially in the bulbous cupolas that , together with the loftier minarets , give a  | characteristic sky-line to so many of the great mosques . Sometimes , for the sake of variety , the arches are pointed or cusped ( see Figure 12 ) . The precise relationship @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Syria and Mesopotamia need not detain us . Nor are we particularly interested in whether the Moslems derived their systems of ornamentation directly from Persia or through a Byzantine medium . Suffice it to say that in many spheres of decorative art they attained great perfection . Their sculptors and painters , it is true , continued to suffer from one serious disadvantage . An early Mohammedan tradition was held to forbid the representation of either men or animals , and the rule was strictly enforced at least in religious edifices . But by way of compensation the Moslem artists developed astonishing skill in other forms of creative work . largely inspired by Persian models , they made charming patterns of flowers and leaves , both naturalistic and conventionalized . They turned calligraphy ? such as the mere inscribing of verses from the Koran ? into a truly fine art . And by combining geometric figures they produced the intricate and graceful designs that are still called arabesques . These schemes of decoration were lavishly applied to the later Moslem buildings through a variety of techniques : notably mosaic . carved @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tile . However splendid the craftsmanship of the Byzantine Empire , it was matched in all but religious iconography by that of Islam . Long before the Crusades the Moslems had come to lead the Mediterranean world in the production of articles that were both useful and beautiful . For example , in the manufacture of all luxurious fabrics ? whether of linen , silk , wool , or cotton  | they have never been surpassed . The carpets , rugs , tapestries , brocades , and embroideries of Persia and the neighboring lands remain the despair of modern artisans . The influence of the Arab textile industry upon later Europe is still attested by the derivation of damask from Damascus , muslin from Mosul , and fustian from al-Fustat , a suburb of Cairo . Cotton and satin are words imported into English from Arabic ; as are scarlet , crimson , saffron , and lilac ? the names of colors that were usually associated with particular stuffs from the orient . The Moslem superiority in metal-working , glass-making , the carving of crystal and ivory , the decoration of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . All Europe thus came to prize the tempered sword blades of Toledo , the sumptuous leather goods of Morocco , the luster ware ( pottery with a metallic glaze ) of Egypt , and the damascened armor of Syria ( i.e. , steel inlaid with gold and silver by a process perfected at Damascus ) . Closely related to these artistic developments were the improved techniques which the Arabs came to employ in other fields of industry . Paper-making , and with it the earliest forms of block-printing , they seem to have learned from the Chinese and to have brought into the Mediterranean world before the twelfth century . Greek fire , on the other hand , is said to have been a Syrian invention that was kept as a military secret by the Byzantine emperors of the seventh and following o nturies . About all that is known of it is that it was a pitchlike substance which would burn in water , and which on that account was especially dangerous when hurled against ships . Eventually the Arabs , having somehow discovered the secret , were able @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ And in the meantime , either from the Persians or from the Byzantines , they had acquired an excellent knowledge of siegecraft , including the use of such military engines as had been perfected by the Romans . That the Ommiad caliphs built a navy and so gained control of the southern Mediterranean has been noted in a previous chapter . For this achievement , obviously . they depended merely on galleys and other war vessels constructed  | after Byzantine models . But it was presumably the Arabs who , by virtue of their oriental contacts , later taught the mariners of the west two invaluable lessons . One was how to rig a ship with triangular , or lateen , sails and so to make possible its being tacked against the wind . The other was how to steer a course with the help of a magnetic compass the device that first permitted safe navigation when beyond sight of land . Among the other inventions which the Arabs probably brought westward were the windmill , first mentioned by alMasudi in the tenth century , and the spinning-wheel , said to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ remind us that the Moors of Spain introduced an improved system of irrigation for the sake of raising such new crops as rice , indigo , sugar , oranges , and lemons . The last three of these products , it may be remarked , bear names derived from Arabic ; as do spinach , artichoke , and various other vegetables . It is obviously to the traders of Islam that we are indebted for the importation of such things into Europe . And it is to them , as well as to the scientists , that we are indebted for the many Arabic works on geography ? the great authorities of the learned world until the Portuguese explorations of the fifteenth century . In general , too , a practical consideration inspired the Arabic encyclopaedias on plants , animals , stones , metals , and the like ; for these books were valued not only by the scholar but also by the physician , the artisan , and even the farmer . Throughout the Dark Age in the west the Byzantine Empire remained a strongly organized and highly cultured state @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? especially , as we shall see , in the realm of military tactics . We have , furthermore , every reason to suppose that the Venetians owed much of their skill in shipbuilding and in all phases of maritime enterprise to their intimate association with  | Constantinople ; and the Venetians became the instructors of the other Italians . Yet , with regard to most aspects of material civilization , as of intellectual activity , the Latins will be found to have borrowed from the Moslems rather than from the Byzantines.  | BY THE opening of the tenth century not only Charlemagne 's empire but also the three kingdoms of his grandsons had practically disappeared , being resolved into such fragments as could be politically managed . In Germany the change was to some extent legalized when , on the death of the last Carolingian in 911 , the magnates raised one of their own number to the vacant throne . If Conrad of Franconia , the new king , had ever thought of governing the entire kingdom , he soon abandoned the idea and recognized as his actual equals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Alamania ) , and Bavaria ( see Map X ) . He could , indeed , do nothing else ; for the kingdom was paralyzed by the Hungarian raids and the dukes had generally risen to power through revolutionary movements inspired by local patriotism . Nor was the situation greatly modified under Conrad 's successor , Henry the Fowler ( 919-36 ) . whose activities as king merely continued what he had begun as duke of Saxony . It was to defend the valleys of the Elbe and Weser that he constructed his famous burgen ? fortified camps to serve as centers of military and civil administration . And it was on the Unstrut , a tributary of the Elbe , that he won his great victory over the Hungarians in 933 . Even the conquest of Lorraine , which had earlier been seized by the French king , was accomplished with little or no co-operation from the other dukes , whom Henry left to enjoy virtually sovereign powers in their own territories . How Otto , Henry 's illustrious son , was led  | held by the counts of Toulouse @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Spanish March . As remarked above , the British Isles were still devoid of political unity when the Viking inroads began . Ireland was the scene of chronic warfare among its rival clans , and similar conditions prevailed throughout the west and north of Britain , where Welsh , Scots , and Picts had long been fighting one another as well as the Germanic invaders from the east . Although the kings of Northumbria , Mercia , and Wessex had in turn gained a vague lordship over their neighbors , there had been no real consolidation of the Anglo-Saxon states . Under such conditions the Danes , as all Vikings were called in Britain , found it comparatively simple to conquer the little kingdoms of the eastern coast . When , in 871 , Alfred came to the throne of Wessex , it seemed very doubtful whether his heritage could be saved from a like fate . But Alfred proved to be a man of remarkable ability and determination . Adopting the Danes ' own tactics , he organized a system of defense based on a continuous series of fortified camps @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a fleet to co-operate with a mobile army in the field . After many reverses he won a decisive victory . The Danish king of East Anglia signed peace , accepting Christianity for himself and his followers and recognizing as Alfred 's all lands to the southwest of a line drawn between Chester and the , mouth of the Thames ( see Map IX ) . The West Saxon kingdom was thus enlarged in two directions : on the south it had incorporated such older states as Kent and Sussex , and on the north about half of Mercia . During the early tenth century Alfred 's successors , Edward and Aethelstan , carried out a triumphant offensive in the Danelaw , the lands ruled by a number of Danish chieftains . As the West Saxons gradually occupied this territory , they reorganized it by establishing administrative districts centered in boroughs ? an arrangement that is still reflected by the map of the midland counties ; for these boroughs and surrounding shires were henceforth to serve as permanent units of civil and military  | government . All the old English territory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and the resulting kingdom , so much broader and stronger than the original Wessex , received the name of England . It did not , of course , include the whole of Britain . Wales and Strathclyde remained entirely independent under various Celtic princes ; while to the north the Scots and Picts combined against the Danes to form the state that has since been known as Scotland . Until the last quarter of the tenth century England continued to enjoy prosperity and peace . Then the accession of Aethelred , whom contemporaries dubbed " the Redeless " because he never knew what ought to be done , brought a revival of old troubles . The kingdom , though nominally subjected to a single administration , had never been really unified . In particular the northern shires , being largely populated by descendants of Danish raiders and colonists , remained quite distinct from the rest of the country . In response to local demand , the Saxon kings found it necessary to recognize as their lieutenants a good many Danish earls ; and the latter , constantly striving for greater @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Scandinavia . By this time the kingdoms of Denmark , Norway , and Sweden had already emerged , and within another generation all three had been Christianized . But the time-honored habits of the Vikings still persisted . Thousands of the more adventurous crossed the stormy Atlantic to Iceland , and from that new home extended their voyages to the shores of Greenland and , about the year 1000 , to those of North America . Other thousands , meanwhile , had continued to live as freebooters , preying on commerce and ravaging defenseless coasts ? such as those of England . The incompetent " Ethelred , by levying taxes in order to pay blackmail to the marauders , finally encouraged the Danish king Sweyn ( Svein ) to invade England with a larger force . And this adventure led to his conquest of the kingdom ; for " Ethelred , after a feeble resistance , took refuge with his father-in-law , the duke of Normandy . How the Normans thus came to be interested in English affairs , and with momentous consequences for  | To introduce the present discussion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ customs can properly be described as feudal ? the one developed in the older parts of the Frankish kingdom and thence spread far and wide throughout medieval Europe . Whether the customs of other peoples in other ages may be called feudal by analogy is a somewhat dubious matter which may here be passed over . We are concerned merely with the original feudalism . That term , of course , implies some kind of system built upon fiefs ( feuda ) ; but the latter , as already noted in a foregoing chapter , presupposed the personal relationship known as vassalage . There could always be vassals who , like the " companions " depicted by Tacitus , had not been endowed with fiefs ; there could never be a fief without a vassal to hold it . The truth of this statement will become apparent as we more closely examine particular feudal institutions . Of prime importance was the Frankish ceremony of homage , which can certainly be traced back to early Carolingian times and was probably older . Through Christian influence it had come to be associated with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or on holy relics . Such an oath , however , was oft : n prescribed for all subjects of a ruler and did not in itself create the bond of vassalage . To become a vassal a man had to perform homage . Coming before A , the prospective lord , B knelt , placed his two hands between those of A , and acknowledged himself A 's man ( French homme ) . A then raised B to his feet and kissed him , thereby accepting his homage and recognizing him as vassal . Thenceforth the pair were supposed to be bound by a permanent tie of mutual loyalty and support ? a relationship portrayed by the feudal epics as to the highest degree sacred and honorable . In real life , unfortunately , the relationship was not so ideal . Lords and vassals often quarreled over their re- spective rights , exchanged defiances , and engaged in bitter warfare . As will be seen from the study of actual cases , the effectiveness of vassalage depended on a number of variable factors , notably the character and political @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must always be remembered that vassalage and lordship are relative terms . Since all vassals might themselves be the lords of other men , neither term designated an exclusive group . To be a vassal was by no means disgraceful . On the contrary , vassalage was the equivalent of gentility ; for by ancient tradition the vassal was a member of the warrior class . Besides , by the eleventh century , it had become exceptional for vassals to live in their lord 's household ; instead they had normally received lands on which to set up their own domestic establishments and in return for which they had agreed to give special services . As a fief-holder , the vassal possessed , not merely a certain acreage , but organized estates that included peasant cultivators free and unfree . And over the local population he exercised political as well as economic control , assessing a variety of public dues and charges , raising fortifications , and administering justice . In other words , the vassal belonged to the agrarian aristocracy , the governing class in the feudal state . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could be justified by a grant of immunity or other delegation of authority by the king . Frequently , however , the lord 's title rested on nothing more than sheer usurpation ; for the later Carolingian age was one in which men followed The good old rule , . . . the simple plan , That they should take who have the power And they should keep who can . By the end of the tenth century , as we have seen , the French king had lost all effective control over his realm as a whole . His principal officials ? usually styled dukes , marquises , or counts ? had come to hold what amounted to hereditary sub-kingdoms . And often enough their authority was contested by a number  | of their own vassals , both ecclesiastic and lay . To make hard and fast generalizations about such arrangements is impossible ; they were the result , not of systematic planning , but of circumstance . Each territory had its own custom , which must be individually studied to be understood . Yet , despite all local variation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ certain common principles . One was primogeniture . Land could be easily divided . An office could not be , and the fief was a sort of office even when it was not styled a dukedom , a marquisate , or the like . The furnishing of troops was itself a state service , the value of which depended on a personal responsibility . So feudal law , unlike Roman and Germanic law , came to require that a fief should pass in its entirety to the eldest son . This principle involves what is commonly known as the inheritance of fiefs , also an established custom by the end of the tenth century . What was actually inherited , however , was the right to obtain the fief on certain conditions . Vassalage was not hereditary . The son had no legal title to his father 's fief until he had performed homage for it , and he was not permitted to do that until he had reached man 's estate . A girl , since she was no warrior , could be neither a vassal nor a fief-holder . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after she had been married to a proper vassal , that a daughter could legally inherit a fief . Meanwhile it remained in the lord hands and technically ceased to be a lief at all . Wherever fief-holding had not degenerated into a mere fittion , it was held to imply a contract between the two parties . Along with his fief the vassal received from his lord a guarantee of protection and justice ; in return he owed the lord various forms of service and assistance . Very commonly the fief bore a specific obligation for mounted soldiers , or knights5  --  - in which case the vassal was said to hold by knight service . Occasionally he was bound to furnish arms or other objects of value , or to perform some duty at court ; such tenures are usually classified as serjeanty . By a sort of legal fiction , a church might obtain a fief to be held by free alms ? to owe no service except prayer  | tor the donor 's soul or the souls of his ancestors . But this tenure was not always enjoyed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ part of their lands by knight service and ? through a special compromise that exempted them from personal service ? supplied their quotas by granting fiefs to vassals . In any case , the obligation resting on the fief was not supposed to be indefinite . Service , as a rule , could be demanded no more than once a year and , when troops were provided , only for a fixed term ? in northern France forty days . Whatever the nature of his tenure , the vassal regularly owed suit to the lord 's court : that is to say ; he had to attend the lord whenever summoned . At irregular intervals great assemblies would be held for ceremonial purposes , and on these occasions the lord would submit to his men for their approval projects of general interest to his territory . Such times would also be appropriate for celebrating a son 's knighthood or a daughter 's marriage . Often , however , the court would be held for the sake of administering justice , in which connection the vassal , if not appearing as defendant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ For the feudal court , though presided over by the lord , was legally the body of suitors themselves , who rendered decisions according to recognized custom . The vassal , therefore , claimed the right to judgment by his peers , his social equals . Even when he came to trial , he kept his gentleman 's weapons , appealing to a decision by judicial combat . The two parties , after God had been solemnly invoked to defend the right , fought it out and the victor was held to be justified in his contention . The vassal , furthermore , owed hospitality to his lord . This was a very expensive obligation when the latter came with a large retinue and made a protracted stay ; so the exaction of entertainment was frequently limited by written charter or commuted into a money payment . Besides , if the lord incurred some extraordinary expense , the vassal was usually liable for a contribution called aid . The occasions varied from region to region ; in northern France an aid was commonly due when the lord knighted a son , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and held to ransom . In case the lord was a  | clergyman , the installation of a successor or the necessity of a trip to Rome provided a good excuse for seeking pecuniary assistance . The general rule always held good , however , that the vassal was not subject to arbitrary taxation ; if subsidies were wanted for purposes other than those recognized by custom , or if service was needed in addition to what was definitely owed , the lord had to ask his men for a voluntary grant . More profitable than the aids were those perquisites of the lord that we know as feudal incidents . Relief was a sum paid by an heir on securing possession of a fief . Wardship was exercised by a lord over an heir who was under age , and it included the right to the income from the fief during such minority . Marriage , in the technical sense , was the lord 's power of approving the husband chosen by the heiress to a fief ? a privilege that commonly led to the selection of the highest bidder @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ return of a fief to the lord 's possession when a vassal died without heirs . Forfeiture was the penalty for felony ? the confiscation of the fief should a vassal refuse to perform his owed service . But the penalty was easier to declare than to enforce . A rebellious vassal could always justify his action by alleging default on the part of the lord , and the issue would be left for determination by force of arms . Finally , it should be noted that , since none of the ordinary incidents could be expected from ecclesiastical fiefs , the lord by way of compensation generally took over the lands of a dead , relate and treated them as his own until a successor was installed . The services and incidental revenues just enumerated were eceived by any feudal lord from lands granted as fiefs to vassals . What remained in his own possession was called his demesne ( less technically , domain ) , and from it he received the manorial income that will be described in the following chapter . Each vassal could in turn give fiefs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the service required by the lord . But , to support himself and his family , he would have to keep at least some of his lands in demesne . The profit in fief-holding , we may say , arose only from the surplus of demesne income over and above the cost of the owed service . From these facts it should be apparent that a particular village could be included within any  | number of fiefs , being held of one another by any number of vassals . Eventually , however , it would be directly managed as demesne of some landlord . Below the feudal hierarchy and supporting it by their labor were always the peasants . The gulf between the two classes was hard to cross . A man Chivalry of low birth , though not actually unfree , could rarely become a fief-holder . Through the service of a prince ? by acting as administrative agents of some sort ? even serfs occasionally gained wealth and power ; yet in the eyes of the gentry they never lost their base blood , and it was long @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ And to keep the peasant youth from the military class , there was not merely the handicap of social prejudice but also the professional training required by the code of chivalry . This term ( derived from the French chevalier , horseman ) refers to the set of customs that were generally held to regulate knighthood . During the early feudal age the boy of noble birth , unless destined for a clerical career , was not expected to have an education in letters . Since his profession was to be that of a warrior , his training was essentially military . While still a child , he began his lessons in riding and in the use of weapons . His graduation from this rude school was the attainment of knightly rank , but first he had to pass through two preliminary grades . Commonly he would serve in some feudal court as a valet ( i.e. , a little vassal ) or damoiseau ( little lord ) , while learning how to conduct himself in polite society and continuing his martial exercises . Later , in his early teens , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or squire ( French ecuyer , shield-bearer ) . Eventually he would be allowed to ride to battle with his elders and , after proving his fitness , would be knighted ? usually by the lord at whose court he had been brought up , though the honor could be conferred by any knight . In the final ceremony of adoubernent , when the candidate was formally invested with the arms and armor df a mature man , we may clearly see the perpetuation of an ancient custom described by Tacitus .  | Primitive chivalry was therefore non-Christian , and originally it had no feminine implications . It was simply the standard of conduct adopted by members of the warrior class to govern their relations with one another . The knight should be brave to the point of foolhardiness . He should fight according figure to certain accepted rules , scorning tricks and strategy as savoring of cowardice . He should be loyal to his friends . He should keep his plighted word . He should treat a conquered foe with gallantry . Yet , although the gentleman was chivalrous towards @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ obligation towards the baseborn . In this respect , as in all , his attitude was intensely aristocratic . The fact that in contemporary records miles ( Latin for soldier ) always refers to the mounted warrior , the chevalier , summarizes a whole chapter in the military history of Europe . But why were the Franks left to develop what we know as feudal cavalry and so to revolutionize warfare throughout the western states ?  | Originally the Franks , like the Anglo-Saxons as late as 1066 , The had merely ridden to the battlefield , where they dismounted and fought on foot ; their horses were too small for any other use . The development of the feudal army was presumably made possible by the introduction of the thoroughbred charger or destrier , whose size and strength permitted the heavy-armed warrior to fight on horseback . The subject remains very obscure through lack of investigation . Yet , since neither the Romans , the Gauls , the Germans , the Moors , nor the later invaders of western Europe had other than light cavalry , it seems necessary to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ derived from the cataphracti of the Byzantine Empire . In whatever fashion the great war-horse may have been brought to Gaul , the importation was of prime significance . According to an English doom of the tenth century , a horse was already worth as much as four oxen ; but the Carolingian sources prove that , as early as the first half of the eighth century , the equipment of a Frankish warrior ? including horse , shirt of mail , leggings , helmet , shield , lance , sword , and sheath ? was valued at over twenty-two oxen . The aristocratic basis of chivalry is thus no mystery . The average peasant , whose movable wealth fell far short of a plow-team , could no more hope to be a knight than to wear the papal tiara ! These facts help us to understand the character of feudal warfare . The obligation for knight service was heavy : one knight would include not merely the warrior himself but also a supply of expensive arms and armor , a change of horses , perhaps a squire and his mount @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ finally enough food to maintain all these men and animals for the specified period . Through feudal tenure the ruler of a mediaeval state obtained a whole army with a minimum outlay of cash , but even among the knights who led the attack discipline was slight . Each gentleman considered himself  | the ally rather than the subordinate of the commander . Fighting for the lord did not at all prevent a vassal 's fighting for himself ; except through the acquisition of booty and captives , he stood to make nothing from the campaign . Pitched battles were infrequent ; when one occurred , it resolved itself into a figure series of individual affrays ? of charges and countercharges with lances atilt , followed by hand-to-hand combat with sword and axe . There would be a magnificent display of knightly prowess , and little generalship . Although one side might gain much in honor and plunder and prisoners , the opposing force would largely escape , to fight again on some more fortunate day . Feudal warfare , as a matter of fact , was normally restricted to skirmishing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . During most of the time the efforts of the combatants would be concentrated in and about castles . In the  | ninth century the castle , or burg , had been primarily a center of refuge from the invading Northmen ; now , at least in France , it had become a specialized form of stronghold adapted to the needs of a feudal chieftain and his garrison of professional warriors . This form , after its two essential parts , is called the motte-and-bailey castle ( see Figure 14 ) . The bailey was a courtyard surrounded by a moat , an earthen embankment , and a palisade of tree-trunks ? or a series of such fortifications . Friends gained admittance by means of a gate and a drawbridge that could be let down for their special benefit . Enclosing houses , stables , and other necessary buildings , the bailey constituted the outer defense of the castle . The motte was its more inaccessible portion ? a hill or an artificial mound protected by a separate line of entrenchments and surmounted by a wooden tower called a donjon or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a population that had forgotten Roman siegecraft , could offer stout resistance to attack , but was especially vulnerable to fire . In the twelfth century , therefore , castles generally came to be reconstructed in massive stonework . Such improvements , together with many other details concerning the life of the feudal nobility , will be discussed in the following chapters . For the moment we must turn to the actual application of feudalism in certain states of the eleventh century . Although sizable volumes have been written about the first four Capetians , our actual knowledge of them is surprisingly slight . Hugh Capet is chiefly remarkable for the fact that a dynasty was named after him . Yet all he did was to have his son crowned during his own lifetime , thus setting a precedent that was followed by his successors for the next two centuries . Throughout that time the ceremony remained essentially the same . On the day appointed by the king the coronation of his heir took place in the cathedral of Reims . After the archbishop had celebrated mass , he formally explained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prince as his candidate for the throne .  | His " election " was supported in turn by each of the other prelates and nobles . The assembled populace shouted approval . And at last the new king was solemnly installed by conferring upon him the symbols of regal office , though he might not be anointed with consecrated oil till after the death of his father . In this way Hugh Capet was peacefully succeeded by his son , grandson , and great-grandson ( see Table II ) . None of these three was at all glorious , and the third of them , Philip I ( 1060-1108 ) , was positively disreputable . Who could then have predicted that the Capetian name would soon become illustrious through a great revival of the monarchy ? In the eleventh century , obviously , there was no chance of the king 's enforcing his authority throughout his theoretical kingdom . His problem was rather to save what was left of his hereditary principality . Even within the Ile de France there were various petty seigneuries over which he had little if any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supposed to be mere keepers of the king 's castles , generally defied their lord and lived by rapine . Other agents styled prevots might be empowered to administer the king 's estates , hold his local courts , and collect his revenues . But very often they had come to claim their office by hereditary title and to appropriate all or most of the royal income . The position of the early Capetians would have been desperate indeed if it had not been for the support which they received from a number of wealthy ecclesiastics . In or near the Ile de France the great bishoprics and abbeys still remained subject to the royal patronage . Such bishops and abbots , being appointees and vassals of the king , furnished him with much regular entertainment , as well as with troops and supplies when he was threatened by serious insurrection . Yet , except in the matter of traditional honor , the king was no match for any one of his more powerful barons . For example , let us take the count of Flanders who , in some fashion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his territory . Legally , these rights constituted a fief which he held of the French crown ; actually , he was himself  | the ruler of a miniature kingdom . Within Flanders he was the supreme military commander , raising armies , requisitioning labor and materials , , and building castles for its defense . In time of need he could exact the services not merely of the knights owed by his vassals but , by proclaiming the arriere ban , of all able-bodied men . It was the count who named the prelates of Flanders , protected their churches , and in return enjoyed a number of valuable perquisites . Ile coined money , regulated commerce , and levied various taxes . As guardian of the general peace , he maintained the principle that , while ordinary cases might be determined in feudal courts , his justice was paramount . To enforce his powers the count relied on subordinates called vicomtes or chdtelains , each of whom had charge of an important castle together with a surrounding district . And although the chatelains normally held their offices by feudal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ like the rest of his vassals , under effective control . Various other principalities in northern France were to some extent organized like Flanders , though it was by no means usual for them to attain the same degree of political stability . Blois and Champagne , after brief union under a strong count , again fell apart and somewhat weakened . Anjou , meanwhile , had been brought to a high stage of military efficiency by the redoubtable Fulk Nerra and Geoffrey Martel ( 987-1060 ) ? the first princes who are known to have constructed castles with stone keeps . Then , however , the county came to be distracted by civil wars until , as we shall see , Geoffrey Plantagenet ( 1129-51 ) launched the Angevin dynasty upon a new and splendid career . This was the environment that assuredly had much to do with the early development of Normandy . Since the duchy had only been established in 911 , and then for the benefit of a newly converted Viking , its feudal constitution must have been modeled on those of the neighboring states , especially @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to obtain reliable information on the subject , the Norman duke and the Flemish count are found in possession of very much the same powers . But it will be easier to comment on the Norman system  | of government in connection with Duke William 's conquest of England . If at this time we look for a sharp distinction between the Normans and their neighbors , we fail to find it . By the eleventh century the culture and institutions of Normandy were thoroughly French . Scandinavian traits have been detected in the icy hardness of the Norman and in his passion for combat under distant skies . Yet the Norman temper was hardly different from that of the feudal nobility in general ; and it should be remembered that the more famous Norman armies were largely recruited from Flanders , Picardy , Anjou , Brittany , and other adjacent regions . The Normans were merely the greatest of many great adventurers produced by eleventh-century France . In every warlike expedition of the French the Normans were always prominent ; and wherever they went they displayed an uncanny faculty for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ means , to their own advantage . Such was to be the reputation of the Normans on the great crusade of 1095 , as on many another campaign ? in Italy , in Spain , and in the British Isles . The chaotic conditions that had come to prevail in Italy by the opening of the tenth century have already been briefly noted . A hundred years later the situation remained unchanged , except that the German king now bore the imperial title and occasionally led an army across the Alps . But even his pretended sovereignty did not embrace the lower peninsula . There a series of petty nobles , some of them theoretic deputies of the Byzantine emperor , engaged in a never-ending war of siege and skirmish , varied by attacks of Moslem raiders and revolutionary outbursts on the part of dissatisfied subjects . Opportunities for mercenary service and loot were therefore abundant , and among the adventurers drawn to this congenial environment were the inevitable bands of Normans ? particularly a group of brothers named Hauteville . Their father , a lesser baron of Normandy , had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by his first wife and seven by his second . Being  | devoid of prospects at home , the younger boys , like hundreds of their compatriots , took to the road in search of fortune , and eventually most of them appeared in Italy . By the middle of the eleventh century three of the brothers Hauteville ? William Iron-Arm , Humphrey , and Drogo ? had won great fame as warriors , and under their leadership an army of French knights had found it more profitable to fight for themselves than for others . Seizing castles in the mountains of the interior , they rapidly developed haphazard brigandage into organized conquest . William was the first elected count of these free-lances ; later his place was taken by his half-brother Robert Guiscard ( the Sly ) , who by sheer native force and cleverness completed the reduction of the southern peninsula . Meanwhile the bitter conflict of the papacy and the empire had reached a crisis ; and this , for reasons that will be explained below , brought Guiscard the legal recognition that he might otherwise have sought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the ex-brigand was accepted by the pope as a vassal and formally proclaimed as duke of Apulia and Calabria . To Roger , Guiscard 's brother , the pope furthermore entrusted the conquest of Sicily , which was officially blessed as a holy war against the infidel . Messina was taken by the Christians in 1061 , Palermo in 1072 . And although the Moslems still held out in other parts of the island , it was only a matter of time until they were forced to surrender . Thus were laid the foundations of a splendid Norman state that was soon to become the marvel of the Latin world . Another theater of constant warfare was the Spanish peninsula , where the Ommiad caliphate of Cordova , after reaching its height of splendor in the early tenth century , was now broken into a number of independent emirates . This situation natu-rally provided the opportunity for a Christian offensive , which might have gained headway somewhat earlier if the Christians , too , had not suffered from disunion . At the eastern end of the Pyrenees the old march @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ To the west the Basque moun- taineers , combating all invaders with equal enthusiasm , had successfully defended themselves against both Frank and Moslem and thus made possible the emergence of two little kingdoms , Aragon and Navarre . In the mountains of Asturias , meanwhile , other Christians had similarly maintained their independence , and so formed the nucleus of a Galician state that grew into the kingdom of Leon , extending south to the Douro River . And a frontier region on the east , named for the castles built to defend it , became the kingdom of Castile . In the eleventh century Leon and Castile , which for a while were united under one king , both extended rapidly ( see Map X ) . Navarre , after reaching the Ebro , found the way blocked by Aragon , which in turn was barred by the emirate of Saragossa . Finally a great Christian victory at Barbastro in 1065 , opened the way for the annexation of the lower Ebro valley in the next century . These conquests could hardly have been made by the little Spanish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . From the beginning of their offensive , however , they had drawn an endless supply of recruits from the French principalities to the north . In the eleventh century the illustrious monastery of Cluny , and later the papacy , gave active support to the holy cause of fighting the Moslem , issuing widespread appeals for enlistment and holding forth the promise of great spiritual benefits to any who should die on so sacred an undertaking . As would be expected , a host of volunteers came from the nearby lands of Gascony , Toulouse , and Aquitaine ; but men of the northern baronies also crossed the Pyrenees in large numbers . And many of these adventurers won fine Spanish fiefs at the expense of the infidel . Eventually the royal house of Portugal was to trace its descent from a Burgundian knight who secured a border county along with the hand of a Leon princess . Meanwhile , as the result of his father 's conquest , Canute ( Knut ) of Denmark had acquired the crown of England on the death of ' Ethelred in lo 16 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the English had a pious and statesmanlike king . Later conquests extended his dominion over Norway , part of Sweden ,  | and the Viking settlements on the southern shore of the Baltic . Yet from the outset Canute 's main concern was England . Anticipating the danger of Norman intervention , he shrewdly offered marriage to Aethelred 's widow , Emma of Normandy ; so that lady left her son Edward on the continent and returned to England as queen for the second time . To avoid trouble with the Scottish king , Canute ceded to him the territory of Lothian ? all of Northumbria between the Tweed and the Firth of Forth . This treaty had two important results : it established the southeastern boundary of Scotland where it has since remained and it brought the Scottish court into an English-speaking country . In England Canute honestly maintained established custom by reissuing the dooms of his Saxon predecessors . His only important innovation had to do with defense . It was apparently at this time that the Danegeld , which had first been levied by ' Ethelred to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regular tax for the support of his house-carts , mercenary guards who fought either on land or on sea . If England had continued to be a Scandinavian dependency , its history would have been vastly different . But Canute 's incipient empire fell apart after his death , and in 1042 the English crown was given to Edward the Confessor , son of ' Ethelred and Emma . Edward was therefore half Norman in blood , and since the troubled days of his infancy he had lived in Normandy . Returning to his native land , he brought with him a considerable group of Norman companions , and for a time they dominated English politics . Later it was Godwin , a Saxon nobleman , who gained the ascendancy ; his daughter Edith was married to Edward and , when the latter died in 1066 , her brother Harold was proclaimed king . Thereupon the Norman cause was taken up by Duke William who , declaring that Harold had sworn to support his claim to the English throne , at once prepared an expedition to cross the Channel . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hastings , where William 's knights broke the shield-wall of the English infantry and where Harold himself was numbered among the slain . The Conqueror , though still under forty , was a statesman  | and warrior of long experience ; for his father 's premature death had brought him to the ducal throne at an early age . As a mere youth he had established firm control over the Norman state by crushing a baronial revolt . Since then he had engaged in successful war with the Bretons and Angevins , and had won a marriage alliance with the powerful house of Flanders . He was , we read in the Anglo-Saxon Chronicle , " a very wise and a great man , " but " stern and wrathful " ; " mild to those good men who loved God , " but " severe beyond measure to those who withstood his will . " Throughout England he maintained a firm peace , to the great benefit of all and especially to that of the king ; for he was always " sharp-sighted to his own interest . " He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He also set apart wide forests as hunting preserves and enacted cruel laws against those who took game without license ; for " he loved the tall stags as if he were their father . " " The rich complained and the poor murmured , but he was so sturdy that he recked naught of them ; they must will all that the king willed if they would live or keep their lands . " Such in fact was the Conqueror , as is well attested by the records of his own government . Having assumed the English crown and speedily put down local resistance , he proceeded to reorganize the kingdom after the model of his Norman duchy , that is to say , on a feudal basis . In Anglo-Saxon England the institution of personal lordship had long been familiar and lands had often been granted in return for miscellaneous services ; but , for lack of heavy-armed cavalry , there had been no development of feudal tenure proper . William now proclaimed the rule that every bit of English soil was by ultimate title his ? either held @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of some fief . This , of course , did not mean that all landholders were dispossessed . The peasant cultivators generally kept what they had , as did most of the ecclesiastics , whose places were not taken by Frenchmen until they had been vacated by death . It was only the lay aristocracy that immediately lost its estates to the victors of Hastings . For William at once rewarded each of Isis  | important followers with a fief , prescribing the service to be rendered and leaving the recipient to provide for his own retainers by subinfeudation . Indeed , all the feudal arrangements described in the preceding section were now suddenly , as the result of the Conquest , imposed on England , to govern for centuries its political and social constitution . Before 10666 the king 's advisory council had been a loosely organized group of clergy and nobles called the witan ( wise men ) . This body was henceforth supplanted by the curia regis , the king 's feudal court , which included his barons ( i.e. , tenantsin-chief ) , or those of them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and other matters were decided according to the feudal custom of Normandy . The king naturally continued to levy the Danegeld and the indirect taxes that had already been established in England ; and to them he now added the feudal aids and incidents . From his vassals he also obtained a mounted army , the superiority of which had been amply demonstrated at Hastings . Each baron , when he received his fief from the Conqueror , was made liable for a certain number of knights , usually five or a multiple of that figure . The total force thus raised seems not to have exceeded 5000 ; if the king wanted more troops , he had to hire them . But in case of necessity he had the power , justified by both Norman and English precedent , of demanding service from all able-bodied men . For administrative purposes the Anglo-Saxon kings had divided England into shires , and these into hundreds . Over each shire the king , or the earl who represented him in many parts of the kingdom , named a sheriff to enforce the law @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In particular the sheriff presided over the shire court , an infrequent assembly of the greater landholders for the trial of exceptional cases . Routine business was attended to in the hundred court , which met every month under the presidency of the hundredman , a deputy of the sheriff . Besides , as we have seen , the country was dotted with royal strongholds- called boroughs ? old Roman cities and fortified camps , together with newer structures put up during the Danish wars . This entire system of shires , hundreds , and bor- oughs was preserved by the Conqueror , but was now subordinated to a military and political organization that was essen tially feudal . In the first place , the Normans covered the land with castles of the motte-and-bailey type . Many of these castles were erected by barons as a normal means of protecting their fiefs . Others were peculiarly royal in that they were built by the king and put in charge of his officials , usually styled constables . The Anglo-Saxon earl , whom the French knew as a count , lost all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of such great barons were endowed with most regalian rights . The ordinary shire , henceforth also called a county , was administered by a royal sheriff , whom the French knew as a viscount . And the latter designation was an apt one , for the English sheriff now came to resemble the Norman vicomte . Continuing the functions of his Saxon predecessor , he also acted as constable of the king 's principal castle in the shire . Moreover , he was always an important baron and his office , though not legally part of his fief , often passed to his son . Much of the law which he helped to enforce was the ancient custom of England ; yet this came to be very considerably modified through the influence of feudalism and the establishment by the king of new measures for the maintenance of the peace . While , for example , compurgation and ordeal remained the normal methods of trial for common people , members of the knightly class insisted on trial by combat . Many historians have repeated the assertion that feudalism was virtually the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ central government . The statement is misleading . It is true that the feudal age coincided with the decay of the Carolingian Empire and of the greater kingdoms that took its place ; but the cause of that decay was not feudalism . Nor can feudalism be blamed for the fact that the French king was too weak to enforce his rights even in his own domain . The great lack of the early Capetians was a well-inte  | grated principality ? one that was supplied by Louis VI , whose reign will be discussed below . Feudalism worked very effectively in many small states of the tenth and eleventh centuries . The rulers of those states ? such as Flanders , Anjou , Normandy , and , after i o66 , England ? found the system of feudal tenures the best means of governing their territories ; for in that way alone could they provide for their administrative , judicial , and military needs . And their governments , as we shall see , were to provide a foundation for all the great constitutional developments of western Europe .  | @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the preceding chapter . Here we are concerned with its economic significance , or ? to be more precise ? with the economic conditions which it presupposed . For feudalism proper was not a stage in economic evolution ; rather it was a peculiar form of political organization developed by the Carolingian kings . Since the basis of the state was then agrarian society , fiefs normally consisted of the rural properties that we call manors . Yet it is important to remember that , at the opening of the eleventh century , the manorial system was practically universal throughout western Europe , while feudalism was not . A manor remained exactly the same , whether or not it was held by a vassal in return for feudal service . The manor ( Latin maneriurn , a dwelling-house ) may be defined as an agricultural settlement controlled and exploited by a lord , and thus sharply distinguished from a free village where the inhabitants work primarily for their own benefit . Fundamentally , therefore , the manor was an estate like the villa of the later Roman Empire . But the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dispersal of royal privilege , had generally come to be political as well as economic . Through long usage , rights that we should classify as public and private were inextricably confused , and it made no difference to the men of that age whether particular institutions were five hundred or only two hundred years old . The manorial system flourished on all  | sides because under it , and under it alone , the mass of the people found the possibility of livelihood . The lord owed his dominant position not so much to his own rapacious greed as to the defenseless condition of the countryside and the vital needs of the inhabitants . The manorial organization was a simple administrative machine that ran on and on with a minimum of supervision ; yet that minimum was essential and only a lord could provide it . Although many scholars have believed that the manor somehow grew out of a free village community , positive evidence to warrant such a conclusion has never been forthcoming . It is true that the manor normally appears as a village community , whose members @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But did this equality result from the democratic arrangements of a primitive age or from seignorial control ? We may only be sure that the latter is taken for granted by our earliest sources . For example , let us examine a typical entry in the famous Polyptyque drawn up by the abbot of Saint-Germain in the ninth century At A , one of the abbot 's villas , he is said to have a demesne manse , including a house and the usual outbuildings . There is so much arable land , which can be sown with so many measures of grain ; so much vineyard , from which so many measures of wine are obtained ; so much meadow , on which so much hay can be cut ; and so much woodland , in which so many swine can be fed . Besides he has a church with the customary appurtenances . X , a colonus of Saint-Germain , and his wife , having so many children , hold a manse that contains so much arable , so much vineyard , and so much meadow . He pays @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ week-work , together with additional carrying service and manual labor as may be demanded . Then follow reports on the heads of other peasant familiescoloni , lidi ( freedmen ) , servi ( serfs ) , or ingenuiles ( wholly free )  | ? and each , in spite of minor variation , is said to bear the same obligations . In this manorial record , as in countless others , the striking feature is the rough equalization of the agrarian units held by the tenants on the estate . Whether technically free or servile , every peasant household was expected to live according to a fixed routine , sharing the common responsibilities of the village and so receiving a due allotment of land . Under such conditions it did not matter how many persons really occupied a particular manse or which of them performed the service that was owed from it . The important consideration was that the routine had to be maintained ; otherwise all would suffer , the villagers as well as the lord . For it was only through certain forms of co-operation that men could subsist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when and how the manorial system originated , we can hardly doubt that it was the product of political and economic necessity . The chief purpose of the manor was of course agriculture , concerning which absolute generalization is impossible . Customs varied according to the climate , the soil , and the aptitudes of the people . Statements applicable to a fertile plain will not hold good for a mountainous region or a country of marsh and dune . No one method of tillage could be successful in vineyards , orchards , and corn-fields . The standard agricultural practice , however , may be described as that which prevailed throughout those parts of Europe where feudal institutions were earliest and most fully developed . There the staple crop was wheat or rye , for the raising of which plowing is essential . And in that operation certain common factors everywhere tended to produce uniform results . While Italians generally retained the Roman plow , the peasants of the northwest preferred the wheeled plow for . tilling their heavier soils . Their draft animals , because of poor breeding and undernourishment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the mere preparation of a field for planting ordinarily required a team of eight oxen ? which , together with a plow , the average peasant did not  | possess . And although the lord might be well supplied with tools and animals , he had neither gangs of slaves to work the land nor adequate cash for hiring labor . He had to depend on the service of rustic tenants , who in turn depended on him for protection . Co-operative agriculture was thus the rule , especially through- The open . out those regions whose principal crop was grain . There the field ystem population normally lived in compact villages and pooled their resources to carry on a routine enforced by the lord . Each peasant household contributed its share to a common fund by providing a certain amount of labor , together with certain tools , animals , or materials ; and it logically followed that each should have an equal share of what was thus produced . If , however , the member of the community had all his land in one place , the quality @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ particular holding . The usual plan , therefore , was to equalize the allotments by scattering them over all sections of the arable . And since the individual portions were not fenced , the whole arrangement is known as the open-field system . In its most elaborate form ? that made familiar by maps of English villages ? the open field was divided into parcels called shots , which were subdivided into acre strips . Each of the latter was bounded on the sides by ribbons of unplowed turf , or balks , and at the ends similarly by headlands , on which the team could be turned about . The length of such a strip was a furlong ( i.e. , furrow-long ) , its width four rods , perches , or poles ( i.e. , oxgoads ) ; and these measures still remain in common use throughout English-speaking countries . It will be noted that the basis of the open-field system was co-operation , not communism . Although the crop on a whole field would be sown , cultivated , and harvested by the villagers working together , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ own acres . Even the so-called rights of common were units of property attached to the individual holdings . The  | member of the community was entitled to pasture a certain number of beasts on whatever fields were not at the moment bearing crops and on whatever waste the manor included . He might also have a share of meadow , which was carefully set aside as the only source of hay ; for neither grass crops nor vegetables were grown on the arable . In the adjoining woods he could gather a limited quantity of brush , twigs , and fallen timber , whether for fuel or for building purposes . And , usually on payment of a fee , he could put his pigs there , to feed on roots and mast . In addition , of course , the peasant had a house of his own , together with a small plot of land surrounding it . Here he could have a vegetable garden , keep a few geese or chickens , and set up a hive of bees . Such as they were , his animals , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ personally . And there is no reason to suppose that the mediaval peasant was any worse off than his Roman predecessor . We find , indeed , considerable evidence to the contrary . As already remarked , the Romans had been well aware of the fact that land is quickly exhausted by the continuous planting of grain . They had also known that such exhaustion could be prevented by the application of various fertilizers , or by growing and plowing under certain crops . But to more scientific methods ordinary Roman practice had preferred the two-field system of cultivation , under which one half of the land was planted while the other half lay fallow . During the Middle Ages this same plan remained in use throughout southern Europe as well as various regions to the north , especially those which were relatively barren . In all the richer plains of Gaul , Britain , and Germany , however , men early came to adopt the three-field system . Under it a third of the land rested every year ; of the remainder half was planted in the autumn and half @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are comparatively cool and moist . This improved system of cultivation , together with the use of the wheeled plow , largely explains the prosperity of northwestern Europe during the agrarian age . Among other medieval contributions to agricultural technique ? the date of which often remains problem- atical ? may be mentioned the more general employment of the toothed harrow , the invention of the flail and the wheelbarrow , and the introduction of a horse-collar that made possible the gradual substitution of that animal for the ox in plowing . A traveler through the countryside in the feudal age would have no difficulty in perceiving the subjection of the agricul-tural village to seignorial control , for the settlement would he dominated by the manor house . Sometimes it might be used by the lord as a dwelling ; more usually it merely served as administrative headquarters under the charge of a resident steward or reeve . Surrounding it , in any case , was the lord 's close , containing gardens , fruit trees , beehives , barns , stables , and other outbuildings . Here was stored the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and agricultural implements . The lord generally had his own meadow ; but his arable , as a rule , consisted of acre-strips scattered among those of his tenants . And like them he would pasture his beasts on the common . All labor required to maintain the lord 's particular property ? known as the manorial demesne or inland ? was left to be done by the peasants . They cultivated the lord 's arable along with their own , harvested the crops , threshed out the grain , and disposed of it according to instructions . To see that all rightful obligations were performed , so that the estate would show the normal profit , was the responsibility of the steward , assisted by subordinates chosen from among the peasants . The steward also held the manorial court for the settlement of disputes , the trial of persons accused of petty offenses , and the general enforcement of the lord 's authority . In all such matters law was held to be , not the will of the lord or of his steward , but the custom of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The fact that the entire feudal class was supported , directly or indirectly , by the peasants should not be taken to imply that in general the latter were cruelly treated . During wartime , of course , the people of the countryside were the first to suffer from the enemy 's attack , and there were always barons who acted like brigands towards the defenseless tenants of others .  | But a lord would naturally be considerate of his own men , for without them his lands would be worthless . The peasant 's life , however bad it may seem in comparison with modern conditions , was reasonably secure . Under the lord 's protection he was assured at least of subsistence ; even serfdom was infinitely better than the constant fear of death by violence or starvation . And many , perhaps most , peasants were not of servile status . Except in England after the Norman Conquest , serfdom and villeinage were by no means synonymous . The serf was by origin the Roman servus , the bodily property of a master . The villein ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ordinary villager who , no matter what his obligations were , legally remained like the Roman colon us a freeman . Actually all lived under much the same regime . The serf could not be sold apart from the estate to which he belonged , and either law or economic necessity made the free peasant also a mere appurtenance to the soil he cultivated . The obligations of a peasant community can not , therefore , be rigorously classified according to the status of the persons liable . About all that can be affirmed is that the baser tenants were generally responsible for unrestricted service , whereas the freer tenants were not . But the only sure test of such arrangements was local custom , which was hardly the same in any two places . The variety of rents , for example , was endless . Although each peasant owed the lord definite payments , the time when they were due might be any season of the year , and the specified amounts might be anything produced on the manor . Virtually every peasant was also obliged to perform labor service @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ labor that the lord 's inland was taken care of . Here again , however , there was wide variation . Lowest in the scale were the men said to be corveable a merci , bound to do what whatever was commanded at any time . The average villein owed rather a number of days each week , together with extra days for sowing and harvest , and a fortunate few might be free of all corvees except such boonworks on special occasions . While ordinary corvees had to do with agriculture , others were more political in character . So the burden  | of repairing roads , bridges , and castles naturally fell on the peasants . It was they who cut the timber , dug the moats , hauled the supplies , and made themselves generally useful on military campaigns . How the peasant spent his time is accordingly no mystery ; for it must be remembered that , when he was not toiling for the lord , he had his own household to support . In this enterprise he had the assistance of his wife , sons , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fields . And since the service owed the lord consisted of certain units due from the peasant 's land as a whole , it could be performed by any able-bodied man . We frequently hear of poor villeins who had no arable in the village , but only huts and gardens . These cotters , as they were often called , could always be obtained when extra help was needed , for it was only by doing odd jobs that they could pick up a living . Exceptional in another way were the skilled craftsmen who might be placed at specialized tasks instead of ordinary labor . One villein , for example , would maintain a smithy for the repair of iron tools and another would have charge of the local mill . And along with the smiths and the millers ? whose name is yet legion ? there might also be peasants who in some degree served as masons , carpenters , leather-workers , and the like . Such an artisan still lived primarily by cultivating his own lands ; he followed his trade as a sort of corvee and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ parish priest held a share of the arable , while devoting most of his time to the saving of souls . Whether legally free or unfree , the peasant and his family constituted valuable assets within the estate . If a son entered the church , he was lost to the manor ; so it was everywhere the rule that such a step could not be taken until the lord 's permission had been obtained , and that might not be gratuitous . For the same reason a daughter could not be wedded outside the manor without the payment to the lord of a sum known in French as formariage , in English as merchet . On the peasant 's death his land passed as a matter of course to his children , but the lord generally claimed the chattels or the best beast as a  | token payment styled heriot or mainmorte . Occasionally we also find villeins contributing a yearly head tax ( chevage ) in recognition of their personal subordination . And the whole rural community was usually liable for tallage or taille ? a more or less @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when there was special need . In this way , if in no other , the villein could be prevented from accumulating undue wealth . Within the manor the lord also enjoyed certain customary monopolies . Game and fish could be taken only by his permission , and poaching was severely punished . The villein was usually allowed to gather fallen branches in the woods , but the lord 's license was required for the cutting of green timber . Sometimes the lord had his own mint , and he normally held control of local trade . This was exercised by issuing regulations known as bans , the proceeds from which were called banalites . He thus established official weights and measures and enforced their use in the market , levying customary tolls on articles displayed for sale . Commonly he had the only lawful wine-press , mill , and bake-oven . And for the service that the peasant was forced to accept he had to contribute a percentage of his wine , flour , or bread . In this same category may be included the lord 's income from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the fines assessed for violations of law . Justice in the feudal age was highly regarded as a source of profit , and all too often , especially when enforced over other people 's tenants , was the pretext for sheer extortion . The items enumerated in this section , when combined , will be seen to constitute the manorial income that the baron received from his demesne . His feudal income was what he obtained from infeudated estates ; but that , as may easily be seen , was ultimately derived from some vassal 's manorial income . Eventually every obligation of a superior , whether layman or ecclesiastic , was passed down the scale to the peasant at the bottom . To appreciate this truth is to understand the structure of feudal society , and accordingly to perceive how the development of new economic resources , by changing the fundamentals  | of human existence , would tend to revolutionize both church and state . Our best source for the ideas and customs of the feudal nobility is the French epic poetry that will be discussed in the following @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ picture of the knight and his contemporaries is provided by the famous Bayeux Tapestry , an embroidery made as a decoration for the nave of the cathedral in that city and still preserved in the local museum . It is a strip of linen twenty inches wide and over 230 feet long , with scenes worked in colored worsted to describe the Norman conquest of England . Although the story thus told is interesting as a partisan tradition , the great historical value of the tapestry lies in its realistic presentation of eleventh-century life . This unique work , probably completed before t too , allows us to be positive with regard to many odd details of military activity , of domestic habits , and , above all , of costume . As here shown , men of all classes commonly wore tunic and hose : the former a loosefitting jacket belted at the waist , the latter a sort of tights pulled on over the legs . For warmth or cere-mony the man might also put on a mantle , which was fastened at the throat or over figure  | @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cut his hair short and commonly shaved his face . Women were dressed in robes of extreme simplicity , extending from the chin to the ground . They usually bound their hair with fillets and either let it hang free or caught it up under a coif . For outdoor wear both sexes used cloaks with attached hoods that could be brought over the head in bad weather . Even the wealthy wore plain clothes , merely substituting finer stuffs for the ordinary homespun and perhaps trimming them with fur . It was thus left for the clergy to preserve the regular use of a toga-like costume . Only to please the pope , Einhard tells us , would Charlemagne ever submit to Roman dress . And his attitude was maintained by the princes of the later Middle Ages , who refused to wear long robes except on extraordinary occasions . In the Bayeux Tapestry the English king and the Norman duke thus appear when sitting in state ? the former with a crown , an orb , and a scepter ; the latter with a mace . Defensive armor in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lower legs were generally unprotected , except by strips of cloth or leather wound like modern puttees from the knee to the shoe-tops . Over the upper body he wore a hauberk , a shirt of link mail or one made by sewing metal rings on a leather foundation . The hauberk was slashed at the bottom to facilitate riding on horseback and was apparently fitted with a sort of hood that covered the back of the neck and provided a lining for the helmet . The latter was a conical iron cap with a narrow extension in front to serve as a nose-guard . On the left arm , by means of attached thongs , he bore a kite-shaped shield about four feet long . Presumably constructed of a metal facing on a wooden base , it might be painted with a fanciful design , though regular coats of arms hardly appeared before the twelfth century . For offense the knight 's weapons were principally a crosshilted sword slung on a belt at the left side , and a lance some eight feet long , which was hurled or held @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only the English are shown  | using battle-axes ; but it would appear from other sources that the French often used them too . The Bayeux Tapestry gives us an equally fine portrayal of the great horses which the invaders brought with them across the Channel . Here for the first time we obtain actual pictures not merely of feudal cavalry in the large but of such details as saddles , stirrups , bridles , and other harness ? even the shoes on the horses ' feet and the spurs on the knights ' heels . Besides , we may see how Norman troops foraged the English countryside and how the meat they collected was broiled and served on spits to the leaders of the host . We learn that the Norman boats resembled those of the Vikings and were equipped with masts that could be raised or lowered . Other scenes depict the castles of Bayeux , Doi , Dinant , and Rennes , as well as the building of one at Hastings . The drawing , to be sure , leaves much to be desired ; yet we can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ keeps . And we may be sure that such fortifications were built of wood , for the attackers are shown using fire against them . Castles , in addition to being fortresses , were the usual residences of feudal princes and their wealthier vassals . While the lower portion of the keep would include the wells , storerooms , and military positions necessary for withstanding a siege , and while the roof might be devoted to the hurling of missiles and to other warlike purposes , the intermediate stories would constitute the living quarters of the lord and his family . Here would be found a great hall , a chapel , and a number of separate chambers . Cooking would normally be done in outside kitchens and the food would be brought up by servants . But in time of peace every nobleman spent a good part of the year traveling about from one rural estate to another . On any of the better ones he would be likely to have a comfortable manor house , built of timber or stone and perhaps surrounded by a moat to keep off @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ utensils and furniture to accommodate his household for a protracted stay ; more likely he would have to bring an additional  | supply with him ? wagonloads of it if he were one of the truly great whose progress was marked by a cavalcade of ministers and retainers . And there were , of course , numberless gentlemen who , possessing no castles , had manor houses as permanent homes . In any case the center of the nobleman 's domestic life would be the great hall , which according to modern standards was picturesque rather than luxurious . Heat would be supplied by open fires , the smoke from which ? in the absence of chimneys ? found its way out past the grimy rafters overhead . As windows were then unglazed , the weather had to be kept out by means of shutters . The walls would be hung with arms , banners , and trophies of the chase . The floor might be of hard-trodden earth covered with straw or rushes , where the ever-present dogs made themselves at home . Light would be furnished by candles . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to confer with his vassals in solemn court . Here was spread the festive board , with the company seated on benches in order of rank . Here of an evening took place whatever entertainment the age afforded ? such as tales of heroic deeds chanted by wandering minstrels . And here , after the lord and his family had retired to their chambers , would be laid the straw pallets of those who could not be accommodated elsewhere . In the matter of food and drink the men of the early Middle Ages naturally followed the precedents established by their Roman and barbarian ancestors . Then , as now , Europe was gustatively divided into two main sections : that of wine and oil and that of beer and butter . Throughout the grape-raising countries wine remained the standard drink , but in the northwest its place , except in wealthy homes , was taken by beer . The quantities of either that were then consumed by the average person were such as to stagger the imagination of the modern tippler ; and temperance was equally unknown in eating . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pork , the feudal gentleman was fond of game ? often a deer or a boar roasted  | whole ? accompanied by secondary dishes of fowl , pasties , vegetables , and fruit . On fast days , when the meats were supposed to disappear , the platters were well filled with fish and eggs . Bread and cheese were of course staples . Sweets , on the contrary , were rare because the sole available sweetening was honey , and imported spices , such as pepper , were found only on the tables of the great . So far as cooking was concerned , we are led to believe that quantity , rather than quality , was the principal consideration . And what we know as table manners were quite unknown . The man supplied his own knife and with it served himself and perhaps his lady ; after that it was catch-as-catch-can . The appetite of the hunter and the fighter raged unchecked by an etiquette of delicacy . The position of women during the early Middle Ages seems to have been one of complete subordination . It was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even by romantic poets . Although we have every reason to suppose that love was important in society long before it became a fashionable theme in literature , marriage within the aristocracy was regularly dictated by dynastic and financial interest . The first obligation of the wife was to bring the inheritance of a fief , or at any rate a handsome marriage portion ; the second was to bear at least one son . And if she were unfortunate enough to fail in the latter duty , a complaisant bishop was usually at hand to declare the wedding invalid . Upon the wife , furthermore , devolved the care of the house and the management of the servants . She was not expected to be literate ; it was enough that she should know how to spin , weave , and sew . Occasionally we hear of some extraordinary lady who , on the death of her husband , continued his work by playing a dominant role in politics and war . Normally , however , the feudal age accepted the maxim that woman 's place is in the home @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ knight , what greater honor could she expect than to be the wife of one and the mother of several more ? Except within the church , which constituted a world apart , there was but one honorable career  --   | that of the professional warrior . And to such a person peace meant virtual unemployment . So , to break the monotony of routine practice with sword and lance , men invented the tournament . The contests familiarized by romantic fiction were mere pageants , involving a maximum of display and a minimum of bloodshed . The primitive tournament , on the contrary , was a real battle , in spite of the fact that it was prearranged and might be elaborately staged . On the appointed day two groups of knights , often the champions of rival houses or territories , would meet in some convenient field . There , according to a few established rules , they would proceed to fight until one or the other was adjudged victorious . This was the tournament proper ; combats between pairs of knights ? and they became increasingly popular ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hardly less dangerous than actual war , and hardly less profitable . Although the contestant risked both life and limb , he stood to win rich booty as well as honor ; for he was entitled to the horse and arms of a vanquished opponent , or to such ransom as he agreed to accept instead . Next to fighting , the feudal gentleman loved hunting ? riding down stags , boars , and other large game with dogs . So every prince maintained wide preserves in which he and his retainers enjoyed a monopoly of the chase . There too ? and this was a recreation in which the ladies frequently joined ? many days were spent in hawking . The taking of herons , pigeons , waterfowl , rabbits , and other small game by means of trained hawks , while the attendant company galloped across the country , was a sport that had long been known in the orient and had thence spread into the Roman provinces . The passionate devotion of the aristocracy to these pursuits is attested by countless writings of the Middle Ages : whether @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the rulers of western Europe their stables , kennels , and eyries were important departments of state . On all sides Norwegian hawks and trained hunting-dogs ranked along with chargers and palfreys as gifts worthy of a king . When condemned to remain indoors , the feudal gentleman , like his barbarian ancestors , spent a large part of his time in  | feasting , drinking , and gambling . His favorite games were dice , which in some form or another had been known to the ancient Germans ; tables , apparently a variety of backgammon derived from the Romans ; and , after the crusade of 1095 , chess . Sharing the illiteracy of his class , the ordinary noble could have had no great interest in books or , aside from the elements of practical religion , in the learning of priests and monks . The superintendence of his estates demanded little effort on his part . Agrarian management , since it involved merely the enforcement of an established routine , could well be left to subordinates . Even the clerk who kept the lord 's accounts had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or subtract simple numbers . These facts help us to understand why feudal society developed on a manorial basis and how greatly it was disturbed when that basis came to be changed . With regard to the domestic arrangements of the peasantry our information is much poorer . We know that the villein 's house could hardly have been more than a miserable hut , commonly made of wattle plastered with clay and covered with a roof of thatch . His clothes would be of the coarsest : tunic and hose of rough homespun or leather , and perhaps wooden clogs for his feet . His furniture would probably consist of a rude table , a bench or two , and bags of straw laid on the floor to serve as beds . His principal food would be black bread , supplemented by dairy produce , eggs , and such ordinary vegetables as cabbage , turnips , peas , and beans . Occasionally he might enjoy a fowl ; normally he could not afford meat . Game and fish he would be forbidden to take . Sheep , cows , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the approach of winter and the lack of fodder made it imperative ? and then the cost of salt would lead to insufficient curing . He would have , however , a plentiful supply of home-brewed ale or , in favorable regions , of very ordinary wine . He undoubtedly lived in what to us would seem unbearable filth ; but in such respects even members of the aristocracy had by no means developed a modern delicacy .  | We should , of course , like to know about the peasant 's thoughts and feelings ? what he believed , enjoyed , dreaded , and hoped . These things we shall never know ; for he could not express himself in writing , and as yet he had no spokesmen within the educated class . As usual , we must pass over the unrecorded lives of the many and be grateful for what little information we have about the few . The development of vernacular literatures in western Europe and their relation to the contemporary Latin of the church is a subject that will be somewhat fully discussed below . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and its antecedents ? is so intimately connected with life in the feudal age that it may be drawn from its context to provide a conclusion for the present chapter . For reasons already explained , the first of the Germanic languages to be used for secular writings was Angl &Saxon.; In the earlier period , from the seventh to the ninth century , the more significant productions , aside from the dooms , were poems . The later period , the tenth and eleventh centuries , was distinguished rather by Anglo-Saxon prose . For example , the Anglo-Saxon Chronicle , begun during the reign of Alfred , dramatically sketches his conflict with the Danes and , continued by many hands , reports the events of the following years until well after the Norman Conquest . Alfred , being greatly concerned with the restoration of learning among the English , also dictated or inspired various translations from the Latin , including Anglo-Saxon versions of well-known books by Orosius , Boethius , and Gregory the Great . Interesting as these works may be , they are not , artistically , in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are many remarkable compositions : hymns , adaptations from the Bible , and biographies of saints ; warlike songs , of which the finest are those celebrating the battles of Brunanburh and Maldon ; and a number of strangely beautiful lyrics in a minor key , such as The Sea-  | farer and The Wanderer . But the most famous Anglo-Saxon poem is Beowulf ? a heroic tale of weird adventure in which , despite the author 's Christianity , the central theme is plainly heathen . The material of Beowulf thus appears to have been largely drawn from sagas , traditional stories of the Germans . figure In German itself only fragments remain of what must once have been a rich literature . The Nibelungenlied , familiarized by Wagnerian opera , was written in Austria about the year 1200 and is imbued with the romantic chivalry then fashionable . Beneath the embellishment , however , may readily be detected an ancient legend about a magic treasure guarded by a dragon ? the same legend that , remarkably enough , appears as the Volsungasaga in the Icelandic collection known as the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beyond the sea , had there preserved the popular literature of Scandinavia in isolation from continental influence . The Icelandic sagas , when put into writing in the twelfth and thirteenth centuries , thus retained much of their primitive character . Some of them , like the Volsungasaga , are wholly legendary ; some , on the other hand , glorify the adventures of actual persons ? as , for example , the finding of Vineland the Good by Leif Ericsson . In either case the sagas provide us with much valuable information concerning the earlier age , though the task of separating the original elements from the accretions of later centuries is one that demands the attention of an expert .  | From such pieces as survive we may at least be sure that the The primitive saga was chanted to the accompaniment of a harp . The thoughts and feelings of the individual author are of no especial significance . Interest is concentrated on the tale itself , which is dramatic , idealized , and intensely serious . Poetry of this sort is called epic and is recognized as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Icelandic sagas and the Anglo-Saxon Beowulf , however fine , remained apart from the main current of western civilization . The more typical epics of mediteval Europe are the chansons de geste  --  as the name literally implies , songs of great deeds . Whatever the influence upon them of ancient Frankish sagas , none of which are extant , the chansons de geste appear to be unified compositions of the eleventh and twelfth centuries rather than popular tales that gradually took form . They are written in French and , while borrowing names and episodes from Carolingian times , they faithfully reflect the society and thought of feudal France . The Song of Roland is not only the earliest and best of the chansons de geste but one of the finest poems in all literature . The author seems to have been a Norman clerk named Turold , who wrote under the immediate inspiration of the Spanish wars in the later eleventh century . The meter of the poem , like its language , is simple . There is no rhyme , but instead a rude assonance , by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the same vowel sound . The story is that of Roland , count of the Breton march , who , according to Einhard , fell in the pass of Roncevaux when the rear-guard of Charlemagne 's army was attacked by the Basques . But in the epic poem the antagonists become Moslems instigated by a Frankish traitor ; Roland becomes the champion of Christendom . The chanson begins by introducing Charlemagne who , we are told , has spent seven years in Spain and has subdued the  | entire peninsula except Saragossa . Marsile , king of that city , " who serves Mohammed and prays to Apollo , " holds a council of war . There it is decided to send an embassy to the emperor , offering rich presents and treacherous terms of peace . Charlemagne , on receiving this offer , takes a seat under a pine tree and summons his barons for advice . They are very distrustful of Marsile , and Count Roland , the emperor 's nephew , voices their sentiment in urging further war . Ganelon , however , persuades Charles to accept and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the perilous journey with the answer . The emperor refuses to allow either Roland or his friend Oliver to go , but agrees to send Ganelon . The latter , furious with jealousy , swears revenge on Roland . Thus it comes about that Ganelon turns traitor and joins Marsile in an attack on the Frankish rear-guard , left under command of Roland . Charlemagne and his host have advanced out of Spain . Roland , with a picked force of twenty thousand knights , remains behind in the pass of Roncevaux . Oliver , full of foreboding , climbs a hill and so perceives the Saracen army preparing for attack . It is a magnificent sight . Fair shines the sun , the day is bright and clear , Light burns again from all their polished gear . A thousand horns they sound , more proud to seem ; Great is the noise , the Franks its echo hear . Says Oliver : " Companion , I believe , Sarrazins now in battle must we meet . " Answers Rollanz : " God grant us then the feel For our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Man for his lord should suffer great disease , Most bitter cold endure , and burning heat , His hair and skin should offer up at need . Now must we each lay on most hardily , So evil song ne'er sung of us shall be . " " Roland is gallant ; Oliver is wise . " Oliver urges Roland to sound his horn , by a miraculous blast to summon Charles to the rescue . But Roland refuses all entreaty and prepares for combat , thinking only of glorious battle and of the bright blood that shall soon paint his beloved sword , Durendal . If he is to die , he  | hopes only that the man who gets it may be able to say that it belonged to a " noble vassal . " Up rides the archbishop Turpin and preaches the Franks a sermon , brief and to the point : " My lords barons , Charles left us here for this ; He is our King , well may we die for him : To Christendom good service offering . Battle you 'll have , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eyes you see the Sarrazins . Pray for God 's grace , confessing Him your sins ! For your souls ' health , I 'll absolution give ; So , though you die , blest martyrs shall you live , Thrones you shall win in the great Paradis . " The Franks arise , and stand upon their feet ; They 're well absolved , and from their sins made clean , And the Archbishop has signed them with God 's seal . So Roland now leads his troops to battle , galloping on Veillantif , his good horse . Proud and brave he goes , brandishing his sword and turning against the sky the point of his lance , from which streams a white pennon . Fringes beat his hands as he rides , noble of body , with face clear and smiling . And what does he say to his companions ? " Lords , before night great and rich booty shall be ours ! " The battle is joined ? a series of combats , man to man , lance The against shield . After fifteen strokes , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the first-comer , one Chernuble , he cuts through helmet , man , saddle , and horse , slicing the spine " without striking a joint . " The count Rollanz , he canters through the field , Holds Durendal , he well can thrust and wield , Right great damage he 's done the Sarrazines , You 'd seen them , one on other , dead in heaps , Through all that place their blood was flowing clear ! In blood his arms were and his hauberk steeped , And bloodied o'er , shoulder and neck , his steed . The fight becomes fiercer . Both Frank and Saracen strike marvelous blows , but the mightiest strikers are Roland , Oliver , and Turpin .  | The Franks strike on ; their hearts are good and stout . Pagans are slain , a thousandfold , in crowds , Left of five score are not two thousands now . Says the Archbishop : " Our men are very proud , No man on earth has more nor better found . In Chronicles of Franks is written down , What vassalage he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ splendid horse , taken from a Danish king whom he had slain . He has a magnificent sword , equaled apparently only by his right arm . He rides against Abisme and cuts right through the Saracen 's magic shield . So Turpin strikes , spares him not anyway ; After that blow , he 's worth no penny wage ; The carcass he 's sliced , rib from rib away , So flings him down dead in an empty place. , Then say the Franks : " He has great vassalage , With the Archbishop , surely the Cross is safe . " The Franks , however , are sorely outnumbered . Before long very few will be left . So Roland , still unscathed by the enemy , sounds his horn ? a mighty blast that starts the blood from his lips and cracks his temple . Charlemagne , distant thirty leagues . hears , summons his troops , and turns back . Too late ! By the time the Saracens , hearing the approach of reinforcements , have fled all the Franks are doomed . Oliver has died @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and " above all men Roland , his companion . " The archbishop is able only to pronounce a last blessing over the slain nobles laid before him by Roland . The latter , weakened by loss of blood , faints on finding the body of Oliver , and Turpin dies in the effort to bring him water . Roland , thus left with an army of corpses , feels death approaching . Rather than have his sword Durendal , with all the sacred relics in the hilt , fall into pagan hands , he tries to break it but can not . As his strength fails , he throws himself under a pine , his face towards the enemy . His right-hand glove , to God he offers it ; Saint Gabriel from 's hand hath taken it .  | Over his arm his head bows down and slips , He joins his hands : and so is life finish 'd . God sent him down His angel cherubin , And Saint Michael , we worship in peril ; And by their side Saint Gabriel alit ; So the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ensue ? battles of revenge , in which the Franks decimate the Saracens and complete their conquest . Then comes the journey homeward . At the imperial palace in Aix-laChapelle Charlemagne is confronted by Aude the fair , betrothed of Roland . He tells her not to grieve ; that she may have instead his own son Louis . Aude replies that without Roland life is not worth living , and she falls dead at the emperor 's feet . Ganelon , after his guilt has been determined through trial by combat , is executed . Charlemagne lies down to sleep , but St. Gabriel appears to him in a vision and tells him of more Christians to be rescued from pagan oppression . " God ! " said the king : " My life is hard indeed ! " Tears filled his eyes , he tore his snowy beard . This is the Song of Roland , the fame of which was spread by French knights from Ireland to Jerusalem . Wherever feudal ideals came to triumph , there men thrilled at the bitter fight at Roncevaux . Reading the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not share , their emotions ; for through the song we plainly know the singer and his audience . In the background of the poem are Charlemagne , a majestic but shadowy figure ; France , his empire , with a geography of the vaguest ; and the weary ceaseless war against the infidel . The real theme , however , is vassalage , epitomized in the person of Count Roland . Charles is not merely king and champion of the faith ; he is Roland 's lord . To Charles , Roland is unswervingly loyal , yet his loyalty is not disinterested . Fighting for his lord , Roland also fights for himself ? for ccnquest , loot , glory , and sheer delight . It is on his reckless valor , not the wisdom of Oliver , that the story turns . Like a true knight , he is straightforward ; the schemers of the piece are rogues . Ruthless to his foes , Roland is tender to his friends . Nearest his heart stands his devoted  | companion-in-arms , Oliver ; and next in his affections come his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is no word . His fiancee dies at the news of his death ; that is all . Roland 's virtues are those of the battlefield . Even the religion of the chanson is warlike : magic relics help to make a sword invincible ; the Cross is safest with a blood-smeared archbishop ; a soldier on God 's side is assured of salvation ; warrior saints bear Roland 's soul to paradise . To conclude that the French of the eleventh century thought no thought not contained in this one poem would of course be erroneous . Most men at that time probably loved their wives and sweethearts , took delight in humble joys , lived ordinary lives , and missed heroic deaths . Vassals were not always loyal to their lords , nor lords to their vassals . Yet , although men could not be Rolands , they could dream of being so . The glorious count could have been the paragon of none but the fiercely warlike and naively religious aristocracy that spent itself on the crusade .  | HISTORIANS of an older generation told a very pretty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Apocalypse , they said , men had learned to expect the end of the world in the year I000 . So , with the imagined approach of the Last Judgment , Europe was swept by a wave of piety . The fateful year arrived and the world did not come to an end , but the cause of reform had gained a momentum that could not be checked . The result was a great age of ecclesiastical ascendancy ? one marked by the triumph of the papacy over the empire , the glorious crusade , and the consequent advance of civilizations . The finest achievements of the later Middle Ages could thus be ascribed to a misplaced confidence in the word of Scripture . Unhappily for the student , this neat explanation of a complicated development must now be classified among the legends of historiography . Investigation has shown that people who wrote towards the close of the tenth century expressed no dread of the year woo ; that , indeed , there was no reason why they should have had any such dread , for the mystic prophecy in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' Nevertheless , the events just mentioned did occur . And although we have no easy formula to fall back on , we must try to obtain some understanding of them . Up to a certain point the kingdoms of France and Germany developed along parallel lines . In each all real power tended  | to fall into the hands of local princes ; in each the Carolingian dynasty was supplanted by kings elected from among those princes ; and in each a princely house finally obtained a semihereditary claim to the throne . If the descendants of Henry the Fowler had continued his policy , they would have remained , like the early Capetians , actual rulers of a principality with the kingship held as a sort of honorary title . But Henry 's son , who came to be known as Otto the Great , was not satisfied with such a role . Leaving Saxony to be administered by subordinates , he turned to the enforcement of his authority throughout Germany as a whole . The inevitable result was a far-reaching insurrection . The dukes of Lorraine , Franconia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Otto 's election and even to act as household officials at his coronation , would brook no interference with their local affairs . And in this attitude they were supported by many of the higher clergy . Fortunately for the king , the risings did not all occur at once ; he was able to crush them in detail and , reasserting the Carolingian tradition , to appoint new dukes , generally members of his own family . The plan was a complete failure , for even a royal son or son-in-law found it easier to champion local sentiment than to oppose it , and a fresh insurrectionary movement awaited only a favorable opportunity . It was provided by the king 's ambitious projects abroad . Before 952 Otto had gained three noteworthy successes outside Germany . He had defeated the Czechs of Bohemia , now organized as a Christian state , and compelled their king to accept his overlordship . He had forced similar recognition from the youthful king of Arles and so extended his sovereignty westward to the Rhone . Finally , to complete his title to the old @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , married the widow of one Italian king , and exacted the submission of another . From this adventure he was recalled by a German rebellion , combined with a renewed Hungarian offensive . Despite the apparent odds , Otto was able to reassert his mastery . Having crushed the rebels , he won a crowning triumph over the Hungarians on the Lech in 955 ? a decisive victory , for it ended the last great Magyar invasion of Germany .  | By 961 all was again quiet ; with the frontiers secure and the duchies temporarily in loyal hands , Otto was free to resume his Italian enterprise . On-the invitation of Pope John XII , one of the notorious profligates who disgraced the Roman see at this unhappy time , Otto crossed the Alps with a formidable army , occupied Lombardy , and assumed the Italian crown . In the next year he was crowned emperor by the pope ? and what historians know as the Holy Roman Empire had come into existence ( see Map X ) . Then , as the pope came to repent his hasty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deposed , and procured the election of his own secretary . Momentarily he even thought to conquer the rest of the peninsula , but abandoned the project in favor of a treaty with the Byzantine emperor . Thereby he secured the hand of a Greek princess for his eldest son , together with the promise of the southern Italian duchies as her marriage portion . The remaining years of his life the king devoted primarily to ecclesiastical reform and , thanks to his control of the papacy , he eventually obtained the erection of a new archbishopric at Magdeburg , with jurisdiction over the Slavic marches to the east . Dying in 973 , he left a magnificent heritage to his son , Otto II , who had already been crowned emperor as well as king . To understand the policy of Otto the Great is to understand that of his successors for over two hundred years . Thenceforth , generation after generation , the kings of Germany were to try to rival Charlemagne , but few of them were to equal the success of Otto . Glorious as it was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Under its talented ruling house Saxony might have been made the nucleus of a powerful state with infinite possibilities of expansion to the east ? or perhaps to the north , for as yet there were no Scandinavian kingdoms of any strength . Otto , however , chose to abandon Saxony and to attempt the government of Germany through personal control of the dukes , while he pursued imperial ambitions in Burgundy and Italy . For the sake of a pseudo-Roman grandeur , many of the men who followed Otto on the throne forgot  | to be German . Striving for an empire , they failed to secure even a duchy . With these remarks to serve as an introduction , the next century of German history can be passed over in brief outline . Otto II ruled for only ten years ( 973-83 ) . He put down several revolts , fought the Bohemians , and died in the midst of a futile compaign to enforce his claim to the southern duchies of Italy . His son Otto III ( 983-1002 ) lived only to be twentytwo . Brought up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all his time in Italy , where , surrounded by officials with Byzantine titles , he indulged in imperial play-acting while his kingdoms relapsed into anarchy . His one noteworthy act was the installation of Gerbert , his illustrious teacher , as Pope Silvester II . Since Otto III died without direct heirs , the magnates proclaimed Henry II , a grandson of Otto I 's brother ( see Table IV ) . Although his reign was not spectacular , he somewhat restored the credit of the monarchy by devoting most of his time to the defense of Germany , which was now threatened by a new Slavic attack under the command of the Polish king . The latter , finally , was forced to submit and like the Bohemian king to recognize German overlordship . With the death of Henry II in 1024 the house of Saxony , by descent on the male side , came to an end ; but the German electors , remaining loyal to the dynastic principle , chose a Franconian noble named Conrad , the great-grandson of Otto I 's daughter . So the new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ house , was merely the old under another name . There was no innovation either in theory or in practice . Conrad put down several revolts , spent a year in Italy , secured the imperial crown , fought the Slays , and reasserted German overlordship in Poland and Bohemia . The outstanding event of his reign was the acquisition of a third royal crown , when the last king of Arles died without heirs in 1032 . Seven years later Conrad 's dominions passed to his son Henry III who , happily , enjoyed a rather uneventful reign ( 1039-56 ) . Aside from a minor war in Lorraine , his empire remained generally peace- ful , and externally it had no dangerous enemies . German influence , already dominant in Poland and Bohemia , was now extended over Hungary , which had recently emerged as a Christian kingdom . Altogether , Henry III held a magnificent preeminence in Europe ; the speciousness of his imperial glory was not to be proved until it was inherited by his less fortunate son . Meanwhile a subject of the greatest importance had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the relations , theoretical and actual , of church and state . So far as theory was concerned , an impressive mass of writing had already accumulated , and in the following years it was to be raised to mountainous proportions . Yet the fundamental arguments always remained the same and can be very briefly stated . The imperialist school continued to be fascinated by the tradition of Charlemagne , which was the tradition of the Roman Empire . The ecclesiastical system advocated by Otto I and his successors was substantially that of Justinian , Theodosius , and Constantine : the church , though permitted to decide matters of doctrine and to establish its own discipline , was a department of state . Like other departments , it was under the supreme control of the emperor , who held himself directly responsible to God . The ministers of the church , no less than lay officials , were imperial subjects ; for men should " render unto Casar the things which are Caesar 's . " As a matter of history , this was an excellent thesis . The question was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eleventh century ? The imperialist doctrine ignored the fact that the Christian world was no longer an empire except in imagination . It was to become increasingly doubtful whether the emperor could enforce any real authority ' even in those regions where his nominal sovereignty was recognized . An academic discussion might well appeal to memories of Roman majesty . But how could such an appeal bring inspiration or security to western Europe ? To refute the imperialist claims , the champions of the papacy might very properly emphasize the demands of practical religion . As an international organization , the church could not be subject to any state , whether or not the latter styled itself  | an empire . The papacy owed its existence as a world power to its independence of any western Caesar . It was the dominance of the Byzantine government that had constantly brought the patriarchs of Constantinople into conflict with the popes . Furthermore , the great fathers of the church , notably St. Augustine , had written eloquent books to prove that all political institutions were the consequence of Adam 's sin . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would be no evil in the world . And without evil there would be no need of governors , armies , police , courts , and penal laws . The state , therefore , was an ephemeral thing , necessary but not divine like the church . The latter was the immediate representative of God on earth . It held the sole power among men of distinguishing good from evil . And whatever authority Christ had conferred on His church could be lawfully exercised by its supreme head , the bishop of Rome . Must not , accordingly , the pope be recognized as the final arbiter of human affairs ? The logic of the papal argument was hard to escape , once its premises had been admitted . In the eleventh century , however , the church needed vastly more than logic ? as will be seen from a sketch of its reinvigoration . Since the collapse of Charlemagne 's empire there had been no general reform of ecclesiastical institutions . Occasionally a wise ruler , like Alfred in England or Otto I in Germany , had been able to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ part of Europe conditions had grown worse rather than better . Bishops , when they were not actually vicious , were commonly submerged in secular affairs ; and in this respect even the popes set a bad example . Besides , ecclesi astical properties and offices had often been turned into fiefs to be secured by the methods that were everywhere in vogue among laymen . On all sides parishes , bishoprics , abbacies , and other preferments were solicited from patrons by means of suitable presents . And the successful candidate naturally recouped himself from his subordinates . Bishops charged priests  | for ordination ; the priests took fees from the people for the administration of the sacraments . The rule of celibacy for clergymen in the Roman church above the grade of sub-deacon was everywhere relaxed . Priests and bishops were frequently married , and so came to endow their children with estates that were supposed to maintain religious service . The church , like the Carolingian kingdoms , was threatened with dispersion among a host of feudal dynasties . Inevitably , too , there had been a sad @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , while virtually appointing all abbots in his dominions , strove to preserve a high standard of religious discipline and so to improve Frankish civilization . Yet in any particular case the emperor 's wish was probably less important than the character of the abbot and the relative wealth of the monastery . In a richly endowed house , whose needs were supplied by peasants on outlying estates , the monk 's vow of individual poverty , as well as the manual labor prescribed by his rule , had no economic significance . Often enough the brothers lived in comparative luxury . Their buildings ? usually arranged about an arcaded cloister ? would normally be of stone and would include , together with kitchens and storerooms , a dormitory , where they slept ; a refectory , where they ate ; a chapter house , where they met to discuss matters of common interest ; and a church , where they celebrated the routine offices . Their abbot might well be more interested in politics or warfare than in the principles of St. Benedict . He might , indeed , be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Later , with the degradation of the church generally , conditions in the monasteries tended to go from bad to worse ? until religious ideals were actually threatened with extinction . In the tenth century most persons seem to have taken the feudalization of the church quite for granted . Only a few purists denounced the marriage of priests as concubinage on the ground that they could not be lawfully wedded , and the buying of ecclesiastical preferment as simony ? i.e. , the sin of Simon Magus who had offered money for the gift of the Holy  | Spirit . Such agitation , as we should expect , first gained significant headway in the cloister . Long before the allegedly mystic year i000 various religious establishments had become famous as centers of zeal for a Christian revival , but only one of them was to achieve European prominence . This was the monastery of Cluny , founded with papal confirmation by the duke of Aquitaine in 910 . According to the terms of its establishment , that famous abbey was to be strictly governed under the rule of St. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as abbot without the intervention of any person ; and the abbot thus elected was to be independent of all ecclesiastical authorities except the pope . The original Benedictine system had all too often resulted in domination by some local magnate and in the decadence of religious life . Now , as the new community acquired wide renown for purity and zeal , many ancient monasteries became affiliated with it under priors named by the abbot of Cluny . The resulting group of houses , known as the Congregation of Cluny , eventually numbered over three hundred and exerted great influence throughout western Europe ? principally by means of preaching and political agitation , for the Cluniac monks paid little or no attention to scholarship . Worthy as it was , however , the cause of reform could have slight success without the backing of temporal authority , and most princes were reluctant to abandon established custom . The first noteworthy convert to the new religious movement was the emperor Henry III . On his accession in 1039 he immediately undertook to remove all taint of simony from his court and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could hold any honor under the crown . But Henry III never dreamed of relinquishing his control of ecclesiastical affairs . Like Charlemagne , he regarded the church as a department of the royal government , and by his official acts he soon demonstrated that in this respect no distinction would be made between Germany and Italy . Crossing the Alps in 1046 , Henry was confronted by the unusual spectacle of three rivals claiming to be pope at the same time . This scandal he summarily ended by having all three  | deposed in assemblies of the clergy . Then he procured the election of a German successor , and on the death of the latter he virtually appointed three other popes . Of them the second was Leo IX , whose pontificate marked the resumption by the papacy of spiritual leadership in Europe . In the first place , Leo personally launched a vigorous campaign to root out simony and clerical marriage , holding councils for that purpose in Italy , France , and Germany . And while he was thus engaged in traveling about the country , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prelates and temporal princes of the west . Meanwhile the Norman conquests in southern Italy had given rise to fresh unpleasantness with the Byzantine government . At first Leo thought to advance his interests at Constantinople by joining forces with the emperor . But the Normans had no difficulty in defeating both the imperial and the papal armies . Then , while the pope 's attitude was still in doubt , the headstrong Michael Cerularius , patriarch of Constantinople , precipitated a religious crisis . Reviving an ancient quarrel , he denounced all the peculiar usages of the Latins and closed all churches in his capital where they were in force . Leo accordingly had no choice . Shortly before his death in 1054 he signed a peace with the Normans and excommunicated the patriarch . The latter , taking advantage of the vacancy at Rome , induced the weak emperor to reverse his policy and agree to the acts of a synod that formally condemned all followers of the Roman discipline . The schism between east and west , thus renewed in 1054 , has remained unhealed down to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , no doubt , will always be differently assessed by persons of different faiths , but in any case little of it can justly fall on Leo IX . The pontificate of Leo is also important for the rise of a remarkable Italian with a German name , Hildebrand , who became archdeacon under Nicholas II ( 1058-61 ) . As the pope 's chief assistant , Hildebrand is generally credited with two significant measures which were then enacted . One was the formal alliance with the Normans in southern Italy , recognizing Guis-  | card 's conquests as a papal fief , blessing his brother 's expedition against the Moslems of Sicily , and assuring the pope of their armed support in case of a German attack upon Rome . The other was the famous electoral decree of the same year , 1059 , which vested the control of papal elections in the cardinal clergy of Rome . The new plan was merely the adaptation of a custom that was already widespread ? having a bishop elected by the cathedral chapter , the clergy attached to the service of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ especially momentous in that the initiative in papal elections was given to the cardinal bishops , while the emperor was left with no function beyond that of confirming an accomplished act . The election of the Italian Nicholas II in 1058 had gone uncontested by the imperial court because Henry III had died two years earlier , leaving an infant son to succeed as Henry IV . During the minority Germany was administered by a regent  - -  first the queen mother and then the archbishop of Cologne , who kidnaped the young king to secure control of the government . Again in 1061 an Italian was proclaimed as Pope Alexander II , and under him Hildebrand continued to guide the papal policy , deciding among other important matters to bless the Norman duke 's conquest of England as a means of ousting a rebellious archbishop of Canterbury . Finally , in 1073 , Hildebrand himself was raised to the papal throne with the tumultuous acclaim of the Roman populace , and his accession as Gregory VII was promptly recognized by Henry IV . This action on the part of the king was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Henry was to prove himself a man of exceptional ability , inclined rather to violence than to moderation . At the moment , however , he was fully occupied with a dangerous revolt in Saxony . It was not until later , after he had crushed the Saxon rebels , that he revealed his true attitude towards the papal administration . Gregory is described by contemporaries as a small man with a weak voice . But his physique was no measure of his greatness .  | Though never called to lead armies or remake the map of Europe , he possessed the qualities of a born commander and statesman . And the fact that his life was devoted to a lofty ideal gave him a moral grandeur that has been commonly wanting in generals and world-rulers . There can be as little question of his sincerity as of his experience . When Gregory said that through him one might hear the voice of St. Peter , he expressed a profound conviction . To him , as to St. Augustine , the problem of church and state resolved itself into a matter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from sin must be superior to any other . A comparatively unlearned man , he based his policy on a few simple principles , to which he remained unswervingly loyal . He wisely abstained from counsels of perfection . Like the first Gregory , he realized that the most glorious advance had to be made step by step and that there was no easy formula for succeeding with all kinds of people . Whatever may have been said against him by his enemies , he had no fanatical desire for controversy . His relations with William I6 of England prove that he was quite willing to come to terms with a strong king who would keep faith with him . His conflict with Henry IV arose , not from an attachment to abstract theory , but from a very definite issue that could not be avoided . When confronted by such an issue , Gregory thought clearly and acted decisively . During the early years of his pontificate Gregory continued to give his chief attention to the campaign against simony and clerical marriage . In this he was stubbornly opposed by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ through the influence of the king . Even those who were not hostile to the proposed reforms obstructed the pope 's efforts to enforce his direct authority . As Henry , plunged in political troubles and anxious to be crowned emperor , still maintained a submissive attitude , Gregory proceeded to suspend a number of German bishops for disobedience . Then , in 1075 , he struck at what he considered another root of evil by prohibiting lay investiture . Although rulers might keep some influence over  | ecclestiastical elections , no successful candidate could be legally installed in office except by an ecclesiastic . But Henry was now gaining the upper hand in Saxony and displayed no eagerness to enforce the papal decree . Gregory , therefore , sent him a warning letter , threatening him with excommunication unless he at once proved his good faith by actively supporting the cause of reform . Dazzled by his Saxon triumph , Henry retorted by inspiring his bishops , early in 1076 , to denounce the pope as a usurper and declare him unfit to occupy the Roman see . A royal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ monk " and bade him come down from the apostolic throne which he had secured through violence and " be damned through all the ages . " Gregory 's answer to this challenge could not be a matter of doubt . Every king , being human , was subject to the discipline of the church for his sins . Nearly seven hundred years earlier Ambrose of Milan had enforced that lesson against the magnificent emperor Theodosius . Henry had been warned to repent and to correct his ways . He had not only refused to do so but had attacked the divine authority of the Roman bishop . So Gregory , in language of admirable simplicity , declared Henry excommunicate and deprived of his regal power ; his subjects , released from their oaths of fealty , were to elect another in his place . The very boldness of the pronouncement caused a tremendous sensation . Yet , if it had not been based on shrewd political calculation , it would have been no more than a heroic gesture . As it was , Gregory proved that he had clearly appraised @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the threat of royal absolutism , welcomed the pope 's authorization of revolt . Meeting in the autumn of 1076 , they declared Henry deposed unless he could secure absolution within a year and , being unable to agree on a rival candidate , postponed further action until they could reassemble under the presidency of the pope . By the end of 1076 Henry thus found his victory of the previous year entirely undone . Virtually the whole nobility of the kingdom had turned against him ; even the bishops , frightened by the consequences of their rash pronouncement , had hastened  | to make submission at Rome . There was only one escape for the king : to prevent the union of his enemies , he had to swallow his pride and come to terms with the pope . Accordingly , in the last days of December , Henry set out on his humiliating journey . Gregory , in the meantime , had started for Germany ; but , hearing that Henry had already crossed the Alps , he fell back to Canossa , a Tuscan castle belonging to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in January , 1077 ? barefooted and garbed in coarse wool . Gregory , as he tells us in his own letter , kept Henry waiting for three days ; perhaps he was reluctant to abandon the dictatorship of German affairs . As a priest of the church , however , he had to receive the penitent and grant him absolution . This famous episode was hailed then , and has since been regarded , as a great moral triumph for the church . It proclaimed to the world that the papacy , within the lifetime of one man , had been rescued from its long decadence and raised to a new height of renown . Captivating the imagination of Europe , the incident seemed to usher in a new and glorious age of Christian idealism . Otherwise the victory lay with Henry , who had now gained - time to rebuild his fortunes . Although the rebels went ahead with their plans and set up a rival king , Henry was once more ideals in control of Germany by i o80 . Again he broke with Gregory and , leading @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ installed an anti-pope who crowned him emperor ( 1084 ) . Faced by a renewed threat from Germany , Gregory was compelled to seek aid from his unscrupulous Norman vassals . In io8o Robert Guiscard had received papal consent , not only to enlarge his fief by annexing various disputed territories , but also to invade the Balkan peninsula . Thereupon the great adventurer , with the able support of his son Bohemund , launched a drive which he hoped would carry him to the Byzantine throne . After taking Corfu and Durazzo , however , he had to abandon the campaign in order to check the advance of Henry IV . This the Normans did very effectively , and for good measure subjected the city of Rome to three days ' pillage . When they left , Gregory in fear of reprisals went with them ? to die at Salerno in io85 . His last  | days were spent in bitter despondency . At the end he is reported to have exclaimed : " I have loved righteousness and hated iniquity ; therefore I die in exile . " Nevertheless @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suffered no lasting defeat . Henry 's attempt to dominate Italy served only to weaken his hold on Germany , where insurrection followed insurrection and his own son eventually turned against him . Long before his death in the midst of this wretched struggle the papacy had regained complete independence . And the ideals of Gregory VII , maintained by his successors , carried the Roman see to a new height of renown in the glorious Age of the Crusades . Towards the close of the eleventh century a number of factors combined to produce the great movement known as the crusade . Two of these factors have already been examined : the growth in France of a feudal aristocracy that tended to swarm into the surrounding regions and the emergence of a reformed papacy that ardently laid claim to the moral leadership of Europe . A third , the great commercial revival that brought to old cities a new population eager for mercantile expansion , will be separately treated in the next chapter . A fourth , the rise of a Turkish power at the expense of the Byzantine Empire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Byzantine state had shown remarkable ability to recover from apparent ruin ? as under Heraclius , under Leo III , and , more recently , under the Macedonian house . At the death of Basil II in 1025 the imperial dominions had been extended to include Bulgaria on the north and Antioch on the south . Then ensued another relapse . The Macedonian line came to an end when the second of Basil 's daughters died unmarried in Io56 . Thereafter the usual palace intrigues brought to the throne a series of very ordinary , if not incompetent , rulers . It was under them that Venice became entirely independent , that their other Italian provinces were lost to the Normans , and that the patriarch of Constantinople forced an open breach with the papacy . To cap  | the climax , the Byzantine possessions in Asia were now endangered by a fresh Moslem offensive . The source of the danger was not the caliphate , which had long been helpless , but the Seljuk Turks ? one of the many nomadic tribes that , adopting Mohammedanism , had entered the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ VI ) . By 1038 Togrul Beg , grandson of Seljuk , had established himself as autonomous sultan of Nishapur , and in another seventeen years he had taken Bagdad , rescued the caliph from a local chieftain , and substituted his own control . Inheriting his father 's office in 1063 , Alp Arslan ( Brave Lion ) completed the subjection of Persia and Armenia . And when the emperor Romanus IV rashly brought up his army to drive out the invaders , Alp Arslan annihilated it at Manzikert ( 1071 ) . The result of this one battle was not only the loss by the Byzantine Empire of all Asia Minor , except a few places on the coast , but also the destruction of its military power . Anatolia , which for hundreds of years had supplied the government with the best of its generals and civil servants , was now resettled by wild tribesmen from central Asia , and down to the present it has remained solidly Turkish . Alp Arslan , however , did not long survive his great victory . Dying in the next year @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , under whom the Seljuk power reached its height . While Asia Minor was organized as the sultanate of Roum ( i.e. , Rome ) , a new Turkish offensive was launched against Syria , the conquest of which was completed by 1080 . So it came about that the successors of Romanus at Constantinople , unable to recover what they had lost or perhaps to defend what they still possessed , appealed to the pope for the aid of Latin Christendom . The appeal was well calculated to awaken interest at Rome , The for the papacy had already been led to champion a variety of warlike enterprises in the west . A great offensive against the Moors was still being waged by the Christian princes of Spain , and the church had aided enlistment for that holy cause by an offer of special indulgence ? the promise to the recruit that whatever penance he had accumulated would be wholly or  | largely remitted . Under a similar blessing the conquest of Sicily was being pushed to completion by Count Roger and his Normans . Moreover , the predecessors of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of England . and Robert Guiscard against the schismatic Greeks of southern Italy . Gregory himself had gone so far as to approve Guiscard 's project for the reduction of the Byzantine Empire . Meanwhile a significant part in many of these conflicts had come to be taken by the greater Italian cities . The Venetians , in return for commercial advantages , gave valuable assistance to the Normans in Sicily . The Genoese and Pisans , despairing of any effective action by king or emperor , combined their fleets against the Moslem pirates who had so long dominated the neighboring waters . Having taken the island of Sardinia , they extended their offensive operations along the coasts of Spain and Africa . Finally , in 1087 , they compelled the emir of Tunis to grant them favorable terms by seizing his principal port ? a victory that may be said to have definitely ended the Moslem COMM ' of the western Mediterranean . Active intervention in Byzantine affairs was , of course , never possible for Gregory VII . And his immediate successor was an elderly friend who survived him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the cardinals chose a younger and an abler man , the famous Urban II . The new pope was a noble of Champagne who had resigned a knightly career to become a monk at Cluny . There his talents had quickly distinguished him and he had been deputed for service at Rome . Having long been Gregory 's trusted assistant , he accepted the papal office as a solemn obligation to carry out the ideals of his departed master . Everything , by a striking reversal of fortune , now seemed to contribute to the same end . In the face of constant distraction from Germany , the aging Henry IV abandoned all effort to control Italy . The death of Robert Guiscard , shortly following that of Gregory , had brought confusion to the duchy of Apulia ; for the recognized heir , a brother of Bohemund , turned out to be incompetent . Since 1081 the Byzantine throne had been occupied by Alexius Comnenus , , a cultured man of the world and a highly  | successful intriguer rather than a soldier or a statesman . Thanks to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to recover his lost positions on the Macedonian coast , but he was powerless to drive the Turks from Asia Minor . It was under such circumstances that Alexius , thinking to secure a force of mercenary adventurers , besought the aid of the pope and the western princes . This was Urban 's opportunity , and the use he made of it proved him to be a worthy disciple of Gregory VII . Instead of an ordinary campaign to be waged by the Greek emperor for the reconquest of his Asiatic provinces , Urban dreamed of a magnificent Latin enterprise organized and controlled by the papacy ? a great Christian offensive that should absorb and surpass the lesser offensives already begun . If successful , such an undertaking might restore to Alexius some of his lost territories ; that was a minor consideration . The main object was to unite all Christendom in a war to recover the Holy Land , thus ending the local conflicts that had so long distracted Europe and proclaiming a general pacification to be dictated by the church . In this latter respect Urban 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over a century the clergy , especially in France , had been engaged in a rather fruitless effort to check the excesses of feudal warfare . Despoilers of churches and ravagers of the poor were placed under a solemn curse , and sworn associations of nobles were set up to enforce the decree . More recently this so-called Peace of God had been supplemented by the Truce of God , a similar organization to assure peaceful week-ends by prohibiting all fighting between Thursday evening and Monday morning . If combined and amplified under papal leadership , would not all such movements be infinitely more effective ? It was apparently in the summer of 1095 that Urban and his counselors decided on the action that was dramatically taken before the end of the year . After a sort of triumphal progress through northern Italy , he crossed the Alps into France , where he spent many weeks investigating local conditions . Finally , in November , he held a council at Clermont , the chief city of  | Auvergne , to which the clergy and nobility streamed from all directions . There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ French audience , delivered his epoch-making appeal . The Turks , he reminded his hearers , had but recently , after almost destroying the Byzantine Empire , seized the holy places in Palestine . What a noble work it would be to rescue the Lord 's sepulcher from their foul hands ! And who should assume this most sacred obligation if not the Franks ? a people long distinguished for purity of faith , and a people famed beyond all others for prowess in arms ? Here , crowded in by sea and mountain , they inhabited a country that hardly produced enough food to support them ; there , on the contrary , lay the Promised Land of Israel , " flowing with milk and honey . " Let them cease from their murderous wars and dissensions . Let them rather join in one blessed enterprise , to wrest from the infidel the lands defiled by his presence , knowing that God would grant them not merely a rich earthly reward but also imperishable glory in the kingdom of heaven . So Urban concluded , and the entire assemblage , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Dieu le veut ? God wills it ! " How shrewdly Urban had calculated his chance of success was proved by the event . Thanks to the pope 's untiring efforts , thousands soon vowed adherence to the sacred cause . Each of them , as prescribed by the church , marked his new status by sewing on his garments a cross made of cloth . Thus the volunteer became known as a croise , and his expedition as a croisade , or crusade . Every crusader , together with his family and all his possessions , was brought under the protection of the pope and , by a plenary indulgence , he was assured of immediate entrance into paradise if he died in the course of the war . To heighten the general enthusiasm there now appeared many unofficial preachers , of whom the most famous was Peter the Hermit . Under their fervent exhortation , indeed , the crusading movement tended to get out of control . Crowds of ill-armed persons , without adequate funds or competent leadership , started on a mad pilgrimage to the Holy Land @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by many disorders , and of those who reached Constantinople the majority , on rashly advancing into Asia Minor , were killed by the Turks . The few survivors who reached Palestine did so by awaiting the principal host . The commanders of the host were all French , being actual barons of France or the relatives and associates of such persons . This , as Urban had clearly realized , was quite inevitable if his project was to succeed . The most famous exploits of the previous years had been carried out by French armies , and little co-operation could be expected from Henry IV and his German followers . In the absence of Philip I , whose notorious life had led to a renewal of his excommunication at Clermont , the Capetian house was represented by his brother Hugh , count of Vermandois . William II of England , being occupied with domestic problems , was quite willing to leave any distant expedition to his brother Robert , duke of Normandy , and his brother-in-law Stephen , count of Blois . None of these three crusaders , it soon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Flanders , the son of a renowned adventurer who had already made the pilgrimage to Jerusalem . And the neighboring house of Boulogne contributed no less than three important chiefs : Eustace , Godfrey , and Baldwin , of whom the second had been appointed by Henry IV to the undesirable duchy of Lower Lorraine . An imposing contingent from southern France was headed by Raymond , count of Toulouse , who enjoyed a great reputation on account of his piety , wealth , and experience in the Spanish wars . Nevertheless , the best general among the Christian forces was unquestionably Bohemund , son of Robert Guiscard . Having seen action in Italy , Sicily , and Greece , he was familiar with the peoples of those countries and , to some extent , with their languages . Since Guiscard 's duchy had been inherited by a brother of Bohemund , he had no great expectations at home and was naturally attracted by the crusade as a  | fresh opportunity for eastern conquest . With him went another Hauteville soldier of fortune , his nephew Tancred . From the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may readily be imagined . On the whole , the Christian host of 1096 was much like those which had earlier fought in Spain , England , and southern Italy . It differed mainly in the fact that , instead of being enlisted for the service of a secular prince , it was mustered under the supreme command of the papacy . Previously the church had blessed various enterprises launched by other authorities ; now it was directing a vast campaign of its own . This in itself was eloquent testimony to the might of the organization headed by Urban II . Yet the men who were to put his plan into execution remained distinct individuals . Among them there might be a few idealists who found their chief inspiration in mystic religion . And the multitude of knights , being quite sincere in their faith , could easily be induced under momentary enthusiasm to forget all worldly motives . It is more than coincidence , however , that the principal gainers from the crusade were to be hard-headed adventurers like the Norman Bohemund and shrewd merchants like the shipowners of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a time be able to use , but could it really dominate them ? That question had as yet not arisen when the various sections of the crusading host started east in the autumn of 1096 . Arrangements had already been made that all groups should converge on Constantinople , where the emperor Alexius had promised to furnish money , provisions , and additional troops . Godfrey of Lorraine , together with various French contingents , followed the route down the Danube that had been used by the earlier bands of irregulars . Raymond of Toulouse , after passing the Alps into Lombardy , proceeded along the Dalmatian coast until he struck the main highway from Durazzo through Macedonia . The same highway was chosen by the rest of the leaders , but to reach it they sailed from the Norman ports in southern Italy . There were many delays and various open conflicts between Greeks and Latins before all had assembled at the rendezvous . In particular , a violent altercation broke out between  | Alexius and the chiefs whom he sought to enroll for his service . He would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to him for whatever lands they might conquer , and to this demand a good many objected . Nevertheless , all finally agreed to some sort of oath ; so , in the spring of 1097 , the Christian army crossed into Asia to deliver its first attack on the Moslems . Mediaeval chroniclers , who have been followed by various modern writers , exuberantly reckoned the crusaders by hundreds of thousands . Such numbers , if our estimate is restricted to knights , must be divided by ten . Although to our eyes an army of twenty to thirty thousand is not impressive , it was tremendous for the eleventh century . And it could hardly be matched by the local Turkish emirs ; for all Moslem unity in Asia had again vanished after the death of Malik Shah . The Christians , therefore , had a good prospect of success if they could hold together ; but it soon appeared that they were by no means united in their counsels . The mutual distrust of the Greeks and Latins was nearly equaled by that of the southern and northern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the bitter rivalries of so many feudal chieftains could be submerged by religious enthusiasm . In June , 1097 , Nicaea fell and was immediately given to the emperor . Then , while the latter diverted his forces to conquer the Aegean coast , the crusaders struck bravely across the interior of Anatolia . Despite the unaccustomed heat and a grave shortage of food , they maintained their advance , routing the Turks at Dorylaeum in July and by September crossing the Taurus Mountains into Cilicia . Here , on the very border of the Promised Land , the host began to disintegrate . While Tancred , nephew of Bohemund , entered Tarsus , Baldwin of Boulogne invaded the upper Euphrates valley , where he eventually secured Edessa . The rest of the crusaders spent the winter before the walls of Antioch , vainly awaiting the support of Alexius who had foolishly turned back with a group of deserters from the Christian camp . It was the arrival of an Italian fleet with supplies and siege engines that ended the crusaders ' plight in the spring of 1098 . Antioch p 300 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the generalship and diplomacy of Bohemund , it surrendered ? five days before a large relieving force was brought up by the emir of Mosul . But Bohemund again distinguished himself by leading a counter-attack that drove off the besieging Turks ( June 28 ) . This battle was decisive in many ways . In the first place , it produced an open breach between the Latins and the Greeks . Bohemund , defying the emperor who had abandoned the crusaders in their hour of need , obtained definite title to the principality of Antioch . Because of the Roman-Greek schism , the pope found no occasion for intervening on behalf of the discredited Alexius . And since the ships of Genoa and Pisa had now established direct contact with Syria , Constantinople no longer dominated communications with the west . The crusade thus became an independent Latin venture , the course of which was left to be determined by the generals in the field . The battle also precipitated a bitter quarrel between Bohemund and Raymond of Toulouse , who had himself been eager to rule at Antioch and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ party , espoused the cause of Alexius . Besides , the southern French attributed the victory , not to the generalship of Bohemund , but to the power of a sacred relic ? the lance which had pierced the side of the crucified Christ and which , as the result of a vision , had recently been discovered by Peter Bartholomew , a follower of Raymond . The Normans , of course , scoffed at this alleged miracle , intimating that their rivals had simply uncovered what they had already buried . Even after the host had resumed its march on Jerusalem , dissension still raged . At last , during a halt on the coast , Peter Bartholomew agreed to undergo ordeal by fire to prove the truth of his statements . Clad only in a shirt and bearing the Holy Lance , he actually walked into a heap of fiercely blazing olive branches and emerged on the other side . Twelve days later he died , in consequence , said his friends , of excited handling by the crowd ; in consequence , said his enemies , of natural @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before ? a remarkable commentary  | on the mixture of religion and politics that characterized the whole crusade . In spite of all distractions , however , the Christian host eventually found itself encamped before Jerusalem . Now all figure was again harmony . And now , thanks to the co-operation of the Italian cities , there was a plentiful supply of materials and trained men for conducting a siege . On July 15 , less than six weeks after the enraptured crusaders had first sighted the Holy City , its walls were stormed . One week later Godfrey of Lor- raine , whose forces had led the final assault and who had remained somewhat aloof from the previous wrangling , was proclaimed Defender of the Holy Sepulcher . And on August 12 the success of his rule was assured by his victory at Ascalon over a formidable Egyptian army . Strangely enough , the man who had launched the great enterprise survived but did not live to celebrate its triumphant conclusion . Urban I1 died at Rome on July 29 , just before the glad news arrived that Jerusalem had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ course , enormous repercussion throughout Europe . All Christendom rang with the deeds of the heroes who had participated , and for many generations their example remained a potent influence upon the chivalry of the west . But , above all , the victory was logically reflected in the exaltation of the power that had conceived the undertaking . It was more than coincidence that the medieval papacy attained its height during the Age of the Crusades . Deepening knowledge of medieval civilization has , to be sure , made it impossible to regard all the major developments of the twelfth century as effects of the crusade . Yet in itself it was a very wonderful event , and one that richly illustrates the thoughts and habits of contemporary Europe . Leaving the ultimate significance of the crusade for treatment in subsequent chapters , we may simply note here that its immediate result in the east was the organization of four Latin states . These , extending from north to south , were the county of Edessa , originally held by Baldwin of Boulogne ; the principality of Antioch , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , finally created as a sop for Raymond of Toulouse ; and the kingdom of Jerusalem , which carried with it a theoretical superiority over the other three ( see Map XI ) . The first man to rule at Jerusalem , as we have seen , was Godfrey of Lorraine , though without the royal title . It was his brother Baldwin who , on moving from Edessa , was formally crowned as king on Christmas-day 1100 . For the first time since the decay of ancient Rome Europe had carried out a great offensive against Asia .  | positive signs of economic recovery in western Europe . There was then , for one thing , a noteworthy increase of population . Armies of younger sons made possible the great feudal exped . tions into Britain , Spain , Sicily , and Palestine that have been described in previous chapters . At the same time we hear of a greatly enhanced commercial activity , of new trading settlements along highways and water routes , of projects to expand the cultivated area by draining swamps and clearing forests , and of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ later Roman period a vicious cycle of impoverishment and depopulation had brought ruin to whole provinces of the empire . Now the reverse process brought renewed prosperity . The cause was assuredly no increase in human fecundity . It was not that the men of the eleventh century had more offspring , but that more of their offspring were permitted to survive and have offspring of their own . More jobs made it possible for more people to live , and the needs of these people led in turn to the appearance of still more jobs . As usual when economic phenomena are concerned , it is hard to say precisely what was cause and what was result . We may , however , be reasonably certain of a few relationships : that the increase of agricultural production was necessitated by the growth of new trading centers , where the population was  | dependent on imported food ; and that , of course , these centers arose to meet the demands of reviving commerce . We may also find significance in the fact that the tenth century was a period of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ efficient states , the absorption of the Vikings and Hungarians into the European system , and the organization of French society on a feudal basis . But the problem of how and why the Dark Age was succeeded by the marvelous Age of the Crusades is too complex to be taken up in an introductory sketch . The interaction of economic , political , and cultural developments must be left for later discussion , our present attention given to preliminary questions regarding trade routes , mercantile colonization , and the rise of the class known as bourgeois . In the first place , it should be remembered that we are dealing primarily with the Latin world ? the countries dominated by the Roman church , which were mainly Italy , France , the British Isles , Scandinavia , Germany , and the adjacent borderlands . To the east lay the Greek world , consisting of the Byzantine Empire together with the Slavic states under its cultural influence : principally Serbia , Bulgaria , and Russia . To the south was the great Moslem world , which at its height included Spain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Egypt , Syria , and other vast territories in Asia . The Moslems were thus able , when they chose , to prevent all direct contact between Christian Europe and the far east , to force all trade between those regions to pass through their hands . And their control of Spain and Morocco broke the Latin world into two reaches of seacoast joined only by overland communications : a southern area on the Mediterranean and a northern area extending from the Bay of Biscay to the Baltic . The center of the southern area was of course Italy , from which in the days of Roman prosperity lines of traffic had crossed the sea in all directions . But for many centuries regular trade had ceased to flow along most of the ancient routes ? interrupted , as it was , by the piracy of barbarian peoples , by the political separation of east and west , and finally by the Moslem conquests . In this respect Charlemagne 's pseudo  | empire , being essentially a creation of the mainland , had brought no improvement ; and its collapse in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Byzantine power , had encouraged a fresh series of Moslem offensives . Under such conditions Italian shipping had all but disappeared . The one notable exception was provided by Venice , the new commercial city that arose on Byzantine soil at the head of the Adriatic . Then , in the first half of the eleventh century , a holy war against the Moslem on the sea was launched by the Genoese and Pisans , who thus gained rich trading advantages in Corsica , Sardinia , Sicily , and Africa . And with the crusade the Italian merchants found themselves in position to reopen direct communications with Syria , carrying eastward the armies of pilgrims with their horses and necessary supplies , and bringing westward cargoes of oriental products . This revival of the old sea routes linking Europe , Asia , and Africa inevitably brought new life to the land and river routes that ran north from Italy . The great Roman highways , which had originally been built to join the capital with the provinces , included two coast roads : one from Genoa to Marseilles and Spain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Between them extended fanwise two sets of roads across the Alps : those crossing by the western passes to the valley of the Rhone and those crossing by the eastern passes to the upper valleys of the Rhine and Danube . Thence other paved highways paralleled the military frontiers and led through Gaul to the ports of the Atlantic and the North Sea . But , whenever possible , the mediaeval merchant preferred to travel by water , restricting his overland carrying to short journeys between rivers . So the Garonne , Loire , Seine , Somme , Scheldt , Meuse , and Rhine provided important routes to the west and northwest ; the Ems , Weser , Saale , and Elbe to the north ( see Map XII ) . In ancient times the waters of the Atlantic had been slightly used for commerce . The only northern sea route that the Romans had found indispensable was the one crossing the Channel to Britain . But by the eleventh century enormous changes had been made in the political map of Europe . Beyond  | the Rhine what had been a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the pale of Christendom , as had much of the Slavic borderland , northern Britain , Ire land , and parts of Scandinavia . In the ninth century the Vikings had appeared on the continent as pillagers and destroyers ; during the next two hundred years they had been absorbed into older states or had founded new and vigorous states of their own , while their fleets had been diverted from piracy to peaceful trade . Thus the waterways of the Viking freebooters now served as commercial links connecting the lands bordering on the Baltic and the North Sea . And through the mediation of the Russians , who controlled the so-called Varangian route from the Dnieper to the Gulf of Finland , the northern region was brought into economic contact with the Black Sea and the Caspian , and so with the Arab and Byzantine Empires . In the history of the world the commercial prominence of Italy was no new phenomenon . The unprecedented development was rather that which now took place in the northwest . A glance at the map will show how Flanders served as the focal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Goods brought by land and water through central France , down the Rhine , westward from the Baltic , or eastward from the British Isles , all easily converged on the little marquisate founded in the ninth century by Baldwin Iron-Arm . In Roman times that district had been largely uninhabited , being held merely as a military frontier . Now , on the contrary , it rapidly became a great center of population and wealth , a source of enormous power for its fortunate rulers , and on that account the object . of wars and political intrigues that have continued down to our own day . Of secondary economic importance in the northwest region were Picardy , Normandy , the middle Rhine valley , the Ile de France , and England . Central France remained backward , but the French Mediterranean coast , advantageously situated between Spain and Italy , tended to share the prosperity of the latter two countries . The connection between these developments and the revival of urban life in western Europe is obvious . On all sides towns  | and trade grew up together . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and every great town arose on a trade route . This connection serves to explain many important facts . The outstanding features of urban life , which were to have profound influence on the culture of Latin Christendom , were very new in the Age of the Crusades . By the close of the twelfth century scores of communities in western Europe were enjoying extensive liberties , sometimes including rights of self-government . Two hundred years earlier such privileged communities had not existed . What amounted to a social revolution had been produced by economic advance during the intervening period . Some writers , it is true , have traced the municipal institutions of the Middle Ages back to Roman tradition or to the primitive customs of the Germans ; but careful analysis of the problem indicates that they have been misled by treacherous words . We have already seen that the " cities " of the Carolingian Empire could have been little more than military and administrative centers . And the fortifications erected by kings and princes in the ninth and tenth centuries were hardly towns in our sense of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or England , and whether called chteau , burg , or borough such a fortress had few if any urban features . Even when a walled area included an official market , the latter was by itself insufficient to support a mercantile population of any considerable size . Some trade , of course , persisted all through the Dark . k-e , but the professional merchant and the free artisan remained very exceptional . By the twelfth century the situation Itad been radically changed . Thenceforth , through the influence of revived commerce , cities tended to become truly urban centers . At the same time " borough " ( burg , bourg ) acquired the meaning of a privileged town , the citizen of which was known as a burgess , burgher , or bourgeois . That these words Al came to denote a townsman , rather than the defender of a fort , resulted from the transformation of the place where he lived . Although most of the pertinent evidence is contained in charters and other documentary sources , much valuable information in this connection has of recent years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . By examining the traces of early fortifications and other archaeological remains , we may often find out when and how a particular town developed . The Roman city of Cologne , for example , was a walled rectangle of approximately 239 acres , in one corner of which only a small remnant of the ancient population continued to live figure throughout the period that followed the barbarian invasions . By the opening of the eleventh century , however , a new settlement of merchants had appeared on the bank of the Rhine outside the wall . Within another hundred years three additional suburbs had been fortified , and finally , in 1180 , a new wall was erected to enclose an area of about three times that of the original city ( see Figure 18 ) . Scores of other communities can be proved to have grown in much the same way . Along routes that had earlier been used by the Romans it was natural that the new settlements should be formed in or about the old cities , or camps of the Romans . In more recently organized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attracted to  | other centers , usually the castles of the local prince . Particularly fine examples of such development can be seen in the great towns of Flanders : Ghent , Bruges , Arras , Ypres , SaintOmer , and others . What is still called the Vieux-Bourg ( Old Burg ) at Ghent was the primitive fortress of the count ? a triangle of about twenty-five acres at the intersection of two rivers . figure But the town of Ghent grew from the New Burg or Port ? a trading quarter that by the eleventh century had appeared across the river to the south . When surrounded by a wall in 1194 , it had already come to include over two hundred acres , and this was only the beginning of a rapid expansion that , with occasional interruption , has continued down to the present ( see Figure 19 ) . Throughout France and Italy most mediaeval towns will be found , like Cologne , to have developed on the sites of old Roman cities , and a similar origin can of course be attributed to a number @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Canterbury , Exeter , Winchester , and others . Beyond the Rhine , how- ever , most of the German towns developed , like Ghent , in conjunction with an earlier burg , as is often testified by their names ( Magdeburg , Merseburg , Quedlinburg , etc . ) . And the early history of many English boroughs ? e.g. , Bristol , Nottingham , Oxford , and Norwich ? also resembled that of the Flemish towns . Occasionally a fortified cathedral or abbey served as the nucleus of an extensive urban settlement ? as at Durham , Bury St. Edmunds , Vezelai , and St. Gall . But without the advantage of a good commercial location , neither church nor castle nor Roman fortress could ever become more than it had been in the previous age . Towns grew up in mediaeval Europe precisely as they have grown up in modern America , through the operation of natural forces that no one could entirely foresee or control . Although kings and princes frequently tried to create towns by deliberate planning , it was only rarely that their experiments produced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the new foundations ( villes neuves ) remained comparatively small . By whatever process the result was attained , the typical town of the later Middle Ages appears to have been essentially a mercantile settlement ? a colony of persons engaged in commerce and allied activities . Only a restricted number of the inhabitants would be merchants in our sense of the word . The mass of the townsmen would be rather artisans and laborers . Many , in fact , would still be employed in agriculture , for the increase of the population inevitably stimulated the production of food and raw materials in the immediate neighborhood . And since transportation by land depended largely on domestic animals , wide pastures remained a vital necessity . In spite of its rural features , however , the town was economically very distinct from the simple village . The town had a continuous market , where an increasing number of persons made a living through buying and selling at a profit . There a man could earn enough for himself and his family through his craft alone , and so become entirely independent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which served chiefly as distribution centers for agricultural produce , a limited number of manufacturers could  | exist merely by supplying the local residents with articles of daily use ? such as clothing , leather goods , tools , and food . Occasionally some community , becoming famous for the excellence of its work , would export manufactures to far distant lands and accordingly develop industry on a much larger scale . Pre-eminent among such communities came to be the cities of Italy and Flanders , but originally their prosperity depended rather on their location with regard to the great trade routes by sea and land . Business always flourished where cargoes had to be unloaded for trans-shipment , and in this respect seaports or places towards the mouths of rivers tended to have the advantage . For example , we find among the outstanding mediaeval towns Venice , Pisa , Genoa , Marseilles , Bordeaux , Rouen , Ghent , Liege , Cologne , Bremen , Hamburg , London , York , and Bristol . And it should be noted that important towns like Arras , Bruges , and Lubeck @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , were situated on streams readily ascended by mediaeval ships . Much trading continued to be carried on in long fast boats propelled by oar . Such were the galleys of the Mediterranean , as well as the Viking ships of the north , and they were all of very shallow draft . For bulky cargoes slow round-built sailing-ships were preferable , but even these remained comparatively small in northern waters . The largest were those constructed by the Genoese and Venetians for use on the crusades ? with two or even three decks , and with raised " castles " at bow and stern to accommodate noble passengers . By the thirteenth century such vessels were sometimes a hundred feet in length , with a beam of nearly half that amount . During the earlier period we have very scanty information concerning the life and habits of merchants on land . The roads , we know , were so bad that wagons were of little use and goods had to be carried on pack animals . Many regions , furthermore , were infested by robbers , and every feudal boundary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these conditions merchants came to travel in bands , accompanied by escorts of armed men . And since journeys of this sort entailed careful planning and a considerable outlay of money , they naturally led to the  | organization of merchant unions called gilds or hanses . Such associations are first definitely heard of in the twelfth century , when princes came to guarantee their liberties in formal charters . By that time , however , many gilds were already old , holding valuable privileges in widely separated countries . At London , for instance , the Flemings , the men of Cologne , and the men of Rouen were enjoying special rights long before the Norman Conquest . Another prominent feature of reviving commerce in twelfthcentury Europe was the fair . The rural market , normally held once a week for the exchange of local products , played no part in the distribution of articles imported from abroad . The men who engaged in that business needed larger gatherings attended by merchants from all the neighboring towns . Religious festivals might provide occasions that could be turned to profitable advantage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its formal establishment to a territorial prince , who guaranteed special protection to all persons coming to a certain place at a certain time every year . Annual fairs , each lasting for several ( lays , were eventually organized in series ; so that the great traders arranged their trips in order to attend as many as possible . Thus they disposed of merchandise in large quantities , while small dealers obtained stocks for resale or for use in manufacture , and the lord of the fair got a handsome revenue from stallage , the fees charged for displaying goods in stalls . With regard to the articles distributed , nothing more than as brief indication can be attempted here . A large proportion of the finer manufactures still came from the Moslem countries of Spain , Africa , and Asia ? especially silks , rugs , and other luxurious fabrics ; damascened arms and armor ; and artistic products in the precious metals , ivory , earthenware , and other materials . The demand for oriental spices , drugs , dyes , perfumes , and gems was constant , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our common words , by their derivation from the Arabic or Persian , show that they originally denoted imports from the east : e.g. , sugar , syrup , cotton , satin , damask ,  | muslin , crimson , scarlet , azure , lilac , spinach , artichoke , , orange , lemon , apricot , camphor , and saffron . By the twelfth century , however , the Moslem cities were coming to be rivaled by those of Italy . Venice , in particular , soon became famous for glassmaking , metal-working , and other skilled crafts . By that time , too , the woolen cloth of Flanders was finding a ready market throughout Europe . Other regions of the north and west exported principally food and raw materials . There was a flourishing trade in salt , which was obtained either from mines or from marshes on the seacoast . Iron was in great demand . Stone and wood were scarce in some countries . French merchants carried wine to England and returned with wool and hides . The Germans from the Baltic brought oriental goods that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , lumber , naval stores , and amber . It was in connection with this sort of trade that the towns developed in the twelfth century . Even the greatest of them were still commercial rather than industrial ? and they would not seem very great to us . In those days a city of twenty-five thousand was relatively huge . Yet even the ordinary town , of from five to ten thousand , was an island of privilege sharply contrasted with the surrounding country . Many European writers , especially those devoted to legal study , have attempted to show that the towns of their own respective countries were based upon some sort of national trait or custom . Such a notion is unquestionably wrong . The differences that existed among mediaeval towns were due , not to national or racial peculiarities , but to historical circumstance and environment . Despite political and linguistic variations , the urban institutions of the Middle Ages were fundamentally the same throughout wide regions . It is quite possible , for example , to consider the liberties of townsmen in northwestern Europe as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be hazardous to extend such generalization into the Mediterranean region . The Greek and Moslem cities belonged to worlds that  | were altogether foreign to the Carolingian lands . Some parts of . Italy had never lost contact with the Byzantine Empire . In spite of other differences , northern and southern Spain remained economically akin . And the southernmost provinces of France were in many ways more closely related to Italy and Spain than to the Capetian domain . In the following pages a more comprehensive picture of urban development may be obtained by examining each of these countries separately ; as a preliminary , it will be simpler to restrict attention to the northwest . And within that region it will be convenient to begin , not with the big towns , but with the little ones . The former , having developed rapidly in the eleventh century , needed no written guarantees of elementary privileges in the twelfth , when such grants became usual . Their charters were commonly restricted to the definition of exceptional or newly acquired rights . For a detailed account of fundamental bourgeois liberties @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a town was a deliberately planned foundation . Inspired by the example of old and prosperous communities , some prince would seek to establish a similar source of revenue within his own territory . With the advice and financial support of business men , he would select a good site , lay out a market-place with streets leading into it , put up a church and other structures , and then offer inducements to prospective settlers by means of a solemn charter . A document of this sort would naturally emphasize the advantages that townsmen everywhere insisted on . Indeed , if we compare the hundreds of foundation charters that have been preserved , they are found to bear a strong family resemblance . By analyzing several of the earlier grants , we may gain an introduction to all . The first successful experiment in urban colonization to be carried out by a German prince was that of Conrad , duke of Mringen ; 2 for as the result of his efforts the town of Freiburg-im-Breisgau celebrated the eight-hundredth anniversary of its foundation in 1920 . It was on waste land @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ having called to-  | gether and organized under oath , says his charter , distinguished traders from the neighboring regions . Each settler was provided with a plot measuring fifty by a hundred feet , for which he was to pay a fixed annual rent of one solidus . This land he should hold by hereditary right , with the privilege of freely selling it or bequeathing it by will . The community was to be governed only by the custom of trading towns , especially that of Cologne . The inhabitants were to be exempt from all forced entertainment , from all arbitrary exactions , and from all tolls throughout the duke 's possessions . Chiefly because of its location ? on the main road running through the Black Forest from the Rhine to the Danube ? Freiburg prospered from the first , and its liberties , originally taken from Cologne , were in turn given to many other new towns in southern Germany , notably Colmar and Bern . To the east likewise , a number of similar foundations were made in the course of the twelfth century , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Indeed , a prominent feature of the German advance into the Slavic country was the continuous establishment of trading settlements modeled after those that had already appeared to the westward . This development , however , hardly reached significant proportions before the thirteenth century , and in the meantime urban colonization had rapidly progressed in France . The first of the Capetians to take an active part in such matters was Louis VI ( 1108-37 ) , who not only intervened on behalf of the bourgeoisie in many of the episcopal cities , but himself founded the famous liberties of Lorris . This little town , situated in the vineyard country of the upper Loire Valley , was evidently designed by the king to serve as a center for the wine trade in that portion of his domain . Every man who came there to live was assured by the king 's charter of a house and lot at a rent of only six deniers a year . If he resided without challenge for a year and a day , lie was thenceforth free and could not be claimed by a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tallage and forced exactions ; of all military service , except for one day within the immediate vicinity ; and of all corvee aside from stated obligations . Whenever he pleased , he could sell his possessions and go elsewhere . He could not be brought to trial outside the town , and , in it only according to certain specified rules of procedure . Fines and punishments were strictly limited . No one should be molested while coming to or going from the market of Lorris unless he had committed an offense on that same day . Tolls were restricted as to amount and as to mode of collection . The king forbade that any one should take food or materials from the townsmen without just remuneration . Nor should any one be entitled to credit unless it was freely extended . Even the king and queen were to pay their bills inside two weeks . The liberties of Lorris proved enormously popular . Extended by various kings to many other small towns in the royal domain , these liberties were also taken by numerous barons as a model for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the one set of customs came to be enjoyed by scores of communities in Champagne and Burgundy , as well as in the Ile de France . And Lorris was but one of the many towns whose charters were widely copied throughout northern France . In the south , too , new settlements of the same sort were common under the name of bastides . Perhaps the most successful of them was that established in 1144 by Alfonse , count of Toulouse . As the consequence of a feud between the abbot of Saint-Theodard and the residents of a bourg adjoining his monastery , Aifonse offered the townsmen a new site on territory of his own . To guarantee their future security , he issued a formal charter containing the promise of building lots at fixed rents , restriction of tolls , exemption from forced hospitality , prohibition of various exactions , and other familiar provisions . The tenor of the whole charter shows that it was a business arrangement ; and it assuredly worked to the benefit of both parties , for the count 's little colony became illustrious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ records of the Conqueror 's government , we can trace the establishment of privileged trading com- munities in England to about the year 1066 . From a little Norman bourg called Breteuil some of the invading barons borrowed a set of " laws " which they granted to new settlements along the Welsh frontier ; and from there the same customs were carried into Ireland . Meanwhile Henry I ( t 100-35 ) s had been instrumental in founding a number of towns ? among them Verneuil in Normandy and Newcastle in England . The latter , named after the new castle overlooking the river Tyne , received from Henry a group of liberties that were to have wide influence . If a peasant came to Newcastle and completed the lawful residence of a year and a day , no lord had any further claim on him . The burgesses were entirely exempt from manorial or servile obligations . They could sell or bequeath their lands and were free to come and go as they pleased . Within the borough , as well as a certain district outside it , they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Newcastle were extended to many other towns , both in northern England and in Scotland , where they were adopted by the king as his official standard of urban privilege . Such charters as we have briefly examined present only the minimum demands of the townsman in the twelfth century , But these demands clearly reveal his great superiority over the peasant . First of all , the bourgeois enjoyed free status . No matter what his origin , the man who lived in a town unchallenged for a year and a day secured complete liberty . The town air , it was said , made him free . To be more exact , it was his residence on privileged soil that broke any ties of personal or manorial subjection to an outside lord . In legal theory the town was a sort of territorial immunity , created by a holder of political authority . It is , therefore , a mistake to explain the mediaeval town as a servile community that gradually or suddenly became emancipated . And the principle thus enforced was merely the expression of a social fact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ villeinage . Men would not come to a place as merchants or laborers unless they could have  | unhampered control of their bodies and of whatever they might acquire . The personal freedom of the bourgeois tended to carry with exemption from all the typically servile or manorial obligations . Rents were usually small , being set at a nominal figure to attract settlers . Other services were defined in advance and were owed , as a rule , by the entire community , rather than by individuals . A member of the community thus held his land on extremely advantageous terms . He could freely sell or lease any part of it , and keep the proceeds . He could even dispose of it by will ; for bourgeois land , unlike the acres of the villein or the fief of the noble , was not bound by inflexible rules of inheritance . This free tenure , peculiar to the bourgeois class , is known by various names in various countries , but is familiar in English law as burgage . That it , rather than any other medval tenure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is obvious . Another almost universal feature of early municipal charters was the promise to the men of the town that they should not be tried outside it . The reason was that the bourgeois community enjoyed a peculiar law , and to secure its benefits the member had to be exempted from courts where justice was administered according to feudal or manorial custom . Townsmen naturally objected to procedure devised for knights or peasants ; they demanded forms of action by which debts could be collected , contracts could be enforced , and property rights in land and chattels could be safeguarded . These advantages were obtained in the town court because there the judgmentfinders were bourgeois . Although the presiding magistrates might be appointed by the ruler , the court itself was made up of prominent citizens who were familiar with the established custom of the locality . Each of the older communities had its own law , and a pre-existing system of this sort was usually proclaimed as the standard whenever a new town was founded . Thus Freiburg-im-Breisgau followed the law of Cologne , and a dozen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mercantile privilege of the bourgeois was his right to sell freely in the town market . Any one from the outside , even the citizen of a nearby town , was a foreigner against whom the municipal tolls served as a protective tariff . Frequently it was provided that certain articles could there be manufactured or sold only by members of the local community , that they had the first right to buy certain kinds of imports , or that all merchants coming within a certain region had to display their goods in the town . All these and many other regulations would have to be administered by men familiar with the details of business ? in other words , by such a group as decided the law . Often the leading townsmen were combined in a gild having charge of all buying and selling ; in that case the men who controlled the court were likely also to be the governors of the gild . In any case the community had to have some sort of mercantile organization , and by easy transition this might develop into formal self-government . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ polit-ical authority but legal and economic freedom ? the oppor-tunity to make a living where and as he pleased , without being subject to the arbitrary control of a manorial lord . On his side , the prince who founded the town was swayed by equally practical motives . He had learned from experience that trading communities could not be managed like agrarian estates . He was willing to renounce all the rights objected to by bourgeois populations . He was willing even to rent lands at a nominal figure , abandoning to the men who took them the chance of profit on future sales . Yet his action was by no means altruistic . He hoped to make a fortune out of the revenue that would later accrue to him if the settlement flourished . The greater and more prosperous the town , the more he could expect by way of tolls , profits of justice , and other incidentals . Wealthy communities were always glad to pay well for new privileges or for the confirmation of old ones . And by politic negotiation handsome subsidies might be secured from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  | Sharply distinguished from the great majority of towns , which enjoyed merely the elementary bourgeois liberties , were the few that had at least some measure of autonomy ? the group generally known as communes . Such great towns first developed in Italy , and there , strangely enough , the city to assume leadership had been unknown to antiquity . While the older urban centers of the west were threatened with extinction , Venice took form and prospered . Until the time of Justinian the low-lying region of Venetia had been thinly populated . Thenceforth , however , its marshes came to afford refuge to thousands of immigrants fleeing from the disorders of the inland regions . To gain a living in such an environment , the newcomers naturally turned to the established industry of salt-making and to coastwise trade . Then , as the Lombards took Ravenna , the settlements along the Venetian shore found their unbroken connection with Constantinople of enormous advantage in commerce . And their pre-eminence on the Adriatic was definitely assured when Charlemagne abandoned the duchy to the Byzantine emperor . Within the next @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the lagoon that experience proved to be the most favorably situated ? and the illustrious city of Venice , as poets have sung , was born of the sea . Being built on islands and a shore cut by numerous streams , Venice from the outset used waterways for streets . On the west the city was isolated from the mainland by a great expanse of swamp that made it virtually immune from military attack ; to seaward lines of sandbars constituted a naval barrier of even greater strength . Although in theory part of the Byzantine Empire , by the opening of the eleventh century the city was actually a republic , holding dominion over a considerable portion of the coast . The duke of Venetia had now become the doge of Venice ? no longer an appointed official , but an elected magistrate who ruled by the advice and consent of the local aristocracy . In every respect Venice henceforth acted as a sovereign state ; it coined money , signed treaties , and waged war . Venetian  | fleets assumed an active offensive against the Dalmatian pirates , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Adriatic . When , later in the eleventh century , the Venetians joined the Byzantine emperor against the Normans , it was as allies rather than subjects and in return for the valuable privilege of free trade throughout the imperial lands , including the city of Constantinople itself . Following the lead of Venice , though without the advantage of a Byzantine connection , Genoa and Pisa rose to great prosperity in the course of the eleventh century . While the sea belonged to the Moslems , these cities had remained obscure . Then , as the Moslem power weakened , they launched a Christian offensive in the western Mediterranean . By 1095 they had come to dominate the coast from Sicily to Barcelona , together with the islands of Corsica and Sardinia , and they had extorted special privileges from the emirs of northern Africa . How their fleets made possible the success of the First Crusade has been seen in the preceding chapter . Their reward was the allotment of trading quarters in the towns of the Syrian coast and a series of economic concessions from the rulers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pisa had tended , like Venice , to become autonomous republics . Before the end of the eleventh century both cities appear as communes , governed by groups of elected magistrates styled consuls . During that same time , or within the next few years , extensive rights of self-government were secured by a host of other towns in northern Italy ? such as Siena , Florence , Lucca , Milan , Pavia , Brescia , and Bologna . Each of these municipalities had , of course , its own history , influenced by peculiarities of local custom and the varying attitude of persons in authority . In general , however , the commune arose as a sworn association of citizens ? both noble and plebeian ? for the maintenance and extension of their liberties . Though occasionally it might be formed with the consent and support of the existing government , it was more frequently a revolutionary organization that achieved its ends by means of insurrection . When , as was gen-  | erally the case in Lombardy , the city had been legally subordinated to the bishop , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commune might also be employed as an effective weapon against a lay prince . Whatever the preliminaries , the ultimate result was the establishment of a de facto republic based on a league of citizens sworn to advance their common interests by persuasion , boycott , or force of arms . In the absence of an efficient monarchy , northern Italy thus tended to become a mosaic of city-states ; for each commune sought to assure its lines of communication by annexing a considerable district outside the walled area . It should also be noted that , consciously or not , these citystates held to the classic tradition of an urban nobility . The aristocratic families of Venetia identified themselves with the rising city of Venice . They lived in it , ruled it , and , through investment in ships and commercial enterprise , prospered with it . Similar customs prevailed among the Lombard and Tuscan communes , which always attracted a good proportion of the local gentry . There business and politics were generally controlled by a few great families who engaged in bitter feuds with one another and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ street . In Spain and southern France. , likewise , it was not unusual for the nobility to prefer urban residences or even to take part in municipal affairs . But in northern France and the adjacent regions the nobility was essentially an agrarian class . Living in the country , the feudal baron despised the town-dweller as an inferior , and his chivalrous prejudice may yet be detected in the implications of our word bourgeois . Italy was long to be characterized by the complete sovereignty of its city-states ; elsewhere the extent of urban self-government depended on the sympathies and powers of local princes . By 1100 , as already remarked , flourishing towns had grown up about various in Flanders , especially at Ghent , Bruges , Arras , Ypres , and Saint-Omer . And since the counts generally favored the ambitions of the bourgeoisie , each of these towns  | Obtained the right to elect its own echevins magistrates who , under the superior authority of the count , had charge of the municipal administration . Each , furthermore , seems to have had a gild merchant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ control of local business . For electing officers and regulating such matters as tolls , rights of sale or purchase , and standards of manufacture , the members had regular meetings in their gildhall . Frequently , too , this building served as headquarters of the municipal government ? a natural arrangement , for the same men would be in control of both organizations . The gildsmen , however , did not always spend the evening in serious debate ? as we learn from a remarkable Saint-Omer document of about 1100 . Every so often the gild held a winedrinking , from which no brother could absent himself without good excuse . When he came into the hall , he had to leave at the door not merely his arms but likewise his wooden shoes ? lest they be used as weapons . And a tariff of penalties was applied to offenses that disturbed the drinking , including blows with the fist , with a stone , or with a loaf of bread ! In contradistinction to the Flemish communes , those of Picardy Picardy very generally rose to power through @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cities , which earlier had been little more than fortified centers of administration under the resident bishops . By the opening of the twelfth century , however , most of these cities had attracted a considerable population of merchants and artisans , who commonly occupied separate quarters beyond the ancient walls . And as the bishops , or other lords , refused to meet the demands of their bourgeois , the latter rose in revolt , forming sworn associations much like those of Lombardy . The first such revolutionary commune in the north was that of Cambrai in 1077 . Although this rising was put down , a later insurrection was more successful . The townsmen then forced the bishop to grant them a communal charter , which was quashed only when , in 1107 , the emperor intervened on the side of the church . Many more years passed and much more trouble ensued before the city obtained definite  | recognition of its liberties . Meanwhile the example set by Cambrai had been widely followed throughout the neighboring lands to the south . One after another , rebellions broke out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Some failed and some succeeded , but sooner or later these towns and many others secured recognition as communes under elected magistrates . In many cases the troubles of the northern cities were ended through the intervention of Louis VI , who restored order by arranging some sort of compromise . On the whole , his policy clearly favored the bourgeoisie ; for his settlements tended to break the effective government of the cities by the bishops and to substitute that of the citizens under his own superior control . Eventually , after the revolutionary phase had passed , the Picard communes came to be organized quite like those of Flanders ? normally under a board of elected officials called jures . Every resident was bound by oath to obey his magistrates and to lend aid to the enforcement of their judgments . Any townsman who refused to do so was declared a public enemy and subjected to the penalty of having his house torn down . Or should a noble of the countryside deny justice to a member of the commune and defy its authority , the citizens would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bell and all would march forth to take vengeance on the common foe . Such provisions as these are usual in the communal charters , and they show how , in the feudal society of the early twelfth century , the individual bourgeois was helpless without an armed union to support him . In Normandy we have clear evidence that the merchants of Rouen had been organized in a powerful gild even before the duke 's conquest of England . From Henry I the city apparently received at least some political rights , but it is only at a later time that we definitely learn of a communal administration headed by a group of elected jures . In his island kingdom Henry also gave a remarkable charter to London ? the first known grant of formal self-government to an English town .  | In this respect , as in all others , the rest of the boroughs lagged far behind the metropolis . Until the closing years of the twelfth century most of them enjoyed only the elementary liberties of free status , burgage tenure , and the like . Almost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the burgesses might in some degree control their local affairs . In this connection , too , mention should be made of the Cinque Ports . As the name implies , there were originally five ( Hastings , Sandwich , Dover , Romney , and Hythe ) , but later the number was increased . According to a custom dating from the reign of Edward the Confessor , each of them was bound to furnish the king a certain number of ships for fifteen days ' service annually , and in return enjoyed freedom from toll throughout England , together with other privileges . Under the Normans the Cinque Ports gained even more extensive liberties , and eventually all became self-governing . From this unique confederation , directed by the constable of Dover Castle , the king secured a regular navy throughout the Middle Ages . In twelfth-century Germany the most advanced town both economically and politically was Cologne , where , by way of exception , municipal development seems . to have continued without serious opposition from the local bishop . Before 1100 the city had a flourishing gild merchant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under elected magistrates took form . The other cities of the Rhine valley became selfgoverning only in the following century . The same statement will apply to the leading towns of the Danube , headed ley Ratisbon , and of eastern Germany , where the foremost urban center was Magdeburg . As yet the only great town of Holland was Utrecht , and on the Meuse Liege was hardly rivaled by Namur and Verdun . Most of Lorraine , in fact , remained comparatively backward , as did the central region of the Burgundies , Champagne , and Auvergne . The towns on the upper Seine and Loire ? even Paris and Orleans ? were of second rank as late as 1200 . Brittany had no towns of any considerable size . Along the Bay of Biscay , however , La Rochelle , Bordeaux , and  | Bayonne were becoming important for sea trade , especially in wine . Throughout Toulouse and Provence , meanwhile , the revival of commerce in the western Mediterranean naturally brought new life to such Roman cities as Marseilles , Arles , Nimes , Montpellier , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at least a dozen of these towns had peaceably obtained extensive liberties from their respective lords , usually lay nobles . Following the example of the Italian cities , they installed magistrates with the title of consuls , and in other respects many of them resembled the southern rather than the northern communes . In Spain , too , municipal organization tended to be of the Italian type . It is true that many small trading settlements grew up under the protecting walls of castles , and some of them became prosperous enough to receive formal charters resembling those given to northern towns . But the Spanish nobles , like those of Italy , continued by preference to live in the great cities which , on account of the constant warfare against the Moors , remained especially important as military centers . Of those in Christian hands before 1200 the only one to attain prominence in European commerce was Barcelona . The preceding pages have , of course , merely introduced a very large and complex subject . In the history of the mediaeval town the twelfth century was the formative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be left for a subsequent chapter . Meanwhile it should be noted that in all the great states of Europe the bourgeoisie came to exert a powerful influence on constitutional development and on political affairs generally . This influence will be apparent as we review the history of the French , English , German , and Italian kingdoms .  | THE Carolingian reform of education had a number of im- - portant results . It widely extended the organization of ecclesiastical schools , it introduced a new and beautiful form of handwriting , and it led indirectly to the preservation of many ancient books . When , in the dismal period that ensued , so many churches were destroyed and so many clergymen were slain , scholarship threatened to perish with them . Yet the old traditions were maintained in at least some localities . Otto I in Germany and Alfred in England did much to restore learning throughout their kingdoms , and similar efforts on the part of French princes were not without influence . Later , with the general improvement of economic and political conditions , a greatly increased @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the eleventh and following centuries . The schools of course continued to be of two sorts , monastic and episcopal ; but it was only the latter that retained any great prestige . The Cluniac reform , being essentially religious , stimulated no fresh interest in scholarly pursuits , and after the year 1000 most ancient abbeys ceased to be prominent as educational centers . The foremost teachers and students were attracted , rather , to the famous cathedral schools ? such as Reims , Laon , Paris , Chartres , Tours , Cologne , Liege , and Utrecht . Meanwhile very few men had been able to devote their time Gerbert to scholarship , and among those who somehow managed to ( d. 1003 )  | keep alive the traditions of the Carolingian schools almost none produced anything original . The intellectual history of the Latin world between 85o and 1050 is , indeed , distinguished by only one great name ? that of Gerbert , who died as Pope Silvester II in 1003 . Little is known of his early life apart from he fact that he was born @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Aurillac , visited the county of Barcelona , where he became very proficient in mathematics . Later , for the sake of training in dialectic , he attended the cathedral school of Reims and there became a famous master . When teaching the trivium , we are told , he introduced his students not merely to the standard textbooks but also to the great poets and prose writers of Rome . And his numerous letters show him to have been an ardent collector of books , building what for that age was a fine library of the classics . Yet to us , as to his contemporaries , Gerbert 's most remarkable work was in the field of the quadrivium . He demonstrated the mathematical basis of music by means of vibrating strings , and for instructing his students in astronomy and arithmetic he used a number of inventions which then seemed utterly marvelous . According to his pupil Richer , Gerbert constructed two spheres . One was solid and on it he marked the poles , the horizon , various other imaginary circles , and both the northern and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? i.e. , one made of concentric metal bands like bracelets , each representing a planetary orbit , with a ball for the earth in the center and on the outside a belt carrying the signs of the zodiac ( see Figure 20 ) . Gerbert 's abacus was even more wonderful ; for with it , Richer says , he could solve problems involving numbers so large that they could hardly be expressed in words . It had twenty-seven columns , in which he distributed counters made of horn and inscribed with nine symbols ? variations , as we know. , of the nine Arabic numerals . Since neither the abacus nor the Ptolemaic system had . been expounded by the Latin authors commonly used in the schools of the west , it is clear that Gerbert must have obtained most figure  | of his mathematical learning in Spain , and the fact that he was familiar with the nine Arabic numerals shows that his information was derived from an Arabic source . Apparently , however , it came through some indirect channel ; Gerbert knew neither Greek nor Arabic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with which educated Moslems had been familiar for over a hundred years . A Frenchman and a teacher in a great cathedral school of France , Gerbert stood at the forefront of the educational revival that was to culminate in the university of Paris ; by examining his scholarly interests we are introduced to those of many succeeding generations . In the field of mathematics Gerbert 's influence was profound . He inspired a whole series of writings on the abacus , awakened curiosity with regard to astronomical science , and so helped to bring about the translation of the pertinent Greek and Arabic works . From Gerbert , too , many pupils acquired a lasting enthusiasm for grammar ? chief among them Fulbert , under whom the cathedral school of Chartres became the foremost center of classical study in western Christendom . Dialectic , another topic emphasized by Gerbert , likewise flourished in the eleventh century . And as an increasing number of students came to be fascinated by the logical art , many were attracted to a problem left unsolved by their standard texts . Porphyry 's Isagoge , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of universals as one of great importance , but does not go on to explain it . Nor was it thoroughly treated by the works of Aristotle then available in Latin . The scholars of the eleventh century were therefore led to answer for themselves such questions as arose concerning the existence of universals and particulars . For example , can we recognize an individual thing as an apple without first having an idea of apple in general ? Is then our knowledge of this universal , apple , derived from our knowledge of particular apples , or vice versa ? Can the former exist apart from the latter ? If so ,  | where does it exist ? And is it a thing ( res ) ? Although the traditional dialectic of the schoolmen was Aristotelian , their philosophic attitude , under the influence of St. Augustine , remained Neo-Platonic . So the orthodox generally held that all knowledge is based on divine ideas implanted in the human reason by the Creator ; and certain doctors , without very careful definition , came to affirm that universals are res ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contrary , a well-known teacher flamed Roscellinus boldly advanced the " nominalist " thesis : i bat universals are not res but nomina ( names ) , which are no more than votes ( sounds ) . The more conservative schoolmen , ably led by Anselm , abbot of Bec and later archbishop of Canterbury , at once denounced the view , of Roscellinus as heretical , being directly opposed to the revealed truths of religion . And Anselm 's opinion was confirmed by a council at Soissons in 1092 , which compelled Roscellinus to retract at least some of his statements before lie was allowed to continue teaching . At this point the discussion was taken up by a young Breton of noble birth , who had been christened Peter and who had somewhere gained the nickname of Abelard ( Abailardus ) . In a famous autobiography he tells us how , enamored of dialectic , he had abandoned his inheritance together with a knightly career to become " an emulator of the Peripatetics . " As such , lie wandered from school to school in search of the best @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ where William of Champeaux had won renown by defending the realist position . Attacking the master 's thesis , Abelar ( i refuted it with such effectiveness that he was encouraged to set up school for himself in the outskirts of the city . Then the hostility of the ecclesiastical authorities compelled him to resume his travels , and he decided to study theology under the learned doctor , Anselm of Laon . But that old fogy , says Abelard , proved to be remarkable only for his fluency . " When he lighted a fire , he filled his house with smoke , instead of lighting it with the // blaze . " Having expressed his disgust , Abelard was challenged by his fellow students to do better . He agreed to expound any book of the Bible they might choose , and they gave him the prophet Ezekiel . What had begun in jest ended in earnest ; he astounded and delighted the throng by lecturing on the Scriptures direct in preference to using a standard commentary . Thereupon the authorities again intervened and the upstart teacher was summarily @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Abelard 's own account , and he was never one to hide his light under a bushel . Yet we may be sure that Abelard had real talent and that it eventually gained recognition ; for by 1115 he had secured official appointment in the cathedral school of Paris , which William of Champeaux had recently deserted to become bishop of Chalons . At Paris , as we learn from many independent sources , Abelard won prodigious success , attracting students in unprecedented numbers by the keenness of his intellect and the charm of his exposition . At Paris , too , occurred the love idyll with Heloise that so quickly turned into tragedy . The immortal story should be read in the letters of the two unfortunates themselves ; here it is possible to mention only one or two points of outstanding interest . Abelard 's account of the affair , it should be remembered , was composed long afterwards when he was a monk , embittered by affliction and writing to justify himself in the eyes of pious enemies . It is hard to imagine hill ) as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tender lamb . " We should rather imagine that , however wise in dialectic , he was foolish in love , and that it came upon him quite naturally . Heloise , the niece of a clergyman attached to the cathedral , was a girl in her teens , famed for extraordinary learning as well as for exceptional beauty . Since Abelard had taken only minor orders , he was still free to marry ; yet , if he did so , he would have to forgo an ecclesiastical career . On that account Heloise at first - refused to be more than his mistress ; then , after a son had been born to them , she unwillingly agreed to marriage and they became man and wife . Thinking solely of her husband , she tried to keep the wedding a secret .  | and so brought about a series of misunderstandings with her uncle . The latter , to revenge an imagined wrong , contrived a brutal assault on Abelard , mutilating him in such a way as would not only ruin his life with Heloise but also prevent his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vows nd induced Heloise to follow his example . From now on Abelard 's life was indeed unhappy . No matter where he went , he encountered trouble . He returned to teaching , only to have his book on theology condemned by those who , he declared , were unable to understand it . For a time lie lived as a hermit , but even in the wilderness he was sought out by students from Paris who prevailed upon him to resume his lectures . By the labor of his pupils his straw but was turned into a commodious house of stone and timber , which in gratitude he named the Paraclete ( Comforter ) . Reviving fame lien brought renewed threats of persecution . He accepted the headship of an abbey in Brittany and there , in the midst of brutal ignorance , became more miserable than ever . Thus lie was led to write the Historia Calamitatum ( The History of My Calamities ) , which is in the form of a letter to a friend to make the latter forget his own lesser misfortunes . Presumably this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was obviously one of self-justification and on that account obtained wide publicity . Heloise in the meantime had become abbess over a little community of nuns established in the abandoned Paraclete . Since taking the veil when hardly twenty she had received no word from the man who had once been her husband . Now , finally , it was a copy of the Historia Calarnitatum that came into her hands , and we may well imagine how she would be affected by such probing into old wounds . Breaking the silence of long years , and with it all monastic convention , she wrote : " To her master , nay father , to her husband , nay brother ; his handmaid , nay daughter , his spouse , nay sister ; to Abelard He1oise . " It is a piteous letter . She offers him sympathy in his afflictions , but reminds him that she too has been plunged h brief . Her unbounded love for him is known to all and she ,                @ @ @ @ @ 