@@773431

txt speaking Indo-European languages , both having blood of the northern grass-lands in their veins , and both showing something of the same pioneer fighting qualities . Had the Assyrian Empire raised the issue , the record would have been simpler and more logical . Yet while the Persians had brought much of the northern spirit into the highlands of Persia , they were mingling with a native people southern and Eastern in character , and were destined to become a truly Eastern nation . They were becoming Eastern precisely as the Greeks were becoming Western , and the contrast grew with each century . This question of East and West is a puzzling one . How much is prejudice and how much racial difference ? There was no East and West in the first civilizations save perhaps as one can detect a keener sense of freedom and individual- , ity in Crete . Down to the Greeks all civilizations displayed certain common traits . There were few outstanding individuals , little explosion of thought or personality ; there were chiefly great masses of resigned and patient toilers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not be otherwise as long as primitive customs held men in their rigid bonds . It was the Greeks who first burst these bonds , broke lip this monotony , and grew a breed of vigorous , widely diverging individuals . Broadly speaking , one can say that the West has followed the Greek lead , and the East has held closer to the ancient way . That is probably why one feels that Egypt was an Eastern nation ; it was , in truth , neither Eastern nor Western but southern , and , of course , primitive . At the risk of misleading by a metaphor , it may be said that the East has remained more vegetative , and the West has pursued farther and faster that course which the first squirming animal took when he invented a tail and began to wriggle around the sea . The East has covered the territory with a thick forest of sturdy men . They have not shown great range of type and they have tended to stay put . Also , broadly speaking , they have not progressed as rapidly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all else . been active and restless , moving about from nation to nation , from continent to continent , from idea to idea . He has abandoned the slow continuous growth of the East for the swifter method of trial and error . Thus roving about , exploding freely in this direction and that , he has developed more kinds of man , and more extreme types than has the East . But this metaphor , like all other metaphors , breaks down at various important points . One can hardly look to see the conservative trees spurt forward , develop brains or something better , and snatch the world away from man . That the slow-moving East may not some day overtake and pass the restless West is a negative that no far-sighted student of evolution will care to hazard . Western man has set himself to running errands across the seven seas and to the farthest corners of the earth . Eastern man has stayed at home and cultivated his own garden . In so doing he has stored up , especially in China , an enormous reservoir @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what great civilization this force may not some day sweep the world ! If man originated in Asia ( as is possible , though by no means certain ) , there was wave after wave of migration from the East to the West , and in this sense all Europeans may be regarded as children of Asia . Certain early inventions , bronze and iron , for example , were probably brought to Europe by these wanderers , and it may be that throughout savagery and barbarism Asia led the world . Coming to the ages of civilization , one finds that the religions of the East have profoundly influenced the West down to the present . That is the limit of Eastern leadership . Outside of religion , the East has contributed little to the progress of civilization . As has been seen , the first civilizations , developed around the eastern end of the Mediterranean , were neither Eastern nor Western in character . They were simply southern and primitive . These three civilizations probably antedated China and India , the first Eastern civilizations . At any rate , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of culture in ancient times . And from the hour that Greece reached her full height and the Western course was clearly charted , the leadership of the West was beyond debate . Probably the reason for the feeling that the Orient is older in wisdom and civilization is the fact that the two great civilizations of Asia , China and India , have had a far longer continuous existence than any one Western nation . The story of the Western world has been repeatedly broken by swift rise and fall , by migration and conquest . The torch of civilization has flared up brightly and again burned low ; it has been passed from hand to hand as nations have come and gone . This changing , shifting record of the West has been compelled by the inherent restlessness of Western character . But there has been a distinctively Western tradition of high civilization that looks all the way back to Greece in 500 B. C. Asia has no great civilizations as old , has yet to equal Greece , in fact , and her achievements are few beside those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ West , between Persia and Greece , marked the final growth of Hellas . The Persian wars came in the years after 500 B. C. , and through her victories in them Greece gained her full stature . Little needs to be remembered of the years between the Dark Ages and this burst of glory . They were long centuries of slow development . The alphabet was rewon , and writing began again . Art slowly improved . There was an age in which the nobles overcame the chiefs or kings and ruled the cities ? a period of oligarchy . Afterward , in many of the cities , popular leaders overthrew the nobles and ruled as tyrants , often wise and benevolent . The Greek word from which the word tyrant comes had at first none of the evil flavor which moderns have given it . Some of these leaders have come down as figures of common speech . Solon of Athens refused to become tyrant , but was so trusted by his fellow citizens that they gave him the power of dictator to reform the laws and grant the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was the first great Greek statesman , and Americans still call their legislators " solons " after him to-day . Also he was one of the Seven Wise Men of Greece , sages to whom the Greeks long looked back for wisdom . It was to him that is credited the very Greek motto : " Nothing in excess . " The Greeks made enormous material progress under the oligarchies and the tyrants ; their ships sailed far and wide over the Mediterranean , beating the Phoenicians at their own trade ; their colonists founded cities from the Black Sea to Spain . All southern Italy became Greek soil ; was , indeed , known as Great Greece . Greek adventurers built the city of Syracuse in Sicily and established a town where now is Marseilles on the coast of France . But the disunity of Greece held even through this period of strong men . The most striking feature , really , was the fact that there were many strong men and that no one strong man marched out upon a career of conquest and made one empire of all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ peoples of the ancient world . The most that happened was the growth of certain city-states , and especially Athens and Sparta , to positions of importance . The kings of Sparta conquered much of the Peloponnesus ; the Athenians united all their small peninsula under their rule ; that is to say , an area about the size of Rhode Island . Such was the confusion of small , quarrelling states which came into a life-and-death struggle with the great Persian Empire , the conqueror of all the older empires to the east . The contest lasted twenty years , reaching its climax in 490 and again in 479 B. C. , when were decided two of the most famous battles of history ? the one by land , the other by sea ? Marathon and Salamis . It was the Athenians who had stirred Persia to the attack by going to the help of their kinsmen , the Ionians , across the AEgean in Asia Minor . Their act was the first outward sign of that Hellenic unity based on language and religion , upon Homer and the gods @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that they sent against Darius , headed westward for the conquest of Asia Minor and the Greek islands . It only irritated the great king , and the story goes that he bade a slave repeat to him daily the words : " Sire , remember the Athenians . " Had Darius lived he might have , in due time , conquered Greece , for he was a great general and organizer . He died , and the orientalized Xerxes sent his fleets to disaster at Salamis . Marathon was not a great battle in a military sense . It was like Bunker Hill , important chiefly for the confidence it gave to the lesser armies struggling against a great military reputation . Till then no soldiers had been able to withstand the Persian archers . On the narrow coast plain of Marathon , northeast of Athens , 10,000 Greek hoplites , or heavy infantry , charged 50,000 Persians , and the heavy shock beat them and drove them back in disorder to their ships . The Greek army was almost entirely Athenian . ( The slow and superstitious Spartans failed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ right quarter for fighting ; some such silliness usually handicapped Greek efforts to get together . ) As a result , the Athenians gained tremendously in self-confidence and in the respect of all Hellas . The great decision came at Salamis . Xerxes himself travelled all the way from Persia to witness his expected triumph , bringing his throne with him . A tremendous army for those days , numbering some 200,000 men , marched across the Hellespont and around through Thrace and down upon Athens . A fleet of a thousand ships set sail across the AEgean . In the Persian forces fought all the peoples of the Eastern empire from Egypt in the west to Bactria in the east , in farthest Afghanistan . Their omnipotent ruler could summon them at will and order them where he pleased . There was no chance for rivalry or dispute on the Persian side . All the might of despotism fought for the East that day . For the West there was a people just beginning a new civilization , divided against themselves into scores of petty states , without even a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and common gods . The chances against them seemed overwhelming . Why they won is not clear , and one must avoid thinking that historians as yet understand the causes of such events . There were two obvious factors in the success of the Hellenes . One was the courage , the patriotism , and the fighting ability of the Greeks . The other was one man , Themistocles ( c. 514 ? 449 B. C. ) , statesman and general , one of the great heroes who sometimes appear in such crises . Subtract what Themistocles did and it is hard to see how the Greeks could possibly have won . Equally , without the Hellenistic courage ? that superior morale which has decided almost every war ? Themistocles could not have managed a victory . There is a school of historians who hold to the " great man " theory of history , who contend that it is always a great man who turns the course of events . It was Themistocles who made Greek independence possible and Greek history what it was . At the other extreme are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Greeks won because they were the Greeks , born with that rare ability which can not be defeated . Great men helped and hastened their triumph , but , one way or another , they were bound to prevail . This theory looks to bodies as well as souls , to everything that made the Greek what he was ; but it tends to lay stress on creations of the mind , language , u government , religion , art , as the best indications of character and race . To complete this survey of historical theory , one other point of view must be mentioned , the economic . It has already been suggested in considering the effects of geography upon peoples . When the nomads left the grass-lands , driven out by drought , they were impelled by an economic need . Hunger is the great fact around which the economic needs of man centre . He develops other needs as he grows more civilized , the desire for clothing , shelter , comforts , and luxuries . Hunger remains active and controlling . Man has to toil constantly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not to-day , more than a few days or weeks ahead of starvation . Beginning at the simplest level of hunting and farming for his own family needs , man has developed all the complicated system of modern industry and finance under which few men grow their own food or make things for themselves . At bottom the great fact is unchanged . Man still toils to live . If all mankind stopped toiling for a brief time the race would starve to death . Naturally , therefore , this need of food and the day 's work that produces it have profoundly affected the life and movements of man . The irruption of the Semitic tribes from Arabia , of the Indo-European tribes from the northern grass-lands , are obvious examples of economic movements . Equally , the long westward thrust across Europe , across the Atlantic to America , and across America , can be ascribed to the press of population , to the need of new lands to grow food for the increasing millions . The Civil War in America in this view had an economic cause , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ did not in the North . An economic motive has played its part in almost everything that man has done . These are the three main theories of history : the hero theory , the race theory , and the theory of economics . The first is the oldest ; history began as a history of great men , of kings and generals and their conspicuous doings , battles , conquests , births , marriages , and deaths . The stream of history has been gradually widened to include the great racial institutions and the character of the great mass of the people . Finally there has been developed in recent years the economic aspect of history . It is much the most influential theory to-day . It is being brilliantly applied in every field of history . It grows out of geography and it centres around a man 's stomach ; it is essentially the materialistic view of man , as a child of nature , an animal . Its importance can not be questioned . Historians are but just beginning to understand how the deeds of nations , of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ often unconsciously , by economic motives . But in the excitement of the new discovery one need not lose sight of the other two factors , as some advocates of the economic theory have done . The effort here will be to give the facts of history , pointing out wherein they support the several theories , without attempting to pass judgment upon them . The truth may well be that all these factors are of major importance . Certainly in Greece it was an economic factor , drought in the grass-lands , that sent the northern men down into Greece and made the Greek race ; and it was Greek character that won against Persian character ; but whether it would have won without the leadership of Themistocles no man can say . Themistocles not only manoeuvred the victory at Salamis by clever strategy ; what was more important , he organized it in the years before by persuading Athens to become a great naval power , building a vast fleet of war-ships and fortifying her harbors . This question of sea power recurs again and again in history ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prevailed . The hardest fight that Themistocles faced was with his own people . By this time Athens was well on the road to becoming a democ- racy . Only by eloquence and luck was Themistocles able to gain the mastery of Athens and prepare to meet the Persians . Under his sound strategy the Greek fleet was to strike first , the Greek armies delaying the Persian landforces as best they could without coming to the final issue . It was while waiting for the meeting of the fleets that the battle of Thermopylae was fought . In this narrow pass , not fifty feet wide , to the north of Athens , between the mountains and the sea , 300 Spartan soldiers under Leonidas held back the Persian host for three days , and finally died in their tracks rather than surrender . All Hellas was thrilled by their magnificent devotion and heartened to renewed effort . Meantime the great hosts of Xerxes , archers and horsemen , swept on . The fleets fought an indecisive battle to the north . The Persian armies entered Athens and put it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ refugees from Athens could see the smoking and blackened ruins of their city . In the narrow bay between Salamis and Athens , Themistocles had concentrated the entire Greek fleet , and the fate of Greece , the fate , perhaps , of the whole Western world , met their final decision in a few hours of crashing prows . From his golden throne set onaa hillside facing Salamis , Xerxes watched the scene . A vivid picture of the battle has come down from another eye-witness , the Greek poet .7Eschylus , who fought as a youth in an Athenian ship . The Greek trumpets sound at dawn , the paean is sung , and the rows of oars bite the sea and drive the bronze prows against the Persian ships . The trireme was the war-ship of the day ; long and lean of hull , driven by a hundred and seventy rowers at as many oars , it could deliver a blow like a battering-ram . In the narrow channels of Salamis the weight of Persian numbers counted for little , the dash and seamanship of the Greeks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Persian line was thrown into disorder . Following up their advantage , the Greeks struck right and left , riding over banks of oars , capsizing the enemy triremes , crashing through their sides so that they swiftly sank . The victory became a rout , and by nightfall the broken remnants of the great king 's fleet were flying eastward in hopeless disarray . Surrounded by his magnificent court , Xerxes watched the battle at his feet with horror turning to dread . Long before the end , he rose from his throne , rent his robes with a loud cry , and fled the scene . The West was saved . There was a great land-battle on the Isthmus of Corinth , in which the Spartan soldiers fought as magnificently as had the Athenians at Salamis . Xerxes still dreamed of conquest , but his cause was doomed to failure . The peoples of Hellas were become great and confident ; the power of the Persian even at home was waning . To complete the discomfiture of the East , a thrust farther west by Carthage against Syracuse met @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Persian fleet at Salamis ; their colony in the western Mediterranean sent an expedition , perhaps by agreement with Persia , against the Greek colonists in Sicily . They were routed by the Greek tyrant of Syracuse , by this time grown a great and wealthy city . This contest of East and West was renewed again and again . Four times since have Eastern armies invaded Europe : first , in the second century B. C. with the Carthaginians in their death-struggle against Rome ; second , the sweep of the Huns across Europe in the fifth century A. D. ; third , the Arabian thrust up through Spain in the seventh century A. D. ; fourth , the conquests of the Turks since moo A. D. in the Balkans . The West has not invaded the East as effectively . Alexander 's empire in the fourth century B. C. and the futile conquests of the Crusaders in the Middle Ages complete the list down to modern times . In recent centuries have come the conquest of col28o THE STREAM OF HISTORY onies and the peaceful invasion by Western @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in sight . Here , in 480 B. C. , what was settled beyond debate was the independence of the Western world and its freedom to grow in its own way . 3 . THE GOLDEN AGE OF GREECE From the blackened ruins of Old Athens there arose within fifty years the most beautiful buildings the world has seen . Within a hundred years there was composed a series of dramas , tragedies , and comedies which still rank with the greatest of literature . Within a hundred and fifty years three great philosophers had lived and died , whose work remained for 2,000 years the basis of every speculation about the universe . All this at Athens . Science grew far more slowly and was the labor of all Greece , reaching its climax in the mathematicians of Alexandria within a period of 250 years after Salamis . In the nature of things , this labor of accurate study could only make brilliant beginnings . It was in art , poetry , and philosophy that the Golden Age of Greece was supreme . Its period ran from 48o to 330 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Great and the end of the free city-state . It is this century and a half , the most brilliant and crowded period of achievement the world has seen , that opens . Athens was a fair-sized city by this time , of perhaps i 00,000 inhabitants , as large as Springfield , Massachusetts , or Des Moines , Iowa . The living quarters of the town were modest . The streets were narrow and crooked , there were no great houses or magnificent palaces . The Athenian 's home was as simple as a bungalow . It was one or two stories high and flat-roofed ; the walls of sun-dried brick faced with stucco ; the rooms opening on a small interior court like the patio of a Mexican house . Much of the life of the family passed in this court under the open sky . There were few windows and no chimneys . The sanitation was grossly inferior to that of the Cretan palaces of a thousand years earlier or of any modern bungalow . The rooms were as sparsely furnished as a modern Japanese room . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , small tables , vases . The whole glory of Athens was out-of-doors , at every open place where stood beautiful monuments , and aloft on the Acropolis , the hill where rose the Parthenon and the other temples of the city . It was outdoors that the Athenians chiefly lived . Never has there been a people so fond of meeting friends and talking , so social . Government was the active concern of every freeman . The life of every private citizen was a public affair . There was an enthusiasm for the city , a fervent interest in making beautiful her temples that is rather hard for modern men to understand . It is not far from the truth to say that the Athenians worshipped their city . They certainly worshipped her gods , and looked up to the gleaming marbles of the Acropolis as to the shrine of all their hopes and loves . The years that saw the building of these temples are linked with two great names : Pericles ( 49o-429 B. C. ) and Phidias . It is sometimes called the Periclean age , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Athens possible . Phidias , the sculptor , was his lifelong friend . Little is known of the life of Phidias , and no work certainly from his hand has survived . But the ancients gave him the credit for directing and inspiring the Parthenon , and that is enough glory for one man . Certainly a number of great sculptors worked under Phidias to carve the statues that surround the Parthenon . The general opinion of artists and of the world ranks this work as the greatest of all sculpture , certainly not surpassed since , probably not equalled . Even as known to-day , battered and // worn , carried far from their original settings , they speak with a nobility and beauty that are overwhelming . There were other temples on the Acropolis besides the Parthenon , and against its southerly slope rose , tier on tier , the seats of the huge open-air theatre of Dionysus . The surface of the hill was a table of flat rock 200 feet above the city , and farthest seen of all upon it stood a colossal statue of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gilded spear and helmet was the first sign of home that the returning Greek mariner raised above the horizon . The Parthenon equally was dedicated to Athena . It was a tiny building by comparison with the Great Pyramids or the temples of Thebes or the palaces of Nineveh or Babylon . It depended wholly upon its perfect proportions and its dignity of outline for its effect . Having these perfections , it stood in greater majesty than all the grandiose bulks of the East . All this stood radiant and sun-shot beneath the brilliant Grecian sky , surrounded by olive-clad hills , looking out upon a sea as intensely blue as the deepest ocean . To this day visitors who climb to the Acropolis , ruined though it be , can not but feel something of the same worship of beauty which was the daily religion of the Greeks . The Athenians of this period had a truly direct rule of the people . Every citizen took his turn as a legislator , judge , and executive . The democracy of Athens was complete as far as it went , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Only one Athenian man in five was a citizen . The other four were slaves or aliens , without the right to vote or become citizens . Athenian democracy , as direct as a New England town meeting , could work , because the entire voting population could actually be assembled in one gathering for debate . The assembly included every citizen and it met four times every month ? outdoors , like every Athenian gathering . A council or senate of 50o chosen by lot acted as a standing committee to prepare business for the assembly . In this council the members took turns , fifty at a time , doing the executive business of the city , and from each fifty one person was chosen by lot to be at the head of the government for twenty-four hours . This seems a strange haphazard way of government by contrast with our modern theories of electing the best-qualified man for each job . But modern democracies have been none too successful in choosing wise and expert representatives , and it must be remembered how carefully Athenians were trained from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ executive whom the Athenians ' did not choose by lot . That was the strategus , or general . There were ten of these generals , and the ten elected a leader . Pericles was chosen chief strategus in 46o , and was re-elected to the post year after year . It was by the commanding influence which this semimilitary office gave him and his great persuasive powers in addressing the assembly that he was able to lead Athens to her greatest heights . Nominally Athens was a pure democracy governed directly by her citizens throughout this period . In fact , during her greatest years her voters turned over the reins of government to one able man . The Athenians played their part in the great festivals as well as in government . These were all religious ; most of them celebrated the seasons , the beginning of spring or the autumn wine-making . The greatest of all was in honor of Athena and occurred every fourth year . It fell in July and was the great national holiday . There was a public competition for the delivery of passages @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . There were competitions in music . The athletic contests included running , jumping , wrestling , spear-throwing , discus-throwing , and a race for men in full armor . Boys raced against boys , youths against youths , men against men ; all the manhood of Athens played its part . More interesting to the historian was the yearly spring feast of Dionysus . As was noted in connection with primitive religions , this was simply one of the common festivals met with all over the world wherein primitive man celebrated the end of winter and the budding of new life in tree and turf and plant . Just how the idea of a god of spring grew out of these rites is not clear . Nor are the later steps understood by which the spring festival in honor of a god grew into a stately drama telling the tragic tale of Greek heroes . Religious ritual does not inevitably turn into great art or any art . Our North American Indians still dance their rain dances and other dances corresponding to these ancient festivals of Dionysus . They have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and impressive as the dances often are , they are religious before they are art . The development of Greek drama from Greek ritual was an extraordinary flight of genius , and little more can be said in explanation . Moderns are so accustomed to thinking of the theatre as designed to give pleasure that it is hard for one to realize the religious atmosphere which the Greek tragedies retained about them . The nearest parallel lies in the miracle and mystery plays of the Middle Ages . The Greek plays came as part of the spring feast of Dionysus , and while that feast included revels , it was none the less worship , and the Athenians attended in a spirit of worship . There were three great names in Greek tragedy ? AEschylus , Sophocles , and Euripides ; in comedy Aristophanes stood on the same level . The four must be ranked among the greatest dramatists of all literature . They followed one another about a generation apart in the order named , and all their work fell within the fifth century . The first , and in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ B. C. ) , fought at Salamis , and one of his most popular plays , the " Persae , " told the story of that great sea- : Eight in language of unforgetable splendor . He also fought at Marathon , and it is a striking fact that when he came to write his own epitaph , he made no mention of his famous tragedies , and recorded only his " good soldierhood " at Marathon . There is good reason to believe that he was the great innovator who took the crude material of Dionysiac ritual , somewhat improved by earlier poets , and made of it a great art form . The verse of Sophocles ( 495 ? 406 B. C. ) is smoother , his plots better planned , his was a more classical mind , paying that high regard to form which often follows such a great burst of imagination and invention as marked the work of AEschylus . In sharp contrast stood Euripides ( 480 ? 406 B. C. ) , a great poet , a solitary rebel continually at war with his fellow men @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sea at Salamis . He died in Macedonia , driven out of Athens by sheer unpopularity . AEschylus was the child of a heroic battle for freedom ; Euripides lived in the shadow of civil war ? the long struggle with Sparta , which was to exhaust both states . The temper of Athens was changing swiftly from 450 to 400 B. C. Doubts were beginning to cloud faith in the old gods and heroes . Having sat through three tragedies of a morning in the Dionysiac festival , the Athenians wanted comedy in the afternoon , and they had it . There are few modern tragedies as lofty as the works of AEschylus and there are few modern comedies as broad as those of Aristophanes ( c. 448 ? 385 B. C. ) . Yet satire was the essence of every play . The " Wasps " made fun of the Athenian love for sitting on juries ; the " Frogs " parodied the famous writers of tragedies ; the " Birds , " his greatest work , satirized all society . A sense of humor that held few things @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possession of an Athenian . Homer came out of the Eastern Greeks , Sappho , the first and perhaps the greatest of women poets , as well ; literature first developed among those Ionians of Asia Minor and its islands who probably represented the purest breed of AEgeans driven thither by the invading northmen . The same was true in philosophy . A group of Ionian wise men were the pioneers whose thought is to be regarded as a forerunner of both philosophy and science . One of them was Anaximander of Miletus , who , in the sixth century B. C. , had a glimpse of evolution and the Darwinian theory of natural selection . Thales preceded him ; Pythagoras and Heraclitus came soon after , both founders of schools of thought that influenced minds for generations . One of the greatest was Democritus , who conceived the atom four centuries B. C. Many of their ideas , especially on those subjects as to which modern science has brought accurate knowledge , seem to-day childish . Yet the importance of this group of thinkers in the history of the human @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beings to wonder about the universe , observe its doings , and attempt to understand how they came to pass . The development of science has been a long story . The arts reached their perfection early . As between philosophy and science , the former progressed more rapidly for the reason that it demanded a smaller basis of detailed observation upon which to proceed ; it is far more a matter of speculation . In modern times a sharp distinction is made between philosophy and science . By science , in common usage , is meant the natural sciences , astronomy , chemistry , physics , etc. , which attempt to describe the universe in detail by stating its activities in general rules or laws . Philosophy is concerned with the general theory of the universe . It aims to take the learning of all the sciences and build thereof a unified structure . It seeks to answer questions as to the nature and origin of the universe and whether one can really know anything . Many of these questions are the same questions for which religion offers answers ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ faith , the aim of philosophy is to find answers based upon logic and reason alone , exactly as in the sciences . The Ionian sages had little to build on . The aims of the wise men of Egypt and Chaldea were practical ? the building of a pyramid by rule of thumb , or the foretelling of the future by the stars . They had no curiosity about the why and wherefore of the universe , or , if they had , the rigid bonds of their religion and customs prevented their minds from freely speculating about such questions . There was no philosophy whatever before the Ionian Greeks . There was elementary arithmetic in Egypt , also one or two inaccurate rules for calculating measurements of pyramids . There was no theory whatever back of these beginnings of mathematics . The Babylonians observed the stars carefully in order to make astrological calculations . But they attempted no explanation of such events as they observed ? eclipses , for example ? and lacking scientific knowledge to construct an accurate calendar , their astronomical records were of slight value . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ occurred in cycles and little more . Greek art was built on a rich background of AEgean and Egyptian work . Greek philosophy and science had everything to create . The Greeks inherited as intellectual equipment an alphabet and a set of numbers . These were an inestimable advantage . How great a task the invention of an alphabet was , the history of Egypt shows . It was absolutely essential to further progress , and the Greeks began with this equipment ready to hand . In minimizing the slight rudiments of science inherited by the Greeks , one must not overlook this other priceless gift . Throughout the later years of Athens there was trudging about her streets one of the most original men who ever lived . His name was Socrates , and he was the first great questioner ( 469 ? ? 399 B. C. ) . He had a short , flat nose and a stocky body , wore shabby clothes and went barefoot . Also he was the son of a stone-mason . Yet such was the charm of his talk , of his keen questions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him welcome , and a host of young men looked up to him as master . His death was one of many disgraces that marked the government of Athens by the generations that succeeded Pericles . These years were still in the Golden Age so far as the work of the Greek mind was concerned . In every matter of government it was in an era of blundering and fickleness and weak vindictiveness . Probably never has a democratic government been operated by a citizenry as generally intelligent as that of Athens at this time ; probably never has there been an equal record of misgovernment . A portion of the blame can be placed on the machinery of Athenian government ; a direct democracy in which every decision must be made directly by thousands of citizens assembled in a meeting presents an almost hopeless problem . But this failure to develop better political machinery was a failure of Athenian ability . Political sense was the weakest spot in the Greek mind . There is no need to trace the course of the three ill-fated Peloponnesian wars ( 459 ? 404 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all time . The Athenian democracy blundered repeatedly in directing its campaigns . In its desperation it became cruel and vindictive . Some of its mistakes were clue to the leadership of a handsome young Athenian , Alcibiades ( c. 450 ? 404 B. C. ) , who had ample brains but no honesty . When his city turned against him , he promptly went over to the enemy and aided the Spartans to conquer and destroy the Athenian army that was besieging Syracuse . It was this beaten and humiliated Athens which put Socrates to death in 399 B. C. He was in his seventieth year , and it must have seemed a little ridiculous to kill an old man for preaching what he had preached all his life . The prosecution was brought by honest enough conservatives , who felt that Socrates had been in some way responsible for the demoralization of their city . He took his trial with calmness , refused any compromise , and faced death without a tremor . He was perfectly willing to die in what he felt to be the cause of truth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ writings of Plato , and there are few nobler pictures in history than that of this rugged old fighter laying down his life amid his grieving friends , himself calm and resolute and glad . Plato ( 427 ? 347 B. C. ) was twenty-eight years old when Socrates died . The death was the great tragedy of his life and he never escaped from its shadow . He wrote five works about his old master , defending him , praising him , giving his ideas in the form of supposed conversations with him , describing his last hours . his favorite form of writing was the dialogue , like the speech of a play , and it is the dialogues of Plato that rank his name with the greatest of all prose-writers . His ideal of government was the rule of a young and benevolent tyrant with a wise philosopher at his elbow . This view he held to despite the fact that his efforts to be such an aid to the tyrant of Syracuse were futile and nearly cost him his life . Plato 's whole life was a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ideas to deeds . He was essentially a poet , a dreamer , though his exquisitely clear brain permitted none of the vagueness of most dreams . Plato died the greatest intellectual hero of his age , worshipped by all Hellas . A myth speedily spread after his death declaring him to be the son of Apollo . The force of his philosophy was felt for centuries , profoundly influenced the development of the Christian Church , and is still potent in modern times . He has been accurately termed " a well-spring of European thought . " His first interest was in morals and his central thesis identified the true with the good . It is impossible to summarize his many farflung theories or even define his point of view , for he expressed himself imaginatively , creatively , more as a poet than a philosopher , and his philosophy has meant different things to different generations . From the historian 's point of view , the most important result of Platonism was that it inspired a school of mystical philosophy and religion , called Neo-Platonism , for which Plato @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a good illustration of how men can be influenced by the emotional appeal of a philosophy without accepting its rational content . A considerable expression of the Christian faith was the product of this influence . Two opposing outlooks of the human mind are involved . One turns toward the material world and tends to explain the whole universe , mind included , in terms of matter . The other is more concerned in non-material things , and tends to see eternal verities , whether God or the order of the universe , either as the only reality or , at any rate , as the basic reality of which material things are the expression . No exact dividing line can be drawn . A wide range of theory is possible from each point of view . Materialism is the common name for the first and it might seem that idealism would be an accurate term for the second . But modern philosophers use idealism in a limited sense to designate an answer to a preliminary and quite different question , not as to the basic reality of the universe but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ man can know only what is in mind ? finite or infinite ? is called idealism . The theory that he can be sure of the existence of the external world is called realism. * Of course , the idealist , in this technical sense , necessarily takes the non-materialistic view of the world ? his theory of knowledge concedes the existence of only mind-stuff . But the realist , pursuing his study of the external world , can take either the materialistic view or the non-materialistic . Now Plato was a realist in this sense , for he assumed the existence of an external world which man could know . But he was by every instinct of his nature not a materialist , and it was this outlook which made easy the turn toward mysticism and , in later minds , developed from his philosophy a highly emotional religion . Plato conceived a world beyond the reach of the senses , an unchangeable world of essential entities like justice , triangle , and man . IIe used the word " ideas " for these elements of the non-material world and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as fleeting and dependent upon man as a thought but rather the enduring and fundamental order of the universe which man could discover but in no sense create . " Universals " is a safer and more accurate name for the Platonic " ideas . " This beautiful and logical conception of a world beyond the senses fitted perfectly with the mystic 's rejection of earthly things as vanity and the pursuit of an ecstatic union with God . Neo-Platonism developed in Alexandria from the third century onward and it drew material from many sources , partly Eastern . Plotinus ( 2o4 ? - 27o ? ) was its greatest mind but Plato was its prophet . The faith represented the twilight of Greek philosophy and as a religion it was overwhelmed by Christianity . Its historical importance rests in the fact that Christian mysticism , with its accompanying asceticism , derived largely from this emotional de- , scendant of Athenian wisdom . By one of the accidents which sometimes turn the course of history neither Socrates nor Plato but Aristotle ( 384 ? 322 B. C. ) , Plato 's disciple @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Europe . His writings happened to be the ones that were first discovered after the long night of the Dark Ages that intervened . They thus had profound in- fluence upon the course of mediaeval thought . Aristotle possessed an encyclopaedic mind . He was a student of philosophy , but he was more keenly interested in observing the facts of plant life and every other part of the universe , precisely like a modern scientist . He lacked the means , such as the microscope , for accurate observation . Also , the sciences were too young to possess a large body of observed facts . But within these limitations he possessed a truly scientific spirit and laid the groundwork for many of the sciences . He wrote voluminously and upon every conceivable subject , from art and rhetoric to astronomy and economics . He accepted the Platonic " theory of ideas " in a restricted form , but his interest in the physical world gave him a totally different outlook from that of his teacher . Hence came the remark of Coleridge that every one is born into the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ current equivalents , it might be said that every man is born either a poet or a scientist . Two other later schools of Greek philosophy had an enduring effect upon the beliefs of men , the Epicurean and the Stoic . Both dealt with conduct as well as metaphysics and both have influenced ethical standards to this day . Epicurus ( 342 ? 270 B. C. ) viewed pleasure as the one end of life ; but the pleasure which he conceived was to be gained by living wisely , nobly , and righteously . This policy , which for its founder was a grave and prudent avoidance , , of pain , became in some later followers , and stands to-day in the general mind , a headlong pursuit of sensuous pleasure . Yet it could inspire the great epic philosopher of Rome , Lucretius ; and much of the recent attitude toward life , including the return to nature that Rousseau preached , is related to the Epicurean point of view . The Stoic philosophy was founded by Zeno at about the same time that Epicurus gathered his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a rational morality , in sharp contrast with the lofty beauties of Platonism or the frank unmorality of Epicureanism . It was the sternest development of Stoicism which later appealed to the Roman character . The Eastern earnestness of the philosophy fitted well with the simplicity , the devotion to duty , the calm endurance , of the Roman at his best . The active exploring minds of the Greeks thrust in every direction . The first historian was IIerodotus ( c. 484 ? 425 B. C. ) , a Greek born in Asia Minor in the time of Pericles . He travelled afar , to Egypt and the East , among the Greek isles and westward to Italy , collecting facts , and gave to Athens a history of the world , full of valuable records as well as myths and plain gossip , and still delightful reading . A generation later came Thucydides , the first historian in the modern sense . He discarded the myths and explanations of the past and sought causes in the actions of men instead of in the will of the gods . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is preserved to-day in the oath of professional conduct which every physician takes . Oratory naturally reached a high level in the democracy of Athens , culminating in the classic simplicity of Demosthenes ( c. 384 ? 322 B. C. ) . This much-debated figure has been praised as an example of devoted patriotism and damned as a demagogue . In the heat of political combat Demosthenes was not always accurate in his facts or fair to his opponents or statesmanlike in his proposals . On the other hand , he uttered and inspired a noble and unselfish patriotism . These final years of Greece held many years of outward glory and conquest . In Macedonia to the northeast had come to power a newer breed of Greeks , of ruder northern stock but little touched by the civilizing influences of the south . They were great horsemen and great fighters ; in their armies the horse for the first time rode upon a European battle-field . The Macedonians can be thought of as descendants of the original Indo-European invaders , horsemen of the north but slightly mingled with the older @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ century after Pericles . King Philip of Macedonia admired the culture of Greece and absorbed much of it . He procured Aristotle as a tutor for his son , Alexander , and the latter grew up with an intense love of Homer and everything Hellenic . Yet neither really comprehended the heart of the Greek spirit . That intense love of freedom , of independent action , that kept Hellas a thing of the spirit rather than of external forms , meant nothing to King Philip , who saw only the weakness of its disunity and nothing of its service to imagination and the growth of the mind . He conquered most of the Greek states and planned to unite all Hellas in one empire . He was stabbed to death by conspirators , and his son Alexander , succeeding to his empire , marched out upon the most extraordinary series of conquests the world has ever seen . Alexander ( 356-323 B. C. ) was twenty years old when he became ruler . He died at the age of thirty-three , having reigned thirteen years . In that time he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Minor , freeing the eastern Greeks , conquered Phoenicia , conquered Egypt , pursued the Persian eastward , crushing their forces near the ruins of Nineveh , and thereafter , by swift and amazing thrusts , brought under his sway all the peoples of the Orient between the Euphrates and the Tigris on the west and the Himalayan mountains and the Indus River on the east . The empire which those eastern Indo-Europeans , the Persians , had built by generations of conquest , this Western Indo-European seized by boldness in a few years . For the first time in history a European ruled in the heart of Asia . Alexander the Great was a mixture of great virtues and great vices . he wrought alike much good and much evil . A brave fighter and a great general , he was by turns gen- erous and loyal , cruel and faithless . After his years in the East he became more and more the oriental despot , to be approached in abject reverence , even to be worshipped as a god . In organizing Hellas into a vast empire , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appreciative of the great heritage of Greece , and , even while himself sinking deeper and deeper into oriental luxury , labored to spread the civilization in whose name he conquered . He took Greek scientists with him into Asia , and through them sent back to Athens hundreds of specimens of plants and animals for his old tutor , Aristotle . He founded Greek cities bearing his name even on the frontiers of India . From these centres Greek art spread across Asia , to inspire the art of India and to influence the artists of China and Japan . Attic Greek became the language of cultivated men throughout the empire . Greatest of all , the emperor founded in Egypt at the mouth of the Nile the city of Alexandria , to become the repository of all learning and to remain for 300 years the intellectual centre of the ancient world . It would be difficult to exaggerate the importance of this Hellenization of the entire civilized world in the last centuries before Christ . Historians often speak of Christianity as an Eastern religion , and so it was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Greek civilization had penetrated far and wide in Asia Minor before the birth of Christ , and the new religion , spreading westward , developed in an atmosphere profoundly Hellenistic . Some modern historians , impressed by the selfishness and cruelty of Alexander , have sought to belittle him . The general view still upholds the essentials of the myth that has grown around his name . Bold imagination , supreme courage , a far-reaching effect upon the course of human development , seem to justify the title Great . The vicious side of his nature one may perhaps view as inseparable from such unrestrained egotism . No world-conqueror has ever conquered himself . Alexander died suddenly in the full flight of his triumphs , of an illness following a drunken debauch . A vast plan of conquest crashed with him . He proposed to turn westward , launch a fleet of a thousand battle-ships , construct a great highway along the northern coast of Africa from Egypt to the Pillars of Hercules , and bring all the peoples of the western Mediterranean under his sway . It was a magnificent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of human unity lived on in men 's minds to stir alike conquerors and thinkers , as the vaulting success of Alexander has stirred ambitions in plain men down to modern times . The emperor had married a Persian princess , Roxana , and a son was born shortly after his death . But no man save Alexander could hold together the vast artificial structure which he had assembled . It fell quickly into three natural divisions , of Europe , Asia , and Africa . Three of Alexander 's generals and their descendants ruled them . Seleucus gave his name to the Seleucid empire in Asia , Ptolemy to the Ptolemaic empire in Egypt . The Macedonian empire is memorable chiefly for the fact that its armies met and turned back a new invasion of barbarians from the north , that thrust of the restless Celts or Gauls which reached and made a permanent settlement in Asia Minor . The loosely held empire of the Seleucids inevitably tended to forget its Hellenism and lapse into orientalism . One brilliant exception was the independent kingdom of Pergarrum in northwestern Asia Minor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a magnificent acropolis rich in sculpture and housing a library rivalling even the marvellous library at Alexandria . There were other centres of Hellenism that remained in Asia Minor to keep the Hellenic tradition alive for centuries after Alexander was dead and forgotten . It was the Ptolemies in Egypt , and in particular the library and learning of Alexandria , that carried forward the main thrust of Greek culture . Here in this cosmopolitan centre the three great civilizations of the ancient world , representing three races and three continents , the Semitic , the Egyptian , and the Greek , met and fused . The Ptolemies did not attempt to alter the settled government of Egypt . In every outward form of custom and speech this ancient people went their way unchanged . A Macedonian Ptolemy succeeded to the absolute despotism of the Egyptian pharaoh with all the historic machinery for collecting taxes from every dweller in a mud hut on the Nile . Modern Alexandria stands on the site of the original city , concealing all the ancient ruins . A great lighthouse , 370 feet high , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ island of Pharos that protected the city 's harbor . It was descended from the ancient temple tower of Babylon and , while constructed by Greek architects , showed plainly the oriental influence in its style . Great fleets of war-ships and cargo vessels lay at anchor . A new magnificence rose beyond in the royal parks , the palaces , and the Royal Museum . All that has been swept away , and history remembers as of importance only the great library with its manuscripts and scholars , carrying forward into the Christian era the intellectual progress of the Old World . This was 1,500 years and more before the invention of printing , and the Alexandrian library held not books but manuscripts written on long rolls of papyrus . Those were clumsy by comparison with the modern conveniences of a scholar , but they served . Texts of the classics were carefully edited , and Alexandrian editions became the standard of the world ? most modern editions are founded on them. * There were over half a million rolls in the library ; their catalogue comprised 120 sections . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the leading interest of Alexandrian minds . An eager search for new facts , new truths , and new inventions was the spirit of these last centuries B. C. Euclid is one of the great names of this era . Archimedes of Syracuse was another great mathematician and a physicist as well . Aristarchus of Samos demonstrated to his own satisfaction that the earth and planets moved around the sun ; but this epoch-making discovery was not accepted , and mankind went on believing that the earth was the centre of the solar system for another 1,500 years , till the time of Copernicus . The age was full of extraordinary inventions , automatic door-openers and sprinklers , endless chains for ammunition-hoists , even an automatic theatre . Running water was piped into houses , with many of the conveniences of modern plumbing ; and the good old times were mourned much as to-day . The one Greek poet of this age whose work ranks among the classics is Theocritus of Sicily , who wrote idyls about rustic life for the highly civilized cosmopolitans of Alexandria . Any one considering the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ greater and greater discoveries in the near future . In all the sciences men were on the brink of new and marvellous wisdom . It was one of the most exciting and hopeful of eras . Yet nothing came of it . The intellectual growth of the Western world ceased under the rule of Rome and was not revived till the Renaissance and the rise of modern science . What the wise men of Alexandria almost knew in the first century before Christ remained completely hidden for nearly 2,000 years . It is the most extraordinary halt in human progress that is known . One can not pretend to explain it , but one can at least trace the circumstances that surround it . ROME The origins of Italy are not as clearly known as are the origins of Greece . Yet , in a general way , one can be sure that the racial elements were not unlike . There were dark whites , Mediterranean men , like the Cretans , upon the soil from early times . There were invaders from the north , undoubtedly a western branch of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ B. C. There were also a mysterious people , the Etruscans , who probably came by sea from the eastern Mediterranean and concerning whose language and origin historians and anthropologists are still debating . In addition , large numbers of Greek invaders settled in Sicily and southern Italy , 299 forming powerful colonies there ; and hard by , in Africa , across a narrow strait , stood the most western of Semitic peoples , the seafaring Carthaginians , rivals , invaders , and ultimately victims of Rome . The extraordinary fact is that a people so nearly related to the Greeks in racial strains and settled upon a parallel peninsula thrusting into the same sea should have developed such marked differences of character and culture . Some of the contributing causes can be pointed out . But the essential problem , of the origin of a national type , the peculiar genius of a people that has been more or less segregated from its fellows , is as unsolved as is the origin of a Shakespeare or a Lincoln among individual men . The most obvious difference , and possibly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ farther west , and was thus in the earlier stages of sea communication cut off from contact with oriental civilization . Crete and Egypt were in close communication . Italy and Egypt probably were not . There are as well the facts that Italy possesses few good harbors and is the natural home of farmers who , unlike the Greeks , are not cut off from land travel by encircling hills . Thus the Italians were slow to take to the sea and lacked the early stimulus and adventure of contact with foreigners . The late Stone Age is plainly recorded in the lake-dwellings of northern Italy . By 2000 B. C. the valley of the Po showed over a hundred of these settlements , similar to those on the lakes of Switzerland . The city of Venice , resting on piles , is their modern descendant . The Indo-European tribes probably filtered south over the Alps from 2000 to 1500 B. C. , now driving the native Mediterraneans before them , now mingling with them . Chief of these tribes were the Italic , and from them came the final @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a branch of the IndoEuropean language , and Latin was formed much as was Greek , by the triumph of this new tongue over the native speech . Not long after came the Etruscans , overseas , from nobody knows where , to settle in central Italy , north of the Tiber . Their language , written in Greek characters , has been preserved in inscriptions . Philologists have labored over it for generations without translating a single word . The Etruscans were more civilized than the Italic tribes of barbarians . Their bronzework was of the finest quality , and through their intercourse with the Greeks they learned to make paintings like the decorations on Greek vases . They used the arch in their buildings , and this they probably learned in the East , for the Greeks preferred the flat lintel . They were warlike and cruel , and for a time their cities ruled all central Italy . It seemed as if the future of the peninsula lay in their hands . But the reserve power of the more primitive Italic people would not be denied . As @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as wherever these northern horsemen and herdsmen faced the south , they and their language ultimately prevailed . The battle between Etruria and Latium ( the most powerful Italic tribe ) centred about the border town of Rome on the southern bank of the Tiber , and for several centuries Etruscan kings ruled therein . Around 500 B. C. the Latins drove the Etruscan kings out of Rome and began the slow business of building up a Roman state . Roughly speaking , Rome endured a thousand years from 50o B. C. to 50o A. D. For the first half it was a republic , and for the second half an empire . If one places the peak of its civilization in the reign of its first emperor , Augustus ? unquestionably its most splendid period , as the phrase Augustan Age has come to signify ? it falls exactly midway , around the year i . The parallel with Greek chronology , 50o years earlier , is worth noting . The rise and fall of Hellas can be thought of as filling the last z , 000 years B. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 400 B. C. , though its greatest material sway did not come till the rise of the empire under Alexander ( 333 to 323 B. C. ) . The growth of Roman power was slow and precarious . In the early years Rome was merely the leader of the Latin league comprising the Italic tribes south of the Tiber . Of its desperate struggles with the Etruscans , one can read in Macaulay 's " Lays of Ancient Rome . " Luckily for Rome , the Etruscans suffered severely at the hands of two enemies . The Greeks of Syracuse in Sicily destroyed the Etruscan fleet ; the Gauls poured down the Alpine passes from the north and sacked their cities . On the other hand , there was resistance to Roman leadership by certain Italic tribes and the Greeks of southern Italy . Also the evermarauding Gauls swept down to the Tiber and sacked the city . It was on this occasion that , according to tradition , sacred geese cackled in a temple , awakened the Roman garrison , and saved the citadel from capture . The Gauls were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ northward , settling in the valley of the Po . In spite of these obstacles , the little Roman town on the Tiber had by 275 B. C. become the master of all Italy . This was an extraordinary feat , and it was due to a new talent in the world that one can sum up as a gift for organization . Greece had a common language and a common tradition , a spiritual unity ; it remained split into dozens of city-states and never achieved a governmental unity save such as was imposed by a despot from without . Italy had no common language or traditions . Three different peoples formed its population ? the Italic tribes , the Greeks , the Etruscans . Yet so skilful were the Romans in ruling themselves and in ruling their conquests that they succeeded in forming from these diverse elements a single unified and stable state . One can describe the governmental forms and trace the steps by which this was accomplished . But the idea must be avoided that any formula of government was responsible . The Greeks knew more of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ neither themselves nor others . The unique gift of the Romans was a knack of government , based upon a practical sense of what to do next , , - rather than any fine theory of cause and effect . Right here is suggested the essential difference between the Greek and Roman mind . The Greeks were imaginative and speculative ; they freed the human mind and laid the foundations of modern wisdom . The Romans were builders and doers , working out by rule of thumb those practical problems of society which can not be solved by theory . Upon their foundations of government and law most of the Western world has built its social structure . It is difficult to find a historian who does justice to both Greeks and Romans . They represent two diverse and fundamental types of human beings , and every one is tempted to admire and prefer his own sort . A fair view would recognize that one supplements the other , and that both Greeks and Romans made essential contributions to the civilization of the world ? quite as poet and lawmaker , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Roman republic was the name of the nation for the first 50o years . In modern usage a republic is a government in which the people rule through elected representatives , as in the United States . The executive heads of the a Roman Government were elected , and to this extent there was a republic in the modern sense . But the idea of elected legislators never appealed to either Greeks or Romans . A republic can either be based on popular elections , in which case it is also a democracy ( as to-day in the United States ) ; or it can be based on the votes of the rich and the landowners ( as was the case in most of the States of the Union in the early years ) ; or it can be based on the votes of a small aristocracy of nobles . The Roman republic shifted between these various forms as went the struggle of the nobles , called patricians , against the people , called the plebs . The first elected heads of the state were two consuls elected from the patricians @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the election of the " tribunes of the people . " Later they won the right to share in the lawmaking through a huge popular body like the Athenian assembly . The struggle paralleled the struggle in Athens between nobles and people , but the practical Roman mind worked out a far more effective system ? and when that became weak , developed yet another . As the Roman state grew , the assembly became more and more unwieldy , and gradually a smaller and more compact body forged to the front . This was the Senate , an ancient body originally composed of elderly patricians . One of the reforms gained by the plebs was to open the ranks of the Senate to plebeians who had held office . A respect for government and its officers lay deep in the Roman mind , and there gradually developed a new type of Senate composed chiefly of the able men who had served as consul , tribune , and in other important posts . Thus a new nobility , recruited from the able and successful men of the people , arose in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ extraordinarily wise and competent body , probably as able as has ever ruled in any state , ancient or modern . All aristocracies probably originate in this fashion and most of them continue to be recruited from the ranks of the lower classes . The trouble is that they do not recruit fast enough to include the real leaders of the people , and they retain too much dead-wood , the degenerate descendants of great men . Thus their level of ability falls and their power with it . It speaks well for the political sense of the Roman people that when they had reformed the Senate they permitted it to take supreme control of the government . Thus in the years of its greatest success the Roman republic was ruled by a newly recruited aristocracy . For several centuries Rome ruled the peoples she conquered as ably as she ruled herself . Her treatment of them was generous and intelligent , adjusted to the needs in each case . Often citizenship of a kind was granted ; always protection was accorded to the annexed territory . In addition , colonies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , despite the handicaps of different languages and peoples , the governmental genius of Rome slowly organized all Italy in a single state , steadily growing in unity and never showing local divisions like the Greek city-states . The downfall of the Roman republic followed its embarkment upon a policy of overseas conquest . The Senate succeeded in gaining world dominion as had Alexander . The reaction upon Rome was fatal to the old-fashioned state wherein the people had either ruled or acquiesced in the rule of the ablest . The period of republican conquest marched from 264 B. C. to 146 B. C. , and in that time the entire Mediterranean world and the bulk of the great Alexandrian Empire surrendered to the armies of the Roman Senate . Thereafter ensued a century of revolution , during which one popular dictator succeeded another , and the republic became but an empty name , and only the advent of a strong imperial rule under Augustus in 30 B. C. saved the Roman state from disintegration and restored peace . The years of conquest could be passed over lightly were it not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Carthage , thereby ending the most brilliant westward thrust of a Semitic people that the world had yet seen . In a military sense the issue hung in the balance for years , and it is interesting to speculate upon the consequences had a Semitic people conquered Italy and thus brought the civilization of the East into the heart of Europe . As it was , the break was complete , and a Semitic people did not penetrate Europe again till the invasion of Spain by the Arabs a thousand years later . There again the West finally prevailed , but not till Eastern civilization had made a lasting contribution to Europe. * So complete was the final obliteration of Carthage that it is difficult to reconstruct her civilization . There are no Carthaginian histories . The ruins of the city yield but broken fragments . It is clear that the city was far more magnificent than Rome of this period , her people far more civilized . Her high oriental culture was probably outstripped only by Greece . Seamen and merchants , like their ancestors , the Phoenicians , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ western Sicily and in Spain . They even took control of the Straits of Gibraltar and closed them to all other shipping . By the third century B. C. the Romans were also pushing out to sea as sailors and traders . The business rivalry with the Carthaginians was keen and growing . There was in addition the threat of encirclement by the Carthaginian colonies . Altogether a clash between the two peoples was perhaps inevitable . What it is impossible to excuse in the Romans was the cold-bloodedness with which they attacked a friendly state and the cruelty and ruthlessness with which they completed their task , quitting only when Carthage lay levelled to the earth and a plough was driven across her site . There were three wars between the two countries ? the Punic Wars the Romans called them , which was to say Phoenician Wars . In the first war ( 264 ? 241 B. C. ) the Romans encompassed the feat of creating a navy in a year , building 120 ships , all with five banks of rowers , the latest type of battleship , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ invented a new boarding-device , a long gangway , and , aided thereby , won a great victory over the expert Carthaginian fleet . After years of victories and defeats the Romans gained sufficient advantage to force a peace that gave her Sicily and a large indemnity . More important , Rome had become a sea power , though at terrific cost . The Second Punic War ( 219-201 B. C. ) centred about the Carthaginian general Hannibal , who invaded Italy and then conducted one of the most brilliant campaigns in military history . He approached from Spain through France , with horsemen and elephants of war , made his way across the Alps , and in a strange land , vastly outnumbered , by sheer military genius won victory after victory . For fifteen years he raided Italy , laying waste her fairest provinces . He was cut off from his base of supplies . His only recruits were Gauls and other enemies of Rome whom he could persuade to his standard . Yet he never lost a battle in the open . It was during these years that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the deliberate policy of running away from battle and thus delaying the issue to weaken the enemy . " Fabian tactics " such a policy is still called to-day . Hannibal was never beaten in Italy . He was forced to retire by the victories of a Roman force in Africa led by Scipio Africanus the Elder . There the final battle was fought , and after a terrific struggle Hannibal 's forces were disastrously defeated . Hannibal barely escaped with his life , to become a hunted wanderer in the East . Carthage was crushed by the peace . She agreed to disperse her war-elephants and her battle-fleets , to make war only by leave of Rome and to pay an annual tribute . Despite the marvellous military leadership of Hannibal this greatest of western states had in sixty years been humbled in the dust by Rome . The facts are a significant comment on the strength and weakness of Rome . She never developed military leadership of the first rank . Her strategy seldom displayed imagination . She won through the solid fighting ability of the common soldiers , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Roman people in the face of disaster . The period of the war with Hannibal was , so far as Roman leadership was concerned , a perfect example of " muddling through , " to borrow an expression that the modern English apply to their own leaders . The fifty-five years from the end of the Second Punic War to the end of the Third were crowded with conquest . Having ended Carthage as a rival , the Senate turned its armies eastward to punish Macedonia , which had sided with Hannibal . Victorious there , Roman armies were before long marching in Asia Minor and conquering the heart of the Seleucid Empire . Presently Egypt acknowledged herself a vassal of Rome without resistance . At first in this conquest of the three Hellenistic empires , heirs of Alexander , the Romans freed the Greek cities which they entered , and their policy was one of leadership rather than annexation . But the rivalries of the East made such generous treatment impracticable ; it became necessary to reduce Macedonia to a Roman province ; and gradually the Senate organized the whole @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a Roman governor . In the last brutal war upon Carthage the Roman Senate displayed every ignoble trait . To be sure , the Carthaginian traders had shown surprising success against the Roman merchants even after the disastrous defeat of Hannibal . But there was no sufficient excuse for the coldblooded Roman decision to exterminate the beautiful city of Carthage and compel its people , sailors and merchants , to live nine miles from the coast . In the final siege Carthage made a desperate resistance ; her woman cut off their hair to furnish bow-strings for their soldiers ; the slaughter was terrible ; and Rome , as usual , conquered . The whole city was levelled to the ground and the population dispersed . In the same spirit of destructive brutality , Roman armies in the same year ( 146 B. C. ) sacked and burned the famous Greek city of Corinth . One of the finest libraries of the ancient world was there destroyed , an act of vandalism far surpassing any deeds of the barbarian Vandals who , boo years later , were to capture Rome and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ three generations , from grandfather to grandson , Rome had grown from a small state , the ruler of a peninsula , to the mistress of the world . Her citizens , some 300 , - 000 of rude , embattled farmers and a few sailors and traders , had become the richest people the world had yet seen . Americans are familiar enough with sudden gains , as in the period following the discovery of gold in California . Their whole history has been one of rapidly increasing wealth , the first-fruits of an immensely rich and virgin continent . These crowded years of Rome saw an inrush of prosperity beyond anything her citizens had known . The wealth and treasures of the oldest countries of the world poured into Rome as the spoils of war , as tribute , as the " graft " of colonial rulers , and as the profits of Roman traders . The city was transformed . Now for the first time the art and culture of Greece were recognized and appreciated . They had stood for centuries at the door of Rome in southern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ region was called because of its size and importance. * The beauty and luxury of these cities , all their high civilization , had been despised by the earlier Romans , proud of their plain living and the simple virtues . These they had enforced by public officials , called censors , who had the right to enter any man 's home and punish extravagance or immorality . The period of the blue-laws in New England offers a faint modern parallel to this strict regulation of Roman morals . All this was changed . Every returned conqueror or governor put up a new and larger house on the Greek plan . Ship-loads of Greek statues , of marble and bronze , were brought back from the East to decorate the houses of these new rich . Comforts like running water and baths quickly followed . A t Pompeii was unearthed a whole mosaic floor imported from a Greek house in Alexandria , the Paris of that age . Absurd extravagances appeared . A jar of salt fish from the Black Sea cost seventy-five dollars , and the fact led old Cato @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for destruction , to protest in the Senate , declaring that Rome was the only city in the world where a jar of fish cost more than a yoke of oxen . A taste for Greek literature naturally followed the arrival of Greek art . There was no early Roman literature . It is a striking indication of the practical , unimaginative nature of the Roman character that her heroic fighting years produced neither an " Iliad " nor even a battle-song . Language was for the writing of laws , and that was all . Now Greek learning became the fashion in Rome , and the first good schools for the boys of Rome were organized under Greek teachers . Sudden riches are always demoralizing . They were particularly demoralizing in certain of the forms in which they reached Rome . For one thing , the enormous wealth rolling in upon the state from the eastern provinces made taxes unnecessary . One of the primary obligations of citizenship thus ended . For another , more and more slaves , alien captives , were brought to Rome , and the old @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disappeared , and plantations tilled by slaves took their place . Slaves were an accepted fact in the ancient world , as the case of Greece made clear . But there were many kinds of slavery . It was particularly cruel and terrible in Rome . Desperate revolts of these slaves , many of them Eastern captives more civilized than their owners , became a standing peril to the state . Beginning in this period , slavery became a huge and demoralizing force in Roman life . For a third form , this era brought gladiatorial contests to Rome . They were a revival of an old Etruscan custom , and it is an interesting speculation that much of the vein of cruelty in Roman life was of Etruscan origin . At any rate , bloody and barbarous spectacles resulted and became more and more popular . Slaves and condemned criminals were made to fight each other . As a further tidbit for the populace , some one had the idea of making these victims fight wild beasts . Professional gladiators appeared on the scene , and this sport of killing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Before such scenes it is not difficult to imagine the frame of mind that murdered Carthage and Corinth . All this makes a gloomy picture . Nowhere has it been painted blacker than in the Roman moralists of the time . Old Cato ( 234 ? 149 B. C. ) was typical of the older Roman point of view that regarded the new luxury and Greek learning as vicious and damnable . As a result , many modern historians speak of this period as one of Roman degeneracy . It was certainly one of demoralization . But considering that Rome thereafter pulled herself together and ruled the world for 50o years , degeneracy seems a strong word to apply . Perhaps an accurate summary would state that barbaric Rome conquered the world and civilization so swiftly that she lost command of herself ? like many other nations and individuals . The old simple virtues of ancient Rome were weakened by civilization , but enough of them remained to hold together a vast empire through many centuries . As for the old simple vices of Rome ? cruelty , for instance ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before civilization , and remained Rome after . For many reasons the republic was doomed . Historians may disagree as to what was the fundamental cause . The failure of the Senate to cope with the difficult problems of the new empire was one immediate cause . The Senate had ceased to contain the ablest and most experienced men of the nation . Like all aristocratic bodies , it had slowly degenerated into an ultraconservative chamber of mediocre ability , bent chiefly on perpetuating its own powers and the rights of the rich and the nobility whom it represented . The struggle of the next hundred years lay between these classes and the new poor of Rome ? chiefly farmers who had lost their lands in the wars and who now formed a starving and embittered populace of the capital . Nominally the plebs still ruled the state through their assemblies . But the Senate had long since made the republic an aristocracy in fact . There arose during this turbulent century of revolution a series of popular heroes : the Gracchi , Marius , and finally Pompey , Caesar , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Great principles clashed as the republic tottered to its end , and they had great protagonists . No other period of ancient history and few of mediaeval or modern are so familiar to modern readers . Few have been as filled with color , swift action , sudden tragedy , and all that is meant by the word theatrical . No wonder Shakespeare turned to Caesar and to Antony and Cleopatra for the raw stuff of plays . It was essentially an age of transition , when currents are confused and the forces of change are stronger than the strongest man . Failure and death were the common lot of the wisest leaders . The whole period was one of destruction , and the only lasting effect upon Europe , the conquest of Gaul , was largely accidental . The century has no importance comparable with the great ages that have produced great art , great inventions , or great institutions . It has interest simply for the great figures in it . In this sketch of peoples , causes , ideas , and institutions , but brief heed can be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? 133 B. C. ) was a pure-minded patriot who , though a noble , was so impressed by the people 's wrongs that he made himself their political leader and sought to secure them land . His laws were moderate , just , and wise . Before he could put them into effect , he was slain by a mob of senators . A younger brother , Gaius ( 153-121 B. C. ) , the second of the Gracchi , met a similar fate . The fickleness of the Roman populace and its readiness to listen to demagogues made it difficult for reforms to come through elections . In Marius they turned to a rough peasant soldier and intrusted the fortunes of the republic to him as a military leader , with many of the powers of a dictator . The drift of events tended constantly to undermine the rule of the people . Reaction brought in the senatorial party after Marius . There followed Pompey ( 106 ? 48 B. C. ) , another general of the people , who turned eastward and took Roman legions to the Caspian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crushing the last remnants of the Seleucid Empire . He returned to Rome a popular idol , and the city was thrilled once more by the splendor of the ancient East , now its subject and slave . There was renewed within the Roman state that conflict of East and West which began at Salamis and which was not to end till the Roman Empire was split in half and the two great civilizations of the world , basically different in race and culture and character and united in part and for periods only by the chains of conquest , resumed their separate paths for the rest of history . There was rising to power in Rome while Pompey was fighting in the East the greatest of all Rome 's popular leaders and one of the strong men of all time ? Julius Cwsar ( 102 ? 44 B. C. ) . He has been both overpraised and underrated . He was not a great statesman who saw far into the future and labored unselfishly to reconstruct the govern- ment of Rome upon a secure basis . The times fought against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ necessary , a demagogue ? no leader could live or succeed in Rome without catering to the whims and fancies of the Roman populace . He did perceive the fundamental truth that popular rule equally with senatorial rule had failed , and that the rule of a few strong men or of one strong man must be substituted for it . He began with an informal triumvirate ? a secret rule of three men ? forming a private alliance with the newly returned Pompey . As consul he passed land laws for the people . He still lacked that glamour of popularity which Pompey as a great conqueror possessed . Also he lacked an army , without which no leader , however strong , could hope to subdue the turbulent factions of Rome . To these personal needs was chiefly due that conquest of Gaul by Caesar which is still the best-known and most studied episode in Roman history . Pompey had gone east and found glory ; Caesar had the imagination to see that a great opportunity lay west of the Rhone under the setting sun . The thrall of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ older culture , was to grip Cesar , almost to his undoing , later in his life . It was accident and personal necessity that sent him westward , not preference or an appreciation of consequences . The irony of much human history lies in the fact that thus fighting in behalf of his own ambitions Caesar made his one lasting impression upon the course of European history . He opened the westward door that made possible the development of that Western civilization which is modern Europe and the Americas . Caesar 's conquest of Gaul took from 58 to 50 B. C. Those who read his own story of it in " De Bello Gallico " carry away an impression of machine-like efficiency mowing down one barbarian enemy after another . The efficiency was there ; Caesar 's keen military mind saw from the start that organization of supplies and transport was his great superiority , and , relying upon it , moved hither and yon , striking swiftly and unexpectedly . But the whole venture was far more desperate than the calm , lucid Latin of Caesar 's " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would have made these hazardous attacks and stubborn defenses of a far-flung battle-line fighting barbarians in their homeland a thrilling picture . Caesar , in fact , wrote his book as a political pamphlet , for its effect upon the Roman people , and successful conquest was its main theme . For political reasons he announced the conquest of Gaul as completed after two years of fighting , and the province was formally annexed amid great enthusiasm at Rome . But revolt after revolt flared up . Caesar found himself at the end with a force of 30,000 facing an army of 250,000 . The division of the enemy , the confusion of counsel among the different tribes of Gauls , gave him his final victory . Thus Roman civilization , its blood , its roads , its monuments , its language , its laws , began slowly to penetrate that whole region west of the Rhine which to-day is France and Belgium . It even left lasting effects in Britain , which Caesar invaded without conquering . Meantime , his old ally , Pompey , never a strong character , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the Senate and secured election as sole consul , a virtual dictatorship . Caesar found himself , his conquest of Gaul completed , threatened with political eclipse . He tried every means to avert civil war . When all else failed , he marched on Rome with his legions . He violated the frontier of the republic when he crossed the Rubicon , a little stream that marked the boundary of his province . Thereat the die was cast and he struck with his usual swiftness . He drove Pompey out of Italy and made himself master of Rome . Pursuing Pompey to Thessaly , he there defeated him in the most brilliant battle of his career . Pompey fled to Alex- many of the building plans which Caesar had made ; in his own words , he found Rome a city of brick and left it a city of marble . The grandeur which still stands in the ruins of the Forum took its origin from the reign of Augustus . The round arch of the Orient was combined with Greek forms in a simple and stately magnificence . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aqueducts carried on lofty springing arches testified to the great ability of the Romans in construction . But they had no such varied artistic genius as had the Greeks ; their sculpture showed little originality . Greek literature became a passion with educated Romans in the last year of the republic . Caesar and men like him spoke Greek to one another as much as they did Latin . There have seldom been men more cultivated in literature than these students and patrons of the arts of the Augustan Age . But in the creation of literature Rome was singularly unfruitful . Four writers , truly original and great , belong in the last century of the republic : Lucretius , Catullus , Cicero , and Casar . However dry the " Gallic War " may seem as a text-book , it is a masterpiece of clear , swift statement , typically Roman in its bare practical use of language . Cicero ( 106 ? 43 B. C. ) , who alone ranks with Demosthenes among the ancient orators , was a steadfast , upright character in Roman politics through the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that sonorous swing of Latin prose which , with its tense brevity of construction and consequent clarity , made its greatness as a speech . Lucretius ( c. 98 ? 55 B. C. ) was the greatest mind of the three and a figure unique in Roman culture . He possessed the same sort of towering imagination , all-searching curiosity , and rich artistic feeling that later reappeared in the Renaissance in Leonardo da Vinci , another Italian . His great work was a long poem , " De Rerum Natura " ( " On the Nature of Things " ) , a scientific epic , a universal history , in verse , wherein he made extraordinarily brilliant guesses , following Democritus , the Greek philosopher , as to early man and nature ? foreshadowed , indeed , the modern conception of evolution . The lyrics of Catullus rank with the great Elizabethan songs in the English tongue , as moving as they are exquisite . Science lay hopelessly dead in Rome , crushed out by the practical genius of her people . The geometry of Euclid was used , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on which they were based was ignored as having neither value nor interest . Mathematics became a useful aid in construction ; it ceased to be a science at the very moment when Alexandrian scholars were on the brink of brilliant discoveries . The same held true of medicine , astronomy , biology , and the other sciences in which Greek genius had so brilliantly lighted the way . The curtain fell upon science in the Western world , not to rise again till modern times . There is no other halt and failure of the human mind so extraordinary . In the Golden Age of Augustus belong two writers typical of such a period of high culture and devotion to the literature of the past ? Horace ( 65 ? 8 B. C. ) and Vergil ( 7o ? 19 B. C. ) . The former , a wit and polished poet , wrote odes and satires that give an undying picture of the times . The son of a freedman , of unknown race , he was supported by a rich friend of the arts , Maecenas , whose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wrote his " AEneid " to be the Roman " Iliad " and " Odyssey " combined , tracing the adventures of mythical ancestors of Augustus back to the Trojan War . It is beautiful verse , the perfect example of an epic produced in a highly critical and sophisticated age . The contrast with the older epic , handing down traditions by word of mouth , is great . The supremacy of Homer can not be challenged by this achieve , ment , fine as it is . The four emperors that followed Augustus were a mixed lot . A tyrant , a madman , a fool , and a monster they have been rated on the somewhat prejudiced authority of the Roman historian Tacitus . The monster was Nero . The story of his fiddling while Rome burned has found no confirmation among modern investigators , but enough is left of his vices and crimes to confirm the essential truth of the myth . He did play the lyre in public competitions and sang in the theatre . Among his crimes , he conspired to have his mother drowned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her stabbed to death . As for the burning of Rome , it is true that the rumor spread that Nero had prepared the torch ; but modern historians dismiss that report as unfounded . More interesting is the fact that an official investigation fastened the blame on a new religious sect , but just come out of Palestine , and then gaining strength in Rome ? the Christians . As a result of this false charge many Christians were put to death in the first persecution of that faith . This was in 64 A. D. The second century witnessed the height of Roman power and organization . The first Flavian emperor , Vespasian , a skilful organizer , had already set Rome on the upward path . Two great soldiers , Trajan and Hadrian , both colonials from the province of Spain , ruled in these happiest years . Hadrian , especially , brought to completion the organization of the empire under honest and efficient governors and a great imperial code of laws , humane and just . A vast empire , with a new unity , was the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Roman tongue , Roman law , spread their civilizing force throughout Gaul and Spain , even into England . Roman baths have been unearthed in Bath , England . The ruins of a Roman amphitheatre still stand amid the huts of a North African village . Eastward through Syria to the Euphrates and the Tigris stretch the remains of aqueducts and theatres that Roman genius erected in these towering days of her power . There , however , civilization was old beyond the memory of man . More striking was the spread of civilization westward through what is now Spain , Portugal , France , Belgium , and England . Here was the creation of a new empire that left Rome no longer the western outpost of civilization but the centre of a vast Mediterranean world stretching from the Tigris to the Thames . In all this extraordinary development of an organized unity Roman law played the central part . It can fairly be regarded as the great contribution of Rome to medixval and modern times . Both specific rules of law and theories of law entered into the law of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ find their descendants in the law of to-day . A new regard for law , expressing a deeper realization of the service which such public rules of action can render to a community and a nation , matured in the Roman mind and has deeply affected European progress ever since . A sharp distinction must be made as to the example of Rome in the field of governmental organization . So many words , like republic and senate , come from Rome that there is danger of thinking that the institutions are also derived from corresponding facts in Rome . No such real resemblance exists . The essential device in a modern republic , the representative system by which voters elect legislators to act for them in the government , was unknown to Rome . It was not invented till many centuries later ? in recent times . But the Roman republic did set up a new conception of the state , or , rather , a conception born in the Greek mind and applied in Rome . It contrasted sharply with the oriental view , which looked upon an empire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the two Latin words res and publica , and it expressed the clear idea that the Roman state belonged to the people of Rome and not to any potentate . This was the ancient ideal working in the minds of Brutus and the other assassins of Caesar . Down through the first two centuries of the empire it still lived with varying force . No dynasty was established . Each emperor was formally elected by the Senate , though more and more that body became the tool of the army . The last of the great emperors of the old republican empire was Marcus Aurelius ( 121-180 ) . In his pure and noble life , his devotion to the state , and his scholarly love of philosophy , he harked back to the finest traditions of Rome . His " Meditations , " thoughts jotted down in the midst of camp and court , are the purest expression of that Stoic philosophy which was typical of the best of Rome and which has profoundly stirred men 's hearts to this day . When he died , a great tradition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ constant . Even before the reign of Marcus Aurelius the Teutonic barbarians to the north of the Danube and the east of the Rhine had become a grave menace . In the east , beyond the Euphrates and Tigris , the Parthians , descendants of the ancient Persians , had long fought an equal battle with the Roman legions . In the third century a new dynasty , the Sassanids , brought new vigor to the old Persian nation and to the religion of Zoroaster . North and east the empire was beset ; and within , the old cleavage between East and West reasserted itself more and more strongly . The republic disappeared forever and the emperors became despots , ruling in the oriental fashion . The empire was divided into two empires , the east and the west , and the Eastern influence came to the fore . Finally , in 324 Constantine ( reign : 306 ? 337 ) abandoned Rome and built a new capital upon the site of the old Greek town Byzantium on the northern side of the Bosporus . Constantinople it was named ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the style of Alexandria . From this eastern window of Europe , looking out upon Asia , the last years of Rome were ruled . Constantine was the first emperor to embrace Christianity , and herewith entered upon the world scene a new force and a new institution . The end of Rome came in 476 , when a Teutonic ruler displaced the last Roman emperor . Already , however , the organization of the Christian Church had spread far and wide and greatly affected the course of the barbarian invasions and all that followed . Before setting down the story of these invasions , this second coming of the North that overran the Roman Empire , it will be necessary to go back and trace the origins of this new religion that came out of the Orient to conquer Europe . Nor was the eastward progress of the new faith a marked success . Its first followers were Jews , and it made groups of converts at the eastern end of the Mediterranean . The main thrust of the religion was westward , and its development into a creed and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Even Paul of Tarsus , its first great leader and interpreter , spoke and wrote in Greek . It is difficult to separate Eastern and Western elements in the Christian religion . It is perhaps fair to say that the first great inspiration came wholly from the East , the development thereof into a church and a creed mostly from the West . The elaborate rites in which the Christian Church soon clothed the brief and simple words of Christ were drawn from the immemorial expressions of religious faith . Without them the faith of Christ would have disappeared swiftly , the record of personal beliefs suggests . Sacrifice , for example , is as familiar to the Arunta Indians of Australia as it was to the high priests of Israel or the Greeks or Romans . It was natural and inevitable that the early Christians should see in the Crucifixion a sacrifice to be celebrated in the ritual of the Last Supper , or Mass . Each new religion builds on these devotions of the past , fusing the old in the new . Easter is the successor of an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ worship of Zoroaster , popular at that time in a cult called Mithraism . The other great rival of Christianity was the Egyptian worship of Isis and the other gods and goddesses of the Nile . Greece and Rome produced philosophers and philosophy , be it noted , but neither people originated religious ideas beyond the primitive array of gods and goddesses personifying the forces of nature . Likewise the growth of Christian dogma followed the normal tendency of human minds to apply , interpret , and define a new faith . Had Christ been born in China the re- ligion growing out of His life and passion would surely have been different from what it was in this Mediterranean civilization . Greek philosophy , for example , inevitably played a considerable part in this process . So did Roman organization , fostering a unity of faith and discipline far and wide . The Christian faith spread swiftly . Within a hundred years from the Crucifixion its small groups meeting in secret had grown so strong that they attracted the fears and suspicions of the Roman authorities . They were cruelly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the empire was in general liberal toward all religious faiths , and these persecutions are held by many historians to have been less frequent than supposed . The Roman attitude was certainly more tolerant than that ofttimes assumed by the later Christian Church when it came to power . Deacons , presbyters ( elders ) , and bishops were the earlier officers of the faith , and it seems clear that under the inspiration of Roman example a well-organized church was not slow in developing . Thus when the great Emperor Constantine was suddenly converted to Christianity and established it as the legal religion of Rome , there was a fully developed church extending far and wide through the empire , ready to step forward and match the empire in unity . In fact , the Christian Church possessed a strength and held a loyalty that the declining empire fatally lacked . The fact was an important consideration leading to Constantine 's decision . One of the early acts of Constantine was to call the first general council of the Church . This was in 325 A. D. , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from Constantinople . Already bitter doctrinal controversies had arisen in the Church . The council decided them and stated the faith of the Church in a creed similar to what has since been called the Nicene or Athanasian Creed . The great Arian controversy was the principal issue : Was Christ of one substance with God and coeternal with Him or not ? Arius held no , Athanasius held yes . The council sided with Athanasius , and that view of this central question has remained the faith of the Christian Church , Roman , Greek , and Protestant ( with minor exceptions ) , down to our time . Thus through Constantine 's leadership dissension was ended for the time and the Church united behind a definite creed . Here was clearly the Roman influence acting to organize the Church. * A contrary influence , splitting the Church in half , was the definite and final splitting of the empire which followed the death of Constantine . This result came after years of growing divergence between the Greek and Roman halves of the empire . The forces of the East @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they led to a final cleavage . The same influences made inevitable the separation of the Eastern and Western Churches . The break actually came over doctrinal differences , some exceedingly minute . The two churches , still called the Greek and the Roman , remain thus separated to this day . As might be expected , the Greek Church developed a looser organization and a more active doctrinal debate . The Greek fondness for philosophical discussion would not down . The Western Church held more closely to the model of the empire . Above all , it developed a headship in the bishop of Rome which was of far-reaching moment . The Church in Rome was one of the earliest , as St. Paul 's epistles record . St. Paul visited it , may have suffered martyrdom there in the days of Nero . According to church tradition ? which history can neither confirm nor deny ? it was founded by the Apostle Peter , to whom Christ said : " Upon this rock I will build my church . " By the fourth century the power of the Roman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ imperial decree made him appellate judge over all other bishops . The Western , or Roman , Church had developed the framework of a government destined to become as unified and efficient as that of the empire in its proudest days . The Roman papacy , the oldest line of rulers in the world , began its triumphant course . 2 . THE SECOND COMING OF THE NORTH A mingling of the ancient Mediterranean race and its high civilization with hardy barbarians from the North produced the greatness of Greece and Rome . It was from 2000 to 1500 B. C. that these first invasions took place . Now again , after 2,000 years , the North was on the march , and just as the invasions in the case of Greece caused a period of turmoil , during which the Minoan civilization of Crete and the mainland was submerged , so the Roman Empire in Europe was overrun after its downfall . The Dark Ages has been the common name for this period , and it seems worth preserving . Modern historians have given a fairer picture of the period @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by much learning and virtue . The first section of this chapter , tracing the rise of Christianity , points to the brightest of these beams . The contrast with what came before and what came after is , however , as striking as the old name suggests . The period is to be thought of as part of the Middle Ages , a name signifying simply the centuries between the collapse of the ancient world and the rise of the modern . The early Middle Ages some historians have called them . If the fall of Rome is put at 476 A. D. , the death of Charlemagne in 814 A. D. is sometimes used to mark the end of the Dark Ages . Yet the coming of the barbarians was a slow process active long before 476 ; and the ninth and tenth centuries were little better than the eighth . History can not be fenced off by such dates . At the best they point to events around which slow human processes and tendencies centred . The barbarian darkness can roughly be thought of as thickest over western @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were another wave of the same stock which , from about 2000 B. C. , carried the IndoEuropean tongue to Persia and India , to Greece and to Rome , to Gaul and to Britain . All spoke some division of the Teutonic branch of the Indo-European tongue . If you will look at a map of Europe you will see that the River Danube and the River Rhine rise not far apart in the Black Forest north of Switzerland . North of the Danube and east of the Rhine these Teutonic tribes had dwelt throughout the flowering of Greek and Roman civilization , untouched by their example . They were blonder even than the Celts of Gaul , taller and fiercer warriors . In 400 A. D. they were still hunters and fighters with but the beginnings of farming . Central Europe , their home , was still a vast forest , uncleared and uncultivated . Backed by a passage in Tacitus , northern historians for long tended to exaggerate the virtues and institutions of these particular barbarians . The theory of Nordic supremacy in the world to-day starts from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enthusiasm . The Teutonic tribes were magnificent , upstanding barbarians , great fighters and great drinkers . They were splendid raw material for civilization and they contributed a most valuable strain of blood to all the present-day nations of western Europe . But they brought little in the way of government or social order or any item of civilized society . Aside from their infusion of vigorous blood , the main service of the Teutonic barbarians was one of destruction . For they did not attack and defeat the empire in its ancient state of power and usefulness . It had long been declining . It was ready for dissolution . Its proud unity of law , based on general principles of justice , had been lost . The new provincials felt little of the old loyalty to the state that had made the Romans of the republic and the early empire invincible . Countless causes for the decline of Rome have been suggested , ranging from decadent morals to mosquitoes and malaria . A choice between these guesses is impossible . The springs of human actions are too complex and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their sources . It is safer to study and observe symptoms than to attempt a diagnosis upon insufficient knowledge . One obvious and important fact was that Rome had overextended herself , had sought to assimilate more alien peoples than her native population and institutions could digest . More than half of her armies were barbarians . The whole aspect of the Western empire by 400 A. D. was semibarbarian . Only after the destruction of these falling walls could a new order of state arise . The causes of the migrations were probably threefold . The Teutonic tribes were pushed from behind by the pressure of the Asiatic Huns to the east ; they were pushed from within by increase of population ; they were tempted ahead by the fertile farms of the Gauls and Romans . They were precisely at that point in development when the hard lesson of agriculture must be learned . A little casual farming on the edge of a forest or along a river-bottom is one thing . Clearing land of a forest , tilling and fertilizing from year to year the same plot , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ patriarchal villages of a hundred or more families , sheltered by huts , clad in skins , assembling for battle under a more or less temporary king , were midway in the lesson . Their general civilization has been compared to that of the American Indians at the discovery of America . By conquering their more civilized neighbors to the west and south , they could step into farms ready for use . The details of the turmoil are of far less importance than the results , the final homes of the different tribes and the structure built thereon . For in these centuries modern Europe was laid down so far as its human elements were concerned . No considerable infusion of blood ? save in Spain and Portugal ? and no great migrations took place thereafter . Roughly speaking , the movement started in the east and spread westward . The first to march were the Goths dwelling west of the Black Sea and north of the Danube . Among the last were the Franks east of the lower Rhine ; in fact , the Franks never did migrate as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and absorption that left them the masters of northwestern Europe . The tradition of the Goths pictured them as coming originally from Sweden and Norway . If this is true , it is a striking example of the fusion of North and South produced by these migrations ; for these northernmost blonds settled finally in Italy and in Spain , bringing a great infusion of what would now be called Nordic blood by some historians into these southernmost peninsulas of Europe . There were two branches of Goths : the Visigoths , or West Goths , and the Ostrogoths , or East Goths . The Visigoths were the more active and warlike and the first to move . Under a great general and leader , Alaric ( 370 ? - 41o ) , they made the first successful northern attack upon Rome . This magnificent fighting barbarian was confronted by a weakling emperor named Honorius , who dallied in Ravenna when his imperial city was threatened . Rome fell before Alaric 's siege and battering hosts in 410 , and tradition tells a tale of how Honorius received the tidings . An @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " What ! " cried the emperor ; " she was feeding from my hand an hour ago " ; and was greatly relieved when it was explained that it was not his pet hen " Roma " but the capital of his empire that was lost . True or false , the anecdote , like most myths , gives a significant picture of the degenerate shoulders upon which the mantle of the Caesars had fallen . It should be added , in view of loose conceptions as to these barbarians , that the Visigoths , while they took money and precious movables , did not destroy Rome or greatly injure it . Alaric expressely commanded his men to respect the churches . These chestnut-haired hunters from the North had more respect for the greatness of Rome than had its own rulers . Thereafter the Visigoths left Italy and turned westward , conquering what is now southwestern France and almost all of modern Spain . Thus the territory north and south of the Pyrenees was for a while united in a Visigothic kingdom , and the same breed of blond northerner @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Next to march were the Vandals , another Teutonic tribe , dwelling to the westward of the Goths on the shores of the Baltic Sea . These rovers and marauders circled western Europe and traversed Spain before they finally came to rest in northwestern Africa , long famous as a granary of Rome . From the Straits of Gibraltar to Carthage they established a kingdom and , taking to the sea , became the most dreaded pirates of the Mediterranean . They , too , in 455 , took and plundered Rome . Yet neither here nor generally in their piratical marauding did the Vandals wantonly destroy monuments and buildings in a fashion to justify the modern use of the word " vandalism " for such purposeless acts . On the other hand , the Vandals left little enduring influence upon history ; for the climate of the south conquered them where Rome had failed . They were one of the first north- ern people in history to migrate so far south as to lose their northern traits and be swallowed up in the native blood . The Burgundians , close @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a short distance to the south , settling in the region of the Rhone . In these rich and fertile valleys , of what is now southeastern France , these invaders speedily became Christianized and Romanized , and leaders in the new civilization that was to grow out of this crossing of the older races of the Roman Empire with these new and vigorous barbarians . Farther on to the north and west were the Franks . These Teutonic tribes never packed up and marched off as did the Vandals and the Goths . They stayed at home and waxed in power by slowly annexing surrounding soil and peoples . The lower Rhine region , from Cologne to the sea , saw their beginning . They grew into the greatest of the Teutonic kingdoms , masters of all northwestern Europe . They were the most important factor in the creation of the new civilization that was to grow amid the ruins of the old . Of all these barbarians they were for a while the most cruel and bloodthirsty , and because of their development on their homeland they retained their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . About the same time that the Franks spread westward , the Angles , Jutes , and Saxons , three tribes living somewhat to the east of the Franks , at the base of the Danish peninsula , began to land on the east coast of Britain . They came in larger and larger numbers , finally conquering all England . Some of them were seafaring folk , forerunners of the Vikings who a few centuries later were to harry and plunder and conquer far and wide . Since Britain had felt but distantly the civilization of Rome , and since these Teutonic conquerors had been wholly untouched by it , the rise of civilization in Britain was slow , lagging behind even the barbarian Franks across the Channel . Yet even here it is easy to exaggerate the importance of this last deposit of peoples upon western European soil . Their numbers were never great . They entered a region already well peopled by a race in touch with the high civilization of Rome . The invaders were generally in a minority , it is probable . The civilization that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ built on the old , and the people that resulted were a fusion of the old and the new . A later migration brought another strain of blond barbarians into northern Italy , the Lombards , who marched from the region of the Danube in the sixth century and settled in the valley of the Po . They conquered with great cruelty and were cordially hated by the Italic peoples . Lombardy is still the name of this region . Nothing less than the whole basis of modern Europe was laid down in this last great shuffling of peoples . The hands were being dealt with which the game of Europe was to be finally played . There are suggestive pictures of these centuries of turmoil in the epics that have come down from them , called sagas in the Teutonic languages . The parallel with the " Iliad " and the " Odyssey " is complete ; the age was in the same sense an age of barbarian heroes impinging upon an older civilization ; if the poetry was not as great , that was because these northern and western @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In Burgundy grew up the " Nibelungenlied , " a set of folk-tales combining mythical gods and goddesses with real heroes and heroines , as yet vaguely identified . The final versions ? upon which Richard Wagner based his operas of the Ring series ? were not written down till many centuries later . Originally they were recited by bards at the feasts of kings and nobles , precisely as were the poems of Homer . The Franks left no epics . " Beowulf " is the saga of the An- starting the Teutonic tribes on their migrations . Under Attila ( died 453 ) they stretched their kingdom from the Caspian to the Rhine . Not satisfied with that , Attila crossed into Gaul , sacking and burning cities as he went . The Western world was in disorder as a result of the migrations . Attila was an able general at the head of a swift and savage army . The hour was critical . Finally , near Chalons , in the valley of the Marne , where so many great battles have been fought , the issue was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ united to repel the invader . The carnage was terrible . " Ruthless , manifold , immense , obstinate , " a Gothic historian called the struggle . Victory at one time seemed to favor the Huns ; but in the end the Goths and Romans prevailed . Attila 's forces were overwhelmed and he retreated across the Rhine . Chalons surely deserves to rank with Salamis as one of the decisive battles of the world . Attila was a typical Tatar , short , dark , broad-chested , snub-nosed . He was known as " the scourge of God " and was dreaded throughout the Christian world . There are generous acts of mercy to his credit as well as a long record of bloody destruction . He and his people were so unlike the Westerners , in appearance and customs as well as language , that any real understanding seems to have been impossible . When Attila died , the power of the Huns crumbled away . Such of them as remained in Europe were swallowed up in the various Teutonic tribes . The first great threat of Asia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Islam While the Teutonic tribes were marching and fighting across Europe an obscure event was happening far away in Semitic Arabia , the consequences of which were destined to be felt in westernmost Europe within a century . Mohammed ( died 632 ) , an Arabian camel-driver of Mecca , began to see visions and hear messages which he was convinced came from God . The religion which he began to preach spread with amazing rapidity . In his lifetime all Arabia accepted it . The year 622 was taken as the starting-point of a new era , precisely as the Christian era was established . ( In that year occurred the Hegira , or flight of Mohammed from Mecca . ) The sayings of the new prophet , written down by his followers in his lifetime , were collected in a book soon after his death , called the Koran , which became the Mohammedan bible . Ile called his new religion Islam , which meant submission , submission to Allah ; Moslem , from the same root , is often used for Mohammedan . Islam was a monotheistic faith @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but Allah and Mohammed is his prophet . " It was more definite , less mystical , than Christianity . Adherence called for certain simple practices , praying five times a day with the face turned toward Mecca , a pilgrimage to Mecca ; and life was regulated by many detailed rules requiring abstinence from strong drink and the giving of alms to the poor , for example . A man was permitted to have four wives and as many concubines as he could afford . The rejecters of Islam were destined to be burned in hell for eternity . The faithful , and especially those who died fighting for Islam , were to enter a paradise profusely provided with beautiful maidens . Woman was from every point of view regarded as a much inferior being . The spread of this new religion was extraordinarily rapid . In its wake came the equally swift rise of 2 great and powerful Mohammedan empire . Theretofore the Arabians had been split into numerous warring sects . Now , united by a common faith , they marched forth confidently to conquer in the name @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the power of a non-economic factor to control the fate of many peoples . It sent the Arabs northward across Syria , eastward to conquer all Persia clear to the River Indus , and to found the new city of Bagdad near the site of ancient Babylon . Bagdad soon became the richest city of its time . To the west Arabian armies conquered Egypt and marched westward to the gates of Gibraltar . The caliphs ? who were the rulers of all Moslems and the head of the Church as well ? had tried in vain to cross the straits of the Bosporus and conquer Constantinople. * In the West they had better fortune . Spain was grievously misruled and lacked all sense of unity . The invaders , a few Arabs and many Berbers , dark whites from northern Africa , were aided by factions within and by the persecuted Jews . All Spain to the Pyrenees fell swiftly under the Moslem conquerors . Emboldened by their success , the invaders a few years later crossed the Pyrenees and set out to conquer southern France . Near Tours @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Mohammed ? they met the Frankish army in a historic battle . Charles Martel commanded the Christian forces and lived up to his name , which meant the Hammer . He won a sweeping victory that checked for all time the thrust of the Moslem forces north of the Pyrenees . The story of the Moslem occupation of Spain is long and turbid . It lasted five centuries . The conquerors were divided among themselves ; sometimes a powerful Arab was in control , sometimes the Moors , a mixed people of northern Africa , Phoenician , Roman , what-not , who had been conquered by the Arabs and had joined in the conquest of Spain , seized the power . The government ranged all the way from a just and splendid reign by an oriental potentate of the highest type to sloth , corruption , and anarchy . The Arabian civilization , preserving elements of the hard-won wisdom of the Greeks and the Alexandrian scholars , was far in advance of the dark ' state to which the barbarian invaders had brought Europe . Beautiful mosques were built in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stands , a monument to the richness of oriental color and design . The greatest contribution of Arabia in this period of sudden intellectual flowering was in mathematics . Algebra is an Arabian word , and the fact gives due credit to a number of great Arabian mathematicians who carried forward the work begun by the Greek mathematicians . The Arabic numerals ? including the placing of the digits according to a decimal system , and the use of the zero ? began to supplant the clumsy Roman system of numerals in Europe in the twelfth century . Without them modern arithmetic , with its enormous convenience to science , trade , and commerce , would have been impossible . One other great invention brought to Europe by the Arabs deserves to be mentioned here ? paper . Both of these inventions came to Arabia from the Far East : the numeral system from India , paper from China . The two constitute almost the only large contributions of the Far East to European civilization . Most important of all , the Moslem invasion left in Spain a mixed people with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ elsewhere in Europe . Here was a permanent and essential alteration in the map of peoples , the effects of which were bound to endure long after the star of Islam , that blazed up so swiftly and so brilliantly , had faded in the west to a minor magnitude . It is in a sense fair to think of Spain as a border state , a fusion of Europeans and Semites , somewhat as Russia and the Balkans , the border nations to the east , partake of the character of Asia and of Europe . Yet , as will appear , the European peoples of Spain fought long and desperately to a complete victory over the invaders , and by slaughter and expulsion reduced the alien elements to a minor strain . 4 . CHARLEMAGNE AND THE CLIMAX OF DISORDER Such a turbulent age naturally produced a number of strong men . Charles Martel was one of them . His grandson , Charlemagne , towered yet higher , and stands among the great figures of all history . His life was a picture of his times , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Charles Martel never held the title of king ; but as the king 's minister , called the Mayor of the Palace , he was in effect the ruler of the western Franks . Rois faineants these do-nothing kings were called . By Charlemagne 's time the title had shifted to the real masters . It is noteworthy that these new Frankish kings thought it worth while to receive the Pope 's approval , and they were all anointed at Rome with holy oil , ruling thereafter " by the grace of God . " The fact is striking proof both of the spread of Christianity and the power of the papacy . In the year Boo the Pope crowned Charlemagne Emperor of the Romans , thereby shifting this ancient title to the new line of northern kings and establishing a long-lived state that became known as the Holy Roman Empire , and amid varying fortunes lasted until Napoleon took Europe to pieces and rebuilt it on his own plans . Charlemagne was born a Teuton and he remained a Teuton in every custom , disdaining Roman splendor . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of wool or skins and leggings of cloth or leather . He wore his hair long , in the Teutonic fashion . With his great beard and majestic height he was an imposing figure , a truly regal head of the state . He was a huntsman and a fine swimmer ; his physical strength played a large part in the success of his military campaigns , which he won rather by his energy and swiftness of attack than by great generalship . He built the Frankish kingdom into a great empire , uniting the eastern and western Franks , and then conquering the Saxons , a Teutonic people , still barbarians and heathen , dwelling in what is now northern Germany . The latter conquest took many years . Charlemagne fought not less for the Church than for his kingdom , and when he conquered , made the Saxons subjects of the Pope in religion , as well as his own subjects . Later Charlemagne marched southeast and conquered the Lombards , adding northern Italy to his kingdom ; east to drive off the Bohemians and other Slavic peoples , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who were always beating against the eastern frontier of Europe and had settled in the great plain of the Danube , where now is modern Hungary ; and southwest into Spain to rescue the Christians from the Moors . In Spain he conquered only the northernmost region , and his expedition thither is best known for a minor incident that had no historical significance whatever , but chanced to be preserved in a famous French epic of the Middle Ages , the " Song of Roland . " In the pass of Roncesvalles in the Pyrenees the rearguard of Charlemagne 's army was cut to pieces by the enemy , and Roland of Brittany was slain there . So much is history . Upon this the versifiers of later centuries built a long battle-poem , with Roland and his friend Oliver and Charlemagne , the great Christian emperor , as the heroes . The case is a good example of the care with which literary records must be used as the source of history . The " Song of Roland " is mainly myth , the facts are grossly magnified , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ form it preserves much of the spirit of the Carolingian age . If the Empire and the Church were first in Charlemagne 's mind , learning followed close after . He gathered about his court the greatest scholars of his time , in particular , Alcuin of England ( 735-804 ) . The emperor had no book education in the primitive Frankish court of his boyhood ; he learned to read both the Frankish tongue and Latin in his maturity ; he tried also to learn to write , but found the task too difficult for his advancing years . His delight was to be read to by the learned men of his court . By his order Alcuin organized a school of the palace for the education of the royal and noble children ; and for the wider diffusion of learning , he directed that a school should be established in every diocese of the kingdom for the children of both freemen and serfs . As had been true throughout the Dark Ages , and was to continue throughout the Middle Ages , it was the Church that kept learning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ turned to advance his projects of education . A noble picture the great emperor makes sitting in his court , listening to this book and that ? a history , a grammar , an astronomy , or , his favorite among all , St. Augustine 's " City of God " ? and planning how these riches of the mind might be shared with his people . Plainly , the line between barbarism and civilization is no easy one to draw ; many a later prince , surrounded by vast learning , lacked the wisdom and spirit of scholarship that this rough Teutonic warrior possessed and practised . The Middle Ages are often dated from Charlemagne 's time , and there is much reason for regarding him as the pioneer of much that was typical of that period . But he did not attempt to found a lasting empire . His realm speedily fell apart after his death , and his three grandsons carved it into three kingdoms faintly resembling the later nations of France , Germany , and Italy . West Frankish and East Frankish the two former were called @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assigned a long narrow strip of territory lying between the two Frankish kingdoms , Lotharingia by name , whence the modern French Lorraine . So early was the problem of an Alsace-Lorraine foreshadowed . In this period the lights of learning which Charle- magne lit were not extinguished , but all Europe relapsed into fresh disorder and invasion . The great reign of Charlemagne was a false dawn , and it was not until two centuries later that order and progress were resumed . The old invaders fell upon Europe once more , the Mohammedans entering southern France from Spain and the Slays and Huns advancing from the east ; and a new and particularly bold breed of men , the last of the Teutonic tribes to migrate , the Norsemen or Vikings , from the ports of what is now Denmark , Sweden , and Norway , began to ravage far and wide . Danish sea-rovers invaded England repeatedly in the ninth century . Alfred the Great ( 84.8 ? 901 ) , an outstanding king , with many of the noble traits of Charlemagne , fought them with success @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ England was ruled by a Danish or Norse king . Along the coast of the Franks they harried the coast towns and sailed tip the Seine as far as Paris . Scotland , Ireland , Iceland , Spain , Africa , Italy ? there were few shores which these daring wanderers of the Viking Age did not touch . To the west they reached Greenland , and almost certainly the mainland of America , Labrador , Nova Scotia , or New England , thus perhaps preceding the discovery of America by Columbus by five centuries . Other Norsemen from what is now Sweden harried the shores of the Baltic and by land marched far into Russia , launching boats upon the Black Sea and the Caspian , penetrating even into Persia . Few other peoples have ever spread so far and wide . All this they did in open boats , high at bow and stern , low amidships , long and narrow , propelled chiefly by oars , but carrying one square sail for use when the wind was fair. * The war-boats bore a dragon or snake 's head @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and went into battle with a peculiar rage that was known and dreaded . The berserk 's way it was called , and berserker is used to-day to describe one who fights with a blind fury . Yet they were far from being pirates in the modern sense . They settled large colonies in England and in France and brought marked abilities with them . Their adaptability was great . Settled among the Franks in what became the province of Normandy , they speedily adopted the religion , language , and manners of those earlier immigrants , now well on the way to civilization , thanks to the remnants of Roman influence that had survived the Dark Ages in Gaul . It is these Norsemen , mingled with the Franks and yet earlier Gauls and Romans of the region along the Channel , who are the Normans of history . That name is used to describe these transplanted Vikings fused with an older civilization . How much of their passion for adventure they handed down to their descendants , the Middle Ages were to discover . Normans crossed the Channel and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Viking Age came to an end , but its spirit flared up again and again ; perhaps still lives in many an adventurer of to-day . 5 . THE ROMAN EMPIRE IN THE EAST While western Europe lapsed into these centuries of disorder and ignorance , eastern Europe held high the banner of Greek and Roman civilization and developed its own independent culture and art , Christian in motive yet profoundly influenced by the splendor of the Orient . Byzantine , this Eastern Empire and art are often called , after the ancient city of Byzantium , which Constantinople replaced . The latter might fairly be rated the leading city of the Western world throughout not only the Dark Ages , which have been described , but the Middle Ages which followed . Byzantine art , there developed , profoundly influenced Mohammedan mosques at Damascus , Cairo , and Cordova , and Christian churches not only in Moscow and St. Petersburg but in Rome , Ravenna , and Venice . The Eastern influences were strong in this Eastern Empire , but the inheritances of Greek and Roman civilization and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thus formed are preserved in modern Russia , and fairly represent the Janus-like character of that nation , facing both East and West . Of the great personalities of this Eastern Empire , Constantine has already been mentioned , and the Emperor Justinian ( 527 ? 565 ) remains to be described . The latter was a great conqueror and a great lawgiver . From Constantinople on the Bosporus he reassembled much of the ancient Roman Empire , including the Vandal kingdom in North Africa together with parts of Italy and Spain . His empire fell apart , but his codification of Roman law has had an influence lasting to this day . Justinian had the air of a modern American executive by reason of his industry and democratic bearing . His wife , Theodora , was his adviser and helpmate and one of the greatest of empresses . The Roman Empire of the East from 85o to 1050 led the world in commerce as in shipping . It endured precariously till 1453 , when the Ottoman Turks captured Constantinople . For these many centuries after Justinian it had resisted successfully @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , thanks partly to the almost invulnerable site of Constantinople . Thus while the raw newcomers of western Europe were struggling upward , this ancient survivor of Greece and Rome did precious work for the continuity of European civilization . It shielded the Western peoples from Eastern attack . It preserved in its libraries much of the classical wisdom and its learned men became the teach- ers of all Europe at the dawn of the Renaissance in the late fourteenth and early fifteenth centuries . The cleavage between the eastern and western parts of Europe has been so deep that Western historians long did far less than justice to the Byzantine Empire . The religious separation between the Greek Church ? as the Christianity of the Eastern Empire is commonly called ? and the Roman Church has never been bridged . The racial differences are considerable . The historians of the nineteenth century treated the Eastern Empire with contempt , missing altogether the critical part which it played in the European story . There is no better place or period in which to study the fundamental unity of Europe while observing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Byzantine architecture clearly records these facts . It combines Greek and Roman elements with Oriental in a new style of great magnificence . The vast church of Saint Sophia at Constantinople ? since 1453 a Turkish mosque ? is the most famous Byzantine monument . The use of the dome upon a new scale and of mosaics to decorate the interior walls are its conspicuous features in Western eyes . By a profusion of mosaics a rich and dazzling effect was gained , splendid as decoration , weak in pictorial design . Byzantine art tended toward rigidity of form and lavishness of color , yet it is by no means alien to the European scene , as Saint Mark 's at Venice and the cathedral of Saint Front at Perigueux in France bear witness . It has been remarked that the schism between the Roman Church and the Greek Church arose over minor doctrinal disputes . The divergence was widened by the Iconoclasts or " image-breakers " of the eighth and ninth centuries and the result had much to do with cramping the development of Byzantine art . These reformers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and religious symbols , including the cross , from Christian churches , on the ground that they led to idolatry . The dispute raged violently in the Eastern Church , and , while the Iconoclasts were ultimately defeated , they left an indelible mark upon their church . Statues were forbidden in the Greek Church , pictures were permitted in the final compromise . Hence the Russian icon is a picture to-day . Even the cross does not appear in churches of the Eastern faith . The dispute touched the Roman Church lightly ; while it forbade the worship of images it did not exclude them from churches . The final rupture between East and West came in 1054 as the result of a long accumulation of divergent dogmas . It is interesting to note that the Protestant Reformation of the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries produced an iconoclastic spirit based on theories resembling those held in the Greek Church . But the strange compromise reached at Constantinople , permitting the lavish use of painted figures , provided only they were flat , had little kinship with the bare grandeur of Puritanism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ main divisions , Greek , Roman , and Protestant , grew out of long controversies , and it is difficult for the historian to weigh the importance of doctrinal as against practical disputes or suggest how unity might be regained . The unmistakable fact is that for more than a thousand years the Roman Empire in the East , or the Greek Empire , or the Byzantine Empire , as it was variously called , developed a government , a faith , a church , an art , a civilization , distinct from the rest of Europe . THE MIDDLE AGES IT is impossible to escape the use of the term Middle Ages . The phrase has come to mean the definite picture of a society as well as a list of events and institutions . Chosen by historians to express the bare fact that these centuries lie between the ancient world and the modern , mediaeval has taken on a flavor all its own . For many the word expresses something akin to scorn for a supposed backwardness ; as these centuries have often been pictured , it is quite @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Greece than with the era of feudalism and scholasticism . A reaction from this attitude is apparent in the historians 350 of to-day . Were the phraseology of history fresh material to be moulded at will , there would be much to say for abandoning the term Middle Ages altogether and starting Modern Times at the end of the Dark Ages , around the year moo. * So far as progress goes , the evolution of Western civilization is continuous from prehistoric times forward . As one centre of civilization has spent its force , another has come forward ; the torch has been carried on by fresh runners as in a relay race . Dark periods have intervened as fresh waves of barbarians have overrun old peoples . Yet even through these times of turmoil and waiting ancient gains have been preserved beneath the surface . The Dark Ages of Europe just described halted progress for a time , but long before they were ended the advance was resumed . We can best approach the Middle Ages by thinking of them as the time when those forces of confusion had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Based on stern mental and moral training , and inspired by high religious exaltation , they yielded an extraordinary flowering of character and great art . It was also the preparation for all that followed . It seems best to use the familiar term and to endeavor to correct misapprehensions with regard to the period which it covers . There is ample justification for grouping these centuries together . They saw the perfecting of certain institutions . They possessed a character all their own . The effort will be to present that character in all its vivid traits and yet make clear how it grew out of the centuries that went before and made possible the centuries that followed after . No period of time has been more distorted and misunderstood . Primarily that is because of the great religious schism in the sixteenth century known as the Reformation . Protestants have tended to think of the Middle Ages as the reign of Antichrist , and necessarily evil . In return , Roman Catholic writers have glorified the period as in the phrase " The Thirteenth , Greatest of Centuries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as of the Reformation , have yet to be written . As if religious polemic were not enough , the Middle Ages also suffered at the hands of the " humanists , " the rediscoverers of the classics in the fifteenth century . The very term , Middle Ages , expressed their impatience with the centuries that stood between them and their precious Greek and Roman texts . In the same spirit of contempt the word Gothic was later applied to Mediaeval Architecture , thereby fastening a complete misnomer upon one of the greatest of architectural periods , for barbarian Goths had nothing to do with the beautiful cathedrals of mediaeval France , where the style originated . Lastly , when the age of science arrived in the eighteenth century , there was added the bitter contempt of the scientific mind for mediaeval scholasticism . The value of that obsolete philosophizing as a mental discipline for the new Europe was lost sight of in resentment at its cramping effect upon free speculation . The extreme rationalist of to-day still vents his scorn upon the Middle Ages and all its works ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I. THE CHRISTIAN CHURCH The central fact of the Middle Ages was the Christian Church . It is difficult in this age of many sects and weakened faith to realize what its unity and supremacy meant to the men , women , and children of the time . The nearest modern parallel is citizenship in a nation . Just as to-day almost every one is a loyal citizen of the country where he lives , and the exceptions , the anarchists , are regarded as dangerous people , so , then , membership in the one Church was practically universal , and heretics were dreaded and despised . Only in its great moments , however , does the modern emotion of patriotism stir people as deeply as religion stirred the people of the Middle Ages . It was the great , controlling emotion of the era . To complete the picture , anticipating somewhat the next section on feudalism , it is to be noted that there were no strong nations until toward the end of this time . Patriotism was a minor feeling . The chief loyalty , outside of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from whom one held one 's land . There is much truth in the view that the Catholic Church was the real successor of the Roman Empire , and the Pope , rather than the Roman emperor , the true overlord of western Europe . The early rise of the papacy and the division of the Church , East and West , have already been traced . In the reign of a great king and emperor like Charlemagne , the royal power prevailed over the papal power . Under the weak rulers that followed , the sway of the Pope gained rapidly . In the eleventh century Pope Gregory VII deposed and excommunicated ? that is to say , cut off from the sacraments of the Church ? an unruly German emperor , Henry IV , and the latter was obliged to cross the Alps in midwinter and appear as a humble suppliant before the Pope . For three days the emperor waited , a barefoot pilgrim , for the Pope 's pardon . Canossa was the little town where the penance occurred , and " going to Canossa " has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ episode became a dramatic symbol of the Church 's victory in the great conflict of the Middle Ages between the religious and secular powers . The omnipotence of the papac ) was strongly asserted by Gregory VII , and in the thirteenth century by Innocent III , one of the greatest of the popes . At its height , the medval Church was far more than a religious organization , such as the churches of to-day are . It performed many of the functions of the modern state . It levied a tax , a tithe or a tenth of a man 's income , and many of its bishops and abbots ruled over vast landed estates that belonged to the Church in perpetuity . It developed a system of law , called the canon law , under which it tried many cases in its own courts , including all cases touching a clergyman , widows and orphans , marriage , wills , heresy , etc . Considered as a government , the Church was an absolute monarchy , for the Pope was its omnipotent lawmaker and its supreme judge . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that , unlike secular monarchies , the principle of inheritance applied neither to the Pope , the cardinals , the archbishops , bishops , nor priests . The Pope was elected by the college of cardinals in Rome , and was often of poor and humble birth . The same democratic principle held true of all the clergy save where corruption crept in . Add the fact that throughout the Middle Ages few other than churchmen were really educated ? if a man could read at all it was accepted as proof by some courts that he was a cleric ? and it can be seen to what extent ability and intellect centred in the Church . Small wonder that it was by far the most powerful institution of the time . Yet the papal dream of world-power faded swiftly after 1300 . The popes called in the French to help them defeat the emperors and ended by themselves succumbing to the power of a French king and removing to Avignon in southeastern France . For a time there were two or more rival popes anathematizing each other . The Church @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ flowering of faith began to fade . Within two centuries ( in the years following 1500 ) , amid war and bloodshed , the seamless robe of the Christian Church was to be rent in twain . The rise of the Church and of the papacy in this period was in large part due to the rise of the monks , and in particular to the Benedictines and the monks of the order of Cluny . Corruption was rampant in the clergy around the year woo . The law of celibacy was flouted . The papacy was at a low ebb . A true reformation of religion began in the eleventh century . Something of the spirit of Christ 's apostles was recaptured by the mendicant monks , who turned their backs on the things of this world and vowed themselves to a life of poverty . Saint Francis of Assisi , the founder of the Franciscan order , is a part of the Middle Ages that needs no preface to be understood by modern minds . He is one of the most captivating figures of all time . To know @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and thereby view with understanding both the immaturity of its intellect and the black shadows among its deeds . He was born a rich man 's son in Assisi , a little hill-town of Italy , in 1181 or 1182 . As a youth he led in the revels and fought as a soldier . Captured and imprisoned , he fell ill , and , lying helpless , began to doubt his way of life . He returned to health and gaiety a changed man . One night he gave a banquet , and , crowned with garlands , king of the revellers , marched forth with his friends into the town with torches , singing . He disappeared , and when his friends found him he was in a trance , communing with his Lord . From that hour he spent more and more of his time praying . He tried literally to live as Christ lived , renouncing his wealth , dressing in rags and begging from door to door . " Sell that thou hast and give to the poor and thou shalt have treasure in heaven " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ turned recluse or gloomy ascetic . He was a devoted friend . He was always helping the poor and the sick . By nature joyous , he believed that his Lord wished his followers to be joyous . He went about singing , usually little French songs of his own making in praise of his Lord . He loved the visible world and all things in it . He preached his faith to the birds , he called the wind " brother , " and walked lovingly amid grass and vines , stones and trees . His " Canticle of the Brother Sun " begins , " Most High , omnipotent , good Lord , thine is the praise , the glory , the honor and every benediction , " and among its praises are these : " Be praised , my Lord , for Brother Fire , through whom thou dost illumine the night , and comely is he and glad and bold and strong , " and " Be praised , my Lord , for Sister , Our Mother Earth , that doth cherish and keep us , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " A poet was Saint Francis as well as the most beautiful character of his time . Such direct communion with God and rapturous love of Him is called mysticism . It has many forms , and is present in such different religions as Buddhism and the religion of the American negro , as his " spirituals , " or hymns , bear witness . The mystic lays little stress on ritual or creed ; Saint Francis viewed the religious debates of his time as of small value . It can be thought of as the pure emotion of most civilized religion before man 's forms of worship and reasoning processes have converted it into an organized faith . There had always been a mystical element in Christianity . Traces of it are to be found in the Gospel of Saint John . The late Greek school of philosophy , the Neoplatonists , contributed more . Saint Augustine , in the fourth and fifth centuries , the greatest of the Church fathers , author of " The City of God , " combined philosophical ability with strong mystical leanings . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Something of the beauty of the faith of Saint Francis was wide-spread in the hearts of men in these centuries , and was the source of their noblest achievements . But no church has ever existed for any length of time without ritual and creeds ? a purely mystical faith would necessarily be restricted to those few who fell within the direct influence of one great leader . While Saint Francis scorned the quarrels over dogma and sought to go back to the simplest form of Christianity as found in Christ 's own words , he could not escape the effects of Christian history . For example , he was clearly a follower of the Nicene Creed in his conception of Christ as the true son of God . So the searching debates upon dogma , which developed a system of thought known as scholasticism , were of not less importance to Christianity than was the renaissance of religious fervor due to the monastic orders . Of greatest importance for the future , they were a marvellous mental discipline , a stern exercise in logic and directed thinking , which alone @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been seen , the intellectual life of the time centred in the clergy . Even more important , the Christian faith was an important concern of every one . How it sent thousands upon the Crusades and set whole communities to building great churches will be presently described . What more natural than that it held the minds of most thinkers to the task of developing rational thought in conformity with the doctrines of the Church ? The modern scientific attitude , of observation and experiment , in the search of generalized laws , never occurred to such minds , since they started out with the passionate conviction that the revelations of God in the Scriptures and the creeds held all essential truth , and that the only problem of the rational mind was to reconcile the universe and the wisdom of the ancient pagans , of Aristotle , Plato , Pliny , of the Greek physicians , with the Christian scheme . Consequently , there was little natural science based on observation . Instead , the oldest and strangest myths were accepted , provided only they came from Christian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Christian faith . It is not to be thought , however , that all minds were of this type or that there was no interest in natural science . Recent investigation has tended to revise older conceptions and to reveal a considerable amount of steady progress in science in the thirteenth century . There was much study of Aristotle 's " Physics " and other scientific books . Small groups of men , at least at Oxford and at Paris , practised observation and experiment . There was one investigator of extraordinary skill , industry , and imagination , Roger Bacon ( I2I4 ? - I294 ) , an English monk , a Franciscan . His was an original mind , so far ahead of its time as to have little influence upon it . He protested against blind submission to authority and exclaimed once in impatience that he wished all the translations of Aristotle could be burned so that truth might be tested by observation . ( In his soberer moods he set great value on Aristotle 's work . ) He seems to have vaguely perceived the whole @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and biology he apparently did important work . For his freethinking he was imprisoned for a number of years . But his scientific leanings were even more seriously hampered by his own mediaeval limitations . he is to be honored as a bold pioneer , how bold the following prediction records : " And flyingmachines are possible , so that a man may sit in the middle turning some device by which artificial wings may beat the air in the manner of a flying bird . " The older historians treated Bacon as an isolated exception . The current tendency is to view him as a man of genius , standing above his contemporaries , but clearly related to his time . The rise of the universities in the twelfth and thirteenth centuries aided intellectual development by providing independent centres where learning was preserved and taught . Yet they were largely clerical and scholastic in outlook and free speculation was the rare exception . The two oldest , Bologna and Salerno in Italy , specialized , the one in law , the other in medicine . The fame of others , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Oxford , centred in the dialectics of theology . Arithmetic , geometry , astronomy , and music formed the " quadrivium , " the group of studies that constituted a general education at a university . It was based on the earlier study of the " trivium , " grammar , rhetoric , and logic . There were also , outside the orthodox university circles , the alchemists , the astrologers , and the magicians . The alchemists were the practical chemists of the Middle Ages , but they had scant conception of scientific method , and their chief preoccupation was an effort to transmute base metals into gold . This they sought to accomplish by finding a " philosopher 's stone " which would effect the change . One lucky guess they made in their basic theory of the unity of all matter which is not far from the new theories of the atom . But this theory was not reached by any scientific processes , and helped the arrival of science no more than did Roger Bacon 's advocacy of experiment or his guess about flying-machines . True @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ like alchemy , came to Europe through the Arabs of Spain . It caused observation of the heavenly bodies , and to this extent may be viewed as the remote ancestor of astronomy . Magic was rife in the Middle Ages . An age that could believe in salamanders could believe in almost any myth touching evil spirits or tricks for harming an enemy or benefiting oneself . Of such beliefs was born the dread of witchcraft that was a wide-spread terror of the later Middle Ages and down through the eighteenth century . Thousands of supposed witches were tortured to make them confess , and either hanged or burned . It was well on in the thirteenth century that the greatest of the schoolmen , Saint Thomas Aquinas , gave the complete and lasting statement of scholasticism . He was the Aristotle of the Middle Ages , and his philosophy is still the accepted philosophy of the Roman Catholic Church . This fact in itself is strong evidence that the schoolmen were not and set up a kingdom there that lasted nearly a century . Already in this first crusade @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quarrels that jeopardized the success of the expedition . The rule established was far from secure and soon in danger . Hardly a year went by without some crusaders starting off to the rescue of the Holy Land . A great Syrian ruler , Saladin , a Mohammedan fierce in battle , kind of heart , and a man of honor , captured Jerusalem in 1187 . The third crusade set out under Richard the Lion-Hearted ( Richard I of England ) , Philip Augustus of France , and the emperor Frederick Barbarossa , to regain the city . It failed despite the fierce bravery of Richard . One of the noblest figures to take the Cross was Louis IX of France , called Saint Louis . He was a true Christian knight , of heroic stature , at once a sturdy fighter and an ascetic and devout believer . He made two crusades , both failures . In fact , the crusaders never regained Jerusalem by force of arms . As a grim commentary upon the degeneration of the holy expeditions , success came only through the diplomatic wiles of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , of mean appearance but great ability , a strange heir to the Roman throne , was always quarrelling with the popes , and he was under a ban of excommunication when he set out upon his crusade . He had organized the kingdom of Sicily with great tact and he approached the Holy Land with the same ingenuity . Without striking a blow , he secured a treaty from the Sultan of Egypt turning over the Holy Land . For fifteen years it remained in Christian hands , and then , in 1244 , was lost , not to be recovered until British troops in the World War fought their way once more into Jerusalem . The Crusades began as a glorious and noble adventure . That spirit held true for many crusaders throughout . But there went along from the start a host of self-seeking adventurers and plain vagabonds , highwaymen , and cut- throats , who wanted only riches and excitement . In addition , the commercial aims of Italian traders and the practical colonial aims of princes gave a business flavor to the crusader that increased with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ easy to estimate . Modern historians have tended to minimize them , holding that the influence of the East came to the West chiefly through the Arabs of Spain or Sicily . But the Crusades did open up new trade routes to the East and led to the discovery of Asia by European travellers . Marco Polo wrote his famous book of travels , across Asia to China , around the year 1300 . There was a wider horizon for the many . crusaders , who came in contact with a new civilization , and a vast continent for the bolder explorers . The Crusades were a stimulating and enlightening experience for western Europe . They failed tragically in their one aim ? the Turk was encamped on the shores of the Bosporus when the last crusade ended , and within a century and a half he was to conquer Constantinople and enter Europe as far as the Danube . It has often been said that the Crusades threw back the Eastern drive . But the crusaders quarrelled with the emperors at Constantinople and weakened their rule , and it was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ brunt of the Eastern attack finally fell . It is in the light of the Crusades that are to be read the tragic stories of the persecution of heretics at home . Saint Bernard , one of the noblest churchmen of his time , urged recruits for the second crusade in this language : " The Christian who stays the unbeliever in the Holy War is sure of his reward , the more sure if he himself be slain . The Christian glories in the death of the infidel , because Christ is glorified . " In our modern times of confused and weakened faiths , it is difficult to comprehend the spirit behind such bloodthirsty words . It is necessary to conceive the surging religious faith inspiring the sentiment to do it jus tice . Toleration is much easier when one has scant confidence in his own faith and little loyalty to it . As was suggested before , the modern attitude toward an anarchist as a traitor to his country is a faint parallel to the mediaeval attitude toward a heretic at home or abroad . The whole sale @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Middle Ages . The Waldensians were believers in the simple faith of the gospels . The Albigensians were complete heretics , rejecting Christianity for one of its early rivals , a descendant of the ancient Persian religion of Zoroaster . The latter were suppressed in the reign of Pope Innocent III with a ferocity that slaughtered tens of thousands . As a sequel the Inquisition was invented , a system of church courts designed to discover heretics and turn those who were unrepentant over to the state to be burned alive . Torture was used , as in other courts , to obtain confessions , and especially in Spain the Inquisition became an instrument of secret accusation , injustice , oppression , and extreme cruelty . If the Inquisition was the blackest achievement of the Middle Ages , the cathedrals were the fairest . A period that left nothing else could still deserve to stand with the greatest of creative eras . The ranking of different works of art can not pretend to exactness , but in that small list of supreme achievements to which the Parthenon belongs , common @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The mediaeval surge of religious feeling scarcely requires any other proof than the existence of these vast and beautiful buildings . Whole communities labored in their rearing . Every sort of workman lent a hand , from the farmers with their teams and the stone-masons to the goldsmiths , the glass-workers , and the organ-builders . Every art was lavished upon these houses of God . One can fairly feel the great revival of religion bursting forth in these superb monuments . Never was an architecture more youthful , more original , more completely sprung from the soil . In the Dark Ages , there developed in France what is called the Romanesque style . It was the old Roman architecture , with its round arches , small windows , and heavy walls , adapted to Christian use . Its effect was sombre and severe . The new style , misnamed Gothic , developed swiftly in the twelfth century in the region around Paris . The pointed arch is one of its invariable marks , and is often treated as if it were its essential feature . Rather is the arch @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of design by which the walls were pierced with great windows , and the eye carried aloft to new and soaring heights of nave and steeple . Chief of inventions was the flying buttress by which the side thrust of a roof was met not by sheer weight of wall or pillar but by these stone props . Higher and higher soared these religious skyscrapers , more and more delicate became the buttresses , richer and more ornate was carved the sculpture . The decoration of the cathedral , its windows and its sculpture , made of it a huge story-book , an encyclopedia of Christian learning and anecdote. * The thirteenth century saw the perfection of Gothic art . Thereafter the carving became overelaborate , and , as always when inspiration weakens , a marvellous technic replaced the old sincerity . The decline of the mediaval faith was mirrored in its cathedrals quite as clearly as was its rise . At its best the sculpture of the Middle Ages ( the " Beau Dieu " at Amiens , for instance ) possesses a serene beauty that suggests the greatest of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to scholastic arguments , a great mass of hymns , romances , fables , chron- icles , epics , and other writings , but little literature of the first rank . The troubadours in the south of France and the minnesingers of Germany made lovely lyrics . Miracleplays about the lives of the saints and the Virgin , and mysteries , based on the Bible stories , were the rude beginnings of modern drama . Were the era not a stimulating one , it would seem strange that in Italy there should have arisen one great and unique poet , who is by common consent ranked with Shakespeare among the few universal writers . Like the cathedrals , Dante was the peculiar product of the Middle Ages , and his works are their complete expression . It would be difficult to overstate the greatness of Dante 's nature ; he was a learned scholar , a student and practitioner of politics , a noble and imaginative poet . His life lies on either side of the year 1300 , and the action of the " Divine Comedy , " his greatest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and salvation through Christianity , is laid in that year . There were precursors in poetic form and in thought , but he stands a lone genius of his art and time . He wrote not in Latin , as did the clergy , but in the vernacular of his country , the newly formed Italian , a descendant of Latin simplified by barbarian tongues and enriched with Teutonic roots . 2 . FEUDALISM AND THE RISE OF THE NATIONS The Teutonic barbarians swept away the unified organization of the Roman Empire , and put a large number of small fighting tribes in its place . Charlemagne attempted to weld these petty groups , almost patriarchal in their character , into an empire . He succeeded by main strength ; but at his death the empire broke into its warring parts . There then developed the strange form of government known as feudalism . It grew naturally enough out of the terrible confusion of the Dark Ages and the failure of the empire to bring order and security . But such a failure of cen- tralization is unusual in history @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Feudalism can perhaps best be thought of as a case of arrested development , caused by a deadlock between opposing forces , a conflict between the principles of patriarchal society and those of a political state in which neither was victorious. * Had a strong Frankish Empire been permanently established , there might have been no feudal system , and western Europe might conceivably have outgrown her divergences of blood and language and be one nation to-day . Instead , the facts of disunion were crystallized ; the confusion of the Dark Ages was organized into a stable system . When the political state finally gained the upper hand , Europe was not one state but many states , of different customs and languages . Thus the importance of feudalism in the development of Europe is very great . Its whole structure has vanished , its customs , even its phraseology , seem remote to modern minds . Its influence has been and is enormous . It has been idealized , held up as the best form of government ; it has been damned as the worst . Feudalism unquestionably @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of mind . Those who admire feudalism rate these characteristics as virtues , and all-important virtues . Those who condemn feudalism consider these traits vices , or at best of small importance , and insufficient to counterbalance the undoubted evils of the system . Among these traits are personal loyalty , obedience to landed authority , attachment to locality , and a generally conservative outlook . Feudalism developed gradually in the Dark Ages . Within certain broad limits it followed the same course throughout western Europe . But it was always changing , was at widely different stages in different regions , and was never a uniform system . Certain grave divergences pro- duced profound and permanent effects upon the history of France , England , and Germany . It is impossible to describe it in detail . The most that can be done is to trace its origin , present its completed form , and suggest its main contrasts with the modern state . It would be impossible to exaggerate the turmoil of the Dark Ages . Down through the Middle Ages , fighting seemed almost the natural state of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in no hope of ending war but to secure a " closed season " of peace , so to speak . The truce forbade fighting during Lent , on holy days , and from Thursday to Sunday in every week . This left only three days for warfare , and the truce does not appear to have been very well observed . There was for a long while no national authority with an army to put down disorder . There was no police system . These conditions gave the landed proprietor his chance . He alone could organize a fighting body for offense and defense . He alone could build a walled castle within which the surrounding peasants could take refuge when the invader came . Partly he gained his great estate by grant from the king , partly he gained it by voluntary or forced surrender of the small landowner who gave up ownership of his acres in return for protection . In either case , he held it by force of arms . Such a great landowner , a baron , for example , was far more than a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , put down rebellion , collected taxes , coined money ; in fact , did all the things that a modern state does . At the height of the feudal system , before the rise of national government , these great lords were practically supreme in their estates . All they owed to the king were certain feudal duties , the chief of which was to respond at call with a certain number of fighting men . Whether they responded or not depended on the vigor and power of the monarch reigning . Theoretically there was a perfect hierarchy in the feudal system . The great nobles , the dukes , counts and viscounts , and the bishops and abbots of the Church held their land from the king ; they were his vassals and took an oath of loyalty to him . Most of their land was , in turn , held by lesser nobles , barons , knights , and squires , who were their vassals . At the bottom were freemen and serfs , who held their land from the nobles . Most of the peasants in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of land , as a rule , from generation to generation , yet in a much better condition than slaves , for they could not be sold or otherwise treated as the property of their lord . ( Slavery had disappeared , save in the case of domestic servants , by the Middle Ages . ) But this hierarchy was seldom achieved . It was confused by countless exceptions , immunities , and cross-holdings . By the time the experts had set down the complete theory in books , the whole system was being undermined by the use of the royal power . A sharp cleavage ran between nobles and non-nobles . The former were the fighting class ; even the squire , at the foot , had his horse and coat of mail . Artisans and peasants did the work of the world . The relation of lord and vassal existed only within the noble class . It was a relation of mutual honor and trust . When the vassal received his fief , which was to say his grant of land , he knelt before his lord , placed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ himself to be his lord 's man for the fief he held . Then the lord bade him rise , kissed him , and the vassal took the oath of fidelity , upon the gospels , or the relics of a saint . The obligations thus taken by the vassal were to fight , usually for a certain number of days and bringing a certain number of followers , to help the lord sit in judgment , and upon certain extraordinary occasions to pay donations ? when the lord had to be ransomed from captivity and when his eldest son was knighted or his eldest daughter married , for example . In return , the obligation of the lord was to protect his vassal . By the time the feudal system was in full force , the hereditary principle was firmly established among the nobility . That is to say , the title always descended to the eldest son , and the fief as well descended to him . Thus while technical ownership of the land remained in the lord , and the fact was sometimes to his advantage , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Not only was all the work done by the freemen and serfs , but they paid the bulk of the taxes as well . There was an annual levy on each serf , a head-tax ; there was a further right to collect an additional tax almost at the owner 's pleasure ; and the serf was bound to perform a certain number of days ' work for the repair of roads or tilling the lord 's own land . The freeman paid rent and a number of other dues ? to pay for grinding his grain at the lord 's mill , and so on . One important gain for the freemen and serfs was the right of inheritance . By the time of the Middle Ages the land held by a non-noble descended to his eldest son exactly as the fief of the noble descended to his eldest son . The actual condition of the peasants in the Middle Ages has been much disputed . They certainly had very few rights or protections . They were largely at the mercy of the nobility . But whether they were as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ doubtful . Such comparisons are most difficult to make . To sum up the chief characteristics of the system : it centred about a holding of land and was essentially the product of an agricultural region ; it involved a rigid and hereditary class system by which a very small number of nobles and their descendants did the fighting and a very large number of peasants did the work ; personal loyalty was at the heart of the system as in any patriarchal fight- ing community ; the small principalities strengthened local customs and local attachment . The democratic rule in the Church made an important exception to the class system . By becoming a cleric , the poorest peasant boy could become a great and powerful bishop , abbot , cardinal , or pope . Already at the height of the Middle Ages , in the twelfth century , feudalism was undermined and doomed . Several causes contributed . The growth of the towns was one . These developed rapidly and tended to become independent of feudal obligations . The feudal system had no real place for the industrial population @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ artisans in each particular trade began to form guilds , of goldsmiths , weavers , cobblers , butchers , and so on . At their best , these mediaeval guilds gave an admirable system of production . A youth began as an apprentice and spent a number of years learning the trade from a master , the most skilled of the workers . The ordinary workmen were called journeymen . The training was thorough , the standard of work high ; a workman knew every part of his trade and turned out a completed article . Unfortunately , the guilds tended toward selfish monopoly , the position of master became almost hereditary , and the old free spirit of the guild disappeared . The great rise of commerce due to the Crusades and the bringing of luxuries from the East also fostered the towns . There were merchants ' guilds , of great wealth and power . The towns of Italy , where feudalism had never gained a strong hold , were among the first to rise to power and freedom . Trade was their chief source of wealth , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the next . In the fourteenth century Venice had a merchant fleet of 3,000 vessels . A second famous group of trading towns formed the Hanseatic League in northern Germany . By 1300 there were seventy cities in the league , including such famous places as Hamburg , Cologne , and Bruges in Flanders . But the chief enemy of the feudal system was the king and the nation which he sought to hold together and strengthen . It will be simplest to trace the rise of each nation separately . The turning-point in England was the familiar date of io66 when William the Conqueror , then duke of Normandy , crossed the Channel , won the battle of Hastings , and had himself crowned king . This brought a new and vigorous breed of men to the head of English affairs . They were Norsemen fused with Frankish blood , speaking the tongue of the Franks and steeped in Frankish civilization . They were in turn absorbed by the larger native population , but not without markedly influencing the language , character , and history of the English people . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strain of blood very different from the rest of the Teutonic tribes that had been overrunning England since the fifth century . They left the population of the islands as they found it , a thorough mixture of the three main strains of man in western Europe : Mediterranean , Alpine or Celtic , and Nordic , the last preponderating . The English language happens correctly to reflect this fusion of North and South and the leadership of the North . It was based on the Teutonic dialect spoken by the Angles and Saxons who conquered England ? often called Anglo-Saxon , though many modern philologists prefer the term Old English . ( The older languages of the Celts were driven to the far corners of the islands , where they survived to modern times as Gaelic in Scotland and Ireland , Welsh in Wales , Cornish in Cornwall . Breton , the language of Brittany , in northwestern France , is another Celtic tongue that has survived to this day . ) This early tongue was completely transformed in the Middle Ages . Many of the words were lost . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ speech . The Norman invasion greatly enriched the tongue , adding a great number of French words . The structure of the language and its core , so to speak , remained northern . There were , of course , many other sources of words , Celtic survivals , Latin words from the Roman occupation , Danish , and in modern times an endless number of words from Latin , Greek , and many other tongues . The English language is almost as mixed as is the English race . William the Conqueror was a masterful ruler , and he did England the great service of subjecting the whole feudal system to a strong monarchy . As a result , the country escaped the extremes of feudal localism , and the English nation was the first in western Europe to take form . As has been set forth , feudalism in theory placed the king at the centre of the system ; the nobles held their land from him and were his vassals , owing him loyalty and military support . In other countries this theory was not lived up to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ powerful than the king . The lesser nobility , not holding land directly from the king , looked to their lord for orders and felt little sense of loyalty to the royal cause . In England , William required every landowner to take an oath of loyalty directly to him . He prevented the development of great holdings . Much of this work was undone during the reigns of weak successors , and it was not till the great-grandson of William , Henry . II , came to the throne in the twelfth century that further advances were made . This strong king was a born ruler , a tireless organizer . He destroyed a number of castles built by rebellious nobles . He sent his judges to hold court throughout the country , thus substituting king 's courts and king 's justice for the local justice of the nobles provided by the feudal system . The grand jury made its appearance , followed , later in the century , by the petit jury . The common law , based on ancient customs , as contrasted with the French law , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He conquered Ireland , up to this time ruled by a number of petty kings . By inheritance and marriage he gained control of all western France . Normandy and Brittany came from his great-grandfather . His mother had married Geoffrey Plantagenet , count of Anjou , and through him he held Anjou and Maine . By marrying Eleanor of Aquitaine he gained southwestern France . Thus at this time the English king held more than half of France , and the larger part of his lands lay south of the Channel . Here was the cause of endless fighting , including the Hundred Years ' War from 1337 to 1453 ; the English were not driven entirely out of France until 1558 . Henry II had ambitions to control the clergy , and the murder of Thomas a Becket , archbishop of Canterbury , was an accidental result of this policy . Becket opposed and irritated Henry , and was killed in the chancel of his own cathedral by overzealous followers of the king . By the threat of excommunication the Pope compelled Henry to make public penance . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Rome was victorious . As happens again and again in the history of monarchies , the great Henry II was succeeded by far from great sons . John has many claims to rank as the wickedest of English rulers . His reign is famous above all else for Magna Carta , a charter of English liberties forced from John in 1215 by the barons , in revolt against his tyranny . They marched against him in force , and upon a meadow at Runnymede , by the Thames , near London , he signed with them this statement of an English freeman 's rights . This most famous of all governmental documents made the law of England supreme over the will of the monarch . It was a reaction from the growth of kingly power begun by William the Conqueror ; but it did not break up the kingdom into principalities as did feudalism in France ; rather , by defining the rights of king , nobles , towns , merchants , and plain freemen , it laid the foundation for the gradual development of a limited or constitutional monarchy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a clear forerunner of the principle of parliamentary government . It provides that no extraordinary tax shall be levied without the consent of the common council , composed of the bishops , abbots , and the greater nobility . One of the great provisions , the source of an important clause in the American Constitution , is the following : " No freeman shall be taken or imprisoned , or be disseized of his freehold , or outlawed or banished or in any way damaged . . . but by lawful judgment of his peers , or by the law of the land . " ( For a similar check on the arbitrary power of a king to imprison whom he willed , France had to wait till the French Revolution . ) Thereafter the development of constitutional rule was steady . Before 1300 the council became known as Parliament and a new class of members was added , known later as the commons , and consisting of knights and citizens of the towns . Some time after 1300 Parliament was divided into the House of Lords and the House of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ government the world round has been modelled began its historic course . The same period saw the conquest of Wales and the beginning of the long struggle between England and Scotland that was to last three centuries , till a Scotch king ascended the throne of England in 1603 . There was a difference of blood and language behind this warfare . The Teutonic elements were not nearly so strong in Scotland and the Celtic were far stronger . The Scotch kings turned to the French kings as their natural allies in the warfare , and the effort of the English to maintain themselves in their French possessions was complicated by the presence of this hard fighting enemy to the north . The growth of the French nation was far slower . It was more difficult in France to subdue the nobles . Instead , the royal power gained bit by bit , largely through increases in the royal domain , that is to say , land not held by any great vassal . One dynasty , the Capetians , ruled through most of this period . Philip Augustus , Louis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and later the curious , crafty Louis XI-of the house of Valois were the most conspicuous rulers . By conquest , marriage , and confiscation these kings gradually made themselves lords of the most of France , which they ruled just as any other feudal lord ruled the lands which he held as vassal of the king . Here was the weakness of the French development ; the king was an absolute master within the royal domain , and French government matured in these regions . There was a French Parliament , the Estates General , in which the townspeople were represented , but it did not become effective . There was no unity of sentiment among the nobles to force a charter from the kings . Doubtless the Hundred Years ' War , fought on French territory , had much to do with preventing the growth of constitutional rule in France and establishing the absolutism that caused the French Revolution . For one thing , it gave the kings of France occasion to develop a standing army independent of feudal service . This terrible period of intermittent warfare was a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ To add to its horrors , the Black Death came in 1348 ? 1349 to kill a third or more of the population in Europe . The war was a war of conquest begun by Edward III of England as a claimant to the French throne . The two famous battles of Crecy ( 1346 ) and Agincourt ( 1415 ) were both victories for the English longbows against the French knights in their heavy armor . At one time most of France was conquered . It was not until Joan of Arc saw her visions at Domremy and inspired the soldiers of France that the tide of battle turned . She was burned to death as a witch by the English at Rouen in 1431 . By 1453 the English were driven out of all France save only the port of Calais . France was at last a nation . Too little is known of the fundamental springs of human action , whether of individuals or of groups , to determine why France and England thus finally became separate nations . Both peoples were of greatly mixed blood , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ element overbalanced the other two in England . In France , while there can be no pretense to accuracy , it is perhaps fair to estimate that the three strains , northern , Celtic , and Mediterranean , were more or less equal . In this respect it is unique . France is often classed as a Latin nation , with Italy and Spain . The facts as to Spain have already been suggested . The classification is hardly more accurate as to France . The northern element was strong throughout France in the days of the Teutonic invasion . The very name of the country is northern . Only in speech is France to be classed with the southern nations . Instead of the Frankish tongue prevailing in France , Latin survived the invasions and , having lost many of its inflections on the tongues of the people , developed into French . It is grouped with Italian and Spanish , similar popularized descendants of Latin , under the name Romance Languages , Romance here meaning simply Roman . Few Celtic words survived in French and not many more Teutonic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the langue d'o 'll , and the other in the south , the langue d'oc , the names coming from the words for " yes " in the two speeches . The troubadours sang in the langue d'oc . But the northern tongue prevailed and is the basis of modern French . It is interesting to note , however , that as a Celtic tongue survives among the peasants of Brittany , so the langue d'oc is still heard in many parts of southern France . The East Frankish kingdcm , the forerunner of modern Germany , made little progress toward unity in the Middle Ages . There the worst weaknesses of feudalism continued till centuries later . This was not for lack of strong kings , of whom she had many . Racial and geographical divergencies were among the causes of this arrested progress . As was observed in the cases of England and France , the sources of such developments are too complex and obscure to be analyzed or weighed with accuracy . Plain chance may well have played its part . Probably the fact that the king @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Roman emperor had a similar effect . This seems like a paradox . But the proud title kept these emperors away from their real kingdom much of the time , mixing in Italian or papal politics . By the year i000 the king of the East Franks was securely established as emperor of the Romans , and what is now Germany became a part of the Western Roman Empire . In the twelfth century Frederick Barbarossa added the word Holy to the name and it remained the Holy Roman Empire for 500 years . This strong emperor believed to the full that he was the heir of the Caesars and reigned by God 's will . Yet with all his ability and energy he did not succeed in subduing the Italian cities in northern Italy . His grandson , Frederick II , has already been mentioned , by reason of his successful crusade while excommunicated ; this freeminded and able ruler spent much of his time organizing and ruling the Sicilian kingdom , consisting of Sicily and southern Italy to the south of Rome and the Papal States . Soon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the end of the thirteenth century the Holy Roman Empire had lost control of its Italian possessions . Switzerland and the Netherlands were destined to break loose within the next 300 years . Throughout the empire the central power remained weak ; the real rulers of the eastern Franks were the nobles . Not until the nineteenth century were these countless principalities to be welded into a modern nation . The languages which developed in the area of modern Germany were all Teutonic , closely allied to the speech of England before the Norman Conquest . Modern German is the descendant of dialects prevailing near the centre of the whole region . In comparison with English , it has been far less influenced by other tongues and is much more nearly a pure Teutonic language . Racially the peoples of Germany were a mingling of Teutonic and Alpine strains . The Mediterranean type seems to be wholly absent , this fact constituting the most important contrast with both England and France . To the east there was a large admixture of Slavic blood , an eastern branch of the Alpine race @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strong , but the dark broad-heads of the Alpine stock held their own , especially in the southern areas , in modern Bavaria , for example . For quite other reasons , Italy was equally slow to develop national unity . The Papal Estates , ruled by the Pope as a feudal lord , cut across the middle of the peninsula from Rome to Ravenna . The region to the south , of which Naples was the most important town , with a population much mixed by influx from Greece and Carthage , was slow to develop , and , like the island of Sicily , was the easy prey of conquerors . The story of Sicily is a unique procession of colonizations and conquests . In turn , Greeks , Phcenicians , Carthaginians , Romans , Vandals , Ostrogoths , Saracens , Normans , Germans , Frenchmen , Spaniards , Austrians , and then again Spaniards , down to the days of Garibaldi , held it . Perhaps the most extraordinary adventure of the Middle Ages was the conquest of Sicily by the same breed of roving Normans who conquered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have achieved this bizarre invasion of the South by the North . Two Norman brothers , Robert and Roger Guiscard , accomplished the feat about the time of William the Conqueror . A son added southern Italy to his realm , and took the title of king of Sicily . He launched fleets against all the Mediterranean and reigned as one of the richest and most powerful monarchs of Europe . He had the same toleration for foreign creeds and languages and races that the Normans showed in France and England . At Palermo he built a church with Norman doors , Saracenic arches , and Byzantine dome . But here in the South the Norman genius , brilliant as it was , could not permanently alter the tide of events . The strange hybrid of civilization became part of the Holy Roman Empire under Frederick II ; was conquered by Charles of Anjou , a powerful French noble ; and the French were in turn thrown out of the island in I282 by an uprising and massacre called the Sicilian Vespers , because it broke out as the church-bells were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there were springing up the most prosperous and progressive towns of all Europe . This was a region that had been overrun in the sixth century by a late tide of Teutonic barbarians , the Lombards , who rivalled the Franks in force and cruelty . The great plain to the north of the Po is still called Lombardy after these Teutonic conquerors . Here , as throughout Italy , the invaders did not succeed in imposing their language or their customs upon the region . But they made northern Italy a greatly mixed race of northern , Alpine , and Mediterranean strains . The language remained a popularized descendant of Latin , like French and Spanish . Among the towns that grew up in Lombardy and the surrounding regions were Milan , Venice , and Florence , which were destined soon to become the intellectual and artistic leaders of all Europe . Trade with the East born of the Crusades was the foundation of Venetian prosperity . The rivalry of these towns was intense , and they combined with difficulty only to repel a foreign conqueror , as when the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cases they had gained their independence , like the other free towns of Europe , gradually , by revolt against their feudal lords . They began as aristocratic republics , ruled by elected magistrates and boards ; they went through countless terrors of party feuds , mob uprisings , and finally despotism . It was in this region of jealous , prospering , independent communities , wholly lacking in national spirit , racked by frequent revolution and bloodshed , that the next great flowering of the human spirit took its beginning . The problem of nationalism in Spain was complicated by the alien rule first of the Arabs , later of the Moors , dark whites from northern Africa , largely of Arabian origin , who followed in the wake of the first invaders . This Eastern conquest made Cordova in the tenth century the most splendid city of Europe except Constantinople , and placed the civilization of Spain far above that of the rest of Europe . But the contest between Christian and Moslem would not down . The Middle Ages saw the climax of the struggle and the final @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was delayed by the development of separate kingdoms which were not united till much later , in the fifteenth century , in the famous reign of Isabella of Castile and Ferdinand of Aragon . The small kingdom of Portugal , that like other small states of Europe was to have its hour of brilliancy , was simply one of these kingdoms that maintained its independence . The Spanish language , a modern Latin , was enriched by a large number of oriental words brought in by the Arabian conquest . Racially the Spanish stand apart from the rest of Europe by reason of the admixture of Eastern and north African blood . Since their original Mediterranean stock was overrun by Celts and Teutons , the Spanish are perhaps the most mixed of peoples . Superficially , the Middle Ages presented a simple and unified appearance ; no period more so . Yet at the height of the era the nations of modern times were already forming , to raze the very foundations of mediaevalism . The fact is a useful warning of the danger of taking any such period of history @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . They have no real existence ; there are always counter-forces present to destroy any thorough unity of design , and history remains a stream of countless currents and eddies that defy accurate measurement or description . From a modern perspective , the Western world must view the Middle Ages as significant not one whit more for their typical institutions like feudalism and the Church , profoundly as these have influenced modern peoples , than for the origin of nations in the modern sense . Europe is but a promontory of Asia , not one-quarter its size and but little larger than the United States . Yet it is divided into more than a score of nations , and its inhabitants speak some sixty different languages . Such extreme diversity and division are one of the most striking characteristics of modern Europe , and , considering the comparative homogeneity of its racial strains , an extraordinary phenomenon . The Middle Ages saw the decision taken in this direction , the crystallization of this diversity , and the beginning , alongside the old loyalties of feudalism , of the new loyalty of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Europe was slowly rising from the Dark Ages , through the Middle Ages , into the Renaissance and beyond , the people of China achieved their peak and passed it . By coincidence the three great dynasties of China corresponded roughly in time with three periods of European history . The Tang dynasty ( 618 ? 907 A. D. ) and the Dark Ages were roughly contemporaneous , the Sung dynasty ( 96o ? 12i9 ) matched the Middle Ages , the Mings ( 1358 ? 1644 ) the Renaissance . But in the case of China , the first was unquestionably the greatest . While disorder was at its height in Europe the Chinese reached their most brilliant civilization . Under the Tang rulers , the empire was as successful in its wars as in its arts . Its boundaries were extended from the Caspian Sea to the Pacific . Some of the most beautiful of Chinese paintings , carvings , and bronzes were produced and Chinese poetry reached its highest point . The Sung dy- nasty showed less vitality , though the list of its poets is long and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mongol invasion of Genghis Khan , whose conquests are soon to be related . The period of the Mings showed a cultured eclecticism and a high level of craftsmanship rather than creative imagination . Why Chinese civilization should not have gone forward from the period of the Tang dynasty has been lengthily debated . In the present rudimentary state of investigation and study of Chinese history , no clear answer is possible . Stress is often laid on the backwardness of Chinese writing . The literary language has come down from before the time of Confucius practically unchanged . This continuity of 3,000 years contrasts sharply with the rise and fall of languages and literatures in western Europe . As one result of this conservatism , Chinese writing remains the most elementary of civilized languages . It lacks even an alphabet . By contrast , language in the Western world has developed to an endless variety of form and expression and high state of organization . The speculation is obvious that with an alphabet China might have progressed farther . But more fundamental causes , looking to the basic facts of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ considered . The hour is still afar when analysis and generalization with respect to China may be attempted . What is clear is that more than a thousand years ago Chinese statesmanship , poetry , and art reached their climax . Since then achievement has been considerable but progress has been limited . The old customs and the old morality have kept the Chinese people generally peaceful and contented . Their strength of character , their continuity , their sense of beauty , can not be questioned . Here is one of the great peoples of the earth , and the Western mind should certainly be slow to doubt its future , considering its enduring successes in the past . // 2 . THE MONGOLIAN CONQUESTS China had been periodically invaded from the north and west , and the thirteenth century brought the greatest of the conquerors to Peking . These were the Mongols , dwellers in and around the Gobi Desert . They were another branch of the yellow race , more closely akin to the Turks than to the Chinese , whom they conquered . This region was a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Desert to the southwest , and the inhabitants were doubtless driven outward by climatic changes as were the Arabian peoples . They owed their extraordinary career of victory to the genius of several leaders ? Genghis Khan ( I 162-1227 ) and his grandsons , of whom Kublai Khan was one . The former , whose name is really a title that he assumed meaning " Great Ruler , " was one of the mightiest of all the conquerors . He was a great cavalry general , and a tolerant patron of learning and religion , for all his barbarous treachery and bloody ways . At his death he was the master of the greatest empire ever subjected by one man ; his conquests ran from the China Sea on the east to the Indus River on the south and the Dnieper on the west , an area many times the United States in extent . His armies had plundered and slaughtered far into Russia . There is no more picturesque figure in history than this dweller in a tent who by sheer military genius made a small nomad people supreme @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for all religions that the Chinese habitually showed . But complete toleration based on a lack of strong faith in any religion is not as significant as less toleration gained amid fervent beliefs . It is easy to exaggerate the importance of this childlike curiosity that welcomed uncritically every new faith . Genghis Khan had no ability to organize his conquests . He sought only effective police order , swift military communi- cations , and tribute . When his military genius faded in his descendants , the empire broke into its component parts . The last of the great nomad conquests left no enduring mark , of language or institution or faith . Only in so far as it deposited yellow peoples in Europe did it permanently alter the map of the world . When the Great Khan died his empire was divided among his descendants . One grandson , Kublai Khan ( 1216-1294 ) , united all China in one empire , and , adopting the higher civilization of the Chinese , ruled wisely and well . It was his court that Marco Polo ( c. 1254-1324 ) , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ toward the end of the thirteenth century . " The Travels of Marco Polo " are excellent reading to-day , and in their time they did much to stir the mind of Europe to an appreciation of the great peoples in the Far East . It was Polo who gave the name of Cathay to China ( probably from Khitan , the name of some early conquerors of China ) . The name prevailed for centuries , and still lives in poetical usage . It was this same Cathay , of incredible riches , as described by Marco Polo , that Columbus hoped to reach by sailing westward across the Atlantic . Another grandson , Batu Khan ( died c. 1255 ) , took over the western conquests and overran eastern Europe much as had Attila , the Hun , some eight centuries before . Just who the Huns were racially it is difficult to determine , but they were undoubtedly a yellow race akin to Mongols and Turks , and the advance of one much resembles the other . There is no more merciless and destructive march in history than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a gorgeously embroidered silk tent , and therefrom his army was named the Golden Horde . Modern historians consider the word " horde " a misnomer , seeing in these yellow forces organized armies of great tactical effectiveness . Moscow and Kiev in Russia , Cracow in Poland , Breslau in Silesia , were among the cities burned and put to the sword . Incredible cruelties were practised . In Hungary these new orientals slaughtered their predecessors , the Magyars or Hungarians , now Europeanized , with perfect impartiality . When the empire collapsed , it left a large population of Tatar* blood in eastern Russia . This thrust of the East was halted , though not defeated , in Silesia , never reaching France , as did Attila . Another typical Asiatic conqueror followed in the latter half of the fourteenth century , Timur of Samarkand ( 1336-1405 ) , in the heart of Asia . Ile is commonly known as Tamerlane , from an Anglicization of words meaning Timur the Lame . At the height of his power his sway ran from Asia Minor in the west to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was one of the most thorough massacres of history , all the males to the number of Ioo , 000 being put to the sword , according to one report . His conquests perished with him . 3 . THE TURKS There remains to be mentioned one of the most important consequences of the great Mongolian conquests . That was the movement of the Ottoman Turks , small in itself yet of permanent importance to Asia Minor and Europe . There is no clearer illustration of the fact that in the struggle between peoples the character of the strain ? whatever this mysterious phrase points to ? is everything and mere numbers nothing . The Ottoman Turks were a small band of nomadic yellow peoples driven out of central Asia by the troops of Genghis Khan . They were called Ottoman after their first great leader , Othman ; after trekking hundreds of miles they settled finally on the highlands of Asia Minor among the Seljuk Turks , of related stock , who had preceded them . They speedily showed their strength by becoming dominant in Asia Minor . Since they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ turmoil of Europe , it is worth recalling the checkered career of this unique area , best known as Asia Minor , often called by geographers Anatolia . It projects westward into the Mediterranean like a bridge between Asia and Europe but severed at the western end by the Hellespont and the Bosporus . Its core of bleak mountains and plateaus is bordered west and north by a fertile coast . To the south the Taurus Mountains wall it in and block the road to Syria and Mesopotamia . But one pass exists , the historic Cilician Gates , through which Cyrus and Alexander , and ' earlier tribes and conquerors without number , entered the region . This great peninsula , the westernmost thrust of Asia , marks a transition from Europe to Asia . In it grow the trees of the North and the olive and fig of the South ; and Eastern blood is so mingled with Western blood that ethnological analysis is a hopeless task . Because it is a main bridge between Europe and Asia no spot on the earth 's surface has seen so many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hittites , of Old Testament fame , were the first known inhabitants . Their identification is one of the most interesting discoveries of modern archaeology . A large number of monuments and inscriptions have now been dug up , indicating that a powerful people ruled here in the days of Moses and Homer . Unfortunately , their language has not yet been translated . The carvings show men with broad heads , sloping foreheads , and hooked noses , not unlike the hill type of Armenian of to-day . It is probable that they were an Eastern people , and , if so , this region entered historic times as a part of Asia . But northern Indo-Europeans invaded it in the seventh century B. C. , and it was completely Hellenized under Alexander the Great . The western coast , with its many islands , had long been regarded as a part of Greece . That a wandering tribe of Gauls settled there in the third century B. C. has been noted . Rome securely attached Asia Minor to the West , but it was won back first by Persian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the eighth century . It has remained Eastern territory ever since largely through the force and vigor of the next conquerors , the Turks . The Seljuk Turks appeared in the eleventh century , the Ottoman Turks in the fourteenth century . ' The former organized an empire that included Persia , Syria , and Asia Minor , and in Persia achieved a brilliant literature . The great Persian poet and astronomer , Omar Khayyam ( died 1123 ) , wrote at this time . Oddly , the Seljuk Empire in Asia Minor was called by Moslems Rum or Rome , a tribute to the time when Rome was supreme there . Such was the medley of names and racial strains in Asia Minor when the small tribe of wandering Ottoman Turks arrived upon the scene . Their rise was gradual but sure . By the middle of the fourteenth century most of Asia Minor was subdued , and the new rulers had gained their first foothold in Europe by the capture of Gallipoli on the Dardanelles . Thence their armies pressed forward into the Balkans . ( The conquest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) The Byzantine Empire sank lower and lower , and finally , in 1453 , Constantinople fell to the Turks and the historic line of the Eastern Roman Empire was ended , with what consequences to the mind of Europe the history of the Renaissance bears witness . The height of Ottoman power was reached in the middle of the sixteenth century ; Bulgaria , Serbia , and Hungary were conquered ; Turkish armies besieged Vienna . On the Mediterranean Turkish ships were supreme . Thereafter the tide of bat . tle rolled to and fro ; once more , late in the seventeenth century , Turkish guns were trained on Vienna ; and the nineteenth century arrived with this Asiatic power still master of most of the Balkans and a source of unending warfare , As a result of this long Asiatic conquest of southeastern Europe , the peoples beyond the Danube became a racial medley , marking a clear transition between Europe and Asia , and closely resembling the peoples of Asia Minor . The Dardanelles , the Sea of Marmora , and the Bosporus form the geographical boundary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sharp cleavage of races . From the Danube to the Euphrates , yellow and white races are inextricably mingled . To intensify the confusion was added the clash of religions . The Turks brought no religion with them into Asia Minor . They adopted there the prevailing religion of the country , Mohammedanism . It is a striking fact , paralleling the religious barrenness of the northern peoples of Europe , that neither the Chinese nor the Mongols nor any northern people of Asia developed a powerful religion of their own . ( Confucianism and Taoism are philosophies rather than religions . ) They adopted the religions of southern Asia ? Buddhism and Mohammedanism ? precisely as northern Europe adopted yet another religion born in southern Asia , Christianity . Yet , as has been seen , Christianity failed to conquer Asia , and as it travelled westward and northward it took on European forms and character. * It has been argued that Christianity might have swept all Asia had the popes of the late Middle Ages been alert and forceful . There was certainly an      @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @      