@@774201

txt  | grounds than that of the fundamental postulates on which the system of government rests . The citizen in a democracy can freely and vehemently object to the policies pursued by his government , and the right to do so is , as we have seen , a primary condition of any democratic order . In the second place a democratic system does not , in principle , deny the right of its citizens to advocate the abandonment of democracy altogether . In England candidates who believe in communism can be ? and have been ? elected to the House of Commons . In the United States a communist party can put forward a candidate for the presidency . Corresponding attitudes are unthinkable under a dictatorship . The democratic principle , though of course democratic governments do not always live up to it , requires that all opinions with respect to the desirability of any form of government , whether that form be compatible or incompatible with democracy , be allowed free and full expression . Here the only condition consistent with democracy is that the exponents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ translation into policy , the same democratic processes that give them the right of expression . Let us consider this condition . Mr. Harold Laski , ostensibly vindicating the liberty of opinion , has maintained that the citizen should be free to advocate revolutionary methods against the government . " He may demand its overthrow by armed force . " But the argument is specious . When an individual in a democratic society approves the resort to force for the furtherance of any cause , or when in pleading this cause he identifies himself with any group or party that accepts this method , he rules himself out from the sufferance of democracy . If men are not content to win their ends by making enough converts to turn their cause into the cause of the majority , so that it can legitimately triumph at the polls , they are rejecting the only ground on which , in a democracy , they are entitled to ask for the liberty of their opinions . They want to resort to violence ? if necessary ? against the opinions of  | the majority , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them to marshal their forces to this end . It is a primary duty of every government to maintain order and to prevent not only violence but incitements to violence . In a democracy a group or party may espouse an anti-democratic policy , so long as it dissociates its activity in this respect from any design to use the methods of violence and from any preparations suggestive of that design . And if by its persuasive appeal it should succeed in winning a majority then democracy can do no more than mourn its failure to retain the allegiance of the people . It has lost the foundations of its existence . Democracy is founded in the free responsiveness of the state to the community . The community is sanctioned against any attempt of government to overpower it . The primary sanction is the constitutional provision for the free organization of conflicting opinions and doctrines . This is democratic liberty against government . It is further provided that the prevalence of opinion , as measured by a system of elections , shall determine the choice of government and the general direction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and unmake government . These are the peculiar liberties of democracy , by which it differs from all other forms of government . Whatever other liberties co-exist with these , unless they are the direct corollaries and consequences of these fundamental ones , depend on the disposition of the democracy . Every system involves restraints as well as liberties , and we merely confuse the issue if we seek to identify democracy as such with certain particular liberties of another order , such as the " liberty of enterprise . " How far certain other liberties are upheld by democracies depends on their changing conditions and changing needs . At all times men must choose between liberties . There is no sacred totality called " the liberty of the individual , " for men are bound together in such a network of relations that in many respects the greater liberty of one is the lesser liberty of another . In the last resort it is a ques-  | tion of which liberties men prize the most ? in a democracy a question of the liberties most prized by the majority of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mode of indoctrination . Nevertheless the particular liberties assured by democracy constitute the central area of human liberty . If a man is not denied the right to communicate his thoughts and give free range to his opinions , if he can associate freely with those who share his values and his aims , if at the same time he is a citizen whose opinion counts , or at least is counted , equally with that of everyone else , then his personality is protected against the worst repressions . What he needs beyond is rather more opportunities than more liberties ? he needs the equipment , economic and educational , by means of which he can more fully utilize the form of freedom he already possesses . If democratic liberty prevails , then men can worship as they please , can cultivate their own tastes , their own perceptions , their own aspirations . Men have other important needs besides liberty against oppression , but this liberty is primary liberty . It means in effect the liberty of the whole realm of culture , of all the creative arts and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the establishment of this central area of liberty that democracy vindicates the community against the state . Government , the great regulative agency of the community , is barred from doing certain things , from enacting certain kinds of law . Definite limits are set to the use of coercive power ? it must refrain from over-riding the rights that go with the expression of opinion . This means much more than that no law can be passed , or no measures taken , against the will of the majority . The democratic order protects minorities as well as majorities . Minorities need more protection than majorities , and democracy provides a way . Where democracy is really set up , the opinion of a minority of one has the same right to assert itself as the contrary opinion of all the rest .  | The faith of a small minority is as inviolable as the faith of the multitude . Here there is a limit to the competence of the state , not merely to the power of the government . The First Amendment of the Constitution of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ respecting an establishment of religion , or prohibiting the free exercise thereof ; or abridging the freedom of speech or of the press ; or the right of the people peaceably to assemble and to petition the Government for a redress of grievances . Who or what then forbids Congress from taking such actions ? The Congress is supposed to represent the will of the majority . In a democracy there is no greater political power than that at the service of the majority . If the majority are balked it means that a minority can balk them . But this minority is weaker than the majority , exercises no control over the majority . What then prevents the majority from making a law respecting an establishment of religion ? The written constitutions of all democratic states contain similar prohibitions . In the constitution of the Weimar Republic these prohibitions took the form " the state shall not " do thus and thus . This is in effect the meaning always . For if the government as the policy-making organ of the state can not do certain things the state itself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ certain dispositions of the community are hedged off against intervention by the state . The community has gone on record that it will not suffer the state to regulate these dispositions . The community that vests government with powers reserves certain rights against these powers , in this respect limits the power of the state . In this sense a democratic state is always a limited state . Where the constitution is " unwritten , " as in England , the form is different . There is no mechanical provision against  | such action by a majority as would infringe the liberty of opinion , but the ultimate guardianship of the community depends under any democratic system on the tradition-hallowed consensus that certain principles , whether embodied in the ordinary laws or in the clauses of a constitution , are binding on the government , beyond its power to revoke . In England , in 161 o , the famous Chief Justice Coke declared , in his judgment on the Bonham case , that " when an act of parliament is against common right and reason ? the common law will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " The " common law " to which he appealed is in effect that same consensus that in most democratic countries is now written down as the fundamental law . The spirit of democracy lives in this fundamental law , the law that elevates the community above the state . We do not define democracy by its spirit , since democracy is a form of government , and unless we differentiate it by the characteristics of that form we easily lapse into confusion and needless controversy . But men have struggled toward democracy not for the sake of the form but for the way of life that it sustains . Any monopoly of power is a threat to this way of life , for any ruling group that is not subject to control is tyrannous . Any group endowed with irresponsible power , no matter whether it be of the rich or of the poor , of the right or of the left , is suppressive of democratic liberties . Any such group drives a wedge through the community , denies the equal participation of all groups in the affairs of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ does genuine unity , participant unity , exist for any people or nation . The form of democracy puts the common interest , not merely some majority interest , above the divisive interests of all groups . In this respect Jefferson sensed the nature of democracy much more clearly than did Hamilton or Madison . Democracy subordinates the role of force in the struggle  | of groups and of interests , and particularly in the struggle for place and power . All other forms of government suffer from an inner inconsistency . The oligarchical state proclaims the reign of law within its borders . It denies to its subjects the resort to force in the settlement of their disputes . But its ruling class maintains its own position by forceful suppression of all challenges to its dominance . The last bulwark of the regime is force , however veiled by myth . If the subjects dislike the regime they can not appeal to any fundamental law for the settlement of their differences with it . In such a situation the government rests its final appeal not on law but on force @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a democracy the government that rules by law is itself ruled by law . Where opinion is free to determine government , policy is not a function of force , nor of the acquiescence that submits to force , but of active consent . The level of struggle is thereby raised , and other goals than those that depend on force are given a higher valuation . To make opinion the basis of govcrnment is to appeal to reason ? whether you win or lose . It is to assume a common good ? whether or not your conception of it prevails . The rule of opinion differs from all other kinds of rule in that it requires the continuous coexistence of opposing opinion . Hence it avoids the most deadly sort of dogmatism , the dogmatism that crushes by violence other faiths in the certainty of its own rightfulness . In a democracy men still cherish their dogmas , but not to the extent of destroying other men for their contrary dogmatism . And as Mill pointed out in his essay On Liberty when a dogma resorts to force @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ side , a superstition , demanding belief on other grounds than its truth . In a democracy men must accommodate their faiths to the challenge of the faiths of other men . This fact tends to reduce the power of dogma itself . If democracy upholds any final dogma it is the  | only one that can be safely linked with power , the dogma that man is greater than his dogmas and that his personality entitles him to his own . We conclude that it is misleading and indeed dangerous to identify democracy with any specific creed , beyond that which is the congenial and necessary spirit for the maintenance of democratic institutions . Every kind of ethical diversity may exist within a democracy , and each creed must find its social strength otherwise than by attaching itself to the state . In this way the spontaneous diversified life of the community is protected against the co-ordinating and uniformizing controls of the state . Any particular democracy may be associated with a particular ethos , but that is because the community is permeated by this ethos , not because the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ every other , democracy is the complete antithesis of totalitarian dictatorship . This ethos is free to change without disturbing the continuity of the state . In the United States puritan individualism gives place to frontier individualism , and that in turn changes into the individualism of business-man enterprise , and that again becomes modified or transformed . Democracy can endure and grow through all such changes . In fact it is of the essence of democracy that it is not tied to any transcendent creed , to any particular doctrine of man 's role or of his destiny . It is necessary to lay stress on this point , since some important philosophers still strive to give far too positive a content to the democratic doctrine , thereby unwittingly creating perils for that doctrine . There is a confusion of another kind that contains a greater peril . Some recent writers draw a distinction between " political democracy " and " economic democracy . " They regard " economic democracy " as either the complement or the fulfillment of " political democracy . " Sometimes they treat " political democracy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Not infrequently they refer to the Soviet System as embody-  | ing this superior form of democracy . Mr. Harold Laski , who follows this line , writes : " If the hypothesis of self-government is valid in the political sphere it must be valid in the economic sphere also . " Now when Mr. Laski speaks of " economic democracy " he is not speaking of democracy in any sense . He does not mean that the workers should elect by ballot the managers and the executive boards of industrial corporations or banks and decide what policies they should pursue in the conduct of their business . He certainly can offer no evidence that these democratic procedures are applied in Soviet Russia . Moreover , the economic program he is concerned about is one he wants the state to implement . His program is a political one . He wants democratic countries to adopt a collectivist system . But he should not identify a collectivist system with democracy , whether " economic " or " political . " A democracy may approve a collectivist program or may reject it . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is taking action " in the economic sphere . " " The economic sphere " can never be separated from " the political sphere . " What policy a democracy follows in this sphere depends on the conditions , and immediately on public opinion .. Mr. Laski , like many others , is apt to identify democracy with the things he would like democracy to do . In some of his writings he suggests that if a democracy should adopt a " revolutionary " socialist program it might meet such resistance from the propertied classes that democracy itself would come to an end and dictatorship take its place . It is indeed possible , but where the democratic spirit prevails , as in England , the United tares , the self-governing British Dominions , and the Scandiavian countries , it seeks to avoid such drastic alternatives ; prefers to move to its goals by steps , not by one convulsive cr . The point , however , is that should such a convulsion 1 ( ( e place Mr. Laski 's socialist program would be achieved t the price of democracy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ democracy " had taken the place of " politi-  | cal democracy . " There might be greater economic equality , but we have no ground , either in logic or in history , for assuming that collectivist equality , arrived at on such terms , would become the boon companion of democracy . 3 ORGANIZATION OF OPINION It is not our purpose in this book to discuss the mechanics of government , except where the discussion is of primary importance for the understanding of its functioning or its development . On this ground it is desirable to examine certain features of the democratic structure . Democracy differs from all other forms of government in that it postulates the free organization of opposing opinions . This kind of organization presents some peculiar features and has to solve some peculiar problems . The organization of opinion is a very different matter from the organization of power . When we speak here of the organization of opinion we are not referring to the way in which governments , by the control of propaganda , by intimidation , and by various other devices , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Such methods are anti-democratic . We are referring to the modes by which variant opinions find political expression , to the systems under which conflicting opinions are elicited , registered , channeled , and brought to bear on government , and to the devices by which government is made responsive to the trends and tides of opinion . In every modern democracy the major political vehicle of opinion is the party . Although party is often " extra-constitutional " it is an essential organ of every large-scale democracy . Until quite recently the role of party in democracy was curiously ignored . David Hume wrote two interesting short essays on parties , in one of which he distinguished parties from interest , parties from affection , and parties from principle ,  | remarking that " parties from principle , especially abstract speculative principle , are known only to modern times , and are , perhaps , the most extraordinary and unaccountable phenomenon that has yet appeared in human affairs . " But he was content merely to deplore the portentous phenomenon , and generally , until near the end of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ government was casual , curt , and rather derogatory . Mill could write , in 1861 , a work , Representative Government , in which he paid not the slightest attention to the party system . There was no systematic study devoted to the subject until Ostrogorski published in 1902 a fine analysis of parties in the United States . Are political parties then so modern an invention ? Were there not parties in Ancient Greece , such as the parties respectively of the mountain , of the plain , and of the coast in Attica ? What of the patricians and plebeians of Rome , and later its democrats and republicans ? What of the mediaeval Guelphs and Ghibellines , the Catholic and Protestant parties in France , the English cavaliers and roundheads , and so forth ? Opposing groups of this sort have existed everywhere at all times , but they are not properly denominated political parties . The old word " faction " is more applicable to them . They were not groups organized for electoral purposes within a political framework that recognized and provided for their existence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the principles and policies of a leader , but these groups did not establish any continuous organizations and therefore can hardly be called parties in our sense . There was no party-system . The first clear development of a partysystem occurred in England in the eighteenth century , though there were approaches to it in the seventeenth , and it was not until the nineteenth century that party-systems took their characteristic forms . The organization of opinion by parties inevitably followed the rise of large-scale democracy . The principle of represen-  | tation had to be vitalized by the conflict of parties . When parties flourish we have in effect passed from a pre-democratic mode of representative government to a genuinely democratic one . As we have pointed out , the principle of representation , virtually absent from classical antiquity , emerged in the Middle Ages . But representation of whom or of what ? A representative was one who stood for many . In what sense many ? The many for whom the one stood did not constitute an opinion-group , did not have a political platform . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The cardinals represented the undivided Church , the Electoral Princes represented the people as a whole . Then in England there appeared the representatives of " estates . " The representatives became the delegates of constituencies , but again the constituencies were conceived of as wholes , were represented as wholes . The one stood for the collectivity , for the corporate part of a corporate unity . If the one stands for the whole in this sense , he can not represent opinion . The only policy he can logically stand for is the presumptive interest of the whole he represents . Such was indeed the theory of representation that prevailed until quite recent times . Nicholas of Cues , writing in the fifteenth century , said the deputies represented the people as a kind of representative summation of them ( in uno cornpendio repraesentivo ) . Althusius , early in the seventeenth century , insisted on the need for the representation of the people , but still thought of the representatives as being the delegates of communes or estates . The only question at issue seemed to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ own judgment or as a mouthpiece of the totality he represented . The area was not merely , as it still for the most part remains , the unit of representation , it was also the thing represented . It is true , of course , that in the modern electoral system the representative is expected to look after " the interests " of his constituency , to see to it that  | contracts and handsome public buildings and other perquisites go to his locality , but this is only a kind of parochial function . The representative becomes pre-eminently a member of a party with a national policy , and in this respect he represents at most a majority of his constituents . This concept of representation had no vogue before the nineteenth century . Even Montesquieu , who had more advanced views on representation than any other writer of his time , remained oblivious of it . The significance of democracy was still obscure . A main explanation of the lateness of the rise of partysystems and of the slow recognition of the nature of a political party is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In the oligarchical state class interests were paramount . The opposition to the power-holders was the opposition of subordinated classes to the oppressions of a ruling class . Before the party-system could develop , the distinction between class and party had to be made effective . Otherwise there is no strong sense of common interest or of national unity such as can sustain , without resort to violence or revolution , the constitutional appeal to the polls . There is no " general will , " no fundamental agreement that permits differences of opinion on policy to be settled by the decision of the majority . In practice different socio-economic classes are affiliated in various degrees with different political parties , but any full identification of party and class is perilous to the democratic structure . A like danger exists where a country is composed of different ethnic groups , as in the old AustroIlungarian monarchy , and the divisions between parties follow the same lines . In the struggle for democracy party divisions were gencrated by class divisions , since the primary issue was the attack on the strongholds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of party and class was I transcended . The process of transcendence was first exhibited in England . The Tories were predominantly high-church  | monarchists and the Whigs low-church or non-conformist parliamentarians , but the class differences between them ceased to be clear-cut and gradually merged into the opposition between conservatives and liberals . The upper classes were mostly ranged on the conservative side but as the suffrage was widened the conservatives could no longer make their appeal in the gross terms of class interest . For now they had to appeal to the whole people , not to one class alone . Without a broader support the conservative party would have been doomed . They had , like the liberals , to appeal on grounds of political principle . Thus the party-system took on its characteristic form . A party became an association organized to support a line of policy , to enlist public opinion on its side , and to fight by constitutional means for its victory at the polls . In an oligarchy there can not be parties in this sense , there can be only factions . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a faction and a party . Even after this democratic procedure was inaugurated the old tradition held and writers on politics still spoke of parties as factions , with the same implication that they were dangerous to peace and good government . While David Hume advanced the idea of " parties from principle , " he still thought of these as factions , and indeed as the worst kind of factions . Rousseau cherished a similar view , and it was current among the fathers of the American Constitution . But the difference between faction and party is as important as the difference between oligarchy and democracy . The term " party " is still often applied to organized groups of a kind that do not conform to our definition . Thus the bloc of office-holders ? or office-seekers , with the following which rallies around the leader of the bloc , characteristic of various Latin-American " republics , " is generally denominated a party , though they actually constitute a faction , since they hold , or seek to obtain , power by unconstitutional means .  | Similarly the single @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a totalitarian dictatorship has nothing but the name in common with the genuine political party . Sometimes it is the successor of a former party which , on attaining power , destroyed the party-system altogether . Those who , in the name of democracy , have deplored the existence of parties or even advocated their abolition , from Madison to such modern writers as Herbert Croly in his Progressive Democracy , have failed to realize that the partysystem is an essential mechanism of democracy . Public opinion is too variant and dispersive to be effective unless it is organized . It must be canalized on the broad lines of some major division of opinion . Party focuses the issues , sharpens the differences between the contending sides , eliminates confusing cross-currents of opinion . Each party formulates its platform , grooms and selects its candidates , enables the public to make its choice between sufficiently distinct alternatives . The party educates the public while seeking merely to influence it , for it must appeal on grounds of policy . For the same reason it helps to remove the inertia of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opinion . In short the party , in its endeavors to win the public to its side , however unscrupulous it may be in its modes of appeal , is making the democratic system workable . It is the agency by which public opinion is translated into public policy . At the same time the party-system maintains the responsibility of the government to the people . Here the distinctive quality of democracy is most apparent . For the democratic government not only suffers the opposition to express itself and to organize its forces but provides it with particular facilities , sometimes even , as in the British and Canadian systems , giving a quasi-ministerial status ? and a salary ? to the leader of the opposition . There could be no more signal illustration of the difference between the oligarchical and the democratic spirit . The opposition is an ever vigilant critic of the govern-  | ment , searching out the weaknesses of its hold on the public and for ever compelling it to defend and justify its policies before the court of public opinion . In this way the party-system @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . No doubt it does so at a price . Often it debases the issues and raises false ones . The object of the party is to persuade or to cajole the voter . On some levels it stoops to the pettiest tricks and does not shrink from direct or indirect corruption . In every community there are many people who are so engrossed in their private interests or problems that they give no heed to larger affairs ; others again have no understanding of political situations , and their emotions are responsive to the cheap appeals of those who play on them . The votes of morons count equally with the votes of the discerning . This fact is sometimes made the ground of an indictment of democracy . A more balanced judgment would recognize that this defect is not overcome by other systems of government , since they too must hold the allegiance of the multitude and since by suppressing criticism they stifle the educational process that raises the general level of political intelligence . The dangers arising from mass ignorance and prejudice reach their height not under democracy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the monopoly of indoctrination exercises a hypnotic influence that for a time affects not only the morons but all except the hardiest and most independent spirits . In order that the party-system may work effectively it must reduce the multitudinous differences of opinion to relatively simple alternatives . This is done most easily under the two-party system , where the voters must choose between two ostensibly antithetical platforms . The party-system originated in the opposing fronts of two parties , but while this type prevailed for centuries in England it has been superseded or greatly modified , except in the United States of America and a few other countries , by a more elaborate diversification .  | One main reason for the change has been the growth of leftwing parties , which in turn tend to split into separate units . Under certain conditions , particularly where there is a strong and relatively prosperous middle class , this process has been held in check , so that there exist usually three main parties , as in England , in Canada , in Australia , in Belgium , and elsewhere . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resulting in a multiple party-system which differs in very important respects from either the dual or the triple party structure . The multiple-party system works through the agreement of blocs to set up a coalition government , since no one party can claim a majority . The blocs are unstable , their components readily enter into new combinations , and consequently governments based on them are less securely established than under the two-party system . Under the latter system the alternative to the existing government is clearly known in advance . Under the multiple-party system it frequently remains uncertain , depending on last-hour deals between the various groups . The two-party system consequently gives to the government a more unified authority and a greater concentration of responsibility . On the other hand , where there are only two parties to choose between , it is more difficult for public opinion to formulate and express itself on new or changing issues . And the party " machine " is likely to exercise greater control . It has greater influence over candidates , over appointments , and over the spoils of office . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ depends on the alignment of opinion from right to left . Here some interesting questions arise . Is there a permanent or universal direction of attitudes and policies corresponding to the " right , " over against a permanent or universal " left " ? Or do the directions " right " and " left , " not merely the degree of " rightness " or " leftness " exhibited by parties , depend on changing conditions ? If we identified the right with the estab-  | lished order and the left with attack upon it , then obviously , after a political revolution , the previous right would become the left , and vice versa . Again , at one period the right upholds the principle of authority while the left champions individual and group liberties , but with the growth of radical parties we find the extreme left adopting an authoritarian program . We might next seek for a permanent difference on the economic front , taking the right as the party or bloc favorable to capitalistic enterprise and the left as favorable to collectivist controls . But the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to adopt a measure of collectivism than the moderate or " liberal " left of other countries . Our search for permanent dividing lines between right and left would run into similar embarrassments if we made our criterion the advocacy of nationalism as against internationalism , or of protectionism as against freer trade , or of clericalism versus anti-clericalism . At some point or another our criterion fails to apply to an existing right-to-left alignment . Must we then accept the relativity of " leftness " and " rightness " ? Before doing so we might entertain the thesis that the right is always the party sector associated with the interests of the upper or dominant classes , the left the sector expressive of the lower economic or social classes , and the center that of the middle classes . Here we would be admitting relativity with respect to particular policies but still giving a permanent significance to the alignment . Historically this criterion seems acceptable . The conservative right has defended entrenched prerogatives , privileges , and powers ; the left has attacked them . The right has been more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ birth or of wealth ; the left has fought for the equalization of advantage or of opportunity , for the claims of the less advantaged . Defence and attack have met , under democratic conditions , not in the name of class but in the name of principle ; but the opposing principles have broadly corresponded to the interests of the different classes .  | The struggle is not the sheer class struggle , and it is fought with other weapons . There is no solidarity of class on either side , nor any assumption that the interests of different classes are wholly contradictory . To some extent men choose sides apart from their class affiliations and frequently their preference between policies is made on other grounds than those of class . Considerable numbers change sides from time to time , according as one policy or another is in the forefront . There is no clear-cut separation of classes . The different dispositions , philosophies , and fortunes of men determine their responsiveness to one or another appeal . The response of the young differs from the response of the old @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Thus the party-system is the democratic translation of the class struggle . It postulates national unity beneath the divisions of class . It postulates the rationalization of class interests so that these can make appeal on the grounds of their service to or compatibility with the national interest . The logic of the party-system , and more broadly of democracy , repudiates the Marxian doctrine of class and the class struggle , with its sheer dichotomy of social classes and its goal in the total annihilation or suppression of one of the two contending sides . Any party that holds this position within a democracy , or the equally intransigent position of fascism , is inherently antidemocratic . It is employing the machinery of democracy in order to compass the destruction of democracy . The character of the party-system in different countries reflects very clearly their respective class structures . Where class lines are strongly held , and the sense of class exploitation reaches deep into the masses of the population , democratic institutions are hard to establish and to maintain . There may , however , be a lively sense @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ connote economic exploitation , without serious detriment to the operation of democratic institutions . This attitude has been characteristic of English society , perhaps more than of  | any other . Where , again , class lines are very mobile and the consciousness of class is relatively weak among large sections of the people party differences are likely to be of a more superficial nature . The struggle of parties becomes more the noisy warfare of the " ins " and the " outs , " each parading some brave array of principles that reduce to very minor ' discrepancies of policy . This situation is best illustrated by the history of the party-system in the United States and in Canada . Until recently the opposing programs of the two major parties in these countries meant a sharp difference in policy only on the relatively rare occasions when a serious constitutional issue could not be evaded , such as the slavery issue before the Civil War . The more recent change has come about with the direct introduction of economic issues , and these are inevitably more closely related to differences @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ injection of important economic questions the twoparty system becomes less adequate for the organization of opinion and tends to be modified into a system of at least three parties , as has happened in Britain and in Canada . The unique ability of the United States to maintain so long the bi-partite system , in spite of the challenge raised by new parties at various times , may be explained by the double function which that system performs . Party determines not only the federal government , where the struggle between parties must at least ostensibly be based on principle , but also the local and regional and state governments over a continental area that exhibits many socio-cultural diversities . Throughout this vast administrative area the business of government involves large and diversified public expenditures . The local parties contend more for control of these expenditures than over major differences of principle . The identification of a local party with a national one , so far as principle is concerned , is often relatively fortuitous or traditional . " Nationally considered , " as one authority has put it , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to capture the  | presidency . " Since , however , the local party gets out the voters for the national elections the necessity of keeping it everywhere in line blunts the larger ideological issues in the appeal to the electorate . This influence tends , perhaps , to diminish with the development of federal socio-economic legislation , since the funds disposed of by the federal government increase in proportion to those administered by localities . There is another condition that militates against the clarity of party lines . Under the electoral system of the United States the results of a national election may hang on the vote of a single important state , and the vote of that state may hang on the support thrown to either side by some compact ideological group , say a Roman Catholic minority . Neither side is willing to jeopardize its chances by committing itself to any principle that would offend such a group . Strategic considerations of this sort play a large role in the framing of party platforms . In consequence there is likely to be a greater difference on grounds of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opposing parties . These conditions throw light on certain distinctive features of North American democracy . It is characterized by a frankly materialistic conception of politics which accompanies , without seeming need of reconciliation , the almost universal acceptance of the democratic ideal . Democracy is a way of life , but politics is business , big business , differing from other kinds in its methods but not in its goals . " Politics , " says the opening sentence of the Political Primer for All Americans , an election-time publication of the Congress of Industrial Organizations , " is the science of how who gets what , when , and why . ' " The phrase is a variation of the title of a political study by Harold D. Lasswell , which supports the same thesis . This conception of politics has rather more vogue as applied to local and regional politics , but it is widely accepted as aptly descriptive for every level . More political activity is motivated by the perquisities than by the prestige  | of office . This tendency has been aided by the large accession @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , by the great diversity of group interests and the apparent lack of relationship between these interests and any broad national goals . While localized group interests are an important influence in the political action of other countries the extreme fragmentation of North American society permitted them a freer range than elsewhere . Politics became , with far less qualification than in many countries , the jockeying of organized groups for relative advantage . This situation has been reflected in the views of many American students of politics , such as Bentley , Munro , Beard , and Robinson . To Bentley , for example , a legislative act is always the calculable resultant of a struggle between pressure groups , never a decision between opposing conceptions of national welfare . Though this viewpoint is not new certain modern developments in all industrialized countries give it a new emphasis , most notably the ever more elaborate organization of specificinterest groups . These have at their command the resources of modern methods of communication and operate incessantly through agents who are highly trained in the uses of propaganda . " The public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that lies outside the contending " pressure groups " of business large and small , of finance , of labor , of agriculture , of the organized professions , of the political bureaucracy itself , and so forth . The public interest might seem to be nothing but the diagonal of the forces that constantly struggle for advantage . Nevertheless , as we have sought to show , the whole logic of democracy is based on the conception that there is still a national unity and a common welfare . The fact that the interest in the common welfare can not be organized after the fashion of specific interests should not conceal from us either its existence or the need to sustain it . Democracy itself is the final organization of the common interest . In a democracy every specific interest , being a  | minority interest , must make appeal to the whole . In a democracy certain values are accepted as being superior to minority interests , and even to majority interests . Foremost among these values is the right of every man to his own opinions and to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Thus democracy asserts the value of personality as a universal good and implies that there is a welfare of the whole to be attained through the cultivation of that value in all men ; through their free relationships and under universal rules that deny to any power group the right to impose its will upon the rest . Democracy affirms the community . This affirmation is constantly being threatened by the imperialism of powerful groups . It is the eternal problem of democracy to keep them in their place , subject to the democratic code . Every group that owns power without corresponding responsibility is a menace to it . Every monopoly , or approach to monopoly , is subversive of it . Any group whatever , if armed with the requisite power , destroys the reciprocity of interests that democracy postulates . Every group , if it is not restrained from so doing , puts its interest above the interest of the whole . The same danger is astir whether the group so empowered is a cartel or a financial consortium or a labor union or a professional organization @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The difference is one of degree , not of kind . Every monopoly of power destroys the participant unity of all groups that democracy pledges . Of all such monopolies the most immediately fatal to democracy is the monopoly of the media of opinion , or any approximation to it . Modern means of communication have most remarkably expanded the expression of opinion and the opportunities for the education of opinion . But this service has been counteracted by a disservice . The propagation of opinion may be conducted sincerely , without conscious distortion of the truth , but it frequently is exploited by interests  | that disregard such considerations . These interests are reckless of misrepresentation , seeking without scruple to make the worse appear the better reason , avidly appealing to the blind emotions and prejudices of their readers or hearers . There is no serious protection against these assaults except the ability of opposing opinion to gain a hearing . In the free conflict of opinions lies man 's best antidote against the poisons of false indoctrination . Whichever side he espouses he no longer does it without @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to enlightenment is foiled , the authoritative pronouncement that not only condemns the cause of the opponent but forbids him to plead his cause . Democracy , which lives by the organization of opposing opinions , has the task of keeping open to all sides the powerful and ever more concentrated agencies of propaganda operating through the radio , the moving picture , television , the press and every form of literature . This task is no easy one . One of the major difficulties lies in the extension of large-scale enterprise to the media of opinion . In certain areas modem technology gives an economic advantage to the greater opinion-promulgating units and to the combination of small local units under the control of one syndicate or capitalist owner . This situation holds particularly for the newspaper and the moving picture . In other areas technological factors limit the number of competing producers , particularly in radio and television . In consequence the number of independently owned newspapers continually decreases , and many editors become the agents of one owner . Similarly the output of moving pictures comes under the control @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ control the air-waves . Thus the power to influence great multitudes falls into the hands of a very small group . While this fact constitutes a peril against which democracy must constantly guard itself a balanced estimate shows that  | democracy has ample resources with which to protect itself . The different methods can not here be considered , whether , to take one example , it is preferable that the government should own the whole broadcasting system , under conditions that assure impartiality in the allocation of time to different opinion-groups , or should merely regulate competitive commercial systems to ensure the same result . It should , however , be observed that the increase in the size of the commercial unit is not without some advantages , provided its dangers are recognized and checked by public safeguards . The great newspapers , for example , and the great press agencies , are frequently more representative organs of opinion ? as well as better purveyors of news ? than the small ones . They must cater to many varieties of opinion and show care not to offend any of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more likely to admit , through special contributors , columnists , or " letters to the editor . " the expression of views contrary to those of their editorial policies . On the whole they have higher standards to maintain . A similar statement holds of the great radio networks . These tendencies are cited not to discount the danger that comes from the vast concentration of control over opinion-promulgating agencies but only to suggest that there are more favorable aspects of the process . What in this area democracy has above all to ensure is that no opinion-group lacks reasonable opportunity to find avenues through which it can , without prejudice , reach the public ear . Our survey of the organization of opinion has not taken under consideration the different modes in which organized opinion bears on the policies of government . It is obvious that the impact of opinion operates differently , and with different degrees of effectiveness , where one or another kind of party-system prevails , or where one or another type of representation is established , or again where the political struc-  | ture follows @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of government , or the American system , with its " separation of powers " and its popular election of the head of the executive , or the Swiss system , with its admixture of " direct democracy . " The process of the translation of opinion into policy is differently exhibited in all instances of democracy . In some there is a second chamber less immediately affected by opinion changes ; in others the second chamber is as responsive as the first ; in some smaller legislative systems there is only a single chamber . These and many other differences are relevant , but any examination of them would carry us beyond our major theme .  | THE WAYS OF DICTATORSHIP IN WHAT RESPECT ALL DICTATORSHIPS ARE ALIKE In our discussion of democracy we showed that it established a new and more integral relationship between community and state . Dictatorship , its opposite , severs the state from the community , and never more so than when it proclaims the two to be one . Every other kind of government conforms to a pattern somehow sanctioned within its proper community @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the succession to power is predetermined under a fundamental law which the acceding government does not make or break . Every other kind is in this sense legitimate . Dictatorship alone makes its sheer will the sole justification of its authority . At all stages of society men have been concerned with the source of authority , finding it in the community or in the will of God or in sanctified tradition . Dictatorship sweeps aside all such concern . Its own being is the only answer it permits . Dictatorship ignores the community . The order it sets up is not harnessed to the communal frame of order . It arrogates to itself complete independence from that frame . It has no abiding rules , no fundamental laws . Its own law is always that of the hour . There is no law , or basis of law , beneath it . The will of the dictator is untrammeled by legal processes . No law has any higher status than his mere decree . There is no social ground on which his pronouncement of justice rests .  | The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only the changeful expression of an arbitrary definition of right . Dictatorship characteristically comes into being when the social order is shaken or broken , in the time of crisis when men forsake their traditions , in the time of desperate conflict when men are willing to sacrifice much if only the strong man restores to them assurance and order . In such times they abandon the accepted standards of legality . This antithesis between dictatorship and legality has been recognized since the days of the Greek city-state . An unknown Sophist wrote during the Peloponnesian War that disregard for law is the way of dictatorship . The coming of dictatorship is usually abrupt . It represents a sharp break from tradition . Consequently it is where the ground is to some extent being prepared for democracy that the conditions most congenial to dictatorship develop . When a people is strongly bound by tradition the crises of the state do not affect the form of government but rather the residence of power . There are coups d'etat , palace revolutions , changes of dynasty , but the old system lives on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the class structure is itself challenged the hold of tradition is already weakened . Then democracy becomes possible . But democracy , as we have seen , requires a process of maturation . The resistances may be too strong for its peaceful evolution , or the contentions between classes or between ethnic , religious , or other groups may be too irreconcilable for orderly settlement . A crisis occurs . The old legality can not be restored and the people is unready for the alternative of democracy . That is the type of situation in which dictatorship has its birth . In this manner dictatorship appeared in Ancient Athens , shortly after a degree of democracy was inaugurated under Solon . In the civic dissension that ensued the first known Athenian " tyrant , " Pisistratus , having professed himself an extreme democrat , seized the reins of power . Similar phe-  | nomena occurred in a large number of Greek cities , so that the seventh and sixth centuries before Christ became known as " the age of the tyrants . " It was after the hereditary kings had been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the allegiance of this first people ever to break on a grand scale with the tradition of class rule . So , in Corinth and Syracuse and Argos and in the cities of Asia Minor and of Sicily , the " tyrants " arose , forceful men who sometimes ruled well and sometimes ill , who sometimes brought order and sometimes only new troubles , but who alike resorted to unconstitutional means to gain or to maintain their power . In Rome likewise , in the later days of the Republic , the framework of an outmoded city-state democracy was too narrow to restrain the strife between opposing factions , led by men who , as generals and as proconsuls over large territories , were habituated to imperial authority . So the soldier Marius , son of a day-laborer , followed Caius Gracchus and attempted to overthrow the constitution . He in turn was followed by Sulla and Pompey and Caesar , until Augustus came and brought the Republic to its close . Before we leave Rome we should observe that while the name " dictator " originated there the institution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of dictatorship in its modern usage . The Roman dictatorship was a constitutional device under which the constitution was suspended during a grave crisis of the state . The Roman city-state government was ill adapted to cope with any sudden emergency , such as an invasion or a conspiracy . It was a peculiarly elaborate magistracy , with its two co-equal consuls , its plethora of other officials , its senate , and its three kinds of public assembly . From very early times the constitution made provision by which the government could suspend the authority of the magistrates and nominate a single person , usually a general , to take control of affairs during a crisis . The dictator was the trustee of the state and when his mission was ended had to  | give account of his trusteeship . There were many such dictators in the earlier period , and none held power for more than six months . Cincinnatus returning to his plow became the exemplar of the office . After the wars with Hannibal the institution fell into abeyance , though the senate claimed the right to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under a special formula to " see to it that no harm befell the republic . " In B.C. 82 Sulla forced the senate to nominate him dictator , taking the old name , but destroying the old meaning . Constitutionality was at an end . With the Middle Ages the reign of tradition was restored . The myth of authority took on its most impressive character , responsive to some profound need for a new basis of solidarity . In a new manner it bound up authority with the land , the earth men cultivated , while it invoked the highest heaven to sanction the union of the two . Tradition was so firmly restored that for a whole millennium there was little striving toward democracy and no sign of dictatorship . With the waning of that tradition democracy began to emerge , sporadically in the anti-feudal cities , more consistently in England . During one crisis in England , when a particularly severe break with tradition occurred , there appeared its only dictator , Oliver Cromwell . The breach was repaired at his death and after a period of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ next great break with tradition happened in France , where , as previously in England , a monarch was executed and where the demands for a complete and immediate democracy burst with the intensity of forces long pent in . The sequel was the dictatorship of Robespierre , followed by the dictatorship of Napoleon , though the latter sought to invest his regime in constitutional forms . The nineteenth century became the great age of democratic expansion . Many conditions conspired to weaken the older myth of authority , including the remarkable advance of science and of technology , the spread of economic oppor-  | tunity to hitherto subject classes , and the fusion and the clash of cultures . The process continued through a time of comparative peace , with few major crises . It was not until the great crises consequent on the First World War brought irreconcilable civil conflicts that dictatorships appeared again in Europe . Prior to this upheaval a series of dictatorships arose in the countries of Latin America . There the situation was very different , though it illustrated equally well the common principle . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ colonial dependency , the old union of government and authoritarianism was rifted . The rift unloosed localized demands for democracy in countries socially and culturally unready for it . Dictatorial authority , often masquerading as democracy , took the vacant thrones . The war-bred crises of Europe precipitated dictatorships in countries that had a brief or relatively brief experience of democracy . On the whole the countries where democracy was most fully developed or longest established resisted the impact , though some , and particularly France , felt the pressure of it . The trend to dictatorship was strongly aided by the growth under crisis of the communist movement . The first of the new dictatorships was a communist one , and this unlooked-for fulfillment stimulated the extreme left in other countries , breaking the solidarity of the left against reaction from the right , and increasing the intransigence of the various conflicting groups . In many countries the demand for and the readiness to accept a dictatorship of the right were thereby greatly enhanced . With this aid Mussolini took advantage of democratic turmoil and nationalist dissatisfaction , winning an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was able to seize power in Hungary in the first hour of its republicanism , and Franco in revolutionary Spain . With the same aid Germany , ermany , after a time of the severest stresses during which it was making experiment with its first really democratic constitution , was turned over to Hitler . Outside of Europe the  | chief manifestation of the same " law of dictatorship " was offered in China , where the long continuance of civil war and foreign invasion made negligible the chances of the promised democracy . Germany offers a significant example of how the turnover to dictatorship may take place . Here there had been a fairly strong popular trend toward democracy , but the social structure remained under the control of the ancient myths . The prestige of the Junker class had on the whole survived the threat , the honorific role of the profession of arms quickly regained its social dominance , the traditional concepts of status still permeated social behavior . The cleavage depicted by Veblen , between the industrial masses who followed a rationalist ethic adapted to the conditions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ archaic feudal-militarist ideas , still survived . But now the outcome depended on the attitude of the middle classes . They had suffered most severely in the vicissitudes of the period after the First World War , and particularly because of the great inflation . They were at the same time strongly nationalist and deeply sensitive to Germany 's humiliation in defeat . The spread of international communism alarmed the majority of them and when the German democratic front was broken by the policy of the Third International , the struggling republic , beset by many difficulties and lacking confident leadership , was endangered . The Hitler movement , expounding a combination of fervent nationalism and a specious small-bourgeois " socialism , " found its opportunity . It failed in its first coup d'etat , but when it built a strong ruthless organization and began to attract many more converts , important large industrialists , apprehensive of communism , threw their weight to its side . Since , moreover , its first and clearest objective was the rebuilding of Germany 's military might it won the support of the officer class @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enamored of its methods or of its leadership , believed they could make it the  | instrument of their own purposes . The situation was thus prepared , and there remained only the question of the technique by which power should be seized . In this respect fortune favored the conspiracy against the republic . Hitler , without seeming affront to democratic processes , was appointed chancellor , and immediately destroyed the whole apparatus which had served him in his ascent to power . A variation of this condition is found where the old traditions of social class have weakened but a new communist authoritarianism has taken some hold and disrupted or seriously challenged the democratic front . Always there is a state of tension , precipitated by a crisis , in which the immature democracy loses its common ground and falls at the mercy of whatever clique or insurgent group acquires most efficiently the techniques of gaining power . Always there is the strong ruthless leader and the compact inner organization that practises sporadic terrorism before it wins authority , institutionalizing this practice when once the dictator has been set @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consistent with the unconstitutional manner in which it seizes control and maintains its power . While dictatorship has certain features in common with other types of oligarchy ? the elevation of the executive above the legislative and the consequent assimilation of the decree to the law , the insistence on political orthodoxy and the suppression of opinion unfavorable to the regime , and the general exaltation of the state effected through the investment of the ruler with sacrosanct majesty ? it differs from them in some crucial respects . Because of its detachment from the community it sets up a graded hierarchy of power that does not correspond , as in other oligarchical systems , to the general hierarchy of social class . The head of the system is often a man of the people , as in Fascist Italy , in Nazi Germany , in Soviet Russia , and frequently in Latin-American dictatorships . Even where he is not  | so , where he represents a conservative counter-action , as in Spain under Franco , in Portugal under Carmona and Salazar , and in Hungary under Horthy , the ruler @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ organization of power that distributes place and prestige in a manner distinctly variant from that which prevailed under the older class structure . This organization is the " party , " the disciplined and highly selective membership of which is clearly demarcated from the rest of the population . Its discipline is maintained by the inner power structure . The typical modern dictatorship maintains a special guard as the core of the party together with a secret police system of some sort . Nazi Germany afforded the most elaborate example , with its black-uniformed Elite Guard ( SS ) , its brownshirt Storm Troopers ( SA ) , and its Secret State Police ( Gestapo ) . Below these were various auxiliary and affiliated organizations , including cadres for the indoctrination of the young ? the Hitler Youth , the Students ' Association , and so forth . By such means , previously developed in Soviet Russia and in Fascist Italy , a vigilant and unremitting surveillance was maintained over every aspect of social life . The very necessity for such controls makes it impossible for the dictatorial regime to construct @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of great significance that there remained in Nazi Germany a complete dualism of the all-controlling party and the formal organization of government , each with its separate staff , its separate machinery , and even its separate armed forces . In Soviet Russia a similar dualism is suggested by the contrast between the powerless President of the USSR and the all-powerful Secretary of the Party . Here once more is revealed the fundamental difference between dictatorship and all other forms of government . It builds its own organizations , but they are not integrated into the associations that everywhere arise in the community . These new organizations , instead of being incorporated with the rest , merely control them from without , distorting them  | from their congenial modes of expression and of development where they are not suppressed altogether . Dictatorship is a system of governing that remains invincibly external to the social framework . It is a corollary of this fact that dictatorship can invent no constitutional device for the succession to dictatorial power . If it were to achieve any such device it would become legitimate and in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ TYPE The countries of Latin America , from Mexico to Argentina , afforded throughout the period of their colonial status a particularly tragic illustration of the way in which exploitative imperial government can be an instrument of ruin . Perhaps nowhere has there been a greater continuous spoliation and destruction of human life and of material resources than in these lands , up to the time of their liberation in the earlier part of the nineteenth century . The legacy of this reckless imperialism , under which native populations were everywhere turned into serfs , except for the Indian groups that found protection in unhealthy swamp lands , in the deep forests , and in the reaches of the great mountains , contributed largely to the conditions that explain the Latin-American type of dictatorship . At the beginning of the nineteenth century these lands were all subject to Spain except for the great Portuguese colony of Brazil . The achievement of independence by the United States had been the first break in the colonial status of the whole American hemisphere , but while the United States provided an impressive precedent and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ America , its liberation from Europe had no immediate consequence in this respect south of the Rio Grande . The Latin-American countries were cul-  | turally detached from North America and wholly responsive to European influences . The French Revolution had some repercussions but the precipitant of the revolutionary movements was Napoleon 's blow to the independence of Spain when he occupied it and set his brother on its throne . There ensued a series of bitter and almost anarchic wars for liberation , at the end of which the former colonial provinces became independent states , under leaders who grandiloquently proclaimed the principles of democracy . But the achievement of democracy was another matter . On the one hand there was no cultural preparation . The mass of the people was illiterate . All the influences to which it had been subjected for centuries were authoritarian . The Church , which controlled what education there was , inculcated the authoritarian tradition . The new movements , stemming from the insurgent liberalism that arose in Western Europe , and for a time in Spain itself , scarcely touched the local life @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . On the other hand the economic conditions were unfavorable . A particularly backward variety of feudalism prevailed . Industrial development was negligible . The middle class was small , weak , with relatively little opportunity to give effective expression to its anti-feudal sentiments . The great land-owners held all the controls and over against them lay the serf population , living in abject poverty . Thus the end of colonialism meant the beginning of ruthless struggles between detached ambitious leaders who attracted a personal following , mustered their forces , and made a violent bid for supremacy . Where they succeeded they set up their dictatorships , in the earlier period over provinces , later over whole countries . Their careers were mostly meteoric , like the rule of the ancient " priest of the grove , " The priest who slew the slayer And shall himself be slain .  | Insurrection and civil war became endemic . Some countries suffered less than others . Brazil in particular found a relatively stable form of government as an independent empire ruled by a prince of Portugal , which endured through most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lacking . There was little , if any , relation between the democratic constitutions and the policies of the strong adventurers who had fought their way to power . They were mostly generals of " revolutionary " armies , men of the landowning class who had no conception of democratic methods and who could scarcely have adopted , under the conditions , such methods even had they so desired . The " cultural lag " between the professed principles of democracy and the authoritarian principles that governed the everyday life of very poor peasant populations was not to be overcome so easily . It could indeed be claimed that the unstable rule of dictators was the necessary apprenticeship for more democratic regimes which countries so backward economically and so unprepared socially had to pass through . There were , as there still are , great differences between the countries of Latin America in size , in resources , in geographical character , in composition of population , and in degree of advancement . But they had a common culture superimposed on them , a common system of land tenure , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a similar release from colonialism ? save for the relatively small Guianas . One legacy of Spanish or Portuguese imperialism lay heavily on them all . The conqueror had been an exploiter without becoming himself a colonist . The small minority of ruling whites had been separated by a great gulf from the masses of the native population . The latter lived a highly localized life , fearing and hating government from without . Between the whites and the Indians there were the mestizos , the offspring of the two races . The history of Latin America is the history of the expansion and the triumph of the mestizo . In nearly all its countries ?  | Uruguay and to some extent Argentina being exceptions ? there occurred a remarkable mixture of races into a common stock , absorbing the once dominant whites and presenting a complete contrast to the situation in North America . These likenesses were prepotent over the differences in determining the political history of Latin America . The dictator , the caudillo , has featured that history since colonial times . The caudillos were men of various @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the chaotic conditions , at least during the first period of liberation , the lack of unity and the economic and social unpreparedness of the people , seemed to admit no alternatives to dictatorship . Even the great liberator , Simon Bolivar , who was certainly animated by the sense of his mission , could find no way to rule except as dictatorial " president . " In Venezuela , Colombia , and Peru he was in no position to emulate the example of his prototype of the North , George Washington . Some caudillos were genuine champions of their peoples , like Rivadavia of Argentina , Francia of Paraguay , and , at least in his earlier period , Diaz of Mexico ; many followed no line but that dictated by their own ambition . Some were cultured Spaniards , like Rosas of Argentina ; some came from the soil , like Juarez the great Indian leader of Mexico . Some introduced serious reforms ; many were regardless of the people 's wellbeing . But they all alike ruled unconstitutionally , maintaining their place by placating their followers and by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opposition . The order they established was always precarious . Nevertheless , by and large , it sufficed to permit a considerable degree of social and economic progress throughout these vast areas that had suffered at the least stagnation and more often retardation throughout the long colonial regime . The sub-structure of Latin-American dictatorship has a typical form . The party of the dictator is not compact and disciplined , as in the modern European systems . It is a " party  | of interest , " with little pretension to ideology , a loose body of followers and office-holders professing a personal allegiance to the head of the government . The ruling elite generally retains a rather feudalistic character . Industry is of little importance , except in a few urban areas , and the mass of the population remains inert to government . Social life is highly localized . The elite itself is associated with a traditional culture that is little vitalized by new movements . The army is not so much a national as a governmental organization , and military control counts out of all proportion to its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is peculiarly denuded of myth . The junta at the top is held together by the perquisites of office and the prestige that goes with the exercise of authority , but it is not organically connected with the rest of the population . It is fond of patriotic proclamations that are full of gesture and rhetoric but have little relation to policy . Its loyalty does not bite deep enough to prevent some new adventurer , within or outside its ranks , from seizing power at the first opportunity . The acceptance of the regime is for the most part due to the remoteness of the people in general from the ways of politics , their habit of subjection to authority encouraged by the authoritarian precepts of the Church , and the grinding discipline of poverty that limits their horizon and denies them the means and aptitudes of social action . The sheer poverty of the people makes it easier for the junta to amass wealth , since it conceals from them all knowledge of the operations of government . The cruder forms of economic exploitation flourish . Government itself becomes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ profitable deals with contractors and entrepreneurs and finding new occasions for enrichment whenever a highway or a railroad or a public building is constructed or whenever private business requires a franchise or a favor . This is the typical picture , but there are variations and  | partial exceptions . In the more prosperous of these republics the middle class has been growing , and public opinion has become more articulate , preparing the way for a more democratic or at the least a less narrowly oligarchical system of government . There have been notable advances in Colombia , Guatemala and Uruguay . There have been important developments in other countries , such as Chile . But for the study of Latin-American dictatorship the most significant situations are those presented respectively by Argentina and by Mexico . Argentina differs in one primary respect from the other countries of Latin America . It possesses the only great area of rich well-watered agricultural soil south of the Rio Grande . Largely as a consequence of its good fortune in this respect , combined with its more temperate climate , it is occupied , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which white men of European , and especially Spanish , origin vastly predominate . These differences did little to remove Argentina from the common experience of dictatorship ? though there were fewer revolutions than in many Latin-American countries ? but they have much to do with its more recent development and with the problem of its further political evolution . The extent and fertility of its prairie soil , the pampa , has made it a favorite country for the investment of foreign , especially British , capital . Its feudal-type estancias are vast farms or ranches owned by a rather small number of wealthy and powerful men . These constitute , together with a militarypolitical clique , the highly conservative aristocracy which , except for short periods , has made and dominated the government of Argentina . Over against them stand the growing middle classes . They are anti-feudal and democratically minded . Their chief political triumph was the election of President Irigoyen , who , though himself no model democrat , during his two terms of office gave Argentina its first genuine approach to a democratic government . Since @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been politically ineffective . The authoritarian tradition is strong , and the control exercised by the conservative elements , military , land-owning , and clerical , has not so far been seriously impeded by a constitutional framework that , while thoroughly democratic , is neutralized by all the devices of chicanery , corruption , and violence . One factor limiting the political influence of the industrial groups is that the administrative positions of many concerns financed by foreign capital are largely occupied by foreign appointees of the owning companies . Industry in general has been retarded by policies and regulations , including tariffs , conceived in the interest of the land-owning class . Nevertheless it has been advancing with considerable rapidity and is bound to become steadily more important in the total economy . Trade unionism and other anti-feudal organizations make some headway in spite of governmental hostility . The pressure of liberal public opinion has been increasing . It finds sonnewhat fitful expression through the party of the Radicales , and there is also a socialist party that has some following in the larger cities . These conditions set @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ undermining the older form of dictatorship and is likely in time to bring Argentina into the current of modern politics . Already , although dictators continually succeed one another in the traditional manner of Latin America , dictatorship itself approaches nearer to the fascist form . The task of suppressing or silencing the opposing forces grows more difficult . The advancing economy makes new demands and puts new tasks on government , with which the old-style dictatorship finds it hard to cope . To crush counter-movements the junta of the dictator has to set up a more compact organization and to adopt more elaborate methods of military and police control . Censorship must be more rigorous and more igilant . The whole system is beset by greater dangers . The " party " significantly changed its name to become the " Na-  | tional Democratic Party . " It seeks popular support by intensifying its appeal to Argentinian nationalism and to this end sows suspicion of the " colossus of the North . " It has at the same time imperialistic aspirations . But these bids for popular support can not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the rising middle classes . At the other end of Latin America , Mexico , a federal state like all the other large countries of the whole continent , has followed a very different road . In Mexico the process of transformation from the rough-and-ready dictatorship indigenous to Latin America has advanced much further than elsewhere , and yet social and cultural evolution has lagged so far behind revolutionary political changes that the ways of dictatorship still persist . After its liberation from Spanish dominion Mexico had more than its share of the civil wars and disorders experienced throughout Latin America , and in addition it was embroiled in war with the United States and again with the European expeditionary armies that prepared the way for the hapless rule of the Emperor Maximilian . Territorial losses , foreign invasions , and the resentment roused against Maximilian intensified the sense of Mexican nationalism ; and the popular rising that restored Juarez to power carried with it a demand for agrarian reform and the continuation of Juarez 's program for the confiscation of the vast areas owned by the church . This program @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ office brought enough stability to permit considerable economic development but at the same time by his reversal of agrarian policies confirmed the abject peonage of the Mexican peasant . The fall of Diaz in 1911 brought new conflicts , but the revolutionary party triumphed and under Carranza and Obregon a series of fundamental changes was inaugurated , far beyond anything that had occurred hitherto in Latin America . The great estates , or haciendas , including those owned by the church , were divided among the peasants . Lands and other properties owned by foreigners were taken  | over by the state , including the rich oil concessions . There were laws encouraging labor unions and promoting universal education . There was a bitter struggle with the church , which was deprived of most of its privileges and even of many of its edifices . The rigor of this extreme reversal has been modified by conditions that no single revolution , however sweeping , can abolish . Although the revolution introduced the policy of universal schooling education is still backward over large areas . The poverty , insanitation , and subjection @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prevalent . The mountains and high plateaus that feature the land are arid and bare , having lost their forests through the ravages of men and of governments . The poverty of the peasants and their still rather primitive methods of agriculture , applied to dry sunbaked soil , have militated against their successful cultivation of the land they have come to own . The desert still encroaches and peasants forsake their new possessions , moving to the cities where they offer themselves as unskilled workers ? a labor commodity in excessive supply ? or migrating , if they get the chance , to the United States . There is improvement over the old peonage but the dreams of the revolution are unfulfilled . For the great peasant majority there is no new philosophy of life to take the place of the authoritarian tradition . At the other end of the scale the ruling group , the politicos , easily lose the sense of a mission and become opportunistic . They pay glowing lip-service to the revolution but they become a kind of closed shop , monopolizing government much in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by means of the spoils of office and showing themselves not unready to use strong-arm methods against any threats to their tenure . This state of affairs , somewhat better or somewhat worse with the times , does not constitute a return to the old order . The revolution made an end of the old feudalism , and the  | creeping counter-revolution has but blunted some effects that might otherwise have followed from this decisive action . The economic condition of Mexico has improved rather slowly , for there are stubborn difficulties to be overcome . The revolution itself had some adverse consequences in frightening away the foreign investment that , under proper safeguards , might have been made serviceable to economic advance . Mexico has been opened to new influences , but the liberation can not of itself overcome the poverty and the attendant ills that beset its much-enduring people . Surveying the whole picture of Latin-American government we see again that when the props of constitutional oligarchy are removed and can not be restored , some kind of dictatorship is the inevitable resort , so long as the socioeconomic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ colonial system in the earlier part of the nineteenth century left these lands with no native political tradition . They would otherwise have gone through the experience of constitutional oligarchy congenial to their circumstances . Instead , the surge of their liberation from exploitative dominion expressed itself , responsive to the examples set by the United States and by Western Europe , in the proclamation of democratic principles . But the experience of subjection , the lack of unity , the prevalence of religious authoritarianism , the dire poverty , the conjunction of different cultures and different racial groups , and the difficult geographical conditions all conspired to make the immediate realization of democracy impossible . Everywhere the result was the rise of the caudillos , the ruthless and adventurous men who could seize the opportunity . Their regime has been , like that of directors everywhere in the past , full of turmoil , and marked by endless revolutions . But they achieved some degree of order , however insecure . In the longer perspective of history they were the necessary bridge between the downfall of colonialism and the  | @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the consensus of the people . THE FACIST AND NAZI TYPES Whether we regard the dictatorships of the ill-omened " Axis " as two distinct species of modern dictatorship or subsume them as a single species under the more inclusive desiguation of " fascist , " remains a matter of opinion . They xhibited certain notable resemblances . Both originated as ower-middle-class movements , developing into a kind of nationalistic mass insurgence . In this respect they are differentiated from the old-line reactionary governments of men Ail:c Rivera and Franco in Spain and also from the exclusive proletarianism of the Soviet dictatorship . Both succeeded in enlisting diverse groups and classes to a program of expansionist aggression , finding common ground in the respective treatment meted out to them in the Treaty of Versailles ? though one was chafing in defeat and the other discontented x% 11 11 the rewards of victory . But there were very marked diff e rences between them . The deep-biting dogma of the Nazi reed was of a totally different character from the shifting d opportunistic doctrines of the fascists . The situation of scrmany @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nlike that of Italy . The experience of Germany under Hitler ad only a superficial analogy with the experience of Italy Infer Mussolini . Although the two movements came to power rough similar processes , and although the two systems in hich they culminated met at the same time the same fate , cy are certainly different enough to deserve separate treatcnt . We should , however , recognize that the difference exressed itself more in the respective ideologies of the two sysIns than in their governmental structure . In both instances  | a disoriented small-bourgeois group , in a time of social upheaval and economic trouble , found a leader who was master of the mass appeal . The preceding war had inculcated habits of blind obedience to the command of the superior but the authority behind the command had been discredited . Men were groping for a new myth of authority . They were susceptible to the gospel of new demagogues . It is an old story that under conditions of grave stress , with the breaking of tradition , the people , and especially the young , lose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ each , and are more easily reduced to the mass , the populace , the mob . Then comes the leader , whether he be fanatic or ambitious adventurer , and by his devices and his eloquence advances the process , at length making the mass the instrument of his purposes . Mussolini belonged to the adventurer type , Hitler was the fanatic . Always there are some whose ears are open to the piping of the mass leader , but the more desperate the crisis the more numerous they become . Especially after the experience of disillusionment in war , while they still are habituated to the word of command , they merge into the Nietzschean " herd beast prepared for obedience . " So it was in Italy , and then in Germany . Communist leaders gained ground ; nationalist leaders found their opportunity in anti-communist movements . Each side formed its gangs . There were street fighting , intimidation , organized lawlessness . There were banners and manifestoes . The nationalist movement grew into a " party . " It became a wedge driven ever deeper into the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dedication to " audacious " and terroristic methods . Thus later Hitlerism arose . Each prepared itself for the coming coup d'etat . In Italy the tension , though considerable , was not so widespread or so deep-seated as in defeated Germany . There were great differences in economic development , in cultural attitudes , and in popular sentiment between the various regions of  | Italy . It was in the industrial north that the new bands of anticommunist nationalists appeared and gathered strength . They took for their symbol the fasces of Republican Rome , the bundle of rods bound by a leather thong out of which an ax projected , the insignia of authority carried before the Roman magistrates by their officers , or " lictors . " Mussolini , head of the Milan fascio , previously a radical journalist , quickly dominated the movement . It was a time when the bold adventurer had unusual opportunity , as D'Annunzio had shown by the seizure of Fiume . Mussolini came forward as the champion of the disgruntled imperialism of Italy . The government in power was unstable and vacillating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and soon cultivated the grand manner . The industrialists , fearful of communism , gave him support . After some local successes he planned the " march on Rome . " The weak government fell . Mussolini became premier . In one thing he showed consistency throughout his career ? his contempt for democracy . Exulting over the " decaying corpse of the Goddess of Liberty , " he proceeded to tear down , piece by piece , the parliamentary structure . He nullified and then abolished all political parties except " the " party . I le dominated the Chamber of Deputies , resorting in the process to one assassination , that of Matteoti . He changed his office of premier into that of " head of the government . " He had a " law " passed to give executive decrees the effect of laws . He made the party the organ of the state , with a hierarchical system of controls from the local party boss to the ( ; rand Council of Fascism . His regime became a personal government of the most extreme type . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his orders . The various organizations that nurtured or maintained the fascist discipline , the Young Fascists and numerous other categories , were indoctrinated in an exclusive loyalty to his person . He had his personal army , the blackshirt Militia , bound exclu-  | sively to his service . The new political structure of his c1 dictatorship was built inside the pre-existing system , until 1 that remained of the old order was a hollow facade . The I ( ( i still " reigned , " the senate still met , but one man , backed by h disciplined cohorts , commanded Italy . What made this fascist dictatorship so peculiarly person was the lack of any clear positive philosophy behind its org ization . In this respect it was not unlike the Latin-Ameriei dictatorships . In this respect it differed notably from tl Soviet type , and also from the Nazi type . The party , tti merely the inner junta , was held together by interests and rti by principles . The Duce preached the subordination of t ) individual to the state . The state , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ devotion . But what did the stn stand for ? What did it offer to the individual who was biddi to renounce his individuality in order to serve it ? Let listen to the words of the Duce . The individual was exhort ? to rejoice in the glory and the pomp , the power and tI triumph , of Imperial Italy . But throughout there was ma form than content , more gesture than revelation , in the hig sounding language of the sedulous philosophers of fascist The individual , were he so minded , might experience sot sense of personal amplitude , some enlargement of the ego , the task of advancing the sacred imperium . But for multitud apart from the chances of a little security or a little profit , remained Like a tale of little meaning , tho ' the words are strong . Fascism developed its own style of language . There w much talk of destiny , of the inexorable ineffable will of tl state . But the majority of the people continued to speak a other language , one that had meaning for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ex-internatia alist , the disciple of Machiavelli , could not make his tots  | ianism live . He could not cement the people into the unity a common cause . His vaunted fascist era had no future , his istcrous appeals to the spirit of youth faded as the years nt by . A cleavage inevitably appeared within the fascist cology . The doctrine instilled in the masses laid stress on conditional obedience , unswerving discipline , the unerring tuition of the leader , the subjection of personal aims in the vice of the state . Quite contrary was the ideology of the itc . This was more the ideology of Sorel than the ideology 1 legel . It was the exuberant belief in dramatic action , in the gmatic seizure of the moment , in the men of power who fy tradition and are not bound by history . It was the belief the elite itself , the makers of history , the molders of the ert masses , feeding them with the myths that are serviceable the purposes of the elite . The totalitarianism of the Italian scists was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the thought of the people . Furthermore , the principle of totalitarianism was conmted in Italy by a special obstacle to its realization . One anization , also centered in Rome , was too powerful , too 11 entrenched , too international , to be co-ordinated . This as the Roman Catholic Church . From the first Mussolini cognized the necessity for coming to terms with it and , rersing his previous attitude , he restored religious education the public schools , associated Catholic chaplains with his uth organizations , and made overtures to the Church leadg to a settlement of its long-standing dispute with the lian state . But the " concordat " under which the respective heres of the two organizations were defined was an uneasy c . It is true on the one hand that fascism seemed to make most effective appeal to Catholic areas . The Church and c Fascist State alike laid stress on invincible authority , on crarchy , on discipline . But the authority claimed by the one sidled with the authority claimed by the other . Hence conilcrable friction remained underneath the concordat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Fascist State claimed the minds as well as the bodies of its subjects . The Church could never admit the former claim . The best Mussolini could obtain was a troubled compromise . Co-ordination was impossible . The disparity between form and substance , between pretension and realization , pervaded Italian fascism . It ruled with a high hand , suppressed personal liberties everywhere , set up its secret police and its swarming spies , filled its concentration camps , and made its capricious reign of fear the substitute for justice . But it was almost as though an alien power were ruling the country . Many of those who enlisted on its side did so from motives of expediency . The loudly proclaimed mission of the state carried little conviction . The endless indoctrination never penetrated deep but instead began to lose some of its earlier impressiveness . The parades and the ceremonies were stage pieces . The same disparity showed itself in the structure of corporations that constituted " the corporate state , " regarded by its chief author as his great contribution to political architecture . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " functional " government through occupational syndicates . It was the notion publicized by Georges Sorel , and one of Sorel 's disciples , Rossoni , who had been active in the radical I.W.W. unions of the United States , worked out in the first years of fascism a plan for allying with the movement the " patriotic " labor syndicates . With the abolition of the former labor unions this early plan was developed and repeatedly revised , ending in a most elaborate scheme of local and regional syndicates of employers and of workers in all categories , presided over by twenty-two national corporations . Fascist writers , including Mussolini himself who published a book on the subject , gave great acclaim to the new system as a revolutionary development of epochal significance . The syndicates or corporations were represented as the autonomous organs of the modern  | state . The inclusive organization was the " cornerstone " of fascism , its distinctive and original creation . It contained the solution of all economic problems . It was the great planning agency of government . It was the virile substitute @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the answer to communism . It was the successor to capitalism . But the syndicates served no such large ends . They were no more than auxiliary fascist agencies . They had no autonomy . They did not transform the economic system . They did not legislate . The Chamber of Fasces and Corporations , which was at length set up in the last years of fascism , never approached the importance of a parliament . The majority of the workers of the various categories were not enrolled in the respective syndicates . The corporations were instruments of fascist control , responsive to the purposes of the party and completely subservient to the will of the Duce . The whole system was in practice little more than a device for " coordinating " economic interests and agencies . It fulfilled this objective quite efficiently . Through its much-heralded corporations , through its outh organizations , through the schools , through the party , hrough the army , through the Dopolavoro ? the special gency for providing the workers with recreation and " culIre , " through an endlessly ramifying assortment of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its stamp on the community . Like all dictatorships it cared the community . It dared not let the community life ml any free expression in any direction . It spread fear , and lived in fear , fear of the forces that liberate themselves in c thoughts and spontaneous activities of men . It sought to We this fear behind loud pretensions and grandiose designs . tried to stimulate an artificial unity through the pursuit of Aerialist aims , its major exploit being the conquest of hiopia . But dictatorship , in spite of its propagandist skills , er becomes the serene master of the community . Here  | Italian fascism failed conspicuously . It set its image on a high pedestal for the worship of the people , but the contrast between the image and the reality could not be concealed . In this as in various other respects the Nazi model made some improvement on the fascist original . It was no accident that Adolf Hitler was a fanatic , not an adventurer . The German people were not , in the period after the Peace of Versailles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , like the people of Italy . The German people had gone through other and more devastating experiences . The humiliations of defeat had been driven home by the heavy demands of the Treaty of Versailles , causing national prostration and impotent rage . The democratic system established under the Weimar Constitution , the first of its kind in the history of Germany , had severe problems to face . There were powerful threats from the growing communist party ; there was the opposition of the conservative right , including the Junkers ; there were new nationalist movements making appeal to the bourgeois classes . The last-mentioned section suffered the worst shock of the destructive inflation Germany passed through in 1923 . The country might nevertheless have weathered all these storms had the economic policies of Europe , and of the United States , followed a different road in the period between the two world wars . But the dismal political record of this period , in which government exhibited a short-sightedness exceeding the common myopia of international statesmanship , contained among its other exhibits a resort to the extremest forms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an aggravation of social distress in Germany . Unemployment rose to unprecedented figures . The combination of economic distress and nationalist resentment made a fertile soil for the seed of dictatorship . The Nazi movement grew to formidable proportions . Mustering under its banner the disinterested , the dis-  | oriented , the aggressive , the indoctrinated young , the men with ideals distorted by failure and defeat , it made its bid for power . When after various vicissitudes , advances , and retreats ? the movement never won a clear majority of the electorate ? it achieved its goal , the Nazi dictatorship soon demonstrated that it was a more formidable and more challenging phenomenon than fascism . It immediately destroyed every vestige of constitutionalism . It organized the exclusive hierarchical party . It set up the paraphernalia of dictatorship , the bodyguard of the Fuhrer , the party troops , the secret police , the propagandist control ( Goebbels ' Ministry of Propaganda and Enlightenment ) , the concentration camps , the labor camps , the official agencies of indoctrination . But it was more ruthless and thorough @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Germany is evidenced by many signs . Here was a very different situation from that of Russia , the first and hitherto the most absolute example of modern dictatorship . Here was a country of high industrialization , with a large middle class , with a great cultural development . Yet this country was completely taken over by the Nazis . The forces of opposition were silenced . The Lutheran Church was co-ordinated , with only a sporadic protest . The Roman Catholic Church was rendered impotent . The Junkers , who thought they could control the upstart , were harnessed to his chariot . The right-wing nationalists were dissolved . The older type of militarist leadership , expressed through the Reichswehr and the Stahlhelm , was subordinated . The industrialists and the financiers were made subservient , and a few of them who had hopefully promoted the Nazi movement , like Thyssen , found it expedient to take refuge in flight . While all who showed any spirit of resistance to the aims or methods of the regime ? liberals , social democrats , communists , religious objectors ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  | Here was something that struck more deeply than did the flourishes and tyrannies of the Italian fascists . The superficial adulation paid to Mussolini never approached the aura ? the charisma , as some Germans name it ? surrounding the Fuhrer . The massed cohorts of the Piazza Venezia never exhibited the reverential devotion of the Nuremberg party festivals . The nationalist pride of humiliated Germany rose to new fervor . " Heil Hitler " was the only word . When the Fuhrer began to preach the obligation of Germans to produce larger families the birth rate went up . Mussolini had been preaching the same doctrine , but the Italian birth rate ? though indeed it was much higher to begin with ? made no evident response . The gospel of this unleashed nationalism was aggressive , vengeful , simple , mystical , barbaric in its overtones . To its service everything was transformed , all literature , all philosophy , all art , all science . The mission of the state was not only over all , it comprised all . The principle , " He that is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the most extreme form . The state as incorporated in the dictatorship was not only sacred , it was utterly set apart from everything else on earth , and first of all from every other state . It was a wrathful and inexorable deity , demanding endless sacrifice . All that the individual might prize , all the values the group might cherish , counted for nothing beside the all-devouring service of the state . Internationalism was a deadly contagion . And for a symbol of all things detestable to this new God of Wrath the Nazis set up the Jew , the man bereft of a native state . From the first Hitler had fulminated against " the Jewish international world conspiracy . " Now he set in motion a persecution of the Jews that finally reached a scale unparalleled in the tragic history of that people . The original party program of the Nazis , like that of the fascists , contained a melange of diverse elements . It is easy to forget that their party was officially the " National Socialist  | German Workers ' Party . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the techniques and the appeals of democracy in order to destroy democracy . The various clauses of the party proclamations , such as the opposition to " interest bondage , " were devices to enlist various dissatisfied groups . The objective behind it all was the enthronement of a militant nationalism , exclusively directed by a small clique of ruthless men . Once in power , this group proceeded to develop and inculcate its appropriate ideology . It is a necessity of modern dictatorship to monopolize the expression of opinion . There exists no longer any public opinion , there is only official proclamation of it . The spontaneous processes of opinion are suppressed by two main agencies . One of these was controlled by Goebbels , the other fell under the command of Himmler . I Iimmler as the head of the secret police punished any deviation from the official line , while Goebbels manufactured the substitute for public opinion , using all the devices of his psychological craft . But Goebbels could not have succeeded without Himmler . The ministry of " propaganda and enlightenment " would have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dictator and the state with a peculiarly Germanic concept , the spirit of the folk ( Volksgeist ) . In a cruder form it had already been expressed in ein Kampf . Now it was given a mystical restatement . The hief among its many prophets was Alfred Rosenberg , who his Myth of the Twe ? . atieth Century expanded into a turgid hetorical philosophy the notion of the pure and now at rrgth triumphant German spirit . This spirit was released rein its bondage to the impure and race-destroying myths at had dominated modern civilization , the myths of socialism d of individualism , of freemasonry and of humanitarianism , e myth of " raceless " democracy , the myth of Judaism , the yth of modern " bloodless " Christianity with its " Syrian d Etruscan elements . " All these shadows on the folk-spirit  | were now dissipated in the rising effulgence of the heroic German soul . The myth of the twentieth century was in the ascendant . This folk-spirit , incarnated in the state , was a Hegelesque revival of the old tribal God . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and new falsifications , of motifs derived from primitive folklore , from the nineteenth-century philosophers of Germanism , and from the contemporary reactionaries who glorified race and soil , such as H. S. Chamberlain and Oswald Spengler . It was a compensatory gospel for a people who had passed through political disaster and economic despair . The new state , the " Third Reich , " deprived them of all liberties but it made them the chosen people , the children of destiny , the inheritors of the earth . The deep " trauma " they had suffered ? to use a term from the psychoanalysts ? made a sufficient number of them emotionally ready to hail the leader , who stridently proclaimed this gospel . The Third Reich was conceived and begotten in crisis and its being was adapted only to crisis . It could not live in a peaceful world . By the necessity of its nature it must maintain the tensions of which it was the expression . It had to be for ever the father of the violence of which it was also the child . From @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of peaceful purpose were calculated deception . The period in which it built up its armed forces was characterized by the bankruptcy of statesmanship in the Western democratic countries . They were obsessed by the same fear of communism that had already served the Nazis so well , although the Soviet government , in marked contrast to the Hitler regime , showed then no signs of military aggressiveness , being wholly absorbed in its domestic plans . At the same time they pursued increasingly severe policies of economic protectionism that impoverished the larger countries and reduced the smaller ones , especially the new creations of the Versailles settlement ,  | to a ruinous condition . These policies played into the hands of the Nazi dictatorship . From re-armament it advanced to conquest . By the threat of war it achieved far more than it could have hoped . But it could not stop there . When the war came , over Poland , it won great victories against the unprepared democracies and seized vast territories . But it could not stop there . Its demon drove it on to war with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its destiny , dragging down in its fall the neighbor dictatorships that were enlisted under its banner . THE SOVIET DICTATORSHIP The Soviet dictatorship is so novel , so distinctive , so revolutionary , that it constitutes a type by itself . It differs from the rest in another respect , in a certain ambiguity that has led di iferent authorities to give the most conflicting reports concerning its character and its institutions . To some it is the fulfillment of the age-old yearnings of mankind for a better world , and all they write about it conveys the impression that it is built as near perfection as mortal man could possibly strain under the conditions and in the short space of time since t was first set up . To others it is the most ominous of portents , world-filling threat to the slowly won liberties of man , to e creative straggle in which his vision has been extended ever new horizons , and to the initiative and enterprise of dividuals and groups by means of which they have fought tcir way upward and brought advancement to their societies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ case . Formally the Soviet system is a union of sixteen federated publics . Formally the federation assures an unusual aunocny , extending even to foreign relationships , to its member tcs . There is no experience on the basis of which we can what in practice is meant by the diplomatic and military  | autonomy assigned to the constituents in a recent re-statement of the constitution . The federation admits , however , another kind of autonomy that is easier to assess . Russia is composed of a large number of ethnic or nationality groups . Each national group within the total structure is given the right to retain its own language , its own schools , its own cultural institutions . In areas such as the Caucasus , with its various localized cultures , a system of regional autonomy has been proclaimed , so that ethnic or tribal minorities should not be disadvantaged . In this respect the Soviet philosophy accepts the Mandan thesis that ethnic and racial differences are not intrinsic , that they are environmental variations of no great significance and playing no important part in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the first of the modem dictatorships , was not initially the expression of any mass-generated sentiment . The breakdown of the traditional Russian oligarchy in the stresses of war , the revelation of its incompetence , bureaucratic ineptitude , and general decay , did arouse wide-spread revulsion through the defeated country . In the ensuing chaos the Czar abdicated , and a provisional government , headed first by Prince Lvov and then by Kerensky , took over . The new government represented the democratic liberalism that had been finding an outlet through the Duma , the representative assembly which had become the focus of the democratic movement . But its policy for the continuance of the war was disliked by the war-weary masses and its unwillingness to take instant action to satisfy the land-hungry peasants destroyed its prestige . The occasion was seized by the small Bolshevik minority , always alert for drastic action and , though its ulterior aims were different , offering without hesitation to make the peasants the owners of the soil . This minority had the further advantage that it was led by a man with a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the great paradoxes of history that the revolu-  | Lion vaticinated by Marx , the revolution that was to overthrow capitalism in favor of a proletarian collectivism , should have been inaugurated in Russia , where there was no swelling proletariat and very little capitalism . Much of what followed in the course of the Soviet dictatorship is illuminated by that paradox . The Bolsheviks started with a complete Marxist creed . When they seized power they proclaimed a new order based on this creed . In the name of this creed they rallied their forces , and in its name they won adherents in many other lands . The creed had several aspects . There was the doctrine of the socialist or communist economy , demanding the collectivization of all productive wealth , the abolition of capitalism , and the establishment of the formula : from each according to his abilities , to each according to his needs . There was the doctrine of equality , denying advantage or privilege to any class , race-group , or interest . There was the doctrine of internationalism , opposing the dominance and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ doctrine of democracy , making all authority the expression of the people 's will . And there was the doctrine of the " withering state , " attacking the whole system of power politics and envisaging a future in which the role of the state as power would disappear and the classless society would function in liberty . To these doctrines was attached an elaborate " dialectic " of the inevitable historical processes through which the transformation must take place . The creed was supreme , indivisible , infallible . It was an admirable creed to inspire groups suffering from economic exploitation or social discrimination , groups burning with discontent against overmastering authority . It gave them a program , a faith , an assurance of ultimate victory . It was a fighting creed , very explicit about the plan of campaign but leaving in a kind of utopian dream the post-revolution world . Such was the creed the Bolsheviks set out to realize in Russia . The Soviet system was the result . As with every other system  | that is the offspring of a doctrine and a situation the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of its friends and of its foes alike . To understand what happened one has to understand not only the principles of Marxism but also the condition of Russia ? and even then one must summon hindsight as well as foresight . The history of Soviet Russia , is the history of the instituitonalization of a creed , of the various crises through which the new institutions passed , and of the successive impacts upon them of external forces and of the forces generated within them . The definitive act of the Revolution was the incorporation of the vast area of Russia within the framework of a collectivist economy . To establish a democracy at the same time was beyond the power , if not beyond the will , of the founders . For them the economic transformation was the primary change from which would follow all the other changes they desired . The temporary " dictatorship of the proletariat " would take charge of things until the revolutionary process was complete . Thus would come the final inauguration of the realm of freedom , wherein all " master-slave " relations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ society superseding the whole epoch of class struggle that has existed since the time of primitive man . In accordance with this mythology the Bolshevik Party , headed by Lenin and Trotsky , seized its rare opportunity , nationalized the banks and industrial and trading enterprises , divided the large estates among the peasants , and later proceeded to collectivize agriculture as well . The dictatorship , of course , was never a " dictatorship or the proletariat . " It was the dictatorship of Lenin and his group . The Communist Party became the guardian and the instrument of the new order . The successive storms through which the Revolution passed hardened the policy of the dictatorship and raised ever more challenging questions concerning its relation to its original creed . First it had to maintain and consolidate its power  | against external war and internal opposition . It survived these perils and ruthlessly " liquidated " anti-revolutionary elements within its borders . Soviet Russia thus became a state among the major states of the world , and for a time modified its collectivist program , permitting small traders to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ produce in their own way . With the death of Lenin in 1924 and the accession of Stalin to power signs were appearing of the internecine struggle among leaders that lies in wait for the dictatorial system . The new ruler Stalin , officially the General Secretary of the Party , departed from the line of Lenin in various ways . I le set out to build " socialism in a single country , " rejecting the internationalist theory of the communist revolution . To this end he engineered vast programs for a planned economy , the collectivization of agriculture , the first Five-Year Plan and its successors . No material enterprise on so heroic a scale had ever been attempted , or accomplished , before . Its immediate human costs were enormous , but it succeeded . No less drastically Stalin set himself to crush all dissidents among the old revolutionaries , all potential rivals , beginning with Trotsky and ending with an extraordinary series of purges and heresy trials that completely eliminated , with many others , the old Bolshevik leaders . Thus the absolutism of the dictatorship was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Marxist dogma of the " withering " of the state . The revived nationalistn of Soviet Russia was given new impetus when Hitler forced Stalin into the Second World War , when after tremendous defeats the Red Armies fought back with even more tremendous victories , and when it fell to Stalin to represent one of the three super-powers in the reorganization of the world . The " Hymn of the Soviet Union , " which at the end of 1943 was substituted as the national anthem for the " Internationale , " echoes precisely the same sentiment that animates " God Save the King " or " The Star-Spangled Banner . " ' lie outcome of it all has been a remarkable contradiction , at  | several vital points , between the established myth and the operation of the dictatorship . Under other systems the central myth of government is often violated in practice , but of these it may on the whole be said that their inconsistencies are the shortcomings men and nations alike reveal with respect to the goals they set themselves . Thus in the United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the treatment of very considerable groups , and particularly of the Negroes . But here the disparity causes uneasiness , some sense of maladjustment or of failure . It is a declension from a standard that is attained in very large measure for the rest of the community . Again , the myth of the totalitarian state was far from being fully realized in Fascist Italy , but at least it was the consummation toward which the government moved . But the situation that has developed in Soviet Russia is different . For here some of the primary doctrines of the creed are refuted by every activity of government , and moreover the contradiction is stoutly denied . Any declension from the projected ideal is explained on the ground that the process to full communism is still incomplete . The doctrine of the temporary dictatorship is contradicted by the intensive centralization of economic and cultural activities , and the " stateless " society is relegated to the Greek Kalends . The doctrine of the people 's rule is flatly rejected by the rigorous insistence on the party line . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vested in " the working people of town and country . " There is an impressive framework of electoral systems stretching all the way from the local soviets to the Supreme Soviet of the U.S.S.R. There are everywhere People 's Courts and People 's Commissars . But the voting at elections is practically unanimous , and the one party retains complete control . The doctrine of the abolition of class has been negated by the occupational gradings , but far more thoroughly by the pyramid of power , which rises as steeply as , and perhaps more  | rigidly than , it did under the Czarist regime . The principle , " to each according to his need " has been rewritten , " to each according to his work , " with important implications for the social system . Two types of functionaries regulate the everyday life , first the functionaries of the party , the officials , and next the closely allied managers of industrial and other enterprises . The doctrine of the free press and of cultural liberty is lauded , but the public expression of opinion is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been maintained by the characteristic devices of modern dictatorship , including the secret police , the spy , and the labor camp . The government puts the material facilities for press publication at the disposal of the people , but only those who adhere to the party line avail themselves of the privilege . The freedom of religion is guaranteed , but the restored Orthodox Church responds subserviently to the call of the state . Finally , the doctrine of internationalism has suffered eclipse . Born in war , the Soviet state lived continuously under the shadow of war and at length endured the brunt of the greatest war in history . These conditions forged a new nationalism in Russia , and this nationalism was not uncongenial to the mood of the dictatorship . It is clear there is fundamental conflict here between the ideology and the whole scheme of government . No dictatorship can promote or even tolerate the cultural liberty professed by the Soviet Union . Modern dictatorship is in the first instance a control of the mind by power . To this end it employs all the monopolized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It is a peculiarity of this appeal that it professes to give the people precisely the thing it takes away from them ? cultural liberty . Discerning students of dictatorship pointed out this fact long ago . Thus in the time of Napoleon , Benjamin Constant , who used the term " usurpation " to denote what we name dictatorship , wrote that dictatorship has need of the form of liberty to achieve  | its ends and therefore offers men a counterfeit of liberty . It even compels people to pretend they are free and bribes writers to convince them . Despotism , says Constant , " allows men the right to be silent " but dictatorship compels them " to lie to their conscience , depriving them of the only consolation remaining to the oppressed . " So long as only one " party " , is permitted to function in the state , so long as policy is determined by the program of the exclusive party , according to the party line enunciated from the top , there can be no cultural liberty . The numerous electoral exhibits @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being , are merely , with their near-unanimous polls , an additional revelation of its absence . Moreover , even under the most favorable conditions there would remain the question whether and how so drastic an economic collectivism as that of the Soviet Union could be reconciled with a system of democracy . If that question can be solved at all it has certainly not been solved under the conditions of Soviet Russia . The comprehensive nationalization of the means of production creates peculiar problems in this respect , problems the advocates of this form of economy seem reluctant to admit . When the state takes over all essential economic functions it confers on the political authorities new duties and new powers of the greatest moment . The decisions it must make are not of the kind on which public opinion can well be brought to bear . They are executive rather than legislative decisions . They involve many technical considerations requiring highly expert knowledge . The greater issues of a vast economic enterprise can hardly be determined by majority vote of the electorate , any more than a factory can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in government is enormously extended , without any corresponding extension of the checks on government . This power reaches so far into the everyday affairs of every man that those who wield it have levers whereby to control every  | aspect of life . To expect them to refrain from so doing is contrary to our knowledge of the psychology of power ? unless some as yet undeveloped safeguards can be applied . Within a completely collectivized economy two primary forms of social power , which under other systems remain partly detached and partly opposed , merge into a single focus . Under feudalism economic power is broadly coincident with political power , but the urban economy and the trading economy remain unintegrated with it and in any event there is a total absence of centralization . Under socio-capitalism the power of private or corporate control over wealth can never be wholly unified . There is always some conflict of economic interests . Even though there are great mergers of capital there will be some opposition between industrial and financial groups , between one kind of big business and another , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the domestic producer , between the labor union and the employers ' organization , between agricultural blocs and industrial blocs . Under such conditions economic power can never be identified with political power . There will be various adjustments and deals between the two , but government can never be all-powerful nor can wealth . There will always be conflict somewhere between multi-centered economic power and uni-centered political power . Interest groups will continue to use their power directly against one another . But under complete collectivism there is the greatest possible concentration of power , since power is both unified and centralized . We shall consider in another chapter the question whether collectivism is or can be made compatible with democracy . If the two are indeed reconcilable it must certainly be under conditions other than those that have ruled in Soviet Russia . In his work on Representative Government John Stuart Mill maintained that " human beings are only secure from evil at the hands of others in proportion as they have the power  | of being , and are , self-protecting . " Complete collectivism , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ groups an important means of self-protection . Where there is distributed and non-political control over the means of livelihood , while it may mean that some groups exploit others , it does provide a basis of resistance against power . Where there is no area for private enterprise every man is directly or indirectly an employee of the government . His security , his advancement , even his economic existence , depend on some political authority . They are most likely to be endangered should he overtly disapprove of the policies of the powers that be . He needs permission to quit his job or to look for another . If he offends one authority he offends all . He is thus at the mercy of government in a way that is alien to the spirit of democracy . We should not forget that in the evolution of modern democracy , first in England and later in America , the resistance of the men of means , as tax-payers no less than as opponents of absolutism , to the arbitrary demands of government was of crucial importance . In the Soviet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ same necessity weighs on everyone , from the lowest to the all-but-highest . It is even more compelling on the higher-ups , since any independence on their part can be construed as treason . Under such conditions a strong 3 orthodoxy is inculcated , even were it not involved in the initial establishment of the regime . In another milieu than that of Soviet Russia the transition from revolutionary zeal for new human liberties to the autarchy of the socialist state might have been tempered or even diverted . But in Russia both internal conditions and external pressures made any democratic evolution impossible . The dictatorship held starkly to its power and still affirmed . its ideology . The materialistic premise of this ideology , that the " material " ? in other words , the economic ? order is the supreme determinant of human history and human destiny , was itself fatally inadequate . It assumed , among other things ,  | that if wealth were socialized the human spirit would at last find free expression . Among other things it failed to recognize that wealth can indeed be socialized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the common possession of the community , but power is always exercised by a man or a group of men . Political power can be controlled only by being made responsible . Even apart from the aggravation created by the collectivist economy Russia could not at the time of the Revolution have established a democratic order . At that time this vast country was overwhelmingly peopled by unpolitical peasants , inured to absolute authority , even though they were disaffected by the disasters it had brought upon them . Over such a land only an autocratic government could in the chaos of the war have maintained itself . Moreover , the Soviet government was confronted by the hostility of the whole outside world , of its enemies and of its former allies alike , and had to prepare not only against internal revolt but also against the new war loosed against it by the capitalist states . Later , it became evident that a re-arming Germany was looking for conquest toward the East . The threat of war never ceased until at last Russia was engulfed in the Second World War @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ another road , not in the fulfillment of democratic aspirations . These achievements were indeed remarkable . The transformation of a predominantly feudalist system into a collectivistic one ruled by totally different principles was an extraordinary feat , whatever opinions we may hold regarding either the objective itself or the methods employed ? including the ruthless liquidation of the more prosperous farmers or kulaks in the process of establishing the collective farms ( Kolkhozes ) . About certain other achievements there need be o controversy . Never has an industrial development been ccomplished so rapidly on so grand a scale . The technological g of Russia behind the major industrial countries was vir-  | tually eliminated within a generation . The illiteracy of the Russian peasant was overcome under a system of universal education which , though rigidly doctrinaire , at least provided for backward multitudes the first facilities of knowledge . In these respects the Russian Revolution is a more enduring thing than its system of dictatorship and its Marxist orthodoxy . It is not unreasonable to conjecture that this revolution will go the way of other epoch-making revolutions . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The ideal it sought will not be attained in the manner visioned by its prophets . Their vision was too limited by the faults and by the virtues of their time and of their situation . The failure of actuality to correspond to the myth will give dominant groups at length the opportunity to pursue other goals . The social forces it suppresses , the impulses in men its established forms refuse to acknowledge , will find outlet . Periods of reaction and of counter-action will cause confusion within it . Its leaders will pass , new myths will be insurgent , and its first orthodoxy will become obsolete . But the history not only of Russia but of the world will be different because of it . Its inherent mission , not that of its founders , will be accomplished .  | REVOLUTION AND TRANSFORMATION REVOLUTION Government , like all human institutions , is a historical manifestation , bearing the seal of its time and place . It is subject to great transformations within a single generation of men . If we venture to propound some more enduring principles of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ principles wholly depends on changeful conditions . Since this book began to be written the advent of the atomic bomb has completely discomfited all previous predictions concerning the relations between states . The discoveries of ience from which it resulted signified no change in the Iiysical universe but only in our knowledge of it . The consequences of these discoveries on the other hand are certain to bring about deep-working changes in the social universe , to alter not only our perspective on government but the very nature of government . In the study of government we must ( Note particular attention to the processes of change within t and below it . We may broadly distinguish the more precipitate changes f government we name revolutions from the more gradual rocesses . The concept of revolution is applied to drastic ) nversions or metamorphoses of every kind , and so we speak , or example , of the " Copernican Revolution " and the " Inustrial Revolution , " but it has a special significance in the eaIm of government . For here the upthrust of revolution is  | consummated in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and its replacement by a new order . Since government itself is the custodian of the organized force of the community revolution here involves the temporary dissolution of that function . We may use the term " revolution " in the wider sense to embrace decisive changes in the character of government , even though they do not involve the violeni overthrow of an established order , but in the specific sense revolution signifies explosive eruption of pent-up forces that break through the resistance of the status quo , substituting a new system of a different kind . Sometimes uprisings that fail to achieve this end are also spoken of as revolutions . These are really abortive revolutions , in which category we include , for example , the demonstrations of 1848 in some countries of Europe . It does not follow , however , that because they were abortive as revolutions they did not have important repercussions on the further course of events . In seeking to distinguish revolution from other kinds of political commotion we have to face the difficulty that besets the definition of all terms that belong @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the adherents of the establishment as an insurrection or a rebellion or a mutiny , k though sometimes a later age will give it the more dignified name . Again , the name of revolution may be attached to various kinds of coup d'etat or putsch , at least when they succeed , although they do no more than transfer the reins of government from one group of power-holders to a similar group of power-seekers . " Palace revolutions " are of this order , or the many " revolutions " of Latin America that eject one dictator to put another in , with no momentous consequences on either the form or the policy of the state . Some writers , like Vilfredo Pareto and Roberto Michels , have indeed maintained the position that nearly all revolutions are of this type in the longer run , accomplishing little more than the replacement of decaying " elites " by more virile ones or of  | old oligarchs by new ones who , whatever their first pretensions , soon settle into the established ways . The orchestra changes , but the music @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ says Michels , " that this cruel game will continue without end . " Another modern writer speaks of revolution as a kind of fever that seizes the body politic , working up to a crisis followed by convalescence , after which the patient recovers and becomes himself again . But , as we shall endeavor to show , precisely the distinctive thing about the greater upheavals for which no other term than " revolution " is so apt a designation is that they meant not only the expulsion of an old order but a relatively enduring reorientation of the whole scheme of government and of its relation to the governed . The principles of the revolution may themselves grow dim or even be forgotten , but the course of history has been changed . A new period , or even a new epoch , has been violently born . Of revolutions in the proper sense we may distinguish two main types . One is the national revolution , the other the class revolution . By the former we mean the revolution in which a people overthrows a government it regards @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a movement for independence . The movement may not enlist the whole of the people . It may not be conceived in a nationalistic spirit . It may represent only a class that for narrower reasons is anxious to extrude a government externally imposed on the country . But it is always an assertion of the right of a people to govern themselves , and its success is always an advance on the road to nationality . Under the first type we include the whole series of revolutions that have dethroned conquerors and set up domestic rulers , those that have detached from empires the lands that cherished different cultures or different traditions from that of the authority imposed on them or those that have broken the colonial tie with some " mother country . " Sometimes these revolutionary movements are crushed but still weaken the power of the alien government ; sometimes they  | are partially successful and mark stages on the road to independence ; sometimes they do not erupt in violence but express themselves in other forms of resistance and disobedience . They become revolutions in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to an end the regime of the alien power . A major example of this type is the American Revolution . The study of revolutions of the first type is of interest not only because they have played so important a part in the history of civilization but also because they reveal the relative impotence of imposed military might when a strong will to resist it pervades a people , even though they can muster no equivalent might on their side . The successive breakdown of empires , ancient , mediaeval , and modern , testifies to this conclusion . Often even small countries , if the spirit of revolt runs high , prove at length so troublesome to their alien rulers that the latter give up the struggle . This has happened from the time of the Ancient Greeks to the present day , a recent instance being that of Eire . The decay of empires is one of the great commonplaces of history . Size is no guarantee of endurance , for though it formally means greater resources and greater power in the hands of the imperial state it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ force , graver dangers of disunity and cleavage within the structure . With the spread throughout the world of the sentiment of nationality the age of empires in the old sense has passed . They must either undergo transformation , as a large portion of the British Empire has done , into " commonwealths of nations " or disappear . Revolutions of the second type , or class revolutions , have attracted peculiar attention from the students of government . Since the time of Karl Marx it has been a favorite thesis that class revolutions all pass through the same series of stages . These stages may be summarily presented as follows : First , the regime prior to the revolution is oligarchical and oppressive . There is a ruling class that wilfully or blindly ignores the  | needs or demands of a changing society . The regime is without vision , often without vigor . Sometimes it is divided within itself . Discontent grows and is fomented by groups whose interests are balked by the hardening system of established power . The government has no remedy but suppression , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and to weaken the loyalties of large numbers for whom authority loses its ancient spell and becomes another name for tyranny . The inept ruling class can neither resist nor accommodate itself to the processes of change . It refuses to relinquish any of its prerogatives or share them with insurgent groups or classes . Insurgence breaks into action , but even then , so deeply does the sense of authority pervade society , it seeks to follow constitutional forms or traditions . The revolutionary movements of England worked through Parliament against the monarchy . The movement that culminated in the French Revolution sought to revive the obsolete Estates General in the form of a national assembly . The Russian Revolution of 1917 first established a provisional government based on the Duma . But when revolution has long been brewing its pent-up forces refuse to be contained within constitutional forms . The downfall of the old regime has tremendous reverberations . It opens up new possibilities , it stirs new aspirations , it gives momentum to the more extreme elements in the revolutionary movement . The new constitution and its makers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Opposing factions struggle for advantage . It is the time when the impassioned leader has his opportunity . As in all situations of crisis leadership assumes a transcendent role . The extremist is more forceful , more ruthless , more willing to promise a new heaven and a new earth . With the intensified emotions of the crisis his appeal is far stronger than before . The minor exhibitions of violence that accompanied the overthrow of the old regime have whetted the appetite for still more drastic transformations . With the loosening of the social bonds the herd is in motion . It needs a direction  | congenial to its mood . The genius of revolution incarnates itself in the emergent leader , whose masterfulness fills the vacuum of authority . So came certain " tyrants " of Ancient Greece , so came Cromwell and Robespierre and Lenin . However lofty the professed aims of the radical revolutionaries and however sincere they may be in their devotion to these aims they are committed to a program that only the most rigorous and ruthless methods can possibly implement . They must use @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the times so that it shall be directed against their opponents of every sort , sometimes including external enemies . They must act quickly and without scruple , to consolidate their power , to bring order out of chaos , to prevent the privations and sufferings of the people from breeding new discontents that will be turned against themselves . The new government is inevitably dictatorial and the new leader is the dictator . If he is trained in Marxist ideology he may think of the dictatorship as a temporary device , a necessary step toward the attainment of the revolutionary goal , but he can not guide his actions by that principle . He must carry through sweeping reforms but there can be no difference of opinion over them , even in the ranks of his own vanguard . What he does will greatly affect the lives and fortunes of multitudes but there must be no complaint or dissension . The new age of liberty turns into a time of harsh discipline and terror . The devotees of the new liberty must first cut down , root and branch @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . They must enthrone an orthodoxy of the most inflexible nature . An all-pervading censorship , sanctioned by dire penalties and protected by spies and informers , comes into being . As soon as the social orthodoxy of the revolution is converted into a political orthodoxy a psychological change manifests itself in the leader and in his entourage , and communicates itself to the body of his followers . The leader and his circle fall under the spell of power . The emphasis shifts from  | the ideal goal to the new objective of maintaining that power and crushing all opposition . The ideal goal is hard to win . human nature does not conform to the mythology of the prophets of the revolution . The great institutional changes do not abolish the old motivations . The " third estate " is emancipated or the " proletariat " is on top . But liberty , equality and fraternity are still far from being achieved ? and the " classless society " remains a dream . The creed of the revolution begins to lose its fervor ; the faith of the believers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ zealous for it as before . The propaganda of the government may still be powerful but its tone is gradually changing . There are rifts within the inner circle , contests for domination that end in the " liquidation " of the defeated . New crises arise , and often there are wars , or preparations for war , with foreign enemies . Subservience to the will of the government becomes more important than the revolutionary faith . So the stage sets in what Marxist experts on revolution have taught us to call " Thermidor . " It was in the month of Thermidor ( July , 1794 ) ? the authors of revolutions are fond of renaming familiar things to convey the sense of a new epoch ? that Robespierre fell and that , with the end of the Terror , a reaction set in against the excesses and also against the principles of the French Revolution . The " Thermidorean reaction " may not mean the fall of the leader and it may not take place in any such decisive manner as happened in France . But always there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of government . The revolution as such is at an end . We have here offered a sketch of the cycle of revolution . It is somewhat generalized and there are many variations of the pattern . History does not repeat itself though it reveals always afresh the permanent tendencies of human nature . We should not look for close parallels in the sequences of the great revolutions . Take , for example , the last stage , the so-called ' 1 ' hermidox . It may occur as a sudden change or it may be  | impossible to date its coming . We may dispute , for example , whether in Russia it came under Lenin or under Stalin . It may mean a marked reversion to older ways or a more subtle and partial change of direction . It may mean a change of rulers , or only a change in the orientation of rule . What seems sufficiently clear is the broad process of change , the retreat along the whole front from the tumult and the emotion , from the attitudes and from the visions of revolution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its special features . Each has its distinctive course to run . Each arises under circumstances of its own . The mode of eruption will depend on these circumstances . It will be affected by such things as the techniques of power prevailing at the time , the character of the armed forces , the means of communication , the development of the agencies of propaganda , the extent of urbanization and of industrialization , and so forth . The strategy of revolution is never the same twice . This point is amply illustrated in various studies that have been devoted to that theme . The subsidence of the revolution or again its failure fully to establish itself sometimes leads to the phenomenon of counter  - -  revolution . In all great reversals of human relations or attitudes the old , superseded by the new , still lives recessively and awaits the chance of dominance . Thus magic creeps back into religion , and the religion of the fallen gods gains a foothold within the triumphant new doctrine . The old tribal creed emerges from the new nationalism , as it did in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new cult of internationalism , as it did in Soviet Russia . But sometimes the forces of the ancien regime recover enough strength to overthrow by violence the new order . This is the counter-revolution . It most frequently meets with success during the first period of instability and confusion after the new order is set up . To this category belong most of the anti-democratic revolutions that occurred between the two World Wars , such as those  | which brought to power Admiral Horthy in Hungary and General Franco in Spain . The fascist counter-revolution in Italy was different in this respect , since it came after a long period of relative democracy . There was , however , very great unsettlement , the gravity of crisis that evokes the clash of extremes , where the issue becomes a new social revolution or a counter-revolution . Under such conditions the counterrevolution often masks itself as another " brave new world . " This was the style of fascism , which aped the French Revolution by introducing a new calendar beginning with the year I. It was also the style of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ movements sought to restore ancient myths of authority , but to succeed it was necessary for them to make appeal to classes that had been subordinate when these myths formerly reigned . At the same time it was to their advantage to enlist the more ardent revolutionary spirit that was liberated by the tension and crisis of the times . Consequently they sought to give the counterrevolution the appearance of being not a reversion but an advance to a new shining order of their own . The study of counter-revolutions can teach many lessons about human nature and government . We shall limit ourselves here to one observation . Frequently the authoritarian , the extreme conservative , professes himself to be the great respecter of law and order , in sharpest contrast to the radical , who is represented as the reckless innovator , for ever disturbing the status quo . Experience shows that in many respects the extremes , the revolutionist and the reactionary , are near akin , and not least in this one . The extreme conservative insists on the paramount need of law and order , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . When the establishment is alien to his desires he is ready to turn rebel . He is devoted to order and discipline when in conformity with his own purposes , when his own party is in control , when he has status or dominance under the establishment . He loses his devotion  | when the contrary is true . Thus the extreme English conservatives who condemned the Irish for a rebellious spirit were themselves ready to foment rebellion in Ireland when their cause was lost . So Hitler , the most scrupulously disciplined of soldiers , was first a rebel in his own home and at a later time did all he could to stir up chaos in Germany in order that his own regime might be established . So on the other hand the radical Mussolini became the loud exponent of the primacy of discipline . And the revolutionists of Russia , once set up in power , clamped an iron orthodoxy on the whole society . just as the extreme conservative , when his side loses , becomes easily a revolutionist if he cherishes the hope of restoration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the extreme radical , when his side wins , readily takes over the same kind of devotion to law and order that he previously identified with reaction . The general picture we have presented of the great class revolutions is not relevant to movements of protest , however violent , that are local or sectional . It is not relevant to abortive revolutions that lack the momentum to carry them into effect , such as the slave uprising under Spartacus in late republican Rome , the Jack Cade insurrection in fifteenth-century England , the " Peasants ' Revolt " of sixteenth-century Germany , and a vast number of other phenomena of this kind . It does not apply to sporadic insurgence against economic or social exploitation , such as the " radical " movements of the American West , unleashing the temporary discontent of those whose economic condition fluctuates from year to year so that they sometimes ride high and sometimes are nearly submerged . The great revolutions are those of whole classes who feel oppressed as classes and who seek successfully to reverse a long-stablished status of inferiority or subjection @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the profound impact they have on the social system . Wherever oligarchy prevails in any form the forces making for social  | change are kept in suppression . The oligarchy becomes a rigid crust and the social revolution is the eruption that breaks through it . Since oligarchy has characterized government throughout history the greater stages of social change have been signalized and dated by revolutions . Consequently political thinkers have given considerable attention to the cause ? and sometimes to the cure ? of social revolutions . Thucydides gave a remarkable exposition of the conditions under which revolution was bred in the city-states of Greece during the Peloponnesian War . He observed that war is the great fomenter of revolution , for it " assimilates the temper of most men to their present condition , " but he concluded that " the cause of all these things was the pursuit of power animated by covetousness and ambition . " Aristotle found the spring of revolution in inequality and the sense of injustice it engenders . He pointed out that this inequality included disparity of status or of " honors " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that revolutions are more likely to occur in an oligarchy than in a democracy Ind that the broadening of the basis of consent is the best safeguard against them . The theory of revolution developed little beyond this point until Marx and Engels gave it a startling new turn in the nineteenth century . The Communist Manifesto assigned to revolution a historical role of paramount importance . Earlier writers had deprecated revolution even when they believed it justified . Marx gloried in it as the cataclysmic agency of every great social advance . It was for him " the motive force of history . " Behind the Marxist theory of revolution there lay a certain conception of social class . On this we have commented in Chapter Six and elsewhere , ' but a few further comments are here in place . What Marx did was to take an old reflection , to be found in Thucydides and in Plato , that every society is two societies , one of the rich and one of the poor , and give it a new dogmatic elaboration . The interests as well as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ irreconcilably opposed . Class struggle , the central theme of history , could end only in revolution , and with the fervor of a prophet masquerading as a scientist Marx postulated the inevitable victory of the exploited or subject class . He discounted all other processes of social change , except in so far as they prepared the way for the final clash and the ensuing triumph of the dispossessed . He minimized the importance of the variety and multiplicity of social groups , with their criss-cross of opposing and harmonious interests . Marx and Engels had no place for the peaceful processes of democracy within which different class interests might strive for relative advantage on a foundation of common interest . As Engels put it in a statement endorsed by Lenin , for them " it is a perfect absurdity to speak of the free popular state " ; the only use they have for the state is to take it over " in order forcibly to suppress the opponents . " They conceived of society solely in terms of civil war and the preparation for it , and this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proletariat abolished social classes altogether . This theory of the final class revolution , somewhat played down by the " revisionists " who followed Marx and even at minor points by Marx himself in his later writing , was restored to all its sharpness and ruthlessness by Lenin and enthroned as the definitive doctrine of the Soviet Revolution . The world-shaking march of the Soviet Revolution demonstrated again the tremendous role that social revolution has played in the affairs of men , but it could not demonstrate the eternal validity of the creed under which Marxism triumphed . The great array of forces that underlie political and social change , as they continually take new and unexpected conjunctures , can not be disposed of so summarily . The consequences of the Soviet Revolution were very different from those envisaged by Marx or even by Lenin . The fulfillment they prophesied is as far off as ever . This fact alone suffices to show that other conditions are also important , that revolution  | can not be assessed without consideration of the various factors with which it is inseparably associated . There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . There are relationships between men and groups that do not depend on their class position . There are great unities and great divisions that are not responsive mainly to " material " considerations . The Marxists are not content to change the world by violence ; they have the violence of mind that would impose their schematism on all the processes of history and on all its future course , the violence of the zealot to whom all truth has already been delivered . For them all relatives are hardened into absolutes . As Mannheim expresses it , " from the sociological point of view , there are no absolute class antagonisms and the Marxist theory takes the marginal situation of an absolute clash as the normal one . Classes which in one configuration seem to be irreconcilable may march together in another situation . Whether they co-operate , or whether they prefer revolutionary methods , will depend , among other factors , on future chances and past experiences . " The social revolution , then , should be viewed as a particular agency of social change rather than as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ depends on many things ; there is no invariable way . There are periods of history when revolution is frequent and decisive ; there are others in which it is absent or rare . There were no distinctive social revolutions throughout the Middle Ages ; there have been few in the whole history of the Orient . They were rare in Europe before the French Revolution , nor can it be said that the downfall of feudalism was due mainly to revolutionary activities . In some countries social revolutions have been much less frequent than in others . England , for example , has had none since 1689 , and the revolution of that year was a mild affair that hardly conforms to the type . The times of social revolution have been those in which class oligarchies have sought by rigidly oppressive measures to maintain them-  | selves against the impacts of social and cultural movements that pervade large masses of the people and give them new opportunities of assault upon established power . Such times were the developmental period of the Greek city-states from the seventh to the fifth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the second century till the advent of Caesarism , and the period from the outbreak of the First Russian Revolution till the present . All these periods , and very notably the last , have been characterized also by the prevalence of war , confirming the insight of Thucydides that the temper engendered by deep-shaking war is congenial to the civil violence of revolution . We conclude , then , that when certain favoring conditions are present and when under these conditions oligarchical government inflexibly resists the demands of the subjected ? or exploited ? classes revolution is the method to which such classes resort . The drive that animates it is the rankling sense of the oppressiveness of social inequality , as it gathers momentum under the stimulation of social and cultural change that is debarred from political expression . Social inequality generally brings with it economic exploitation , and the removal of economic burdens becomes most frequently the objective in the name of which the leaders of the revolution can most effectively rally their followers . Thus Solon in Athens called for the abolition of debts , Tiberius @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Marx and Engels proclaimed the end of " wage slavery , " and even Hitler camouflaged his counter-revolution by appeals against " interest slavery . " The economic aspect is very important but it can not be separated from other aspects . Economic exploitation is one way in which uncontrolled power asserts itself at the expense of the powerless , and it is a way that most thoroughly and continuously cramps the liberties and opportunities , as well as the livelihood , of the oppressed . It is one expression of dominance but it is by no means the only expression , as any  | impartial reflection on the sequel of the Soviet Revolution immediately reveals . Morever , while the easiest appeal to the oppressed is most often the economic one , the leaders of the revolutionary movement are likely to be motivated by other considerations . They are themselves often above the economic class to which they give inspiration , as were Solon and the Gracchi and Lenin . They are often in a comfortable economic position , as were the leaders of the two English revolutions , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it would be very rash to assume that these are determinant . The urge for liberation has a wider reach than economic advantage . The tyranny of power galls men in other ways than through the straitening of their economic resources . When men fight to attain a new freedom what they conspire to overthrow is oppressive power in its various manifestations . The fact , for example , that Jewish intellectuals , including Karl Marx , have been strongly associated with modern revolutionary movements can not be adequately explained on purely " material " grounds . It is more reasonable to relate it to the history of persecution and to the inclusive discrimination , social far more than economic , of which the Jewish people have in so many countries been the victims right up to the present time . It is overbearing social inequality , arousing cumulative bitterness and frustration and resentment in those subjected to it , that when the favoring conditions are present accounts for the spirit of class revolution . Inequality is present everywhere in human relations , as in all other relations , inequality of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inequality of status , inequality of fortune and of fate . But there are two kinds of inequality that have peculiar power to stir protest , and , when conditions make it possible , to turn protest into revolt . One is the sheer inequality of wealth that is so utterly disproportionate to any differences of merit or of service and that provides the contrast between privation and endless hardship at one end of the  | scale and wanton superfluity at the other . It is the extreme disparity that arouses the profounder resentment and will continue to do so at least as long as the lower end is not given the security of a minimum standard of decent living . The other is the inequality of opportunity attendant on the inequality of power , evoking the deep-working sense of injustice , since men feel that their capacities , their personalities , are thwarted and repressed by the irrelevant advantage that the possession of greater power bestows on other men . This feeling is stimulated by the spread of education , for thus more people become conscious of potentialities and of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Some sense of the artificiality of these socially sustained inequalities is probably present in an inarticulate way under most conditions of society . Where the social order is relatively static it finds indirect expression in the reflection that time and fate equalize all things : Sceptre and crown Must tumble down And in the dust be equal made With the poor crooked scythe and spade . Or men cast their thoughts back to the beginning of society , when such differences did not exist : When Adam delved and Eve span Who was then the gentleman ? Or in a more sophisticated manner , abandoning the hope of greater equality in the real world , they project utopias in which the order of things is nearer to the heart 's desire . Sometimes , indeed , small groups have been able to hive away from the inequalities of society in order to realize the utopias of their dreams . To this category belong experimental communities of a socialist or communist character , of which a con-  | siderable number have been able to find a home somewhere in the United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ basis , such as those of the Shakers , Rappists , Mennonites , Hutterites , and Dukhobors , together with monastic communities of various types ? communities that generally have been able to resist the tides of change more successfully than the non-religious experiments . But for the majority of human beings the quiescent response to inequality has been the religious type of reflection , in which the disparities of man 's lot on earth are represented as fleeting and of no account compared with the eternal justice meted out in the world to come . This passive line of reflection is less attractive in times of social instability and flux , when the chances of action are opened to those who feel the inequity of the prevailing system . The more moderate temper accepts the notion of social progress . The more revolutionary mocks the religious consolation as " the opium of the people " or , more ribaldly , as " pie in the sky . " If the aspirations of the more moderate are blocked by the intransigency of oligarchical power the revolutionary spirit gathers strength beneath the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an unpractical mode of protest , congenial to the disoriented , the thwarted , the misfits , along with some visionaries whose restless nature rejects the escapist consolation . But as the resistance of the oligarchy to the more moderate proposals of reform grows obdurate the volume of underground protest swells , and the complete concept of revolution is born , the concept that the subjected many have a latent power sufficient , when once evoked , to overthrow the dominant few . With this development there comes also the creative myth of revolution , envisaging the convulsive downfall of the old order and its replacement by one that reverses the class structure . Now the revolutionary movement attracts other groups with a different outlook and of a different temper , those who aspire to  | realize ambitions frustrated by the existing order , those who want to take revenge on their former masters , and those who are filled with a fervid zeal for the cause itself . The leaders of the movement are no longer forlorn prophets of a new era but practical strategists and technicians who plan its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " unpractical " predecessors , as Marx and Engels did when they distinguished their " scientific " socialism from the " utopian " projects of men like Fourier and Saint Simon and Proudhon and Robert Owen . The movement becomes dynamic . It strikes at the heart of the established myth of authority . If the revolution succeeds the new myth is enthroned , but its dynamism has been partly spent in the dethronement of the old authority . Reality is stubborn and human nature , in the new rulers and in the people they rule over , is still what it was before . The conditions of rule and the motivations of power change the objectives of the new government . The myth hardens and becomes an orthodoxy . Here finally we turn to a question already raised . It is a serious misreading of history to conclude that when the revolution has run its course the old order of things comes back under other names . This misconception has been fostered by Pareto , Michels , and various popular writers on the subject . The myth that the revolution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of property , does not return in its former sanctity and integrity . In Rome the patrician class has for ever lost its monopoly , in France the ancien regime has lost its former prestige , in Mexico the hacienda and the church do not recover their supremacy , in Germany the Junker aristocracy no longer dominates , in Russia there is no road back to the Czar and the old hierarchy of class . Many elements that the revolution suppressed may reassert themselves . A new stratification may take the place of the old one . The new liberation may turn into a new subjection . A new autocracy , or a new imperialism , or a new nationalism , or a new conservatism may  | flout the creed of the revolution . But the relation of government to the people remains different from what it has been before . The struggle of groups or of parties meets on a new front . The style has changed . Old attitudes , old traditions , recur , but they must express themselves in other ways . The social revolution has dated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ // The consummated class revolution is an infrequent affair and when it happens it is the expression of cumulative social changes that have been prevented by the obduracy of power from . registering themselves in the institutional order . Established power is so tenacious of its prerogatives that rather than part with any of them it will often by blind resistance invite the loss of them all . Nevertheless the establishment is usually compelled to yield gradually before the trends of change and only rarely is it so entrenched that the class revolution must mature in order to break its resistance . Impressive as are the consequences of revolution it would be unwise to assume that institutional changes of equal magnitude do not come about in less abrupt ways . On the contrary , a strong argument can be made for the case that great institutional transformations more frequently result from step-by-step modifications than from the spasmodic upheavals of once-for-all revolutions . This much at least is certain , that the specific accomplishments of the revolutionary method are often unstable , for there has been no preparation for them on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ entails consequences , as we have seen , that are utterly unexpected and quite remote from the aspirations of the founders . Thus in countries like Sweden and Denmark and England a century of evolutionary processes has brought about most decisive  | changes in the form of government and in its relation to the community , changes that , from the institutional point of viewuw , spell a wider difference between the then and the now than exists , for example , between the government of the Czars and that of Stalin . The reason is clear . Every change in the ways and in the conditions of social life seeks to reflect itself in the institutions of government . When government is not rigidly class-bound these changes are themselves less inhibited in their development and they therefore more fully as well as more directly are brought into accord with constitutional forms and governmental policies . Thus the processes of industrial change with the corresponding modification of class structure found less obstruction in the more democratic countries and these countries in turn were more able to achieve some degree of harmonization @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ times . Revolution , on the other hand , may do more to demonstrate the pre-existing lack of harmony than to substitute a new harmony . The destructive objectives of revolution are not only more explicit than its constructive principles , they are also more capable of realization by the methods it must employ . There is no occasion for surprise if the processes beneath the surface of government are in the longer run more determinant of its character than the occasional upthrusts that break the pyramid of power ? themselves the retarded , and thereby distorted , manifestations of the same processes . These incessant processes work on various levels , but they combine and interact in the most intricate ways . Because of their multiplicity and the extreme difficulty of tracing their various relations there is a strong temptation to single out one or another strand of the baffling network and to regard it as dominating the whole pattern . Some seek to explain the whole scheme by emphasizing the processes of environmental change , or one of these such as the climatic ; others lay stress  | on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of population to material resources ; others magnify the racial factor ; and others again give prominence to cultural change . The problem can not be met by such devices . Every situation is different from every other . The strands are woven into a new pattern . The transformation of government is the consequence of the entire social dynamism . We can at best trace some repercussions of certain modes of change , as they enter into complexes with other changes . To do this in an adequate manner is far beyond our scope . We must be content to illustrate the ways in which it happens , selecting certain aspects of governmental change that are responsive to determinate trends in the social substratum . Let us consider first some trends that manifest themselves in the multitudinous technological changes of a modem civilization . Each of these changes is associated with some modification of social relationships as new controls , new habits of work , new contacts , new opportunities , new collocations of interest , and so forth , develop out of them . Each of these changes , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new functions and new problems on government . But the various changes constitute a relatively coherent system of change , so that they have common characteristics and a total impact . Thus the series of technological advances , viewed as a whole , drew more men and ever larger groups into relations of interdependence and made them subject to the consequences of a single action , decision , event , or accident initiated at any point within the enlarging network . The failure , for example , of a bank in Austria , the Credit Anstalt , had grave repercussions over the civilized world , precipitating a whole train of economic disturbances . The credit mechanism had become an international one so that a block , interference , crisis , or depression anywhere affected the livelihood of peoples hundreds or thousands of miles away . Centralized controls , the operations of vast organizations , determined impersonally the well-  | being or illbeing of multitudes who not only could not influence these operations but remained totally unaware of the relation between their own good or ill fortune and these faroff events . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that every part of it is equilibrated with . respect to every other part , so that a change anywhere imposes the need for a new adjustment everywhere . The effects of the change are quasi-automatic , and no small part of the problem arises from the fact that there is no overall agency which has the function of co-ordinating and supervising the working of the total mechanism . Political controls have stopped at the boundaries of the various states while economic controls are in another way multi-centered . Each has no responsibility outside of its own area , but what each does has momentous consequences in the areas beyond . The significance of the problem is heightened by the consideration that our large-scale technological system can not tolerate the breakdowns and interruptions that in the simpler economy are of far less moment . As Mannheim points out , " in a well-organized railway , for example , the effects of an accident are more far-reaching than they were in the stagecoach system of transport , where accidents and dislocations were taken for granted from the very beginning . " To @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his foreman meant nothing to the world in the days when it was a large factory that employed sixty people and when each workshop was independent of every other , but in the newer civilization that dispute may engender a strike or lockout involving ten thousand or a hundred thousand people , putting a whole industry out of commission and prejudicially affecting , to a greater or less extent according to the character of the industry , the whole economy . Again , while in the old days failure of the harvest in one country brought with it famine and disease  | for the people of the affected area these disastrous consequences were localized while now they carry trouble to distant lands . Similarly , the economic policies of any country are of serious concern to every other . When it makes price regulations , when it controls monopolies or leaves them free or encourages them , when it passes a new tariff law , when it raises or lowers the level of taxation , when it expands or contracts the volume of credit , when it subsidizes export industries , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ immediate impact , for better or for worse , on the welfare of practically every other country . Increasing specialization accompanies increasing inter-dependence . Modern technological trends do not stimulate every kind of specialization . In particular , as economists have frequently pointed out , they reverse the process of specialization with respect to those skills that abandon the handicraft tool for the power-operated mechanism . Since all power mechanisms depend on the same basic technology the mode of operation is similar no matter what the differences between them or what the products they are designed to make , whether it be textiles or shoes or newsprint or guns . Moreover , the improvement of the machine reduces the variations of skill required to operate the different types . Specialization is thus minimized in two ways , first because the operative task is simplified and second because it is similar for a great number of industrial products . But the same mechanization that is responsible for these developments increases the functional differences , the specializations of task as against those of skill , in the industrial scheme . Where formerly one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a mat or even a house now dozens or hundreds of operations performed by different men are devoted to the construction of such objects , while the construction of the more elaborate devices of technology , such as the automobile , the airplane , the apparatus of the telephone ,  | and the machines of production themselves , call for thousands and tens of thousands of separate operations each of which is assigned to a special category of workers . But specialization is not confined to the level of material production . It is exhibited no less in all the services , all the professions , all the businesses of promoting and advertising and buying and selling ? and all the governmental activities ? that make up the great majority of the vocations of modern man . The categories of economic interest are thereby much subdivided . Each sets up its own organization , jealously guarding the range of its jurisdiction and asserting the economic claims of its specialized group . More inclusive organizations cover the larger categories . The process extends to every level and range of interest . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ combine a functional interest with some other kind , so that , for example , there are associations of industrial or professional workers belonging to a particular church or ethnic group or political party . This ramifying specialization , as it subtly rebuilds the social structure , has enormous significance also for the rebuilding of the whole scheme of government . In the next chapter we shall see how it transforms the functions of government , but aside from this more direct consequence the processes we have here under review work as great a transformation of the character of government as can be attributed to the most worldshaking of revolutions , a transformation that is more enduring and more universal , for these processes are persistent , irreversible , and cumulative in their impacts , not subject , like revolutions , to revulsion and counter-movement . Among its other effects the specialization of the modern world fosters a new and increasingly complex system of groups and sub-groups most of which seek to advance their particular objectives by political action or influence . The conflicts between these groups are accentuated by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leadership between the  | candidates for the prestige and power that go with elevation to that position . Pressure-gt-oups are active to make government amenable to the measures they advocate while coalitions of interest-groups struggle to capture the government altogether . Minority groups strive to become majority groups or combine with others to attain their ends or seek to hold the balance of power between stronger opposing groups . With the advance of specialization we meet all the political and social problems of the multi-group society . We have pointed out that modern specialization diminishes the differences of skill required for different kinds of work . No long apprenticeship is needed any more , within a vast area of industrial tasks , to pass from one occupation to another . Relatively few occupations , like that of the surgeon or the engineer or the lawyer , require the entirely specialized skill of hand or lore that is not attainable apart from the whole lengthy business of its separate acquisition . Hence there is a new mobility throughout the range of industrial activity . Men change their jobs as opportunity increases here @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The worker is attached to his work not by the more enduring congeniality of task to habit but mainly by immediate need or economic interest . The union to which he belongs is not particularly devoted to the advancement of the industrial function it represents but almost wholly to the reduction of the insecurity that goes with mobility and to the attainment of success in its bargaining role . This concomitant of mechanical specialization is an aspect of more general mobility that technological advance promotes . The tempo of change makes all things seem less stable and strikes at the fixity of custom . The necessity of new adjustments to changing situations encourages the tendency to disregard tradition and live experimentally on the edge of the future . The ease of transference from one occupation to another and from one place of abode to another militates against the slow-maturing relationships  | between home and locality , between family and neighborhood , between individuals and their social environment . The struggle of opposing interests expresses itself in the competition of doctrines and creeds , before the impact of which the historical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in every area of experience . In consequence the old . bases of authority are undermined , and again government faces a new world of problems . The three great technological trends of increasing interdependence , specialization , and mobility are closely related to other forms of change in the kaleidoscope of modern society . The trends themselves are inherent in the conditions of advancing technology but the rate of change and the particular modes in which the trends manifest themselves are determined by the prevailing politico-economic structure and by the dominant cultural attitudes . There is a complex and ever changing adjustment between the various processes of the changing society . It is plausible to regard the technological process as the prime mover , or again the economic process , but all such theories simplify the major problem of social causation . The impact of technological change has been very different in different countries , in England and Germany and the United States and Japan and France and Russia and all the rest , not merely because one country was at the outset technologically more advanced than another nor because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ traditions were different , because education was different , because the ways of living and of believing and of thinking were different . These other things were also in motion . Class relations and value-systems were changing too , and as these other changes met the technological trends the whole institutional system went through its characteristic transformation . We have taken technological change as our starting point because here the trends of change are particularly well defined , because the direction of change is here always the same , and  | because the impetus of the basic technology is such that once it has advanced a certain way it over-rides all differences and is universally adopted . Men may fight because they cherish different faiths but they will fight with the same guns . They may detest the economic system of another state but they will employ the same techniques of production . For the standard of technology is efficiency , and since the advancing technology is identical with the more efficient technology its results anywhere compel , sooner or later , its acceptance everywhere . All men , all nations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ends to which they apply it . " In the beginning , " when their communities were small and isolated , the techniques of men were as variant as their myths . In modern civilization the basic techniques are everywhere the same and it is only the myths that are widely divergent ? even though the myths themselves undergo some process of accommodation to the techniques . There is no ground to suppose that , whatever modifications of our myths may develop in response to technological change , to the scientific knowledge that lies back of it , and to the conditions of life it imposes , there will come about any uniformity in the realm of values comparable to the uniformity prevailing in the realm of techniques . This situation , the vast heterogeneity of organized interests and value-systems within the area where a universally accepted technology requires a unified scheme of control , offers a major challenge that modem government must somehow learn to face . The relation of changing myths to changing techniques is a theme that has assumed increasing importance in modem times . A favorable thesis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of all social change . These factors in the first place work on economic conditions and economic relationships , and these in turn are reflected in the changing culture . There can be no question of the profound effects of technological development on the attitudes of men  | and the institutions of society . But it is theoretically difficult and practically impossible to establish the position that it is wholly or always the conclusive explanation of the major changes within a society . Some , like Marx , have laid stress on the mediated consequences of the changing technology , making the economic relationships the direct determinant of change on the level of institutions as well as on the level of creeds . Others , like Veblen , have been more impressed by the immediate response to technological processes , declaring , for example , that the habit of work becomes the habit of thought . A number of writers , following the second line , have dwelt on the " lag " between technological change and social response , as Veblen also did in Imperial Germany and the Industrial Revolution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Germany with the attitudes of the ruling class which has not been subject to the discipline of the new order . The valuations of the ruling class had become an insulated tradition surviving for a time against the forces that make the modern world . That the technological factors foster habits and attitudes congenial to their applications , that certain ways of thinking and of reacting are promoted by the discipline they impose , that they present opportunities and necessities to which men adapt themselves , that they establish new relationships , new contacts , new groupings which work profound changes in the social structure ? these conclusions are beyond question . But we must not on these grounds assume that the myths of men are simply the servants of their techniques . After all their first objective is to make their techniques serve their myths . That 's what techniques are for . There is no simple one-way relation between technological advances and the uses to which they are put . The relation will vary according to the dominant value-complexes of the group and of the age . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the United States and in Russia , in a democratic state  | and in a dictatorial state . It is not merely a question of " lag . " There may indeed be a failure to adopt in some departments of our behavior the standards of efficiency to which our technology has trained us . We may appreciate their advantage , say in engineering , but reject them in the organization of our economic system . So far it is a " technological lag , " for we are permitting the interests of some to interfere with the interests of all in an area where standards of efficiency are clearly applicable . Or we may eschew in the planning of our international relations the rationality we have learned to accept in our domestic affairs . Technology trains us in the application of means to ends , and , being bound by our traditions , we may lamentably fail to exercise this kind of intelligence . But no exercise of intelligence in the application of means to ends , no criterion of rationality , will suffice to tell us what ends @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because technology has no goals . We are not neutral mechanisms devoted to the greater glory of our mechanical skills . We must then recognize that the realm of values has an autonomy of its own , that our myths have their own motions and a directing dynamism which enters into complex and often bewildering associations with the means technology places at their service . They have their currents and their trends , though these are too variable and unpredictable to be analogous to the continuous trends of the technological order . They express themselves in a multitude of changing styles , with their changing symbols and their changing appeals . " There are myths of the group and myths of the community , myths of the people and myths of the age . Some pass quickly , others are enduring and deep-working in a manner that is utterly unlike the quick obsolescence of technological formations . Some change and disappear , others , like religions , change and persist . All of them are in their degree incorporated in institutions and have their impress on the physical environment . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ translation of engineering blueprints into reality . They are realized in ways of living , and this realization is always partial , beset by contradictions and conflicts , distorted by expediency and by necessity . Social change is the effective conjuncture of techniques and myths , and the chief controller of these conjunctures is. the architectonic system of techniques , the system of government . It is called into operation because without such control the processes of technological and cultural change , as they combine in a thousand ways in the life of the community , create disorder and confusion and conflict . In this respect the task imposed in the modern state is heavier than that which any earlier type of government had to bear . The diversities of groups and of group values are far greater . The organizations of groups , each intent on its own values and seeking advantage or domination over others , are far more elaborate and efficient . The tensions thus developed between competing or conflicting groups are the more difficult to deal with because government is more directly subjected to their various pressures @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , all alike making appeal to the controlling power , which itself is a composite of divergent interests . Thus the policies of government tend to become a series of compromises along the lines of least resistance . In the conduct of government compromise is proper as well as necessary , and the art of compromise is one that all but fools and the less successful dictators recognize . But the danger is that the greater common interests may suffer in the immediacy of the endeavor to satisfy particular interests . The common gains that modern technology can assure may be frustrated . An obvious example is the failure to gear the economic system to the productivity of industry or to assure to all a level of living above the insecurities and privations of poverty . The sum of the desires of particular interests is something very different from the general interest . If the desire of every economic group for  | higher prices for its own product were realized the consequent price level would bring most of them loss not profit . When the demands of many groups for tariff @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to economic prosperity and in the long run to many of the groups that clamored for it . When men seek freedom from public restrictions on the unlimited pursuit by each of his private interest they are preparing for themselves more dangerous and more chaotic interferences with these interests as a result of which they may lose their most essential freedoms . And when nations in a world of interdependence obstinately cling to an unlimited " sovereignty " in their dealings with other nations they are asserting the unrealistic claim of national interests to the jeopardy not only of their real interests but it may be even of their very existence . On every level and for every scale of relationship between group and group illustrations are at hand to show that the primary responsibility of government is to corroborate and to plan the more inclusive and more fundamental welfare made available by technological advance against the disturbing and sometimes ruinous demands of more limited interests , themselves rearmed and made more powerful as a result of the same technological processes . The greater utility , the more architectonic adaptation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the conspiracies of lesser utilities . That is why the task of government has become so difficult , and why we have the paradox of a civilization peculiarly devoted to utility that constantly defeats the utility at its command . // To complete our survey of the major internal changes with which government must reckon we turn to the changes that p 300 occur in the succession of the generations . For the newer generations are not , even biologically , an exact reproduction of the older . Here too there are trends of great moment . The numbers and therewith the composition of the population are subject to certain principles that are relatively well defined and that are not , on the whole , rendered inoperative by the , mere events and accidents of history . Here , if anywhere in the human scene , there are discoverable laws that preside over the affairs of men , but they reveal the regularity of change , not of permanence . It is obvious in the first place that the size of the population , for a given area , bears some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the latter is in turn a function of the development of technology . Where technology is so primitive that men live mainly by hunting and by gathering such products as nature provides without cultivation , a minimum of several square miles is needed to maintain a single individual . When the art of raising sheep and cattle has been learned , several persons can be supported on a single square mile . As agriculture develops the ratio of persons to square miles increases rapidly . Where finally industry is combined with agriculture the potential density of population is still further increased . But the actual size of the population is affected by factors other than the means available for its sustenance . This holds true even where the standard of living is low and the state of technology primitive . Under all conditions social controls have some effect on numbers while traditions and usages direct and limit the exploitation of resources . The actual population is not identical with the potential population . One might have expected that with the development of agriculture the largest populations would have been found @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Russia , for instance , great fertile prairies remained almost untenanted for centuries after the technique of the plow was known . The traditions of the nomad peoples of the plains and the conflicts between them  | and the settled populations to the south were prohibitive . We must therefore modify the old Malthusian doctrine that population always tends to increase beyond the limits of subsistence and that the forces which have held it in leash have been the preventive checks of nature , starvation and disease , with their allies " vice " and war . It is of course true that these are potent checks , but the emphasis put on them gave a wrong impression . At every stage the social system of the group is in some way adjusted to its living conditions and it brings to bear the sanctions , taboos , and positive practices requisite for the maintenance of the population level . In the simpler societies there is some kind of equilibrium of births and deaths ; the " natural increase " of the population is under control . The equilibrium is achieved in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of mating and of reproduction , and if necessary resort was had to such methods as infanticide or the exposure of unwanted infants . Generally the high infant death rate precluded the need for modern methods of birth control . This type of equilibrium prevailed until a quite recent period . The greater civilizations of the past made many adances in the art of living , but they did little to change the ncient balance . They created urban centers into which the calth derived from the countryside was poured , but the new sources thus made available probably did little to diminish the oath rate . On the contrary , the cities themselves were insani:try and the death rate within them , even more than the new ractices they may have adopted , offset the tendency of popu , tion to increase with increase of resources . What increase tcre was came largely from the pushing back of the frontiers ? f cultivation , the improvement of agriculture , and the ecootnic advantages of having a larger area unified under the w of a single state . But medical science @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was a rcely known . The main challenge to the old equilibrium  | must come from a drastic fall in the death rate , and this d ' not take place . So long as normal recruitment of the popul tion required five or six or even more births per family the was generally no very serious pressure of population on r sources , no urgent need for the expansion of territories . provide for population growth . In the near-Eastern civili ? tions the danger became that of dwindling populations rath than of growing ones . There was no tendency to the gene adoption of devices of contraception or of abortion , and sue devices , in so far as they were developed at all , were usual ! , the concomitants of a life of luxury that only the few enjoycs In broad perspective the fundamental change that has talc. place in modern society has been a transition from one kind population equilibrium to another . Most writers on this su ject have dwelt particularly on the role of birth control . B the primary condition was the decline @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and set in motion , the who process . The transition is one from an equilibrium based e a high death rate and a high birth rate to an equilibrium i which both rates are vastly reduced . The fall in the death ra generally preceded the fall in the birth rate . In the countri of Western civilization there was a slow increase of popul tion prior to the last quarter of the eighteenth century . Th. in the nineteenth century there came in these countries a in North America an increase of unprecedented magnitud Productivity was being augmented with the rise of the ne industrial technology . This productivity was not , as Malth assumed it would be , wholly used up in making possible t subsistence of a larger population . Some of it was directinto more hygienic conditions for considerable numbers , ev though the new laboring masses were for a time intolerab exploited . As the conditions of life improved the death ra fell . Fewer births were required to maintain the old equili rium , but for two or three generations the previous birth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the third quarter  | the nineteenth century that the birth rate began to decline in England , the first home of the Industrial Revolution . Since that time the trend has been consistently downward , and it has been accompanied by a continuing decline of the death rate . First exhibited in France , the trend took its definite direction in England from the year 1878 , was manifested in Sweden , Denmark , Holland , Australia , Italy , and a few other countries in the next decade , and at length spread to all the areas that dopted the new industrial civilization . We are accustomed to think of states as the locations of these phenomena . We compare the population statistics of ifferent countries , but while such comparisons are relevant or certain purposes our language may convey a false impresion . The processes of population-change have little relation o states as such . The major trends do not respond to the . olicies of governments . They are phenomena of a whole ivilization , common to various countries and exhibited in ? if-ferent degrees within different @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ civilization . Governments - . nnot control them much or long . Mussolini might preach rtility but the birth rate of Italy continued to fall . Hitler light employ all the monopolized propaganda of a totali . Tian state to the same end , but the modest rise of the birth to that followed his accession to power , even if it can be tributed to the persuasions of the party and not to the incase in employment and other factors affecting the number f marriages , still left the German rate considerably below hat it was at the time of the First World War . France ight use economic incentives to increase the size of families , tit with little avail . The transition from one equilibrium to other has proceeded in response to socio-economic condins that are more powerful than the will of governments . The improvement of the standard of living based on the ) ductivity of modern technology brings about , especially cc it is likely to be accompanied by advances in medicine  | and the science of public health , a falling death rate . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most important fact. : : . is the reduction of child mortality , particularly of infant mo tality . After a time the prophets begin to utter warnings overpopulation and the statesmen talk of the need of outl for surplus population , whether in colonies or through tl expansion of territories at the cost of neighboring countric But at length the birth rate begins to fall , not in response t the warnings of the prophets but because of more intima considerations that have their impact within the circle of th family . Fears of overpopulation turn into fears of depopul ? tion , but the process over-rides the latter as it did the forme The birth rate descends toward the level of the death ratespecially as with the reduction of the former and the consquent " aging " of the population the conditions become lc favorable to a further decline of the latter . In some instanc= the birth rate falls below the level of the death rate . The consequences of this great transition are momento So far as the new equilibrium can be maintained it is the cu @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ moved in its evolution from the pre-human world . Th excess of birth over survival is prodigious on the lower o ganic levels . It shrinks as we approach the higher mamma By comparison it is low for primitive man . For men of th earlier civilizations the " expectation of life " at birth may hav been somewhere between twenty-five and thirty-five yea There was relatively little advance beyond that stage until quit recently . Today , in some leading countries , it is sixty yea or more . This change immensely lightens the reproductiv functions of the family , conserves human energies , and esp . cially those of women , for other activities , and has a profoun. effect on the whole scheme of human values . The manner in which the transition takes place create however , some serious issues with which government cann . but be concerned . Since it proceeds from the loci of industri i  | progress some countries experience the effects of it much more slowly than do others . In the earlier stages there is a rapid increase of population . Consequently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ industrial methods have expanding populations when already the more forward countries are approaching equilibrium and may even be fear'ng a net decline . Since the expansion of population goes along with the expansion of resources such countries acquire in turn the kind of economic and military advantage previusly attained by the countries earlier committed to technoogical efficiency . The period of expansion before the birth ate responds to the new conditions is variable , depending on he degree of cultural isolation and on the strength of the cultural resistance to a change of mores . It may last for two r more generations . Meanwhile the expanding countries take dvantage of their position . They demand a " place in the in . " They tend to regard the countries approaching a stationary population as having lost their " virility . " So Germany , elatedly entering the industrial race , became on the one hand n object of apprehension to her Western competitors and n the other hand stimulated that apprehension by her aggresive diplomacy . Politics looks at the moment , not at the longer end . The birth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the twentieth century and when litler came to power it was already down to a level ( seventen per thousand ) that is characteristic of the new equilibiuin . The industrialization of Japan began more recently ; he doubling of the population that occurred between 188o ! hi I940 took place in a country already highly congested , that the main preoccupation of her government became at of gaining new lands for the overflowing people . As freuently happens in such circumstances the government opmovements directed to birth control ? nevertheless the birth rate , though it actually became higher in the last decades the nineteenth century , began presently the persistent de-  | cline that had become characteristic of the countries of Western civilization . Most striking of all has been the case of Russia . Here Western technology was introduced on a magnificent scale by a revolutionary government that had no sym-pathy for the pre-existing economic order or for the mores ' that went with it . The birth rate before its advent had been a very high one , of the type associated with an illiterate feudal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ face of things was changed in every other respect by the revolution the birth rate has remained very high . Any tendencies of the ideology of the revolution that might have been favorable to a lower birth rate soon disappeared . Soviet Russia was in the first stage , in which all the conditions make for an expanding population . Since the country was so vast , containing so rich a supply of exploitable resources , this accession to her strength soon placed her in the front rank of the great powers , a position tested and confirmed by the Second World War . Moreover , Soviet Russia still has great areas sparsely inhabited ? in this respect being at the opposite extreme from countries like India or China . Under an industrial economy these areas can sustain a much larger population . Thus everything has encouraged the momentum of Russia 's internal expansion . The standard of living is still very low . The forces that bring about the decline of the birth rate have not yet revealed themselves . The zenith of her relative strength , in political terms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ If nothing happens to foster grave internal disunity , or political partition , it is inevitable that for some time her role among the states of the world will continue to grow . We observe in passing that with the permeation of modern technology throughout the world there tends to be a closer relationship between the available resources of a country ( including its mineral as well as its agricultural resources ) and the size of its population , while the role of a country in international affairs tends to become more than before a func-  | Lion of these factors . In earlier world history the size of a country measured by its resources and its population was no criterion of its power and influence . Now it is becoming much more significant provided the country is politically unified , a condition not yet attained in such large countries as China and India . The exception to this principle is that of lands where climatic conditions , as in the tropical areas , are unfavorable , but it is possible that further advances in technology may slowly remove this impediment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ countries , such as those of Western Europe , can no longer hold their former standing in world politics except by combining in some kind of federal union . A second aspect of the transition concerns the relative position not of countries but of groups and social classes within each country . There are , particularly in the earlier stages , marked differences between the susceptibility , or the exposure , of different groups to the new conditions . The birth rate of the upper social and economic classes declines more sharply than that of the others . The urban birth rate is more seriously affected than the rural . Different occupational groups respond differently . The decline is greater for white-collar groups than for manual workers , for skilled workers than for unskilled , for groups whose women are " gainfully employed , " such as textile workers , than for groups whose women remain at home , such as mine workers . Although there are also disparities in the death rates of the various groups some contribute considerably more and some considerably less than their proportion to the numbers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ educated , the more prosperous , and the more skilled contribute less than their proportion has been regarded with grave misgivings by various writers on the subject , but we have no way of assessing the actual consequences . The disproportion is greatest in the earlier stages of the transition since in time the groups with the higher birth rate are in some measure caught up in the broad trend toward  | the lower rate . It is significant that cultural resistances to the . trend , as shown for example by Roman Catholic and by Jewish groups , are largely overborne as the movement pro ? ceeds . Thus the birth rate of dominantly Catholic areas , such as Austria and Bavaria , responded more slowly at first but at length moved rapidly toward the new equilibrium . In like manner the difference between urban and rural rates , like that between white-collar workers and manual workers , has been diminished . Again , in the United States foreign-born whites had at first a higher birth rate than native-born whites but wherever the former attained American standards of living the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " aging " of the population . Where a high death rate prevails there are more in the younger age-groups , more relatively in the reproductive-age groups , and considerably fewer in proportion in the older-age groups . If we represent the total population as an age-group pyramid , as in the accompanying chart , the base of the pyramid is broad and in the higher reaches it rises sharply to the peak of old age . As the birth rate falls , the shape of the pyramid changes , the base narrows , and the upper portion becomes less steep . The temporary shape of the pyramid is affected by other factors , particularly by the unequal toll of war on certain age-groups , but there is a form characteristic of the new equilibrium . As the process advances , the term " pyramid " becomes inaccurate , for the numbers in the lowest age-groups become fewer than in some higher age-groups and we attain a configuration such as that presented for England and Wales ( 1970 ) in the chart . The changing age-composition is accompanied by social changes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the last resort the expression of changing valuations directly operative within the circle of the family , as it accommodates itself to the new conditions of birth and death , of youth and age . It involves changes in social and political attitudes . We  | shall not dwell on the more speculative theory that with the increasing proportion of older persons in the adult population there is a greater tendency toward political conservatism . The assumption that older age-groups are more conservative or less revolutionary than younger ones may have some warrant ,  | but radical and revolutionary movements are infallibly nourished by conditions that over-ride differences between the mentality of the younger and that of the older groups subjected to them . There is greater strength in the argument that as the survival rate approximates more nearly to the birth rate more significance is attached to the individual . He becomes more important to the family and thus also to the community . For example , the ravage that war works on the youth of a country is not so easily restored . The peoples with the low birth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . They are less willing to think of men as " man power , " part of which may be " expendable " in war . There is generally more concern for the welfare of the individual , and this concern reinforces other considerations stimulated by the mode of life of the smaller family , for example by its lesser ability to sustain itself in times of economic stress , so as to promote programs of social security . We have broadly a situation in which economic productivity is much enhanced while the number of births is reduced ? a situation that puts within easy attainment the objective of a minimum standard of economic wellbeing for all . Another aspect of the new equilibrium is that it progressively disposes of the problem of outlets for surplus population . Under the old equilibrium there sometimes occurred a conjuncture of circumstances favorable to a temporary increase beyond the limits of sustenance , leading to the thrusts of peoples into the lands of other peoples , to invasion or mass migration . In the transition process some countries increase rapidly in population , others @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ making for a lower death rate ? improvements in sanitation , hygiene , dietary conditions , the care of infancy and of maternity , and the control of disease , accompanying the advance of productivity ? precede the conditions making for a lower birth rate , precede the adoption of new mores congenial to urban and industrial life and to the lower mortality rate .  | These disparities change the relative strength of states and stimulate aggressive or warlike actions on the part of the ascendant powers . But in the calculable future all important countries will reach the stage at which the birth rate falls within an " aging " population until the new balance of births and deaths is reached . Here the final question emerges . When we say " balance " we assume that the fall of the birth rate will stop somewhere near the point where it is adequate to compensate the death rate . Is there any ground for this assumption ? In the lowbirth-rate countries some classes are not reproducing themselves . In many countries the cities would shrink in population but for recruitment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rate of natural increase has become negative . In England , Sweden , and the United States the present fertility rate will not suffice , as the age-composition continues to change , to maintain the population level , and several other countries are moving in the same direction . Consequently the students of the subject look to the future with foreboding . They see ahead a period of falling populations and express grave doubts concerning the efficacy of political measures or social exhortations that seek to reverse the trend . The danger is clear . It is indeed highly probable that the long and unprecedented growth of population that in the West has characterized the nineteenth century and the first half of the twentieth is all but ended . How far it has still to go in Russia and the East is uncertain ; their populations will continue to grow for some time and then they will follow the road of the West , possibly reaching the later stages with accelerated speed . Meantime one of the major facts to which the statesmen of the West have to accommodate their policies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so lamentably lacking since the twentieth century began ? is the growing political strength and world importance of the populous East . On the other hand statesmen should not expect that any  | measures they can devise will have much virtue in staying the great cycle of population change . We must also remember that we have little experience from which we can profit in forecasting the fertility of peoples after the period in which the population has become stationary . The history of population-doctrines since the time of Malthus has been one of successive alarms about the future , directed first against overpopulation and then against depopulation . The period in which the birth rate has fallen to its present level has been one of great instability accompanied by tremendous wars . The projection of trends into the future is hazardous and in the past has nearly always been erroneous . We can not assess the responsiveness of the peoples to the forces of change that move deeply and darkly within society . The maintenance of the race is in the last resort a primary concern of men , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that populations will recede from the peaks they have attained . How far that condition , and the changes that accompany it , will set in motion contrary valuations and contrary forces we can not tell . It must be conjecture . No calculations mechanically derived from statistical studies contain the answer . This much should be added : if the new equilibrium proves capable of sustaining itself it will bring with it a new kind of social order . The individual will be better cared for and better equipped than ever before ; he will be more highly valued and his capacities will be given greater opportunity for expression and for development . Sheer economic necessity will no longer grind men down ? or spur them on . The de-individualizing influences of a society geared to war will be removed . Cultural pursuits of many kinds and on many levels will have freer play . Social change will be less deflected by external pressures and by the dominance of nationalistic aims conceived in terms of power . Under these conditions the need for some form of unifying social religion will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of birth and  | death must find new goals , or its cultural sterility will be the prelude to biological sterility . It is the cultural life of the society now in process of being born that will solve the riddle of population .  | THE TRANSFORMATIONS OF FUNCTION THE BUSINESS OF GOVERNMENT Government is the vastest of all human enterprises . No private organization of any kind , however world-embracing , no economic corporation or cartel , no cultural organization such as a universal church , compares with government in the scale , multiplicity and variety of the tasks it performs . The changes we reviewed in the preceding chapter have added enormously to these tasks . Wherever technology advances , wherever private business extends its range , wherever the cultural life becomes more complex , new tasks are imposed on government . This happens apart from , or in spite of , the particular philosophies that governments cherish . It happens whether collectivist or individualist doctrines are dominant . We do not deny that a change of philosophy can make a remarkable difference in the functions of government as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . When Hitler seized power he turned to other ends the whole apparatus of the state . With the Soviet Revolution there came about a transformation of the functions of government in Russia . The regime of the Czar had been slow in encouraging the introduction of modern technology . Under the Soviet regime new cities arose , heavy industries were greatly expanded , and the whole economy became much more diversified . These instances are , however , exceptional . In the second instance , moreover , the change was not directly an expression of the  | revolutionary creed but a most vigorous application of technological practice already in vogue in capitalistic countries . It was in this respect the acceleration of processes that otherwise would have matured more slowly . In the longer run the tasks undertaken by government are dictated by changing conditions , and governments on the whole are more responsive than creative in fulfilling them . One kind of government may be more alert than another in sensing the needs of the time or the demands of the people ; one may be forward-looking and another @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with whatever backing and filling they all respond at length to the processes beneath . Thus if the age calls for new social legislation conservative governments ? like that of Bismarck ? will move in that direction as well as liberal or radical governments . The average citizen has little conception of the extraordinary range and diversity of activities that governments carry on . Even under far simpler conditions than those of our own age these activities were already numerous and varied . Let us consider , for example , the business of government at Athens in the time of Aristotle , when Athens was the small capital of a very small state that held jurisdiction over possibly two million people . In his Athenian Constitution Aristotle tells us the main functions the government performed . Besides such universal functions as the administration of justice , financial procedures such as budgeting , auditing and taxing , military and police activities and so forth , they included the following ? we place in parentheses after each item the title of the governmental organ responsible for it : Superintendence of shipbuilding ( Council @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Upkeep of roads ( Special Commission of ten members ) Farming of public contracts ( Various Commissions ) Care of infirm poor ( Council ) Sanitary and other controls ( City Commission of ten )  | Repair of temples ( Special Commission ) Control of the market ( Superintendents of the mart ) Control of weights and measures ( Special Commission ) Regulation of price of wheat and of bread ( Special Commis-sion ) Supervision of public worship ( Special Commission ) Supervision of festivals ( Special Commission ) Provision of dramatic performances ( Archon ) Superintendence of sacred processions ( Archon ) Superintendence of the mysteries ( King Archon and others ) Performance of sacrifices ( Polemarch ) Superintendence of athletic games ( Special Commission ) This somewhat abbreviated list not only throws light on the character of government in the ancient city-state , it also illustrates the manner in which the functions of government are responsive to the socio-cultural order and thus , by implication , the manner in which government changes as civilization changes . There are certain functions that all governments always fulfill , on whatever scale @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ justice . There are others that all but the very simplest governments undertake , though the scope of these functions increases with the complexity of civilization . They include the establishment and maintenance of certain standards , with which all subjects of the state must comply in their dealings with their fellows . In the Athenian list this function appears as the inspection of foods , the control of weights and measures , the control of the market , and the regulation of food prices . Another function undertaken by most governments is the control , or active management , of the major agencies of transportation and communication . These agencies are obviously " invested with a public interest , " and they are also significant for military purposes . In the Athenian list the only item directly referable under this head is the upkeep of roads . In the modern state this function covers  | a wide range of very important activities , thrust upon government by the advance of technology . It is noteworthy that the ancient city-state , like most states of earlier times , was much occupied @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ extent very unusual for its age . In his famous Funeral Speech Pericles vaunted this liberty . " We do not get angry with our neighbors , " he said , " if they follow their own pleasures , nor do we wear on our faces offensive looks . " The cultural functions in the Athenian list are not censorial ? though Athens was by no means wholly free from intolerance . Rather do they bear out the further words of Pericles : " We have provided for our spirits plenty of refreshments from our toils , celebrating games and festivals the year around . " Nearly half the items in our list above belong to the category mentioned by Pericles . If we made a list of the functions of modern governments in the same fashion as we have done for Ancient Athens it would occupy many pages of this book . Our purpose in this chapter is to show how the functions of government change with changing conditions . For this purpose we shall examine three types of governmental activities , distinguishing them respectively as cultural functions , general @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ three types are of course inter-related , and the distinction is made merely for convenience of treatment . In approaching the functions of government it is well to remember that government is never a free agent disinterestedly engaged in adjusting its activities to the needs of the times . Every government is caught up in a complex struggle of interests , takes sides in this struggle , shifts its ground as one side or another gains , manoeuvres for advantage , and strives through it all to remain in power . Every government is in some measure opportunistic . It dare not alienate any compact body of its supporters . It dare not act so as to strengthen its  | opponents . It is at the mercy of some range of public opinion , according to the social situation . Its achievements , its successes and its failures alike , are also those of the body of opinion that sustains it . They reflect the state of education , the spirit of the people , the attitudes and the myths that prevail in the community . Again , the conditions under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political machinery operates to carry them into action place certain limitations on what government can effectively do . If it is to serve the needs of the people it must be responsive to their demands . Since these demands are various and conflicting it must resort to compromise . It can not experiment with different solutions to a problem , as a smaller or less public organization is able to do . It legislates for a whole country , before the eyes of the world . It can not readily try out different policies for different areas . The scale of its operations , the publicity that attaches to them , and the processes of consultation from which its policies finally emerge militate against its flexibility . There is the further consideration that the impact of government on the citizen is peculiarly impersonal . This is the other side of its universality . Everybody is within the jurisdiction of the state . The voluntary association , like the church or the trade union or the political party , includes only those who own allegiance to its principles or are bound to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of appeal that the all-inclusive association lacks . Whatever policies a government may pursue , there are many citizens who are opposed to them . Whatever government is in power there are groups of citizens who object not only to its particular policies but to the broader purposes for which that government stands . One consequence has been pointed out by various political thinkers , for example , T. H. Green . It is that governments are ill fitted to prescribe regulations that instead of being directed to the external requirements of order , protection , security ,  | and matters of this kind , prescribe activities the value of which is derived not from the external performance but from the sincerity or the conviction of the performer . Another consequence is that governments are not adept at conducting enterprises calling for individualized care and free initiative in each unit of the system , such as the services that cater to the particular tastes of customers . The machinery of government is more adapted to massive co-ordination and to those services that can be efficiently conducted along lines laid down by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ formulated at the top and the responsibility of the various agents is to carry them into execution . This is of course no hard-and-fast criterion , and the limits of its application can be discovered only by experience . Since the state includes all men , without reference to their differing creeds and value-systems , since the prescriptions of government apply to them all without distinction , and since the policies of government are the subject of endless and bitter contention between opposing groups , the demands of government have inevitably a peremptory character and can not be dissociated from the coercive power with which it alone is in the last resort endowed . These conditions enhance the impression that government is an external force intruding into the everyday lives of men . In the oligarchical state it is inevitable that government should be so regarded by the great majority , but even in the democratic state this conception has vogue . In the latter it attaches rather to the administrative than to the legislative side of government . The scale of administrative operations is so great and the processes from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the ken of the layman that he comes to think of government as an inscrutable agency darkly following the ways of power . One side of this conception is expressed in the word " bureaucracy . " Literally the rule of the office , it has come to  | stand for the attributes men associate with officialdom . The word is sometimes used in a more neutral sense , simply as signifying the corps of officials who carry out the tasks of administration . In this sense every large-scale organization has its bureaucracy . Like every other profession that of the bureaucrat tends to develop certain characteristic traits in its practitioners , whether their sphere of operation is the state or the business corporation or the church or the trade union or the charity organization . But the political bureaucrat is generally regarded as developing these traits in an exaggerated form . The scale of governmental operations , the compartmentalization of functions , the range of controls possessed by government , the difficulty of assessing qualifications for office , the political considerations that determine selection and promotion , all tend @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ type . The political bureaucrat works under peculiar conditions , has peculiar problems to face , and is subject to peculiar temptations . Like all other men he adapts himself to his conditions . His efficiency in adapting himself has its hazards for the efficiency of his service . The political official has generally a more permanent tenure and a still greater permanence of tradition , than in many countries , and especially in democratic countries , is possessed by the political leader or the legislator . Governments rise and fall but the bureaucracy stays on . The bureaucracy has the expertise , the mastery of the techniques . The leaders must depend on it in many respects , must work through it and learn from it the ways of administration . The leaders are exposed to public criticism , to the attacks of the opposition . The bureaucracy is withdrawn from these commotions . Since this book is concerned only incidentally with questions of administration we shall limit ourselves to a brief statement of the typical responses of bureaucracy , as these have been set out by various writers on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ value on the  | maintenance of the institutional scheme of which it is the guardian , while the individual member of the bureaucracy magnifies his own function within it and is jealous of any encroachments by other functionaries . Each member becomes entrenched in his particular routine . There is a meticulous grading of functions with their specified prerogatives . The system acquires a sanctity unrelated to the services it renders . There is a tendency to make things more complicated , more roundabout , for those who require its services . The public , instead of being regarded as the client of the office , for whose benefit it exists , must accommodate itself to the convenience of the office-holder . Administration is canalized into a set of hard-and-fast methods , without consideration of more efficient procedures . The bureaucrat complacently rejects experiment and innovation . Seniority gives priority , apart from merit or achievement . Nepotism flourishes . Ability is less esteemed than " correctness . " The bureaucrat shuns responsibility . His decisions are never his own , but those of the department . It is impossible to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ protocol " of office . This is the burden of the indictment of bureaucracy . It is the description of a disease most incident to large-scale administration , especially when it is sheltered behind ramparts of power or secrecy . The disease appears in more or less aggravated forms according to the conditions . A certain amount of routine is necessary for the functioning of any administrative system . How far it gets ossified in the political sphere and develops the bureaucratic disease , manifested on the one hand in arrogant disregard of the public interest and on the other hand in wasteful incompetence , depends on the relation between the political leadership and the bureaucracy and on the level of public interest and participation in the affairs of state . The danger of bureaucracy is no argument against the assumption by government of functions that considerations of public welfare dictate ? the disease is not un-  | controllable , and political systems of administration have at times been highly efficient and at least as ready as non-political systems to adopt new methods and techniques . At the same time the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ government of functions that without serious detriment to the public interest , subject to whatever political safeguards may be deemed desirable , can be effectively carried on through voluntary or private agencies . The line of demarcation can never be rigidly fixed . It should fluctuate with changing needs , with changing standards of private and public morality , and with advances in the art of government itself . // We saw that Athens in her period of greatness organized and superintended a considerable variety of cultural functions . The state did not impose these cultural activities on its citizens . They were the customary activities of the folk , the festivals , the celebrations , the rituals , the sports congenial to a remarkable people . What the state did was to promote and equip and dignify these events . As Pericles proudly asserted , it did not endeavor to clamp any orthodoxy on the folk . In this respect the constitution of Athens was at opposite poles from the constitutions contemplated by Plato in the Republic and in the Laws . Plato wanted to " co-ordinate " the life @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all modes of art and even of opinion not in accord with his own gospel . Very politely , in the Republic , he would " send to another city " all offenders against the rigid rules prescribed for the artist and the philosopher and the poet . With equal politeness , in the Laws , he would require poets first to submit their works to the magistrates , who should decide whether they were good for the spiritual health of the citizens . In the  | history of government the attitude of Plato , apart from the politeness , has been far more prevalent than the attitude of Pericles . The powerful , arrogant in their beliefs , have refused the powerless the right to their own . Governments have been censorial and inquisitorial , making might the arbiter of opinion and of faith . Sometimes they acted as patrons of the arts , especially the arts of architecture and sculpture and painting , where these were congenial to their own interests or doctrines . Often the courts of kings as the foci of luxury encouraged the decorative arts . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of government has included the suppression , or at least the penalization in some form , of faiths and doctrines not in conformity with its own . No question of the limits of state control could be clearly formulated until the distinction between community and state was recognized . Until then the control of government over the cultural life could be thought of only as an issue of discretion , not of authority . During the Middle Ages the question came indeed to be argued on another ground . For the church became a great organization that claimed to be invested with a divine authority superior to that entrusted to secular government . It was unable , however , to stabilize the theocracy implicit in this claim , and consequently the conception of two kinds of authority over men , of the " two swords , " became the source of considerable contention and much compromise between the two authorities . But the right of the community to limit the cultural control exercised over it by the state was not yet accepted by either side in the controversy . The decisive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by side within the same community . At first the multiplication of creeds through schism within the church and the separation from it of " non-conforming " groups led merely to political confusion , persecution , and " wars of religion . " No area of the world has witnessed so much persecution in the name of religion as did Western  | Europe during this period , especially in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries . The attempts of the renaissance states to nationalize religion in conformity with the new myth of sovereignty were completely unsuccessful . When every other method failed governments were driven to admit that citizenship need not demand a particular confession of religious faith . The admission was pragmatic , for even the leading political thinkers of the eighteenth century , including Rousseau and Burke , could not accommodate to it their philosophy of the state . It was for some time a grudging and limited admission , grudging because it took the form of " toleration " with respect to non-established faiths , and limited because it excluded atheists and Jews and other groups who departed radically @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decline of orthodoxy , the further proliferation of faiths and philosophies , and in general the development of a multi-group society in which cultural conformity was no longer a practicable goal fostered the democratic ideal of the separation of the church as a body of believers from the state as a coercive agency . The principle in question was embodied in the constitutions of various states , following the line already advanced in the First Amendment of the American Constitution . Some of the more democratic states , such as England and the United States , did not at all points live up to the principle , and of course the more oligarchical states could not logically subscribe to it although they were moving in the same direction . The modern reaction to totalitarianism meant in turn a complete reversal of this movement . But where the principle was accepted it carried the following conclusions : ( 1 ) A church is a free fellowship , having the right to formulate its own creed and to determine and conduct its own organization , but no right to exercise any kind of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ make its services a necessary condition of the enjoyment of any civil rights or  | to use any kind of compulsion whether over outsiders or over its own members . ( 2 ) The state is a universal agency , comprising indifferently men of different faiths , since its boundaries are territorial , not cultural . It should therefore refrain from imposing any religious conditions of citizenship or any religious obligations on its citizens , should not grant special establishments , immunities , privileges , or favors to the members of any particular creed , and should not interfere on religious grounds with the practices of any group of citizens . The democratic principle of religious liberty is itself an aspect of a larger principle , extending from the sphere of religion into the sphere of morals . The legal code can never be identified with the code of morals . It is no more the function of government to impose a moral code than to impose a religious code . And for precisely the same reason . We are not thinking here of certain contingent , though serious , objections @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ religion . We are not basing our argument on the fact that moral coercion , instead of making men more moral , leads to evasion , hypocrisy , and corruption . The major thesis is that law can no more be a substitute for morality than the hand can be a substitute for the eye . One aspect of this thesis was pointed out in the succinct statement of the Russian sociologist M. Korkunov that " law is the delimitation , morality the evaluation of interests . " Law prescribes a specific rule , to be observed whatever the attitude of the subject who obeys . Morality inculcates in the first place a system of values . The actions it prescribes imply the attitude that corresponds to this system of values . Morality is an expression of personality , as it conceives itself in relation to other personalities . A moral rule is a rule a man obeys from his heart , in the light of his system of values . The law can not compel that kind of obedience , though its hold is all the stronger when it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its obedience without  | inquiring into the grounds . There are many demands of morality that the legal code can not and should not prescribe . The syllogism that many people naively accept : it is bad , therefore there should be a law against it , is pernicious as well as fallacious . Any politically intelligent person must take the position that many forms of behaving of which he disapproves should nevertheless not be made illegal . As one writer on jurisprudence has said , " It would be the vulgarest of errors . . . to suppose that any kind of approval is implied in many things being left to the moral judgment of the community and to such pressure as it can exercise . " And we must also remember that the moral codes of different groups are inevitably different . If we strike against these codes by prohibiting behavior that does not bring overt and objectively determinable hurt or loss to those directly affected by it we undermine the loyalty of those who sincerely cherish values different from ours and we support our own values by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ behalf . Especially in our multi-group society should the government ? or the majority ? beware against seeking to make its own morality the law of the state . For such a society the following maxim may be suggested as a guide to the limits of control in doubtful cases : So far as one group can practice its particular code without entailing outward consequences that directly impede or prevent other groups from practicing in equal liberty their own no coercive sanction should be invoked against the code in question . A maxim of this sort would debar , for example , Sabbatarian legislation , legislation against commonly accepted betting practices where no dishonesty is involved , and more broadly any legislation whatever directed against folkways on the ground that they are " immoral " and not in the first instance that those who follow them violate the rights of other men . In the modern multi-group society the general principle is reinforced by practical considerations , since the failure to  | observe it leads to the embitterment of group against group , the exploitation of group by group , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the attempts of governments to impose a state religion on all citizens when many of them were opposed to that religion . Conservative thinkers clung to the doctrine that the state could not endure unless it was stabilized by an ecclesiastical establishment . This view was still maintained by Burke even toward the end of the eighteenth century , although the " indissoluble union " he proclaimed was negated by the divided religious allegiances of the British people . The opposite conclusion was in effect valid , that the unity of the state could be safeguarded only by its recognition of the equal political rights of all religions . Against the doctrine of Burke we may set the more cogent words of Harold Laski : " A state church is bound to receive privileges in some shape or form ; and no citizen enjoys genuine freedom of religious conviction until the state is indifferent to every form of religious outlook from Atheism to Zoroastrianism . " The cultural heterogeneity of the modern state , the diversity of creeds , opinions , and schools of thought exhibited by its citizens , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of its cultural functions . On this ground , as well as on the more intrinsic grounds we have suggested , it becomes a function of government to guarantee and to safeguard the cultural liberty of its diverse groups against discrimination and encroachment that one group may bring to bear against another . This function can go further than the constitutional proviso that the state shall not itself exercise discrimination by favoring a particular religion or by barring any groups from civil and political rights accorded to others , a proviso exemplified by the First and Fifteenth Amendments of the United States Constitution . It has also the positive role of assuring minority or disadvantaged groups against such discriminatory activities by other groups as may imperil or  | thwart their sense of membership in the great community or restrict their opportunities for participation within it . How far a government can effectively proceed in this direction depends on the prevailing mores and on the means of public education . In certain directions , where clear-cut issues of discriminatory practices present themselves in the more external dealings of man with man , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unity and assuring conditions that tend to mitigate the operation of group prejudice . Various measures of the Roosevelt administration during the Second World War , including the establishment of the Fair Employment Practices Committee , might serve as illustrations . Even when government abjures the Platonic arrogance that has so often led the powerful to impose their own ideology , or the ideology that served their own ends , on the powerless there remain some very important cultural functions within its domain . These are the Periclean functions , the sustainment and equipment of the arts of living , and the provision of opportunities for the citizen to share the cultural heritage of mankind . Obvious examples are the endowment of museums , art galleries , libraries , public parks that preserve natural beauty against private monopoly and economic molestation , public memorials that themselves are additions to the amenities of living , and so forth . It may not be too optimistic to believe that , with the coming of an age in which a decent standard of living can be guaranteed to every citizen and in which the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be rendered unthinkable because of the universal destruction that must ensue , the cultural services of the state will at length greatly expand so that future statesmen may repeat on a new level the ancient claim of Pericles : " We have provided for our spirits plenty of refreshments from our toils . " There is another service that the modern state has taken  | over far more completely and far more thoroughly than earlier states ever did ? the service of education . Here the function is both utilitarian and cultural , and indeed it is impossible to separate the two . The provision of universal schooling , in order that children may be trained for the business of adult living , has become everywhere a charge of the state . The awakening of nationalism served this end by giving impetus to the recognition that a basic education should be made freely available to all , alike for the benefit to the recipients and for the strength and advancement of the nation . Many issues arise regarding the scope and character of state education , regarding its cultural content , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as compared with that of other cultural agencies . But these are too complex for consideration here . This much at least is clear , that public education has a great task to accomplish in enabling the young ? and in some measure the adult as well ? to enjoy the cultural treasures not only of their own country but of the world , in opening for them the roads of intellectual and artistic adventure , and in enhancing in them , so far as they are capable of response , a sense of the worth and the wonder of human achievement . Finally , there is one aspect of public education that belongs peculiarly to the modern age . In the days of class-bound oligarchies governments did not deign to explain their policies to the people as a whole nor did they generally need to prepare the way for the reception of these policies . It is otherwise today , when in the great states all classes are literate and when nearly all groups are organized , when public opinion plays a major role , and when organs and agencies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mechanisms of control are more elaborate and programs of legislation themselves involve readjustments of habits such as were not called for in times of a simpler technology and of a less developed interdependence . The acceptance of governmental regulation , even when it issues from the democratic process ,  | often demands the psychological preparation of the public , Governments have powerful means at their disposal for this end , and inevitably they learn to use them . So long as governments do not seek to " co-ordinate " other agencies of propaganda no question can arise regarding the legitimacy of this function . Whatever policies they propose meet not only with fair criticism on the part of those who disapprove of them but also with party opposition and the intensive counterpropaganda of special interests . To maintain the effectiveness of any authority it is necessary under these conditions that governments should utilize modern methods of feeling the pulse of the public , should sense the currents of opinion and adapt their presentation of policy accordingly , should acquire knowledge of the differential impact of new measures on the diverse groups @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ operate with them . There was a time when the political art of influencing the behavior of men comprised little more than oratory , and when that art was applied mainly in the legislative council and the court of law . Now the art itself is elaborated and it is addressed to all the people . There are experts in the techniques of communication ; there are those who study the data provided by polls , questionnaires , and other devices to learn the modes and the idiosyncrasies of public acceptance . There are numerous organizations that continually apply this modern art for their various purposes . Governments must employ the same art ? for better or worse according to their kind . So far as they employ it to bring to the people a better understanding of the problems with which they deal and to create a sense of the common unity beyond the differences of groups we can venture to add this activity to the list of their cultural functions .  | GENERAL-WELFARE FUNCTIONS If government is for the sake of the governed and not of the governors then @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Certainly no category of functions can be singled out as peculiarly directed to that broad end . The maintenance of order and the administration of justice are as essential to welfare as , say , the establishment of a system of economic security . When , therefore , we follow recent usage in speaking of " general-welfare functions " we take the expression in a specific sense . We include under it whatever a government does that is directly addressed to the amelioration of the conditions under which people live or work , what it does for health and safety , for housing and the decencies of life , for social and economic security , and so forth . These activities insensibly pass over at one end into the cultural functions we have dealt with and at the other into the area of economic controls . Here , for example , we would include such measures as minimum-wage laws , because their main objective is to raise by direct action the standard of living of groups suffering economic privation , whereas the activities of government to regulate the price level @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . When President Roosevelt spoke of the goals of " freedom from want " and " freedom from fear " he was interpreting the general welfare functions of the state . In the United States it has been customary to regard many activities that belong here as falling under the exercise of the " police power " possessed by the several states . But the term itself has some ungrateful associations and besides it conveys the implication of control rather than of service . Functions of this category have been greatly expanded in the modern state , along with the facilities for rendering them .  | This expansion has done much to change the very conception of the state , so that from being , in the eyes of those subject to it , mainly an instrument of power it has become , so far as its internal activities are concerned , in large measure an agency of service . The old oligarchical states had sometimes taken steps for the relief of the destitute and had on occasion come to the aid of the people in times of emergency , when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The city-state , being nearer to its people , was more forward with its services . The Cretans , according to Aristotle , furnished public meals to all out of the common store . Athens under Solon liberated the people from debt servitude . Various city-states , including Athens and Rome , redistributed the land to mitigate poverty . Rome provided bread as well as circuses . There was little , however , in the way of systematic policy for the amelioration of conditions . Nearly always it was either some largess from the state 's treasury or some exceptional measure of relief when a crisis became acute and a revolutionary spirit took hold of the distressed . Aristotle was far ahead of his times when he proposed in the Politics that a permanent plan should be set up not merely to relieve but to prevent economic privation ? but of course the slave population was not reckoned by him as part of the people . In the class-bound oligarchical state the welfare of the masses was not a particular concern of government . The great majority of the people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the nature of things . They knew little of government except through the visits of the tax collector or the recruiting officer . They were mostly illiterate , completely isolated from the seats of power which held no reckoning of their needs or of their desires . Whatever succor they found came from the custom of the local community or from the obligation of the kin to keep its needy members . The service of the church to the poor was generally limited to the giving of alms . Under these conditions the oligarchical state did little  | to develop functions of general welfare . On the contrary , it frequently treated the " broken men " of society as miscreants to be sent to jail or even to the gallows . As industry became more important and unemployment in the modern sense became more evident the policy of punishment and repression still prevailed . In England , faced with the growing trouble of nomad homeless men , some advance was registered in the Poor Laws of Elizabeth , beginning in 1562 . Towns and country parishes were required to keep @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up a fund for their support and settlement . Little if any advance was made beyond such measures until the nineteenth century . England became at length the focus of the Industrial Revolution , being at the same time the country that had gone furthest on the road to democracy . The oligarchical state was thus converted into the laissez-faire state . There is no more remarkable example in history than this of the ineptitude of political man to adapt his institutions to the needs of the times until the tragic results at length drive him reluctantly to change his preconceptions . The wealth and power that the new industry conferred on the more fortunate conspired with a neat doctrine of the beneficence of the " simple system of natural liberty , " freed from any interference by government , to blind men to the social ravage of a new order in which the lot of the worker was left to the mercy of the market for labor . The traditional controls , such as the statutes concerning laborers and apprentices , the Poor Laws , and the restrictions of mercantilistic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , were hopelessly antiquated , but those who rightly demanded that they be swept away did not see any necessity that new controls should take their place . Adam Smith was so taken with the beauty of the selfregulating self-restoring economy of competition that he discerned neither its limits nor its defects . Instead of seeking to find its proper role in the scheme of things he made it the  | great agent of providence , delivering men from the fumblings and follies of the repressive state . That competition can not be " free and equal " unless those who compete are free and equal , that there is implied also an equality of those who offer their labor and those to whom it is offered , that otherwise competition can increase initial inequality instead of removing it , these considerations were remote from the complacent mythology of the disciples of Smith , whether they were statesmen or economists or men of affairs . So the " Satanic mills " of the new order ground out their products of misery and demoralization , of slum and ugliness . The factory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ century were a terrible indictment of the " simple system of natural liberty . " In the face of this evidence exponents of the system like Harriet Martineau could still condemn even mild measures of governmental relief as a " violation of the rights of the people , " just as at a much later date the Supreme Court of the United States could declare unconstitutional an act to limit the hours of bakers to sixty per week on the ground , among others , that it seriously interfered with " the right of the individual to labor for such time as he may choose . " The prevailing sentiment was summed up in the facile words of Lord Macaulay : " Our rulers will best promote the improvement of the nation by strictly confining themselves to their own legitimate duties , by leaving capital to find its most lucrative course , commodities their fair price , industry and intelligence their material reward , idleness and folly their natural punishment . " If government let alone the economic system everything would be " natural " and " fair . " With @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being that within limits was indeed self-regulating . This was the insight of Adam Smith . But the conclusion of the classical economists that the results of its uncontrolled operation would be natural and fair was based on assumptions that had little relation to reality . They overlooked the fact that  | competitors do not start equally to run their race , that even if they do they are competing not for their own benefit but for the benefit of others who are more sheltered from competition , that competition is often one-sided as when many workers compete for jobs from an employer who has greater bargaining power , that competitors are not devotees of the benefits of competition and are likely in their own interest to organize or combine to save themselves from its effects , that social conditions and the character of certain industries , such as transportation , often make competition between producers wasteful and otherwise undesirable , and that in the economic world there are many hindrances , limitations , and " rigidities " that falsify the beautiful picture of the self-regulating mechanism . These , however @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concerned the majority of men was the misery and the squalor and the exploitation that accompanied the " simple system of natural liberty . " The industrial age , so far from rendering unnecessary the welfare functions of the state , called for a great expansion of these functions . The mobility of industrial man , the detachment of the unitary family from the kin and its economic isolation in the new urban life , and the sharp fluctuations of the volume of employment created hazards of a kind scarcely known before . The virtues to which the individualist ethics appealed , diligence , self-help , and thrift , offered scant assurance to those whose livelihood was at the mercy of circumstance . Labor had become a " commodity , " bought and sold in the market , but so long as it was a commodity and nothing more it could not control the price it sold for or the usage it received , nor could it decide the crucial question of its being bought at all . The consequences of its commodity condition , as they came to the consciousness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into a new range of services . Its new function was to define , set up , and maintain minimum standards for the conditions of workaday living , minimum stand-                     