@@774152

txt  | ( 3 ) Polarization is socially facilitated . A polarized audience is , however , not a crowd . A crowd does not exist until emotion runs high in an audience and until the speaker 's words are reinforced by contributory stimuli from the crowd members . It is granted that an audience , rapt in attention , is more suggestible than a less attentive audience . It will be recalled from the description of suggestion in the previous chapter that suggestion involves a narrowing of the field of consciousness . The techniques of getting attention and removing counterattractions are , by their nature , methods of restricting the field of consciousness . Hence they are also methods of enhancing suggestibility . But a polarized audience will not lynch a man nor tar and feather a woman any more than a hypnotized individual will follow any suggestion . Suggestion at its most potent level can not overcome strong inhibitions in the form of dynamic attitudes in the individual . ( There is the example of the student in a European clinic who after putting a young @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ She immediately came out of the hypnotic trance , slapped the face of the suggester , and departed from the clinic . ) Allport points to a stronger force than the direct suggestion of the speaker . That is the force of social facilitation . The crowd speaker uses special methods for eliciting emotional demonstrations in his audience such as applause , laughter , weeping , shouting , or stamping . Allport writes : " In our study of group influence we found that the social increment was in direct proportion to the overt evidence of the coworking of others . The same rule applies to crowd excitement and is practiced by those skilled in the art of public control . Speakers who wish to stir their audiences use special methods for eliciting responses of a demonstrative sort , so that an abundance of contributory social stimuli may be in evidence . ... Appeals are made to emotional rather than to thought responses ; for emotional expression is the very material of which crowd facilitation is made . A crowd can not be made of reasoning individuals , because reasoning involves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sentiments common to all are touched upon , since these involve postures of stimulating value . " Socially facilitated polarization is then a condition of intense attention of audience members to a speaker in which the suggestibility  | of members is farther enhanced by the contributory stimulation of other audience members . It is as if the members of the audience had become part of the same stimulus field in which the speaker is the dominant object . The contributory stimuli are the background . ( 4 ) Other techniques for enhancing suggestibility of audience members . There are other conditions which aid in increasing the suggestibility of audience members . The crowd speaker must be fluent . His English may he broken , his pronunciation incorrect , his sentence structure faulty , but his words must flow like a cascade . This gives a rhythm to the speech which has a special effect . Repetition is also effective in increasing suggestibility . " For Brutus is an honorable man " is repeated over and over , each time with increased effect . The progress of enhanced suggestibility should look like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ audience a limited distance and allows it to rest a moment and to recede in emotion . But from each valley he takes it to higher peaks . It is very difficult to take an audience from everyday passivity to a high state of emotion without stages of rest . THE OPERATION OF MECHANISMS IN CROWDS It is now possible to superimpose this crowd description upon different types of crowds . The lynching mob passes through certain of these stages in short order . No crowd speaker needs to use special devices to get the attention of such a group if he confines himself to the subject at hand . In a process called milling , group members have already worked themselves up to a fairly high degree of suggestibility . Milling is a form of interstimulation of a direct face-toface sort . The word has gone round that a sex offense has been committed against a child . The community gathers at the post office to talk the matter over . Everyone is excited . Each intensifies the emotion of the other , but as yet no crowd exists . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a labor union on strike , has gone through a preliminary period of preparation . The crowd orator in these situations is handed an audience in a state of high suggestibility which polarizes immediately .  | Nor is there any difficulty in producing expressive behavior . Any statement which accords with the prevailing temper is greeted with cheers , any mention of the enemy with boos . The art of crowd making in all three situations is essentially the same in its psychology , but not in the ease with which it is accomplished . The building of an audience from a passive group into a crowd is an art . The polarization of a milling group is merely the acceptance of , an invitation . If one individual does not do it another will . A community or a class crowd finds leaders . Social Projection and the Feeling of Universality . ? The chief differences between the community crowd , the fanatic public , and the class crowd arise , however , at another point . Allport has demonstrated the existence of two other mechanisms in the crowd @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ theory . The situation is more than one of a small audience of individuals within sight and sound of each other . In addition to the social facilitation of his fellows , each individual possesses some notion of the greater numbers who are beyond range of immediate stimulation . Allport states : " In terms of behavior we may say that the individual reacts to stimuli which he actually receives as if they were coming from an enormously greater number of individuals . In terms of consciousness he imagines that the entire vast assembly is stimulating him in this fashion . He has mental imagery ? visual , auditory , and kinaesthetic ? of a great throng of people whom he knows are there , although he does not see them . These people moreover are imagined as reacting to the common crowd object . There is vivid visual and motor imagery of their postures , expressions and settings for action . " 6 An audience has been polarized by attention-getting mechanisms , and by reducing counterattractions ; this attention has been augmented by social facilitation so that an enhanced state @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to add further prestige to the words of the speaker , the prestige of numbers . Crowd behavior is dependent upon emotion and crowds are seldom characterized by logical thinking . One requirement for a crowd is expressive behavior , because of the necessity of enhancing  | the speaker 's words with the social facilitation of audience responses . And expressive behavior tends to be emotional behavior . But there is also another implication to emotional behavior . The Mechanism of Projection. ? We interpret the expressive emotions of others in terms of our own wishes . We read into them our own mental content . This mechanism is called projection . When we are melancholy we find the world a sad place ; when we are joyous the world takes on a cheerful hue . The world has not changed ; we have merely projected into it our changing emotional mood . In the crowd situation the individual who is moved by the speaker projects his own acceptance of the speaker 's ideas into the other members . Thus he finds support for his belief in the numbers about him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In this manner projection and the impression of universality work together in circular fashion to intensify the attitudes of the individual . The circular effect , moreover , extends beyond the individual , because the more expressive a man becomes as he feels the group is with him , the more he stimulates his fellows to emotional behavior which in turn reinforces his emotion still further . The Impression of Universality. ? The mechanisms of projection and of the impression of universality are two important features of crowd behavior . In as much as emotion dies off slowly , expressive behavior often lasts long after the instigating stimulus has passed . A speaker who is quick finds it possible to exploit this psychological moment . While the audience is still applauding some statement which the speaker has made , he presents another idea which would not be usually accepted . Owing to the lag of the expressive behavior , the individual as he looks around sees acquiescence upon every hand . The audience has been previously agreeing with the speaker ; they still seem to be agreeing with him . Add @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we have the basis for the acceptance of some proposition which under other circumstances would be turned down . When this accepted idea is further projected into the multitude and blessed with their apparent approval , it becomes a proposition which the individual can not be expected to refuse .  | The Class Crowd. ? It is interesting to compare this generalized picture of crowd behavior with a more specific type of crowd such as the class crowd . In this case we have a long history of preparation . Those who are members of labor unions have had experience with past strikes . Many may have been in demonstrations in which either they or some friend were injured . Some of them have been jailed for picketing . Conflict and repression have provided a reservoir of emotion . To go on strike means to go without wages . This means privation and suffering . More than any other thing a scab , ' a non-union man who will go to work during the strike , is to be hated . Thus there is built up in the worker a background @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ drives of a large number of individuals simultaneously both draws them together and incites them to common action , " to use the words of Allport . He continues , " It is often said that crowds are creatures of hate and invariably demand their victims . There is , however , sufficient psychological reason for this : The formation of the crowd springs from the collective struggle responses of individuals . The mob members do not demand a victim merely in order to shed blood , but to restore their thwarted responses to their normal operation . " 7 The picture seems to be reasonably clear , but Allport forgets that in many instances it is difficult for workers to restore their thwarted responses to their normal operation . They may be fortunate during certain periods if they can even secure a subsistence standard of living , let alone normal desires . Moreover , it is not enough to point out the fact that the crowd members in this instance have a background of repression and regimentation . It is also important to see how they localize the causes of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against the company , but it also may he oriented against the State . If the workers go on strike , the police prevent their picketing a factory . If the workers attempt to keep scabs out by force , the militia is called out to protect lives and property . Increasingly labor may find the forces of the state lined up on the other side . Thus the apparatus of the State interferes with the accomplishment of labor 's objective . On the other hand , the education of the individual member has taught  | him that he should respect private property and lives , that justice is given through the courts , and that as an individual he must abide by these legal attitudes . The crowd process in this situation becomes a device by which the individual overcomes his scruples about obedience to law , his attitudes about human life , and his fear of the police or the militia . In general , the class crowd is a revolutionary thrust at the state . Through polarization and social facilitation the crowd is raised to a high state @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who seized a certain number of scabs and paraded them through the city . As the line of march proceeded , feelings ran higher and higher . Finally , the leaders became afraid of the situation and advised the scabs to run for it . The tail of the crowd started in pursuit and as it passed the leaders they , too , turned and pursued the scabs , who were then beaten up . Crowd Psychology as a Technique for Displacing Institutional Regimentations. ? Allport points out that in a crowd an individual often does what he has wanted to do all along , but now more so . In a highly developed crowd situation some one starts some form of action . Allport suggests that the first individual to act may be a person of high suggestibility . Unless the crowd is very unusual the members have already been given various high-sounding rationalizations to prove the justice of their cause . Personal rights are represented as higher than property rights ; every man has a right to live ; the other side has proved its perfidy by hiring scabs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Constitution gives the right to free speech and assembly . A sense of anonymity is already created . Allport shows these steps as operating in this respect . The individual argues with himself " ( 1 ) I could do this thing which I want to do as a member of a crowd because no one would observe me , and I would therefore escape punishment . ( 2 ) Even if I should be detected , no one could punish me without punishing all the others . But to punish all would be a physical impossibility . And ( 3 ) more than that , it does n't seem possible to punish a crowd , because that would be making a large number of people suffer . And that is un just ; it is the interest of  | the many which must always be safeguarded . Hence ( 4 ) since the whole crowd show by their acts they wish the deed to be done , it must be right after all . So large a number of people could not be in the wrong . And finally ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ act , to perform it is a public duty and a righteous deed . " S With this background the first overt act is taken not as a single act but as a genuine signal that everybody intends to participate in the action . The individual is in no position to . refuse participation . Whereas the impression of universality in the past has always been connected with institutional attitudes such as property security and human security , now the impression of universality is apparently on the side of his repressed attitudes . The crowd becomes a technique for transferring this impression from the conformity side of a set of regimented attitudes to the private attitude side . It is the last needed increment to make crowd behavior appear completely reasonable . The Crowd as a Fanatic Public. ? Crowd psychology in a fanatic public may show a similar mechanism to that of a class crowd , but it also has points of difference . Generally no history of repression from a common agency exists . A common emotion and a common orientation have to be rather artificially generated from general @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " get rich quick " attitudes which characterize such manias as the " Mississippi Bubble , " " Tulipmania , " " The Florida Land Boom , " Auctions , and " Chain Letters , " are not felt by the average individual to he attitudes repressed by " the State , " or by any other specific agency . They are prepotent attitudes of high emotional value which have not been fully expressed because the average individual has little opportunity to get rich quick . Crowd psychology is used upon these people not to overcome institutional repressions , hut to overcome the individual 's fund of common sense and to make him accept as a good proposition one which is obviously logically false . In the same fashion a religious revival is successful because it can exploit a certain reservoir of strong emotional attitudes and find a common orientation for them . The success of religious revivals can not be traced to frustration which people attribute to a specific institution . Rather it can be traced to frustration by life itself . Tired ,  | discouraged , and unsuccessful individuals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the exploitation is not the overcoming of some institutional attitude , as much as it is a victory over human intelligence . The drunk believes that if he accepts the Christian life he will be saved . The tired and discouraged accept the notion that by humility and service , they can secure peace in an after world . In as much as these types of crowds start from a different and less emotional background , it takes much more effort to bring them to the state of suggestibility necessary for the end sought . The evangelist is trained in the methods of polarization , and of polarizing social facilitation . He often has trained assistants to start the crowd into action . Crowd Psychology as a Technique for Integration. ? In the fanatic public the impression of universality and the processes of social projection are utilized for a different purpose than in a class crowd . In the class crowd these mechanisms of crowd psychology are utilized to allow the individual to rationalize conditions under which he can do what he has been wanting to do all along . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a new want in the individual . Moreover the want may be very unusual and the means of satisfying it a bizarre method . Under any other conditions than crowd psychology the new means would be completely repudiated by the common sense of the individual . The evangelist develops old attitudes regarding childhood life , mother , home , and family . He develops the desire for contentment , rest , and security . He suggests the punishments that flow from sin , and dissipation . He concludes with the rewards and satisfactions that arise from genuine repentance . All of these attitudes have a strong emotional value in their own right . Under the influence of crowd psychology , however , they take on an intensity not hitherto recognized . The drunkard signs the pledge and it seems a perfectly reasonable thing to do . Moreover , if he really changes his environment it may represent a genuine conversion . But in most cases the individual returns to his old environment . The stimulating factors of crowd psychology are gone and soon the individual returns to his old ways . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sets off a series of strong positive values . Florida is the land of plenty . It represents a climate where ease and relaxation are possible . There is no heating problem , no winter , no need for winter clothing . It seems reasonable that everybody should be interested in owning land in this climate . Real estate salesmen succeed in starting a movement to Florida . Soon lots are being laid out in every direction . Everybody seems to be on the road to Florida . There are great sums to be made in Florida land . The get-rich-psychology gets stronger and stronger . Many begin to believe it will last forever . The Crowd as an Indignant Community. ? The community crowd presents points of similarity with both class and fanatic crowds . As in the case of the public there is generally no history of systematic repression by some single agent . Such instances as border warfare in which the community takes common action against marauding Indians are generally not considered as cases of crowd psychology , though they have many common elements . The union of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ psychology rather than crowd psychology . Crowd psychology seems more often , in the case of the community , to be used against the violation of the community mores by a single person or a very few individuals . The rustler who steals cattle , the Negro who commits a murder , the individual who kidnaps a child are more often the victims of community crowd psychology . It should be observed that the mores themselves represent emotional taboos . Although very few individuals in the community may suffer from a particular violation of the code ( for it is not their child who has been stolen , their sheep which are being killed , or their relative who has been murdered ) , still the deed stands as a very " wrong " sort of behavior . Because this fact has been long recognized , there generally exist legally constituted agencies for carrying out the punishment of the offender . Crowd psychology in this community situation operates not to overcome the state , or to suggest some new unthinkable form of behavior , but to allow individuals to anticipate the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ordinarily allowed to do ,  | because due process of law is worked out to protect the innocent from being misjudged . As in the class crowd , under the mechanism of crowd behavior the individual finds anonymity . Whereas most often the feeling of universality is on the side of the due process of law , it is now on the side of the proposed crowd behavior . In England where law is carried to swift execution , crowds of this kind are much less frequent . The rationalizations which justify the community crowd are that the courts are slow , the politicians corrupt , and the officials inefficient . Crowd Psychology as a Failure of the Division of Labor . ? In the community situation the crowd represents a distinct failure of the division of labor . Unlike the class crowd oriented against the state , there is no feeling that the governmental agencies are in the hands of another class . It is rather a feeling that governmental agencies are unable to carry out community will and , therefore , community members take the decision into their own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to cope with the infraction of the community code . Many of the early lynchings were really a primitive attempt to set up a method for dealing with violations of the community mores . The Problem of Mistaken Identity. ? Sometimes crowds which appear as community crowds are really class crowds . Thus , though many writers attempt to make certain Negro lynchings an instance of community justice , a thorough examination will show the affair to be a class crowd of poor whites who are in economic competition with the Negro . The whites have localized the Negro as the cause of their own frustration instead of localizing the State as the chief agent in the way of a good life . It must also be recognized that it is possible for a crowd to represent an instance of enforcement of community mores to some members , a means for achieving a new integration for others , and a technique for finding release for repressed private attitudes from their institutional limitations for still others . Crowd Psychology in General .  --  Upon the basis of the previous analysis it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ psychology in the literature . Thus Martin is very much interested in the logic and violence of the crowd , hut is unable to understand the nature of either . ' He feels all crowds to be paranoic in the sense that to him they seem to reflect logic-tight delusions of grandeur and persecution . The Logic of Crowds. ? There is no difference between the logic of men in crowds and their logic elsewhere . This fact seems so potent in the light of modern psychological knowledge and has been so often demonstrated by Pareto , Freud , and others that it hardly bears comment . Men think scientifically only in restricted fields , and then only when their goals are fairly rigidly defined . Nor is the logic of the men in the crowd more of a systematized delusion than is the economic philosophy of the member of parliament . The logical doctrines of any group are principally systematized rationalization of the wants , desires , and motives of the group members . Seldom is group ideology formulated in an objective impersonal manner . It has the emotional and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Violence of Crowds. ? There is a difference in crowds in regard to violence . Here again Martin fails in his analysis . The amount of violence is in good part a function of repression . The reason that the member of parliament speaks his economic theories in good temper is because he is not repressed in his expression . As parliaments have had to debate subjects on which there was a distinct and real difference between members on fundamental presuppositions , they have become increasingly violent in their expressions . The member of the labor class who has long been regimented by another class in his expressions so that he hardly dares to express his ideas develops a fund of emotion behind his attitudes . This frustration leads to violence in behavior once the proper rationalizations are developed to allow him to give manifestation to his desires . In the same fashion the poor white , who has long been frustrated in his economic endeavors by the cheap labor of the Negro , develops attitudes which can not be socially expressed without running into difficulty . In the mob situation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ings . The Fascist developments of modern times have indicated that many of the members of the class of good temper can develop violent feelings once their property rights are frustrated by the development of the labor movement . Delusions in Crowd Psychology. ? Two characteristics of paranoia are the delusion of persecution and the delusion of grandeur . Two very similar mechanisms are found in crowd psychology . The delusion of the paranoiac is founded upon false reference . He misinterprets the actions of people as directed against himself . His own failure is blamed upon some agent whose reference to himself can be shown to have nothing to do with the matter . Delusion of Persecution. ? Martin seems to believe that the crowd never has grounds for belief in persecution and this belief must always he a delusion , or a false judgment . Because some crowds are led to believe that the devil is their enemy and the cause of their misfortune , others that witches are spoiling their crops , and still others that the Jews are the cause of their economic misfortune , Martin would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ blaming the Indians for the burning of their frontier villages , the feudal serfs and rising bourgeoisie were deluded in blaming the nobility for the restrictions on their economic activities , and the modern labor movement in blaming its subsistence level upon modern production relationships . Because some crowds have no ability to localize correctly the real cause of their misfortunes , he assumes that all crowds lack this ability . There is , of course , some justice in his claim . The cartoonist who blames the present amount of economic disorder upon conspiring capitalists is distorting the picture . Few of us know of instances in which industrial barons sit up nights attempting to starve laborers . Many individuals , however , are convinced that modern production relations , defended by unconscious motives of the property owning classes , do result in the persecution of the laboring class . And the persecution may be as relentless as if it were conscious . Nor is it denied that the laboring class in seeking to localize the agent responsible for its condition often blames the wrong individuals , " the politicians @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " foreigners and Jews , "  | before it arrives at the correct answer to its problem . This is a complex social world in which we live and few individuals are trained to see it in its entirety and in correct perspective . Delusion . of Graiadeiu ' . ? The delusion of grandeur , on the other hand , arises from other sources . It is undoubtedly connected with the type of crowd psychology we have already described . Social facilitation , the impression of universality , and social projection do make it seem possible that the crowd members can accomplish anything that they have a mind to accomplish . There is still , of course , one caution that should be sounded . Upon occasion it is probably true that a crowd of sufficient members can accomplish what the group members desire . Such a crowd represents revolution . And if enough people in any culture have come to the conclusion , under crowd psychology or any other psychology , that they intend to change the prevailing order , there is little that can be done to prevent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ paranoia to compensate for feelings of inferiority , a real feeling of immense collective power is a very different thing . The surge of creative enterprise which followed the French Revolution was based upon real fact . The middle classes who found power in that epoch virtually remodeled the world . The path between illusion and fact , between delusion and reality , is often hard to detect . references REFERENCES Allport , F. H. Social Psychology . Cambridge : Houghton Mifflin Cornpany , 1924 . Gurnee , H. Elements of Social Psychology . New York : Farrar and Rinehart , Inc. , 1936 . Hollingworth , H. L. The Psychology of the Audience . New York : American Book Company , 1935 . Le Bon , G. The Crowd . London : T. F. Unwin , 1917 . Martin , F. D. The Behavior of Crowds . New York : Harper and Brothers , 1920 . Woolbert , C. H. The audience , Psychol . Monaog. , 1916 , 21 , No. 92.  | Nationalism has been widely acclaimed the most important and the most striking phenomenon of the past @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in public life today , " writes Hayes , " is nationalism . Of the current age it is the mark at once intense and universal . " 1 A scrutiny of the world scene seems to confirm Hayes ' observation . The fury of an aroused nationalism in Japan is driving the Japanese people to the most ambitious conquest of modern times . In Germany nationalism is holding together a disgruntled people , many of whom would otherwise be at swords ' points . Aided by nationalistic spirit , the German rulers are absorbing central and southeastern Europe . Italian nationalism bids fair to make the Italians masters of the Mediterranean . In Russia nationalism is diverting an experiment in economic reconstruction into a national movement . Likewise , from a historical point of view nationalism looms as a central fact of the past two centuries . During this period strong national states emerged in the Western world . They proceeded to subjugate the people of other lands . Britain established an empire upon which the sun never sets . France became a colonial power . Italy and Germany achieved @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ less attractive parts of the globe . Even conquered peoples retained their nationalistic spirit . The Czechs , for centuries a part of the Austrian empire , had had their leaders executed and their language replaced by German as the official language of their land . Yet in the World War Czech nationalism burst into flames and Czech troops in the Austrian army deserted to the Allied cause . Ilow then are we to account for this potent consciousness of kind known as nationalism ? Is it primarily a matter of physical proximity , of men living together in the same part of the world ?  | Geographical residence hardly seems an adequate explanation , or the Czechs would have been Germans long ago . National boundary lines tend to be arbitrary . They do not necessarily follow natural barriers . Does nationalism derive from race as the German ideologists would have us believe ? Almost every national group has a set of beliefs that its members are biologically superior to other national groups . Yet no myth has been more frequently exploded by social scientists than the myth of racial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ emphasizes the superior genes of the Nordics has met the same fate as its predecessors . " To find consistent ethnic differences in Europe it is necessary to go to its geographical extremes , to compare , for example , the Scandinavians and the southern Italians . Wars , migrations , and conquests have scrambled European peoples racially . Is nationalism a function of a common language ? A common language makes possible common traditions and thus is productive of consciousness of kind . But England and the United States in spite of a common language have preserved an English nationalism and an American nationalism . Why is it , then , that people should identify themselves with the concept of the nation ? " Why " asks the Martian observer ? and his question is a fair one ? " Why do not people identify themselves according to the color of their hair ? " Why not a red-haired league opposed to a group of brunets ? Why not all the introverts against all the extroverts ? To find an answer to the problem posed by nationalism we may well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can link up the problem of nationalism to psychological knowledge with which we are already familiar . Then we can narrow down the description to apply it more specifically to nationalism . Nationalism may be defined as the religion of the state . It is the emotional identification of the personality with the symbols of the state . The general formula for nationalism thus reduces to the well-known phenomenon of individuals identifying themselves with symbols which stand for the group . Since a person 's verbal and imaginal processes are not checked at all points directly by physical realities , he can transcend  | the boundaries of his self in imagination . He becomes part of a greater world in his own mind . This expansion of the ego in nationalism can be studied profitably with respect to ( 1 ) the motivation of identification and ( 2 ) the mechanism of identification . IDENTIFICATION AND NATIONALISM The Motivation of Identification . The motivating force behind identification can be traced to three sources : ( 1 ) It makes possible a greater satisfaction of men 's material needs . ( 2 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 3 ) It supplements the projection of hatred and hostility upon the out-group. ( 1 ) Greater Material Returns. ? In the first place , the concerted effort of many individuals through their attachment to group symbols provides a greater material return to group members . In the old agrarian family the identification between members resulted in coordinated labor which was to the advantage of all . In the nation there is always an interest public , the members of which stand to gain by identifying their material interests with those of the group . At various times in American history certain individuals who owned oil wells in Mexico were eager to have the United States take over Mexico to protect their oil interests . Nor were these people always deliberately conscious of the basis of their imperialistic wishes . They had sufficiently identified themselves with the American flag and other American symbols so that they regarded their interests in Mexico as the interests of the American nation . So , too , in the World War bankers who had loaned money to the Allies felt in 1916 that American investments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can he used to protect and foster the interests of any one of its members , there is an objective basis for a materialistic identification with the state . The objective basis is greater perhaps for the privileged minority groups than for the masses . ( 2 ) Enhanced Psychic Income. ? In the second place , psychic income is raised immeasurably by the identification with group symbols . The larger a group to which an individual belongs , the greater its organized strength , the greater the personal satisfaction accruing  | to the individual in being a part of it . People are inordinately proud of their families , students are excessively exhilarated by the victories of their football team , and citizens are fiercely proud of their nation 's record in war and peace . Identification provides a wonderful means for the individual to increase his stature through attachment to his group . Perhaps the ego-enhancement in group identification has always existed but the phenomenon varies considerably in certain respects from culture to culture . At times the need for this type of personality satisfaction is greater than at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ group identification is compensatory in nature . If people could live full and rich lives as individuals , they would have less need for the vicarious experiencing of the group 's greatness . It is precisely in those countries where people 's lives have been the most hopeless and the most thwarted that we find the fiercest type of nationalism . Observers agree that the German people would not have accepted Hitler , had it not been for the frustrations of the post-war years . ' The real world is frequently too much for the individual . Its limitations restrict and cramp him at every turn . Very few of us can mold it to our desires . Yet to seek release in sheer escape in the fictional world of the " pulps " is not thoroughly satisfactory for most of us . The unrealistic nature of this dreamworld is too apparent . Group symbols , however , have an objective existence . The activity of the group is real , Hence by attaching ourselves to these symbols and engaging in group activities we derive an ego-enhancement , the escapist function @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enjoy the advantage in group identification of transcending our own limitations and of apparently not being restricted by the limitations of the group symbols . To the student his fraternity is very much a part of himself . The successes of its members are his . Yet he can often rationalize himself out of individual responsibility for the failures of the fraternity or for the reprehensible actions of its members . Such actions were the work of individuals and had nothing to do with the real merit of his fraternity . The stock rationalization for every abuse which is found  | within our institution is that the abuse represents only the behavior of individuals . In the long run , however , the individual pays clearly for his urn analytical acceptance of group symbols . The advantage of immediate psychic income is frequently outweighed by the consequences of group identification . The individual can be manipulated through the use of group symbols into actions which are contrary to his owl interests . The great majority of people in most nations do not want war . But their blind identification with group @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fine , the psychic income in group identification flows from the expression in group symbols of the thwarted and repressed wishes of the individual . Frustrated personally , we achieve success collectively through our subjective participation in the attainments attributed to the group . In Freudian terms the libidinal wishes of the personality become displaced upon group symbols . ( 3 ) An Outlet for Hostilities. ? In the third place , identification possesses motivating power because it helps to release the inhibited aggression of people . The strongest identification with the grout , occurs when the in-group , or we-group , can be sharply differentiated from the out-group , that is , when the in-group stands out as a figure against the out-group ground . Against the out-group can be directed the hatred stored up by the individual as a result of his frustrations in life . The essential condition for struggle and anger is interference with the individual 's wishes . If the movements of the child are restrained , he will show unmistakable evidence of rage . In adult life we recognize that even a mild-tempered person is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , when his basic wishes suffer interference . Now it frequently happens that the individual must inhibit overt manifestations of his hostility toward the world which thwarts him . This inhibited hostility does not always evaporate with the passing of the immediate situation . It may remain with the individual and form a reservoir of resentment and hatred . It is sustained or at least reinstated from time to time by similar thwarting situations or sonic reminder of them . The reminder may be a more successful  | person , a chance derogatory remark , or the expectations of a friend or relative . Moreover , repressed hostility seeks expression . Laws , taboos , and customs localized within the individual himself and reinforced by the conduct of his fellows prevent direct expression of this hatred . People , however , who lie outside of the group are an admirable object for the suppressed aggression of group members . Since members of the group have identified themselves with group symbols they feel that their aggression is in the interests of the group and is not antisocial activity . The process here @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which the individual can indulge his antisocial desires because his fellows ( who represent the social ) are with him . People join up with the group , or at least intensify their allegiance to it , in part because group membership gives them an approved outlet for their feelings of resentment and hostility . Just as they derive ego-enhancement through participation in group activity so they experience pleasure in chastising the group enemies in word or deed . Group leaders consciously and unconsciously capitalize upon this psychology by furnishing a common scapegoat for the group . Many organizations have flourished with a vague positive program because of a definite negative program . They have been more specific in persecuting their alleged enemies than in positive proposals for reform . Fairly extreme instances of this sort can be found in the Know Nothing Party , the Black Legion and the Ku Klux Plan . Present-day German nationalism shows the operation of the same principle in a large-scale plan . The Jews , the bankers , and the Marxists betrayed Germany in the World War , brought about a devastating inflation , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Hence they have been made the victims of organized pogroms . The Mechanism of Identification with Group Symbols. ? It is not enough to understand motives ; we need to know also how identification operates . The mechanism of identification can be described with reference to ( 1 ) the nature of personal identification , ( 2 ) emotional conditioning , ( 3 ) projection , and ( 4 ) the confirmation of the belief in the reality of the projected idea .  | ( 1 ) How do people come to feel that the American flag , the American eagle , the Constitution , and other national symbols are par of their personalities ? The explanation lies in good part in that thes ( abstract group symbols have taken on meaning through associatioi with human symbols . The child can not readily identify himself witl an abstract symbol which stands for the group . He can , however identify himself with people who are very like himself . Other humans not only resemble the child , they also carry out his wishes am so form an extension of his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ teachers , and his friends , the child finds it easy to attach himself to other people who stand in a pleasantly-toned relation to him . The personal symbols of the state thus are the first symbols t ( draw the allegiance of the child . The childhood o ? national heroes is described to the youngster and he is encouraged to be as truthfu as George Washington , as honest as Abraham Lincoln , as courageous as John Paul Jones . Other personal symbols include marching soldiers and public officials . Without the mediation of these human symbols the child would find difficulty in identifying himself with the state . Even at the adult level we know that college students can experience a more intense identification with their group when they know personally the star halfback on the football team . ( 2 ) The process of group identification is aided by direct emotional conditioning . The symbols of the state are marshalled before people on gala occasions . For . the child the vivid pleasure of the parade with its bands and colors becomes associated with the American flag @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ parade . Most American children raised in small towns loot , forward to the Fourth of July celebration with its town parade , it ( ( games , its free ice cream , and its fireworks . National symbols , moreover , are dramatized in many ways to bring about a lasting association . with favorable emotional states . ( 3 ) The abstract symbol permits of identification because w ( project our mental state into it . Then we accept the projected ides as external reality- . ' ' We recoil in horror at the thought of anyonf desecrating the American flag . Our recoil is not based solely upon  | the symbolic significance of his action , that is , upon anger toward a person thus proclaiming himself our enemy . We feel that the flag has been sullied , that actual harm has been clone to our nation and to ourselves . We have subjectively added to the physical properties of the American flag our emotional meaning which we regard as existing in the flag itself . The New Fork Tinges of October 20 , 1938 , carried @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ patriotic organizations , the Treasury department completed today the removal of two aluminum reproductions of the Great Seal of the United States from the floor of the principal entrances of the Newark Federal Building . The seals will be replaced with the inlays . " For the last six months , Stephen F. Walker , Scoutmaster of Boy Scout Troop 77 , and other persons have protested that it was desecration to permit persons to walk on the seals . Mr. Walker wrote to President Roosevelt and other Federal officials in his efforts to stop it and threatened to march his troop into the building and encircle the emblems with Scouts to protect the seals from pedestrians . " The patriotic individuals who were upset by people walking on our national symbols had projected their emotional feelings into the seals themselves . For these patriots it was as if the pedestrians were stepping upon the American people . Although the seals were not being harmed in actuality , the subjective it is as if becomes for the individual identical with it is . Though many Americans might not be upset by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ probably react as did the Boy Scout leader if some symbol particularly sacred to them had been similarly desecrated . Sophisticated people who do not confuse their emotions with impersonal symbols are often aroused when national heroes like Abraham Lincoln or Thomas Jefferson are treated realistically by historians . This is one reason why many people do not like to see historical plays . They have built up so much subjective addition of their own about historical characters that the dramatist 's picture does not accord with their preconceptions . ( 4 ) Identification with the group becomes firmly established , finally , because people find evidence to confirm their belief in the  | reality of their projected emotions with respect to group symbols . The evidence they encounter is fourfold : ( a ) Other people behave as if the group symbols were real . The flag goes by and all men remove their hats . The President proposes a reform of the Supreme Court and the defenders of the Court are legion . Thus the individual is strengthened in his own belief in the reality of the nation by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were real . ( b ) Noble edifices have been erected to house the officials of the nation . These great buildings are older in many cases than anyone now living . Since they can not be the work of a single individual they must embody the spirit of the nation . The physical plant of the institution is taken as the objective proof of the greater reality with which the individual identifies himself . ( c ) The leaders constantly keep the ideology of the group before the group members . The might and righteousness of the state is the constant story told by the journalist , the artist , the propagandist , and the educator . The symbols of the group become more than symbols because they are backed by the prestige of the printed and spoken word . ( d ) Then , too , there must be something to our national character as represented in our flag , our Constitution , and our institutions , reasons the individual , because we are different from other people . Foreigners have queer ways . The author of With Malice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people . What greater proof could be needed for the average citizen to convince him of the reality behind the symbols to which he attaches himself than the distinctive nature of his own culture ? No wonder , then , that the nation seems more real to people than any objective fact . It takes an unusual set of experiences to make the average man gain insight into his identification with the ideas and emotions he has projected into the world . Only after the layman has fought in the trenches for several months does he begin to wonder whether or not it would be more sensible to be identified with a League of Extroverts or with the national state .  | Totemism as an Ancient Example of the General Formula. ? We have been describing the nature and mechanism of group identification . With minor exceptions this general formula holds not only for nationalism but for group solidarity of all kinds . Nationalism as far as some of its basic aspects are concerned , is not quite the unique and startling phenomenon which historians tend to make it . Group @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ found in almost all societies . Consider that common system found in primitive culturestotemism.6 ' Primitive peoples are divided into clans or groups of blood-relatives ( or individuals considered blood-relatives ) . Each clan has its totem animal which is the symbol of the clan . Clan members all claim descent from the totem animal . It is taboo to them and they may not hunt it . It stands for and psychologically is the group . All clan members identify themselves with one another through the symbol of the totem animal . If it should be an elk , they are all brother elks . And all good brother elks stand together against the beaver clan . Moreover , since all the men and women in the clan feel this close bond of unity with the group and with one another , they must marry outside the clan group . For a man of the heaver clan psychological mechanisms involved . It is group identification at a much simpler level . Primitive peoples have not developed very abstract symbols . Yet men like themselves are not sufficiently mysterious to make @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fascinate the native peoples . Animals present just the right mixture of familiarity and mystery to be used as symbols . The primitives were impressed with some trait of an animal species which they admired ? some trait which they wanted to possess in greater measure themselves . SPECIAL FEATURES OF NATIONALISM Nationalism differs from previous forms of group solidarity less in terms of its unique features and more in terms of the particular patterning of characteristics . Moreover , early nationalism reveals a  | different patterning of psychological features than the nationalism of the present period . Nationalism differs from totemism and feudal loyalty to the lord in its extensity . It applies not to a community type of face-to-face grouping but to the organization of great numbers of individuals into an institution ? or a permanent public . Nationalism differs from the emotional attachment of people to their many publics in that its symbols are master symbols . National symbols comprise a master pattern under which many minor patterns are subsumed . The minor groupings exist only in so far as they can be integrated into the national structure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ labor but it is the American Federation of Labor ; manufacturers may be organized into an association but it is the National Manufacturers Association . No explicit conflict in allegiance between the nation and other groups is permitted . During the middle ages the allegiance to the Church was similar to the nationalism in the features mentioned above . The Church like the state extended over many communities and many groups . Moreover , its symbols at the time were the master symbols of the period . Loyalty to the Church came first and feudal lords and kings alike dared not oppose their symbols of power to those of the Church . In effect the Church during this period was a political empire as well as a religious institution . The national state differs from the Church , however , in that its symbols are related more to this world , religious symbols more to another world . Symbols , Martin reminds us , can be of two kinds . ' They can be maps or flags . The map symbol has objective reference . It conceptualizes objective relationships . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ projection and does not describe features of the external world . Though both Church and state abound in flag symbols the Church deals more completely in this commodity than does the state . The concepts of the Church transcend the natural world . They refer to a future life , to divinity , to forces over and above this earth of flesh and material . The symbols of the state are not so exclusively lacking in objective reference . They do refer  | to specific people of common customs and a common language living within a certain territory and to the particular individuals who are their leaders . Differences between Early Nationalism and Present-Day Nationalism . The group solidarity of early nationalism was similar in mechanism but different in motivation from present-day nationalism . When England was on her way to becoming an empire , when France was expanding after the Revolution of 1789 , when the United States was pushing its frontiers across the American continent , nationalism was a psychological state of hope and optimism . The extension of the master national symbols over the minor group symbols of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economic life . The growth of a nation or the building of an empire meant that men could expand their activities on an unprecedented scale . The local storekeeper had the chance to become a national merchant . The small manufacturer had the opportunity to supply the people of the nation and become wealthy . The small town politician could become a national statesman . During the period of early nationalism it is important to recognize that the new opportunities existed in fact as well as in men 's minds . The period following the French Revolution was a period of rising standards of living . Material well-being was improved even for the masses . Of course the upper middle classes took up the doctrine of nationalism first and were its most vigorous supporters . They had the most to gain from this new religion . Though material gain was not the only motive it played its part . To quote Hayes : " The middle class . . . proceeded to think of the state , of the national state , as peculiarly , their own and to love the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . . Nor was it long before the liberal and democratic middle class discovered that the rewards of love were not merely love . . . . By preaching nationalism to the masses they acquired in marked degree that respect and veneration which worthy disciples are wont to pay spiritual leaders . By securing the trust and confidence of the masses they were better enabled to identify national aspirations with their own interests . " 8  | Nonetheless in many countries the masses shared to some extent in the new prosperity . The new prosperity grew out of mechanization and the increase in the size of productive units made possible by a large national state . To apply machine methods on a large scale involved a large-scale political state which could maintain the same legal standards over a large territory . The forward progress in standards of living under the national state was not uniform , but there were enough people in the lower classes who improved their lot for most men to feel that they had a real chance in this world . Psychologically , early nationalism owed its tremendous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between man 's bread-and-butter drives and his egoistic wishes . The individual prospered as his country grew in size and importance . His psychic income and his material income were derived from the same source . For example , the early industrialization of England gave the English people a higher standard of living ? some of it at the expense of the rest of the world . English imperialism thus inflated the ego of the English citizen as the British empire was extended beyond the seas and it also gave him a better material way of life . The nationalism which rages today in Germany and Italy , however , has a different motivation . It no longer represents a fusion of psychic and material satisfaction . Instead it furnishes a compensatory psychic income for individuals whose material income has been reduced . European peoples today accept nationalism because they find solace in group-identification for their frustration in everyday life . It will be remembered that the German people following the war went through a series of thwarting experiences . Defeat in the war , demotion to the status of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and restriction of economic opportunity demoralized the people . The Nazi movement with its glorification of the German people was salve to their wounds . Moreover , it furnished a scapegoat upon whom the people could turn their stored up hatred and hostility . In identifying themselves with the new German Reich , the German people could find temporary relief from the miseries of their daily existence . It is important to recognize the differences in motivation between early and late nationalism . Whereas early nationalism could be main-  | tained at a high pitch over a period of time , present-day nationalism has less enduring qualities . Early nationalism represented men 's open road in their struggles both to make a living and to expand their personalities . In some quarters the nationalism of our time is more like a week-end drinking debauch in which people forget their troubles and take out their repressions upon any convenient object . The result may be a Monday morning headache and a feeling of despondency at the week of effort before the next Saturday night release . Functions of the National State. ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concerning the function of the national state . Three main views have been vigorously championed . ( 1 ) The state is often regarded as a cooperative organization of people for the purpose of solving the problems of social living . To live together in any satisfactory fashion people have to agree on traffic regulations for social life if they are not to exterminate one another . They delegate to a few of their number the authority to enforce regulations for social living and these special agents are the officials of the state . Thus the state not only protects the citizen from marauding criminals , it also preserves public health and public safety through such regulations as sanitation laws and quarantine rules . In this capacity the state is regarded as the agent of all the people and its officers are public servants . This conception of the state was developed in complete form by Rousseau in his social compact theory . According to the theory of social compact the state emerged when men gave up their individual freedom and delegated authority to a few of their number who were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has also been regarded as the coercive agent of special interest groups . In their hands it is an instrument to preserve their privileges against less privileged groups . This function of the state has been emphasized by writers who trace the origin of the state to conquest and confiscation . Thus Herbert Spencer believed that the state was the military organization which survived from wars of a predatory nature . Oppenheimer has elaborated this theory very fully . ' History is the story  | of a war-like people moving in upon another group , conquering them , and imposing their rule upon them . The state is the organization by which the conquest is achieved and through which the conquered group are kept in permanent subjection . " Everywhere we see , " writes Oppenheimer , " a militant group of fierce men forcing the frontier of some more peaceable people , settling down upon them and establishing the State with themselves as the aristocracy . " ' " In time the aristocracy gives way before the onslaught of some new foreign aggressor . In Britain the Saxons conquered the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Saxons were enslaved by the Normans . In Italy the Romans gave way to the Ostrogoths , then cane the Lombards and the Franks . In France the original Gauls were conquered by the Romans ; the Roman rule was overthrown by the Franks and still later cane the Norman invasion . In every case the invaders set themselves up as rulers and the agencies and devices by which they maintained their rule comprised the state . The first stage in the development of the state consisted of the conquest of one tribe or one race by another tribe or race . In time , however , the cultural differences between the invaders and their victims ceased to be the dividing line between ruled and rulers . In England the culture of the conquering Normans became fused with the culture of the defeated Saxons . Although this national or cultural differential disappeared the state remained as the means for preserving the privileges of the upper class . The coercive methods and the centralized authority which arose from the imposition of the rule of one tribe upon another did not vanish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . They were still employed by the dominant group to protect their favored position . A modern illustration of this conception of the state can be found in the criticism of the government made by the party out of power . When the Democrats were out of power before the New Deal they charged that the Republicans ran the government in the interests of the bankers and manufacturers , that the tariff laws benefited Eastern industrialists and that Hoover depression measures aided the bankers . On the other hand , the Republicans assailed the  | Democratic administration which succeeded Hoover as utilizing the powers of government to redistribute the wealth of the nation by overtaxing the upper and middle classes for relief purposes . ( 3 ) Finally the state has been conceived of as an exploitative institution in its own right . There are those who assert that the state functions neither in the interests of all the people , nor in the interests of the privileged classes but that it functions in the interests of the official bureaucracy . ' State officials , it is pointed out , generally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ self-interested individuals who run the machinery of the state for material gain and for power . The traditional American view of government has been colored by this conception . That government is best which governs least is an applauded sentiment . We have been loathe to entrust great power to public officials . The Child Labor Amendment was defeated because people were made to believe that the government could invade the home and dictate to parents about their children . Our federal structure is a system of checks and balances to prevent any single branch of government from becoming too powerful . The first Reorganization Bill was defeated because people did not wish the President to increase the scope of his authority . These three conceptions of the state present opposed points of view . Does the state function as a cooperative agency in the interests of all the people ? Is it the instrument of an entrenched minority group for maintaining their vested interests ? Or is it the creature of politicians and bureaucrats who use it to enrich themselves at the expense of the people ? Our study of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ difficulty of generalizing about the functions of the state throughout history . The proponents of the three conceptions of the state can all find evidence to support their contentions because history has seen not one but many types of states . Moreover , in any one period of history the state may exhibit in different areas of life all three of the functions ? incompatible though they seem . Politicians operate in their own interest to be sure , but in order to stay in office they must satisfy the wealthy groups who contribute  | to their campaign coffers and they must also render some measure of service to all the people to secure reelection . In other words government is an arena in which public interest , private interest , and personal gain all compete . Undoubtedly the centralized coercive authority of the state arose originally in conquest and confiscation as Oppenheimer contends . But in time public service functions were grafted on to the state apparatus especially in democratic states . The achievement of popular suffrage gave the people a real check upon the use of governmental power for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ always use this check wisely or thoroughly , they can prevent the state from becoming a purely repressive agent . The Democratic versus the Fascist State. ? The Fascist state is a reversion to the police state described by Oppenheimer in his theory of conquest and confiscation . Under Fascism all the organizations of the people from labor unions to bowling clubs are smashed lest they become the focus for an opposition movement to the government . The industrialists and financiers in other words are protecting their favored positions by using the state to crush their opponents in the lower classes . To this end they finance the Fascist movement . Fascism makes little pretense at democracy and at giving each citizen a share in political decisions . Its pretense lies in the national glory it makes available for the most lowly citizen . This glorification of the nation has as its purpose the unification of the people through submerging their many group and class differences . The farmer , the worker , the shopkeeper , and the industrialist are to forget any differences in income , opportunity , interest , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Quantitative evidence of differences between the way of life in a Fascist state and in a democracy are lacking . An interesting comparison could he made between the two states , if we could follow typical citizens through a week or more of their daily lives and see how many decisions during the course of the day were made by the citizen himself and how many were made for him by state officials . This would give a measure of the fleedom enjoyed in the two states .  | Competent observers have pointed out that the life of the Fascist citizen is much more regimented by external coercion than is the life of the citizen in the democratic state . Brown has differentiated four types of freedom : ( 1 ) Economic freedom includes the freedom to work , to select a vocation , to satisfy basic needs and derived drives . ( 2 ) Personal-social freedom includes the liberty to choose one 's friends and to live a congenial social life of one 's own choosing . ( 3 ) Intellectual-action freedom refers to the right to think and say @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ self-government , to suffrage , to the participation in governmental action.12 Under Fascism all four types of freedom are greatly restricted by the state . Compulsory labor service , the regimentation of industry , and the outlawing of unions have destroyed freedom in the economic sphere . Intellectual-action freedom is limited to echoing the ideas of the official propagandists . Personal-social freedom is hampered by the fear of spies . Congenial social , groups are reduced to a few close intimates lest one 's remarks be reported to the secret police . Political freedom is limited to a small minority within the ranks of the Fascist party . In a democratic state citizens enjoy a considerable measure of personal-social , political , and intellectual-action freedom . Economic freedom , perhaps the most basic , is however not guaranteed to all citizens in equal measure . During depression years when unemployment is widespread the lack of economic freedom is most striking . An interesting psychological problem presents itself in relation to Fascism and democracy . What is the effect upon the personality of the individual of the democratic way of life compared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to this question is not yet available but two stimulating experiments ( those of Mowrer , and of Lewin , Lippitt and White ) have produced suggestive findings . In Mowrer 's experiment a group of children , living in a cottage at the New Haven Community Center , were reared under conditions of modified self-government.13 With adult supervision they were allowed to make their own rules and to discipline transgressors against the rules . Adult intervention was not carried out autocratically but was explained in terms of the values of the children 's group . Prior  | to this regime of democratic self-government the children had been under the usual institutional pattern of authoritarian adult rule . The effects of the democratic system were marked . There was a decrease in fighting and a decrease in the number of infractions of rules and an increase in cooperativeness . Evidently under the older regime the arbitrarily imposed standards produced frustration with a resulting intragroup hostility . Similar results have been reported by Lewin , Lippitt , and White who equated two groups of nursery school children for sex , age and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in group decisions , the other autocratically with no participation in group decisions . In the autocratic group about thirty times as much hostility was expressed as in the democratic group . On occasions the children under the autocratic regime combined against one of their number to make him the scapegoat . Under the democratic regime the group structure was more stable and the feeling for group goals better developed . references REFERENCES Allport , F. H. Institutional Bchauior . Chapel Hill : University of North Carolina Press , 1933 . Brown . J. F. Psychology and the Social Order . New York : McGrawHill Book Company , Inc. , 1936 . Dollard , J. , Doob . L. W. , Miller , N. E. , Mowrer , O. H. , et al . Frustration and Aggression . New Haven : Yale University Press , 1939 . Goldenweiser , A. A. Early Civilization . New York : Alfred A. Knopf , Inc .. 1922 . Hayes , C. J. H. Essays on Nationalism . New York : The Macmillan Company . 1926 . Lasswell , H. D. World Politics and Personal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 1935 . Martin , E. D. The Mystery of Religion . New York : Harper and Brothers , 1924 . Oppenheimer , F. The State . Indianapolis : Bobbs-Merrill , 1914 . Radin , P. The Racial Myth . New York : McGraw-Hill Book Company , Inc. , 1934 . Rumney , J. The Science of Society . London : Duckworth , 1938.  | THE SIGNIFICANCE AND CAUSES OF ABNORMAL BEHAVIOR By LAURANCE F. SHAFFER , Carnegie Institute of Technology Unusual or abnormal human behavior invariably arouses popular interest . When a newcomer moves into a community he is soon evaluated by his neighbors . If he converses about the weather or about his garden , he is a commonplace fellow and interest in him develops slowly . But let him paint his garage a bright pink with blue trimmings , and the response will be quite different . Or , suppose that the newcomer tells about a nation-wide plot against himself , that he is the victim of a sinister and far-reaching conspiracy all of whose members are seeking to injure him personally . Immediately gossip is rife , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Thus the touch of abnormality arouses widespread concern and curiosity . Abnormal psychology shares this appeal , for it endeavors to explain human conduct and thought that can not be understood in terms of ordinary common sense . WHAT IS ABNORMAL PSYCHOLOGY ? Pictures of Abnormalities. ? The subject matter of abnormal psychology is encountered in everyday life , but usually is poorly observed and incorrectly understood . Therefore it is necessary to picture some of its problems before attempting to define the field precisely , since the conditions may be unfamiliar to students . The following illustrations describe only the " present condition " of the individuals ; any attempt to trace their histories or to ascertain the causes of their disabilities must be deferred until later . The first four cases are patients in mental hospitals . Withdrawing. ? ( Case 1 ) . The patient is a young woman about 24 years of age . She walks stiffly across the room when propelled by a nurse , but does not sit down when a chair is offered her . Pushed into the chair , she sits in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ remedy . In fact , she remains motionless for five minutes , and does not respond to questions . When her arm is lifted to an awkward horizontal position she allows it to remain there , holding the arm rigid for a longer time than a normal person could . She has not spoken a word since her admission five months ago , and ignores the relatives who visit her . She will not feed herself , but swallows food that is placed in her mouth . This patient shows a very complete withdrawal front the usual activities of living . Deterioration. ? ( Case 2 ) . A mature man walks with a dragging , slovenly gait , has tremors of the hands , and shakes almost constantly . The most striking symptoms are revealed by his answers to questions of common information . Asked his age , he at first says that he does n't know ; he would have to look at a calendar . Later he says that he is 29 . ( His real age is 36 . ) He knows the name of the present @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the preceding president . He can give his name , but looks puzzled when asked where he is . Simple arithmetic problems are answered incorrectly : Four times two is forty , five plus ten is one hundred . He does not know the date . This man shows marked deterioration of intellectual functions that he once could perform . He is also said to be disoriented as to time and place . Distorted Thinking. - ( Case 3 ) . This young man hears voices that speak to him constantly , sometimes scolding him and sometimes giving him instructions ( hallucinations ) . He talks freely , however , and is eager to give an account of his experiences . He says that he received a course in X-ray work by radio . As a result of this instruction , he can throw X-rays from his eyes and can look through solid substances . He can see into the ground and has discovered treasures of gold , silver , and jewelry . People are jealous of this great power , he says , and his wife tried to poison him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but " three gentlemen , one of them Herbert Hoover , " stole his power . He steadfastly holds to these delusions , or distorted beliefs , and can not be persuaded of their falsity . Excessive Variations in Activity. ? ( Case 4 ) . A woman about 50 years old talks in a low and moaning voice . She answers ques-  | tions very slowly , but the replies are relevant and correct . She knows her name , her age , the date , and where she is . She says that she does not feel well , that " her head is n't right . " She is worried constantly . ? When asked what she worries about she replies , " Everything . " This woman weeps frequently , and seems overwhelmed with disaster . She is depressed , and also retarded in her speech and movements . A year later , this same woman presents a striking contrast . She is now laughing and active , and talks so rapidly that one can hardly understand what she says . She runs up and down @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ activity . Sleeping very little , she keeps up a prattle of talk , song , and laughter all day and most of the night . She is still capable intellectually and answers questions correctly when her attention can he secured , although she tends to give joking replies . At times she tears off her clothing , not viciously but gaily . She is agitated , accelerated , and is said to show manic symptoms . In addition to the serious conditions that usually require hospitalization , abnormal psychology also studies the minor deviations of behavior that are found among persons in ordinary walks of life . There are many forms of these less severe disorders of behavior of which only one will be illustrated now . Fearful Behavior. ? ( Case 5 ) . A college sophomore was questioned by the head of his department after he had persistently refused to recite in class . The young man confessed that he is unable to speak in public because of an uncontrollable fear that seizes him whenever such a demand is made . If compelled to recite he becomes very @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and at times his throat seems to become paralyzed so that he can not talk . He is a fairly capable student , and has been able to pass his courses because he suffers no difficulty in expressing himself on written examinations , or in performing laboratory work . He believes that these symptoms are caused by a defective heart , but a careful examination by a physician reveals no organic heart disease . The heart symptoms probably arise from the physiological effects of emotion . The  | fundamental problem is his abnormally fearful reaction to public speaking . The Definition of Abnormal Behavior. ? Abnormal psychology is the application of scientific psychology to the study of abnormal behavior . Having illustrated some typical abnormalities of behavior , the next task is to make a more precise definition of " abnormal . " Abnormal Behavior as Different Behavior. ? Fundamentally , " abnormal " means deviating from some average or standard . By derivation ; the word signifies a.b , " away from , " a norm or average . Abnormal behavior is therefore different behavior , conduct that is not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ characteristics exist in various degrees . People differ in height , in visual acuity , in health , and in numerous other physical , psychological , and social characteristics . They also differ in excitement or apathy , exaltation or depression , flighty fancy or stubborn tenacity . To be sufficiently different in some of these respects is to be abnormal . The conception of abnormality as different behavior leads to one especially important conclusion . Abnormality exists in various degrees . Everyone knows that all people can not be classed as short or tall . Instead , there are all quantities of height between the extreme cases . Similarly , all forms of behavior can not be classed as normal or abnormal . For example , the characteristic of elation-depression exists in many gradations . The person who is extremely elated , constantly shouting , laughing , and singing , is clearly abnormal in this respect . So is an individual who is very depressed and who moans continually about his misery . But there are also persons who are a little overactive , or quite neutral , or a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , or into three , but show many small variations in quantity . Variations in degree extend continuously from the average to both extremes . Therefore , all persons can not be classified precisely as " sane " or " insane , " but only as possessing a greater or less degree of some characteristic . Abnormal Behavior as Inadequate Adjustment. ? The concept of abnormal behavior as different behavior needs to be supplemented by another criterion . There still remain the questions of the direction of  | deviation , and of the amount of difference that must exist in order for behavior to be called abnormal . In the sense of the first definition of abnormality , any great deviation from average is abnormal . In practice , however , good variations are distinguished from unfortunate ones . Persons who display broad social participation and leadership , a superior capacity for rational thinking , or a high intelligence are not considered abnormal , while the opposite extremes of withdrawal , delusion , and deterioration are so regarded . In some traits , such as elation-depression , both extremes are abnormal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hinder effective social adjustment and prevent the achievement of life purposes . The " good " extremes , in general , facilitate the accomplishment of social and individual adjustment . Of course , what is a good adjustment depends considerably upon social opinion . A deluded individual might become the " medicine man " of a primitive tribe , or even the leader of some religious or political sect in a civilized group . The definition of how much an individual must vary to be abnormal is also a matter of social opinion . In a complex city environment a man who mutters constantly to himself might be judged abnormal , whereas he might ad just well enough on a lonely farm or as a solitary trapper . Both the direction and the degree of deviation that will be considered abnormal depend on their effect upon the total adjustments of the individual . ' / " Mental " Disorders. ? Another way that abnormal psychology is often defined is to say that it deals with " mental " disorders . This is a convenient term , since it distinguishes the subject @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ physical , physiological , economic , or social ones . The term " mental " is troublesome , however , for it seems to ascribe the conditions to some realm of " mind " that was once believed to be quite separate from the physical body . Today , the word " mental " means no more than psychological . Psychology is the study of man as a whole individual as he adjusts to his environment . Psychological disorders , or mental disorders , are therefore abnormalities of whole conduct , of perceiving , of thinking , and of adjusting . Calling these abnormalities  | " mental " merely distinguishes them from other disorders , but does not explain them . Psychology and Psychiatry. ? Two professions are concerned with abnormal behavior , each of which has a distinct field of activity in spite of the overlapping of their subject matters . Psychiatry is a medical specialty that deals with the diagnosis , care , and treatment of abnormalities of the kind considered here . A psychiatrist is a medical doctor who has the requisite knowledge and skill to perform the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is proper for a physician to do this work , since many of the concepts and techniques that he uses are common to general medicine . Psychiatrists tend to be empirical and practical , more concerned with predictions and results than with refinements of theory . Abnormal psychology differs from psychiatry in that its aim is to understand the origins of abnormal behavior , rather than to classify it or to cure it . The psychologist is the scientist rather than the practitioner . Psychology contributes basic concepts to psychiatry , just as the chemist does to the chemical engineer , and the anatomist to the surgeon . Lacking the related medical knowledge and the practical experience , psychologists usually do not assume responsibility for the treatment of serious abnormalities of behavior . THE SIGNIFICANCE OF ABNORMAL BEHAVIOR The extent , cost , and significance of mental disorders are unappreciated by those who do not have professional contact with them . The Major Abnormalities. ? The greatest loss , both in money and in human values , arises from the serious disorders that ordinarily require hospitalization . These most severe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to as psychotic . Extent. ? At any one time there are about 450,000 psychotic patients in mental hospitals in the United States . In the course of a year , approximately 140,000 new patients are admitted , while almost the same number die or are discharged as recovered or improved . " Where is thus a large turnover in the population of mental  | hospitals , so that many more persons are psychotic at some time in their lives than are affected at any one date . Also , there are large numbers of mentally disordered who are not in mental hospitals , but who are cared for at home or in institutions for the aged or indigent . Summarized in terms of the general population , the figures concerning the frequency of mental disorders are : ( 1 ) From 8 to 10 out of every thousand persons are in a mental hospital at some time during each year . ( 2 ) About 15 persons out of every thousand are psychotic , whether hospitalized or not . ( 3 ) Of every thousand persons born , about 50 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their lives . Cost. ? The annual cost of maintaining mental hospitals in the United States is about one hundred million dollars , and about five hundred millions are invested in buildings and equipment . This cost is large even when compared with the cost of all sickness , since about half of the hospital beds in the United States are in psychiatric hospitals . Not all of the cost of abnormal behavior is represented by the hospital expense . Approximately 200,000 of the patients are men between the ages of 20 and 60 . If these men could be gainfully employed at an average value of only five hundred dollars per year each , the total loss of wages would be an additional one hundred million dollars annually . Serious mental disorders therefore represent an economic problem of great proportions . The Minor Abnormalities. ? The minor deviations from healthful adjustive behavior are less severe than the psychoses , but they are much more numerous . Most of these less serious disorders fall into the class of the psychoneuroses , and include abnormal fears , anxiety , and a number @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Extent. ? It is difficult to estimate the extent of the psychoneuroses , since cases seldom are hospitalized and often do not even consult a physician . The proportion of psychoneuroses in the general population must be very large , however , if some estimates and  | judgments can be trusted . Many physicians have estimated that at least half of all medical patients suffer from psychological disorders rather than solely from physical disease . This includes the vast number of " nervous " persons , some persons who go to physicians because they mistake the accelerated heartbeat of emotion for an organic heart condition ( as in Case 5 , previously described ) , and many others . Some authorities have estimated that almost every person is at least a little psychoneurotic at some time in his life , and that about ten per cent of the population is affected all of the time . Several surveys of the mental health of industrial employees have shown that psychoneuroses are a significant problem in business . From 12 to 20 per cent of the employees of department stores have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ psychoneuroses . In a careful study of a large number of industrial and clerical employees in Great Britain , 30.6 per cent were found to display noticeable psychoneurotic symptoms . Social Significance. ? The social significance of abnormal behavior goes far beyond the statistical and economic facts . A very large proportion of human misery is associated with psychological ills . Persons who can not get along with their fellow men , who are quarrelsome and uncooperative or else timid and fearful , suffer from psychological maladjustments . Other maladjusted persons include those who can not retain employment because of peculiar personal traits , those who can not live at peace with their parents , husbands , wives , or children , and those who are always just miserable . " Abnormal psychology presents a way of understanding these forms of behavior , and , in some instances , points toward their control and cure . The study of abnormal psychology has another broader social significance . Literature , drama , and history are full of characters who can be understood only in terms of abnormalities of behavior . Some of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of them display the lesser deviations of behavior . Individuals who are queer or unusual are more interesting than ordinary people ; hence they are frequently found in literature , and also in history . Not only do Ilamlet and Macbeth become more understandable  | through the study of abnormal psychology , but also Caesar and Napoleon . Two INTERPRETATIONS OF ABNORMALITY There are two chief interpretations of mental abnormalities , both of which must be examined if a thorough understanding is to be achieved . These points of view may be illustrated by a simple example . Suppose that we say to each of two persons , " Lift up your hand ! " Neither one of them complies . The causes of these failures to follow our directions may now be investigated . One individual , we will discover , is totally deaf . Some years ago he suffered an infectious disease that attacked the inner ear and permanently damaged its mechanism . The other person , however , is not deaf , nor does he show any other organic disability . But he is a native Frenchman , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what we say to him . Thus behavior may he affected by a deficiency of structure , or by a deficient functioning of a normal structure . Broadly speaking , the functional variations are caused by what a person has learned or by what he has not learned . The Neurophysiological Interpretation. ? Neurology and physiology view the individual as a complex machine . Any failure of this machine to function satisfactorily , then , must be explained as a defect in the mechanism , some part being out of order . The maloperation may he caused by the destruction of some part of the nervous system by an accidental injury or by a disease process . This falls within the province of the neurologist , whose specialty is a detailed knowledge of the structure of the neural pathways . Or , the nervous system may be prevented from operating properly by an externally acquired poison such as alcohol , or by some internally secreted toxic substance . A part of the field of physiology is concerned with these conditions . In recent years the neurological and physiological approach has received @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ certain psychoses . These discoveries suggest that several disorders that were formerly explained in psychological terms are greatly influenced by subtle physiological conditions , such as the  | metabolism and nutrition of the brain cells . A more detailed account of this point of view will be given in the second chapter following . The psychologist can not ignore the neurophysiological interpretation if he is to achieve a comprehensive understanding of mental disorders . Although the cruses implied by these interpretations are not within the field of psychology , their results are unmistakably psychological . If , as a result of neurophysiological disorders , the individual shows disturbances of behavior , can not remember , or does not reason or judge adequately , then psychologists must be interested in these causes and must include them in any study of abnormal psychology . The Psychological Interpretation. ? Psychology sees the individual as a reacting , working , adjusting , conscious organism . Its chief concepts are therefore the individual 's motives , adjustments , habits , and memories , rather than his neurones or his chemical composition . The fundamental principles of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in which individuals adjust and learn are basically the same , whether the endresult is normal behavior or abnormal behavior . Wrong answers or right answers , whether to school questions or to life problems , are learned by essentially the same processes . The psychological point of view holds that abnormal behavior is an inadequate adjustment to the demands of the environment , the result of an unfortunate learning process . An illustration will serve to make this clear . A young child cries out in the night . This may be clue to a stomach ache or to some other illness , in which case the physiological hypothesis will hold . But the child may cry when he has no pain or other ailment . Upon investigation , we find that his parents have come into his room whenever he has cried , and have petted him and played with him until he was sleepy again . From the child 's point of view this is a satisfactory end result . IIe therefore has learned to cry when awake and alone , and the.parents unwittingly have taught him to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The principal concepts of the psychological approach may he drawn from this example . The child has certain needs for attention , companionship , and play , which are normal and worthwhile   motives . He learns that his wails will bring about a satisfaction of these motives , a result that is individually and personally adjustive for hint . But this solution of his needs is antisocial since it inconveniences others , and is generally undesirable because it hinders the development of independent adjustive behavior . This illustration is very simple , but the same processes occur in more serious instances . Adults learn to fear , to withdraw , to hold false beliefs , or to show other abnormalities , as a result of inadequate processes of adjustment . The psychological approach is not antagonistic to the physiological type of explanation . Physiological changes occur in the nervous system whenever a person adjusts or learns . The psychological hypothesis explains mental disorder in terms of the socially unfortunate operation of an intact nervous system , rather than in terms of diseases or injuries of the nervous system . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must not conclude that some mental disorders are entirely physiological , while others have only a psychological basis . Instead , all mental disorders are probably due to some combination of both kinds of causes . There are differences among mental disorders , however , in the degree to which neurophysiological or psychological approaches are applicable . Some disorders are more physiological , some more psychological , but both factors enter all cases in some measure . STRUCTURAL DEFECTS AND ABNORMAL PEIIAVIOR The neurophysiological point of view has been strikingly successful in explaining some forms of mental abnormality . This approach is very complex , since the anatomy of the nervous system is exceedingly intricate , and the injuries and disorders that may affect it are even more so . It is impossible to describe many details of the neurophysiological approach in a book of this scope , but a few samples may be cited with some simplification to show how the neurophysiologist goes about his work . A spinal disorder , one involving a limited part of the brain , and one that affects the brain generally , will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 6 ) . A not infrequent sight on the street is a man who walks with a peculiar gait , assisting himself with a cane . His legs are thrust far apart , are thrown forward irregularly , and are brought to the ground with a sharp stamp , the knee being held stiffly . Both legs are affected . This is the picture of tabes dorsalis or " locomotor ataxia , " a condition that can be explained quite satisfactorily from the neurophysiological point of view . The disorder as a whole has other symptoms , including severe pains in the legs , gastric crises , and impairment of the skin senses . We will consider here only the ataxia or motor incoordination of the legs . A clinical examination of a case of tabes dorsalis reveals certain features of the disorder in more detail . The patient can stand erect with his eyes open so that he can watch his surroundings , but sways and falls when his eyes are closed . The knee-jerk reflex is likely to be diminished or absent . The pupillary reflex of the eye @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to distant vision , but does not contract when a light is made to shine in the eye . If the patient is asked to put his finger on his nose with his eyes closed , his aim is found to be very poor . Various other tests show that the man has lost the kinaesthetic or muscle sense of the movement and position of parts of his body . He does not " know where his feet are " unless he watches them . This is a kind of sensory impairment , therefore , and the man walks poorly because he lacks the normal " feel " of movement . The disorder can be located even more specifically by the neurologist . It is due to a degeneration of the posterior columns of the spinal cord ( see Fig. 13 ) . Through these columns of neurones pass the kinaesthetic impulses from the peripheral nerves to the brain . The damage causes the effect that has been noted , the loss of kinaesthesis . Moreover , this condition is clue , in an overwhelming majority of cases , to a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ columns . The neurologist can thus give a complete picture of this disorder in terms of neural mechanisms . An Aphasia. ? ( Case 7 ) . An accumulation of gas in a business building exploded with great violence just as a street car was passing . Many passengers in the car were injured , including one young man  | who suffered a severe skull fracture when a piece of steel penetrated his brain from the left side just above the ear . He survived this injury rather remarkably , but when the first shock was over it was discovered that he could not talk . He understood language fairly well , and was able to communicate by means of signs and gestures , but when he tried to speak only a meaningless jargon passed his lips . This case belongs iii the broad class of aphasia , a disorder involving the ability to communicate by means of words . figure caption The shaded area represents the damage to the posterior columns which carry the impulses for the sensations of movement , balance , and equilibrium to higher centers . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dotted areas . Aphasia , of the structural sort here considered , is caused by an injury to the brain areas that control the language functions ( Fig. 14 ) . These are located at the side of each half of the cerebrum , the left hemisphere being more important in right-handed persons . Parts of each of the four lobes of the brain are involved , each correlated to some extent with distinct functions . According to the classical view of aphasia which is somewhat disputed by some authorities , there are two main sorts of this disorder , motor aphasia and sensory aphasia . The case described here is principally of the motor variety . The young man 's ability to understand language is little affected , but he can not make the complex coordinations necessary for speech . This function is ascribed to a part of the frontal lobe . Among the sensory aphasias are distinguished auditory aphasia , the inability to  | understand spoken language , and visual aphasia , the loss of ability to read . Most actual cases of aphasia can not be classified into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not so clearly differentiated as the classical theory would imply , and because injuries usually affect more than one limited area . Many cases of aphasia recover gradually . The young man described was wordless for ten days , then nurses succeeded in teaching him to say a few simple words , such as " drink , " " orange , " and " milk . " After three months he had relearned his vocabulary fairly figure caption The left hemisphere of the cerebrum is represented . The shaded area in the frontal lobe is affected in motor aphasia , that in the temporal lobe in auditory aphasia , and that in the parieto-occipital lobe in visual aphasia. well and would pass for a normal person . Examinations of the brains of aphasic persons , and analogous experiments with lower animals , show that the damaged brain area does not recover its former functions . Instead these processes are taken over by adjacent undamaged areas as reeducation goes on . If too wide a damage has occurred the possibility of retraining may he very limited . A General Neural Infection. ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hospital shows a variety of symptoms , three of which will receive particular attention . First , he displays a notable ataxia , somewhat like that of Case 6 . He has a shuffling gait , a general incoordination of movement , and shows the same clinical reflex signs as did the case of ataxia . Second , he shows rather pronounced mental deterioration , like that of Case 2 , described on page 183 . He does not know the date , where he is , or who his associates are . His information is scanty , and he can not perform arithmetical tasks . The neuro-  | physiologist , from these symptoms and others , recognizes this as a case of paresis , a general syphilitic infection of the nervous system . Asked to explain the intellectual deterioration , the neurologist will say that the entire brain is affected , and this observation has been widely confirmed . Moreover , the cause of the infection is known to be syphilitic , a very valuable fact . But the patient shows a third kind of symptom of even greater psychological @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intense nature . When questioned , he says that he has millions of dollars , hundreds of wives , and thousands of children . He is a king , a president , a general , or God . The hospital is his palace , and all of the other patients are . his servants . How are these delusions explained by the neurological approach ? The neurologist says again that the whole brain is affected , which is true enough , but not sufficiently specific . It explains the poor judgment that permits a delusion to be harbored , but it does not explain the source of the delusion itself . There is something positive about a delusion that can not be dismissed merely as a " weakness of judgment , . " Moreover , not all paretics show expansive delusions . Some simply deteriorate , some are depressed , while others are agitated . There are no known differences in brain degeneration that distinguish these types . Psychiatrists usually point to the patient 's past history , to his habits , as the factor that leads to one type or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ brought to bear where the neurological theory leaves off . Merits and Shortcomings of the Neurophysiological Approach. ? The neurological and physiological explanations of mental disorders have the advantages of being definite and practical . They are satisfying because they point to the identifiable defects in the present structure of the man that make him act as he does . This approach is practical because it suggests definite methods of treatment and prevention . Many neurological defects due to diseases or tumors can be cured by medicine or surgery . Paresis can be prevented by the eradication of the syphilis from which it develops . The neurophysiological interpretation is at its best when it deals with relatively simple and limited disorders such as paralyses , ataxias  | and aphasias . It provides an invaluable background for many of the more complex disorders , but it can not cope with problems involving the individual 's whole behavior and thought . For these conditions the psychological approach is also necessary , since the basic explanations arise from the individual 's habits of adjustment . ADAPTIVE FAILURES AND ABNORMAL BEHAVIOR The psychological interpretation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ established principles of normal psychology . Not all of general psychology can be applied to the problems of mental disorder , but the studies of how an individual adjusts to his environment , of how he learns and forms habits , and of how his personality traits develop , are very pertinent . Some of these fundamentals are reviewed here , and are illustrated copiously in the two following chapters . The Adjustment Process. ? The course of a normal life may he regarded as a series of adjustments , in. which each individual modifies his behavior in response to the combined situation created by his needs and by the opportunities of his environment . In order to be normal , an individual must be able to adjust flexibly . He must show varied responses that are appropriate to each situation encountered , and that are successful in fulfilling his motives . The nature of adjustment has been investigated by many animal and human experiments , as well as by observations from everyday life . The familiar puzzle-box and maze experiments illustrate this process clearly . At the outset , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hungry or thirsty , or confined . The fulfillment of this need is prevented by the conditions of the environment , that is by the puzzle box or maze . Next , the animal engages in varied activity typically of the trial-and-error sort , until finally he stumbles upon a solution that leads to the reward and reduces the drive . The total adjustment process can then be outlined in four terms : ( 1 ) Motive , ( 2 ) thwarting , ( 3 ) varied response , ( 4 ) solution . The same sequence may be observed in the complex social adjustments of human beings . If a man loses his employment , an  | adjustment is demanded , since this situation thwarts not only his economic drives but important social motives as well . The man may look and make inquiries ( varied responses ) until he secures another position , thus solving his adjustment . The notable thing about human social adjustments is the tendency to make inadequate substitute solutions . Instead of looking for another job , the man may sit at home and nourish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ blame others for his lack of employment , claim that he is persecuted , or demand that others support him . These inadequate substitute adjustments are of the greatest interest to abnormal psychology . Certain features of each of the four steps of the adjustment process demand separate consideration . 4E Motives. ? Adjustive behavior may be evoked by any motives whatsoever , but in civilized communities the social motives are probably most significant . Human social motives are very complex , and can not be reduced satisfactorily to a list of names . They are acquired through life experiences , chiefly as modifications of emotional reactions . Among the important human social motives are the needs for prei'minence , mastery , excelling rivals , and overcoming obstructions , which are related to the emotional pattern of anger or rage . Derived from positive social experiences are the strong motives for recognition , social approval , praise rather than scorn , attention , and gregariousness . Other significant social motives are the needs for conformity with the group , security , and sex . There is reason to believe that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than any others .  --  - Thwarting. ? A thwarting or frustration is a situation that prevents the fulfillment of a motive . When a motive is aroused under circumstances that prevent its prompt satisfaction , it continues to operate , and stimulates the individual to activity . Three classes of thwarting have been distinguished . Thwarting by environmental obstacles usually leads only to constructive activity , since the individual ascribes his difficulties to impersonal and external circumstances . This type blends into a second class , thwarting because of personal defects of the indivdual . Persons often lack physical , men-  | tal , social , and other qualities to such an extent that they are hampered in the attainment of their motives . Personal defects arouse strong secondary motivation and are more likely to lead to inadequate adjustments . Frustration also may occur because of a conflict of motives . If a situation impels an individual to two antagonistic courses of action , he must choose one of them , compromise , or else remain futilely stirred up . Since many conflicts can not be compromised except with inadequate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Varied Responses. ? Impelled by unsatisfied motives , an individual who is making an adjustment tries one course of action after another , until he hits upon a response that is satisfactory in some degree . Healthful adjustment depends very considerably upon the maintenance of varied behavior until a good enough solution has been discovered . The individual who has a limited repertory of adjustive responses , or who is too easily satisfied with the first partially adjustive response that he makes , is likely to show maladjustment . Plexibility of behavior and the possession of many socially adaptive habits make for good adjustments . In some instances , a person displays strong emotion when he is frustrated , which hinders constructively varied activity . A fearful or enraged person is likely to perform the same reaction over and over again , trying some partial solution repeatedly instead of varying his behavior . Such a response is known as a persistent nonadjustive reaction and is especially significant in abnormal behavior . Excessive emotional states are the chief causes of persistent nonadjustive reactions . ' Solution. ? A solution of an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is any act that reduces or satisfies the motivation that initiated the adjustive sequence . Thus , if an ad justment is demanded by a need for preeminence or mastery , anything that will cause the individual to think better of himself and to feel successful will constitute an adjustive solution . Adjustments , of course , vary greatly in quality . A man may secure a satisfaction of his mastery drives by actual achievement , by substitute achievement  | in a hobby or a sport , or by joining some group or movement that makes him feel more important . These are not undesirable solutions . But he can also receive motive-satisfaction by finding excuses for lack of achievement , by exaggerating his disabilities , by daydreaming of accomplishments , or by developing delusions of grandeur . Here lies the key to the psychological interpretation of mental disorders . The abnormal behavior is satisfying to the motives of the individual . The understanding of any psychological symptom , therefore , is clarified by asking these questions . " What adjustive need does the symptom fulfill ? " " What shortcoming @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the individual gaining from his abnormality ? " When these questions can be answered , the causes of the disturbance can be discovered . Adjustive Learning. ? When an individual has secured satisfaction from a certain solution of an adjustment problem he tends to repeat that solution when the same problem arises again . Persons thus learn their typical habits of adjustment , whether adequate or inadequate . Trial-and-Error Learning. ? Most instances of adjustive learning follow the pattern well known to general psychology as trial-anderror learning . When a rat is placed repeatedly in the same maze and is given food at its end , he comes to run the maze more quickly and to take the most direct course to the reward , omitting the unrewarded varied responses ( " errors " ) that he made in the earlier trials . Similarly , human beings tend to repeat and to learn the responses that lead to the completion or satisfaction of motivated activity . There is considerable variation in the degree of insight shown in human learning . At times a person will plan his action to achieve @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ work toward a goal . This rational or insightful behavior usually leads to good adjustments . In other instances persons " stumble upon " their adjustive solutions , retain them because they are satisfying , and yet are not clearly aware of why they act as they do . This has been termed blind trial and error . The same effect can be seen in the.laboratory . A blindfolded subject can learn to trace a finger maze without error ,  | and yet he may be entirely at a loss when called upon to describe or to explain in words the path that he took . Thus many traits of personality and character are learned only because they satisfy motives , not because they are rationally and consciously selected . No person " chooses " to become deluded , but the individual with delusions gradually learns his distorted ways of thinking because they are so satisfying to some of his personal drives . This fact has led to the theory of " the unconscious , " a hypothesis that is unnecessary in the light of the experimental findings that learning and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Abnormal Psychology. ? Another approach to the process of learning that has many useful applications in abnormal psychology is the conditioned reaction . Conditioning , or associative learning , takes place when two responses are elicited from an individual simultaneously or almost simultaneously . To cite a well-known example , Pavlov 's dog learned to salivate when a bell was rung because the bell had accompanied the presentation of food for a number of times . Further experiments in conditioning define the circumstances under which animals and humans can learn to discriminate between stimuli , and to inhibit responses to stimuli . All of these are as applicable to abnormal as to normal behavior . It may be noticed at once that for a clog to salivate when a bell is rung is " abnormal " in itself . The bell has no rational connection with the food , and salivating-for-bells is not a part of the normal and usual behavior of a dog in his everyday adjustments . The force of conditioning , of the simultaneous association of responses , is stronger than logic in determining the behavior of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stereotyped behavior found among the mentally disordered can be understood only in terms of the conditioned response . In this form of learning , as in trial and error , " unconscious " learning is significant . Experiments have shown that persons can become conditioned to incidental , almost unnoticed stimuli , and that unconscious responses such as the pupillary reflex can he attached to substitute signals . It is very common for a person to display a habit acquired by conditioning even after he has forgotten the experience by which this habit was learned . Thus bizarre , useless ,  | and maladjusting behavior can be acquired through conditioning , as will be illustrated later . Personality. ? Maladjustments and mental disorders rarely make a sudden appearance ; instead , they develop gradually over long periods of time . An investigation of the past history of a maladjusted person will reveal that he has shown for a long time traits of personality that lead to his final state . A person who withdraws acutely is found to have had a shy , retiring , excessively quiet disposition in the past @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " always suspicious of others and conceited about his own abilities . " From these facts , the theory has evolved that the personality of the individual is the basic or predisposing cause of abnormality . This is a valuable theory but is susceptible to a serious misinterpretation . The individual does not act as he does " because . ' he belongs to a certain personality type . Instead , what is called his personality type is merely evidence of the habits of adjustment that he already has acquired . A theory of inherent personality types therefore puts the cart before the horse . It is incorrect to say that a person withdraws because he has a withdrawing or " introvertive " personality . The withdrawing behavior shows that the individual 's experiences and training have taught him to use this form of adjustive reaction , rather than others . Fearful , self-centered , excuse-making , withdrawing , or complaining personalities are the end results of processes of adjustive learning , rather than the sources of these adjustments . In keeping with this interpretation , an individual 's personality may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or qualities of adjustment . This is the most useful conception for a psychological theory of abnormal behavior. references REFERENCES See Chapter XI , page 250 , for references on abnormal psychology .  | The concepts of abnormal psychology apply not only to persons who are seriously disordered , but also to many characteristics of normal people . Most individuals are normal in the sense that their reactions are common , usual , and not too much out of keeping with their life aims . But no one is perfect , and every person shows at least some small signs of inadequate adjustment . " The abnormal psychology of normal people " is a significant field of study , for it contributes to an understanding of one 's own behavior more directly than does any other branch of psychology . It is also a necessary preparation for the study of the more serious disorders . No one can understand the nature of " delusions " unless the concepts of " compensation " and " rationalization " first are understood . This chapter describes some of the applications of abnormal psychology to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seriously disabling abnormalities . Adjustment Mechanisms. ? The habits by which persons satisfy their motives are known as inechanisnis . If , for example , an individual adjusts to a need for recognition by showing-off , exhibiting loud and boisterous behavior , and interrupting others , these responses constitute his mechanisms of adjustment . It is convenient to give names to related groups of adjustive responses . Those in the example just cited are known as " attention-getting mechanisms , " a term that describes their nature and utility . Every person shows many mechanisms of adjustment , and all mechanisms are therefore normal in the statistical sense . Mechanisms vary greatly in adjustive merit , however , and in the intensity and frequency with which they are used . An individual who is comparatively well adjusted , or one who is in  | the early exploratory stages of a difficult adjustment , tends to use many different mechanisms in his trial and error . This is desirable , for by trying many adjustive responses he is likely to hit upon a satisfactory one . In the later stages of maladjustment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that becomes the dominant factor in his personality . This is characteristic of the more serious disorders . Defense Mechanisms. ? The defense mechanisms constitute one very important and inclusive class of adjustive habits . Defensive behavior consists of responses that tend to make up for , conc1 , or disguise a personaLde ct or con fence mechanisms are employed to adjust to a thwarting caused by a subjective inferiority . If a person believes that his inability to satisfy his motives arises from inferior strength , skill , appearance , intelligence , or social status , he is likely to behave defensively . The subjectively sensed inferiority has little relationship to real ability . Some able people believe themselves inferior , while many incompetent persons are never troubled with such thoughts . Defense mechanisms , then , do not arise from genuine inability , but from subjective factors in the individual 's personality . A long period of habit formation , usually beginning in childhood , establishes a fearful reaction to personal criticism . This may be caused by experiences such as excessive scolding and punishment at home , ridicule @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ school . An individual who has learned this fearful attitude is always ready to believe his own inability and hence to act defensively . Defensive habits set up in childhood are often carried into later life , long after their original causes have disappeared . Since all persons experience some situations in childhood that are productive of an attitude of inferiority , all show defense mechanisms in some degree . Only the more severe and prolonged defenses are mental abnormalities . Aggressive Defenses. ? Defense mechanisms are divided into two convenient , if somewhat arbitrary , groups . First , there are the defenses that are relatively aggressive in nature usually involving social participation . A second class consists of the withdrawing defenses , characterized by retreat from social situations .  | Compensation. ? A compensation is a pseudo-achievement , developed as a defense against the imputation of failure in real achievements . Compensations have two adjustive values . They are substitutes for genuine achievement , and therefore indirectly fulfill the motives that have been frustrated . Also , they distract the individual from thinking about his shortcomings , and direct @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are easily detected in many behavior problems of children . One boy was referred to a clinic because of persistent troublemaking in school and bullying on the playgrounds . He also stole small articles from stores in the neighborhood . Investigation showed that beneath this aggressive exterior , the boy had a severe attitude of inferiority toward his physical abilities . He had suffered an unusual number of injuries during the few years before , breaking bones three times while engaged in active play . Consequently he shunned contacts with other youngsters of his age . His motives for physical mastery and for recognition found compensatory outlets in classroom disorder and in bullying younger children . He stole to appear a " tough guy " before his companions . Thus he strove to conceal his fear of being puny by compensatory aggressiveness . Compensation appears in many other forms . Lack of social recognition may give rise to attention-getting mechanisms , especially in young or naive persons . Intellectual shortcomings have their typical compensations . For example , a mechanic employed by a college , who was constantly thrown into the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ use ( and misuse ! ) of very long words , thus endeavoring to disguise his lack of formal schooling . Parents often endeavor to secure compensation through the accomplishments of their children , and therefore urge the youngsters into careers that they themselves would have liked to pursue . . Many hypermoral attitudes are compensatory in character , for often an individual tries to overcome his own temptations by loudly preaching the opposite virtue . The reformed drunkard is proverbially the best temperance lecturer . The results of compensation are not always unfortunate . If an individual is prevented from real achievement by unavoidable circumstances , compensations in the forms of hobbies , collections , and  | other avocational interests may represent the best way of securing a passable adjustment . On the other hand , evidences of compensation can be found in some of the behavior of the seriously mentally disordered . ' Identification. ? Another common defense mechanism is identification , in which the individual secures motive-satisfactions by participating in the achievements of other persons or groups . A person " identifies himself " with another individual or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ranging from the child 's pride in his father 's position , through the collegian 's adulation of the football captain , to the adult 's participation in lodges , societies , and political parties . Identification is a normal source of adjustive satisfaction , but is also seen in extreme abnormalities . It is basic , for example , to delusions of identity , in which patients believe that they are a god , a king , or a Napoleon . Projection. ? As a means of defense against tendencies that he will not admit in himself , an individual will sometimes ascribe these same desires to other people . A student with a strong temptation to cheat will see evidence that everyone around him is cribbing . A prudish person is sometimes one who is struggling with sexual drives that he regards as unworthy , hence he sees obscenity in every book and theatrical performance . The tendency to be oversensitive about one 's own weaknesses , and to detect them more readily in others , is a common human adjustive trait . It is also characteristic of some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mentally disordered person is suppressing a tendency to do away with his family , he may easily shift to a belief that they are trying to poison him . 2ationalitiation. ? As compensation is to conduct , so rationalization is to thinking . The person who rationalizes gives " good " reasons to justify courses of action that he believes to be inferior , or else to excuse away his shortcomings . Normal rationalizations are illustrated by the excuse-making that follows having failed an examination , having been reprimanded by one 's employer , or having lost a set of tennis . In these situations it is very consoling to believe , re-  | spectively , that the instructor was unfair , that the mistake was made by someone else , or that one 's racket must be restrung . The habit of " passing the buck , " verbally and in thought , to explain every failure is closely related to the structure of many delusions . The patient who believes that he has been imprisoned in order that others may get his money is spared the embarrassment of recognizing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ type of defensive behavior is illustrated by simple withdrawing or seclusiveness . An individual who is frustrated in his social adjustments may give up the attempt to adjust socially , and may withdraw from the stimuli that cause his difficulties . Seclusive persons shun the company of people , prefer solitary amusements to competitive ones , and would rather watch other individuals than participate in their activities . This reaction is adjustive , for a person who will not try to make social adjustments can not experience painful failures . The withdrawing adjustment is tried by almost all persons who encounter social thwarting , and frequently alternates with the more aggressive adjustments . A socially maladjusted individual is typically shy and retiring at one time , and aggressively compensatory at another , with seeming inconsistency . Excessive seclusiveness is usually caused by a strong conditioned fear of social situations , or else by the persistent frustration of more active attempts to adjust to them . Many timid children have histories of harsh treatment from parents , or of demands made upon them that were far beyond their capacity to fulfill . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ child has no alternative except to withdraw . This is one of the dangers of a repressive type of discipline that stamps out undesirable adjustments without providing other constructive means for the satisfaction of motives . The withdrawing defenses are usually regarded as more perilous than the aggressive sorts . They are less likely to be detected and to receive constructive attention , since they represent quiet and orderly behavior that is not a nuisance to parents and teachers . They are also harder to modify , since the individual is less actively seeking  | an adjustment . The most common serious mental disorder , dementia praecox , is also characterized by extreme withdrawing . While this may be due in some degree to physiological factors , patients suffering from dementia praecox often have a long history of prior seclusiveness . Negativism. ? Withdrawing that is very vigorous and strongly emotionally toned is called negativism . It is shown by stubbornness , rebellion , refusal , and a negative kind of response to any social suggestion . The concept of negativism has three applications . It is an almost normal form @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ older children and adults , and a symptom found in some psychotic states . Very young children , especially from about two to three years of age , show spells of negativism rather frequently . Children of this age have limited means for asserting themselves , but can gain their point and attract attention by unreasonable refusals . Negativism is related to temper tantrums and is a rage-like form of behavior . Under desirable conditions of habit formation this phase passes . If training circumstances are unfortunate , a negative attitude may persist into the adolescent or adult periods as an inadequate response to social frustration . Some persons with serious mental disorders also show negativism , refusing to comply with routine , refusing to eat , or doing the opposite of whatever they are commanded to do . This has the same significance as childhood negativism , for it is a means of personal expression under conditions that limit the range of other assertive behavior . Phantasy ' . ? Phantasy , or daydreaming , is an adjustive mechanism t at almost everyone uses to some extent . To imagine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ life is an easy and available form of adjustment . Since such a large proportion of people daydream , this outlet must be considered normal . In one questionnaire study of college students , 98 per cent admitted that they had daydreamed recently . The most common types of normal phantasy represent the most frequently thwarted of common ambitions . Daydreams of possessing physical strength or attractiveness , of having  | money and possessions , of being successful vocationally , and of securing a desired partner of the opposite sex , are among the most common phantasies of young people . An individual who is withdrawn and seclusive usually daydreams immoderately , since this is the one positive means of substitute adjustment that requires no social participation . Excessive daydreaming is not conducive to good adjustment , since a person will not try to make overt adjustments when his needs are satisfied imaginatively . Many fanciful delusions of the mentally disordered are very similar to normal daydreams , being in no way more unreal or wishful . An important difference is that the normal person recognizes his daydreams as not real @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accepted as facts . HYSTERIA Conversion Hysteria. ? Among the psychoneuroses , one of the most common and yet one of the most severe disorders is hysteria . Hysteria is not a clearly defined single maladjustment. but rather is a name traditionally applied to a large group of conditions . These are related by one common characteristic found in the personalities of individuals who show hysterical symptoms . The hysteric is said to be dissociated , unintegrated , or lacking in unity of behavior . This is a difficult concept which will be made more clear by subsequent illustrations . The most frequent form of hysteria is called conversion hysteria , the name having arisen from a now discarded theory that the individual " converted " his mental conflict into a physical symptom . This type of disorder simulates various evidences of physiological illness , such as paralyses , pains , or anaesthesias ( loss of sensation ) . Untrained observers , and most of all the patient himself , believe that these symptoms are physiological , but there is conclusive evidence of their psychological origin . The symptoms are usually @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such as a paralyzed leg , a sore throat , or numbness of the hand . They conform to the conception of hysteria as a disorder of dissociation . A man with a hysterically paralyzed arm , for example , quite literally " does not let his left hand know  | what his right hand is doing . " The paralyzed member is shut off or dissociated from his total adjustive reaction . In more severe classes of hysteria such as somnambulisms , fugues , and multiple personality , whole segments of experience are dissociated from the rest of the individual 's thought and behavior. x A Case of Hysterical Paralysis. ? ( Case 9. ) l Kate F. , a very attractive young girl thirteen years of age , was admitted to a hospital suffering from a partial paralysis of the left leg , extreme nervousness , and marked loss of appetite . Several months before , while she was in school , her left leg suddenly " gave way , " felt numb , and had a tingling sensation of " pins and needles . " She was confined @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time , but made a partial recovery during the summer months . Upon starting school again in the fall , the symptoms recurred and she was brought to the hospital . Careful medical examinations indicated that there was no disease or organic disorder of the nervous system to account for her condition . In a series of interviews with a psychologist the history leading to her attack was brought to light . After much hesitation , she tearfully related the story of a triangle situation involving her parents . Three years previous , her mother and a roomer in the home fell in love and eloped . The father and sisters found her mother , and brought her back home . Then for many nights there were violent and abusive scenes , as the father upbraided the mother , and she in turn also accused him of infidelity . Kate reacted to these scenes with crying and praying , and felt that she had lost all faith in her beloved parents . Other quarrels followed for some time , but at last the parents assumed an outward calm for the sake @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ situation , however , and began to avoid the company of other children . She often stayed in during recess at school rather than face the other girls . It is notable that the leg paralysis appeared just before a recess period . In a long series of talks over many months , the psychologist made the girl tell the story of her parents ' conflict over and over again . Gradually , Kate came to accept it as a misfortune that was entirely in the past and no longer a source of fear . With the assimilation of the experience , her symptoms disappeared .  | The Interpretation of Hysteria. ? There are two things to explain in a case of " conversion hysteria . " One is the source of the disturbance or dissociation of personality , and the other is the origin of the particular symptoms shown . One common source of dissociation is the development of inharmonious and conflicting reactions toward some situation . This is illustrated clearly by the case of Kate F. In earlier life she had learned to love and idealize her parents ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with them and outwardly to respect them , hut in an unanalyzed and deeply emotional manner she is disgusted , repulsed , and disillusioned . Thus she learns to divorce her overt behavior from her emotional attitudes , to think one thing and do another . This is the essence of dissociation , the development of an inconsistent and fragmentary response to a situation . The particular symptoms of hysteria have value as defense mechanisms , and are developed as partial , though inadequate , adjustments . For example , Kate wished to avoid social contacts with her schoolmates during the recess period , and had already resorted to many excuses . The paralyzed leg provided a perfect reason for withdrawing from company , and so was adopted or " learned , " the dissociated personality permitting this irrational solution . The physical disability in most cases of hysteria is suggested by some real but temporary physical disorder . It is probable that in Kate 's case her leg ' went asleep , " a common phenomenon due to pressure that almost everyone experiences from time to time . Most persons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or move it until it is restored . The hysteric , however , both fears the worst and is ready to believe that the leg is really paralyzed . Also , the paralysis serves an adjustive end , so it is exaggerated and used as a defense mechanism . The hysterical individual is entirely sincere in believing in his ailment . It is not a " pretended " or " imaginary " disability but a very real one , even though it arises from psychological causes . The individual is entirely unconscious of the source , nature , and utility of his symptom . He has hit upon it by blind trial and error , without realizing its significance . When the patient gains insight into the origin of the symptom and becomes reconciled or adjusted to the conflict that caused it , the disability usually disappears .  | Other Cases of Hysteria. ? Hysteria is a very common maladjustment , if the less striking cases are considered . Many a neglected housewife develops hysterical " sick headaches " that excuse her from irksome duties and elicit the sympathy of her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ young children who can gain their ends by being ill . Vomiting seems very physiological , but it is only a reflex and can be conditioned to substitute stimuli . One of the commonest hysterical adjustments . is the " nine o'clock headache " whereby a child may escape being sent to school , only to be quite well again when it is too late to go . A number of cases of hysteria were precipitated by the war of 1914-1918 . Facing a severe conflict between fear and " patriotism , " many dissociated young men solved it by developing hysterical paralyses or blindness that excused them from active service . Disabilities that arise from industrial accidents or from automobile collisions are occasionally of hysterical nature , originating from the fear produced by the situation rather than primarily from physical injury . Since hysterical ailments can simulate almost all real illnesses , laymen can not distinguish them reliably , and even general practicing physicians are often deceived . Experienced psychiatrists can detect most cases , either from the nature of the symptoms , the course of development , or the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more pronounced degree of dissociation than that of conversion hysteria is found in somnambulisms and fugues , which are more severe and less frequent forms of hysteria . Soinnanabulisin. ? In somnambulism , which literally means " sleepwalking , " the individual goes into a trance-like state in which he reenacts some scene that had occurred in an emotional crisis . A classic example of somnambulism is Janet 's case of Irene , a twenty-year-old French girl . ' ( use 10 . ) Irene 's mother had died under most harrowing circumstances . For some time afterward , Irene would occasionally go into a trance-like condition in which she would reenact with great manifestations of grief the scene at her mother 's death , and her own subsequent attempted suicide that she had planned but had not carried  | out . During the somnambulism she was entirely oblivious of her surroundings , talking with her mother as if she were present , and ignoring anyone else . Between attacks , on the other hand , she showed no grief about her mother and went about her ordinary business normally . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rest of her experience , - reserving it for the hysterical episodes . Fugue. ? A fugue is a prolonged somnambulism during which a person forgets his identity , and often travels to a different place . After some time the individual usually " comes to himself , " does not know where he is , and remembers his past life but not the period of the fugue . The fugue , therefore , is a temporal segment of his ex- . perience that is almost entirely dissociated from the rest of his life . The chief symptom of a fugue is termed amnesia , which means a loss of memory . This disorder is not especially rare , and cases of it are reported in the newspapers from time to time . The " amnesia victim " is found wandering in the streets , and regains his former character gradually after he has been identified and restored to his family . A fugue is usually precipitated by an intense emotional crisis , toward which it has two ad justive functions . First , the individual spares himself from harrowing thoughts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his flight is a withdrawal from the stimuli that stir up his emotion . Multiple Personality. ? The most extreme form of hysterical dissociation is found in multiple personality , a disorder that is an exaggerated , alternating , and long-continued fugue . One case citation will make this condition more clear than many paragraphs of description . A Case of Multiple Personality. ? ( Case 11 . ) ' Mrs. X had shown severe hysterical symptoms throughout childhood . She had fainting spells , somnambulistic episodes , and hysterical pains and paralyses . At times her arm would hurt , again she had a stiff leg , and on one occasion she could not walk for two months . She was in constant conflict with her father , who punished her severely . Largely to escape an unhappy home she married a young man who was disapproved by her parents . I Icr husband was exacting , however , and she soon was  | weighted down with the domestic responsibilities of a baby . It was to escape these burdens that the first secondary personality appeared . The secondary personality @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a mischievous and irresponsible childlike character . At times Mrs. X was a normal mother , at other times for hours or days she was " Susie , " neglecting her housework for play or for wandering about the streets . Her infant died of neglect during one of these periods . " Susie " was unknown to the normal Mrs. X ( anntesia ) , but " Susie " wrote notes in which Mrs. X was referred to as " she . " " Susie " never spoke and was almost entirely insensitive to pain . Later , this patient developed two other secondary personalities . One , called " Jack " was a masculine character into which she would pass occasionally . At one time she was " the Baby , " acting for several weeks as if she were an infant about one year of age . It is interesting to note that this patient became quite normal several years later , partly through psychiatric treatment , and partly because of her removal to a remote mining town where her responsibilities and conflicts were minimized . PHOBIAS AND @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fear of sonic definite situation . The stimuli that may evoke phobias in various persons are almost unlimited . One person fears the dark , another is thrown into a panic by crowds , while others fear animals , high places , small enclosed places , running water , eyes , and a host of other things . Phobias vary greatly in intensity , ranging from a mild uneasiness in the presence of the stimulus , to a severe and continued panic that disorganizes the individual 's entire adjustiwe conduct . The milder cases are very common , and instances of then ' can be found in almost every classroom group . Phobias , along with compulsions , obsessions , feelings of doubt and unreality , and some similar symptoms , are classified traditionally as psychasthenia , in the general group of the psychoneuroses . A Case of Phobia. ? ( Case 12 . ) One of the classical cases of phobia was reported by Dr. W. H. R. Rivers , a British psychiatrist . ' The patient was a young physician who had suffered throughout his  | life from an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) . He was in anguish when in a small room with the door closed , and was unable to attend the theatre , since the exits seemed to be blocked by crowds of people . During the war he displayed a fear of dugouts , and preferred to be in an open trench under fire . Only then did he realize that his fear was abnormal . It was unaccountable to him , and he could remember no experience that might have caused it . Dr. Rivers instructed the young man in how to recall memories of his earlier life that might be related to the phobia . After a number of attempts he recalled a significant incident that had occurred when he was four years old . Ile had found a piece of junk and had taken it to a junk merchant . After finishing this transaction , he returned through a dark narrow passage only to find the door to the street shut . A clog in the passageway began to growl , and the child became terror stricken and frantic in his attempts to get out . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but the phobia had resulted , and he had terror dreams of being confined . After the memory of the experience was restored and assimilated , the phobia and dreams disappeared . The Origins of Phobias. ? Some of the principal characteristics of phobias can be enumerated . First , phobias often originate in an intensely fearful experience in childhood . Many cases have been traced to such a source , while in other instances this origin may be suspected even when it can not be proved definitely . Second , the critical experience is peculiarly forgotten in spite of its great influence on behavior . The memory for the incident is said to be " repressed . " Third , when the incident has been recalled by the aid of the psychologist 's techniques , and when the individual has adjusted to it , the phobia disappears . Fourth , most sufferers from severe phobias show other maladjustments , frequently being subject to " nervousness , " anxiety , stammering , had dreams , and other symptoms . This was true of Rivers ' case , although it was not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to explain about a phobia is the source of the particular fear for a certain stimulus . It is a conditioned fear reaction , I ( ; o lied by association . If an individual fears dogs , or high places ,  | or the dark , it is because a strong fear was provoked at the same time that the substitute stimulus occurred . This is true in most cases of simple phobia . In a few cases , however , a double learning process occurs so that the feared thing is a secondary rather than a primary conditioned stimulus . For example , a person may be conditioned to fear death , and may transfer this to an apparent fear of the dark , because " death " and " darkness " have become associated in his thinking . The most significant elements in a phobia , however , are not the conditioning experiences , but the underlying personality traits , and the fact of " repression . " If a fear experience is remembered clearly , it is usually overcome in time . On the other hand , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ experience can not be recalled . This significant phenomenon will be investigated later . Also , a person who is generally well adjusted rarely develops a serious phobia . Apparently , the same factors in the formation of habits of personality that cause repression and phobia are also responsible for other evidences of inadequate adjustment . Compulsions and Obsessions. ? A compulsion is a strong impulse to perform some irrational act , often repeatedly . Persons who suffer from compulsions realize that their behavior is absurd , yet they can not curb the impulse . Compulsions often accompany phobias , and have a similar psychological significance . A young woman who had a fear that something was behind her , also displayed a compulsion to make a thorough inspection of the room from time to time , although she realized that there was no one present . ' The compulsion thus had an adjustive effect ; it reduced the fear reaction of the phobia . Other compulsions usually are either reductive of phobias , or else the substitute for a phobia . They resemble phobias in their histories and in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a recurring thought that the individual can not prevent , even though he knows it to be silly , meaningless , or useless . For example , one girl who had a phobia for eyes also was obsessed with the phrase " fear looking out of her eyes , " which kept running through her thoughts . A man was obsessed with the number 13 . He was always looking for this number , and even counted the letters in  | words and phrases to see if there were thirteen of them . ' This obsession was traced to a sexual conflict . I.n earlier life he had an affair with a superstitious young woman who was afraid of the number thirteen . He was very ashamed of this episode and had repressed a direct memory of it , but the obsession with " thirteen " acted as a substitute for his preoccupation , and as a distraction that kept him from recognizing the real source of his anxiety . Obsession has its counterpart in normal life , as do almost all abnormal symptoms . " A tune running in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ happens to almost everyone . Repression and Adjustment. ? Repression is the most generally interesting psychological phenomenon found in phobias , compulsions and obsessions . To ordinary common sense it is inconceivable that an experience that exerts so profound an influence on an individual 's life could be " forgotten . " There is ample evidence , however , that repression does occur . The case histories of persons who suffer from phobias offer clear indications of its presence . More fundamentally , a large number of experiments with normal people show that there is a general tendency to forget experiences that are fearful or shameful . If this occurs in the ordinary unpleasantnesses of normal life , it is even more likely to happen in the intense cases that result in abnormalities of behavior . Repression is interpreted most satisfactorily as a form of inhibitory adjustment . There are many other examples of how people may adjust by not doing ( inhibiting ) some act that would have unpleasant results . /l person may adjust to a social rebuff by withdrawing from company , that is , by inhibiting his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the places or situations in which shameful experiences have occurred . Similarly , an individual may adjust to a painful event in his past by inhibiting any recall of the affair . Recall is an act , a response to a stimulus , and is just as susceptible to inhibition as any muscular activity . There is evidence that repression is usually incomplete at first . Soon after a fearful or shameful act has happened , it can he recalled without great difficulty . With practice the individual becomes more adept at the task of " not renienibcring , " and so finally can recall the experience only with the  | greatest difficulty . Repression is thus an inadequate or partial adjustment , achieved by inhibiting the recall of painful circumstances . It is not hard to explain how a " forgotten " experience can continue to cause a phobia . It is the general rule in habit formation that a reaction may he retained long after an individual has forgotten the situation in which it was learned . We all know " 2 X 2 = 4 , " but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ learned ? This phenomenon is even more likely to occur in the case of phobias , since fear reactions are largely autonomic and are not easily controlled or inhibited , while the more cortical memory reactions are subject to inhibition more readily . Repression causes a phobia to persist because it prevents the most available method of reeducation from being used . To cure a child 's f. r of a dog he should become accustomed to that clog by repeated f , iendly and fearless contacts . But if he fears a dog long dead and 1 tried , reeducation can only be achieved verbally , through talking ; bout the former fear experience and making a new adjustment to it . For the individual to be educated to make a new adjustment to any stimulus , which is the essence of the cure of maladjustments , that stimulus must be present , either actually or in the substitute form of words and ideas . When the words or ideas are repressed reeducation is rendered more difficult or even impossible . The reinstatement of the memory permits the individual to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of his fear . This is why the recall of the causal experience of a phobia usually results in a cure . l tendency to repress the recall of unpleasant experiences is a general characteristic of maladjusted persons . This unfortunate habit of personality is acquired in childhood through unsympathetic treatment received from parents or other advisers . Children usually like to confess their fears and troubles . If they are often rebuffed , or if they have no one in whom to confide , some other adjustment has to be made . The habit of repressing is hit upon by some children , just as others learn to daydream , compensate , or rationalize . Since phobias occur chiefly in persons who have a habit of repression , these individuals often show other maladjustments . Intense phobias therefore are found most often in persons who are " a bit queer " in other ways as well .  | Nonadjustive Emotional Reactions. ? An individual who is unable to achieve an adjustment , either by direct means or by one of the typical substitute mechanisms , is likely to remain in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inhibits constructive and thoughtful adjustive behavior , the individual may then show persistent nonadjustiz e reactions . He repeatedly performs acts that have little or no adjustive value , stimulated by his need to malt ; some attempt to adjustment , and by the visceral effects of his persistent emotional state . Common evidences of this condition are found in worry and nervousness , which almost all people experience from time to time . Persistent nonadjustive emotional reactions to baffling difficulties usually result in three kinds of symptoms . First , the individual may show evidence of the visceral condition that accompanies all strong emotional reactions . At first this may include a quickened pulse , increased blood pressure , and other signs of the emergency state of emotion . I gut this heightened tonus is exhausting , and may result later in lowered blood pressure , fatigue , impaired digestion , and similar indications of depletion . Second , nonadjustive emotional states are usually accompanied by motor signs , including jumpiness , " irritability , and a tendency toward useless and repeated muscular movements . Third , worry or anxiety @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ frustration . All three of these kinds of symptoms , visceral , motor , and verbal , are usually present together , but one or another of them may be unusually prominent in any particular instance . ' More serious cases of persistent nonadjustive reactions are usually classified among the psychoneuroses . Three categories have been named , corresponding to the three classes of symptoms just described . Neurasthenia or " nervous exhaustion " is a psychoneurosis in which the visceral effects of emotion are most prominent , especially in their secondary form of depletion after chronic emotional excitation . Nervousness is often used to designate the predominance of diffused and useless motor behavior in a nonadjustive reaction . The verbal responses to emotion constitute worry , or in a more severe form , anxiety neurosis . It is not altogether satisfactory , however , to inter-NEURASTHENIA , nter-  | pret these psychoneuroses from an entirely psychological point of view . Toxins , exhaustion following illnesses , glandular disturbances , and other physiological conditions may contribute to nonadjustive behavior . These disorders must then be examined from both the psychological and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ organic causes , some are almost entirely psychological , while still others are due to a combination of the two causes in varying degrees . Psychiatrists often have difficulty in separating the psychological and physiological factors , and lavn ? n should not attempt to do so . Neurasthenia. ? ( Case 13 . ) Nancy N. , a twenty-five-year-old college graduate , showed a varied assortment of symptoms that seemed to be chiefly of a " physical " nature . At the end of a day 's work she was utterly fatigued , and complained of vague aches and pains . In the evening she moped in her room , lacking the energy to do housework and the interest to read or to engage in other amusements . She had no appetite and her digestion was poor . fancy was " absent-minded , " could not concentrate , and made an unusual number of errors in her work . Recently she had refused to consider a more attractive position because she felt that she could not assume the responsibility . Her physician could find no definite illness , and said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's symptoms can be interpreted as a neurasthenic reaction . She lives with her invalid mother who depends solely upon her for support and care . Nancy feels hopelessly restrained by this situation . Many of her friends are marrying , and she feels that she may never be able to do so . An intelligent young woman of high ideals , she refuses to shirk her responsibilities consciously . or to employ the cruder kinds of defense mechanisms against them . She thus can not escape the conflict , but remains emotionally stirred up by it . The disruptive influences of emotion on visceral processes cause her indigestion , restlessness and , indirectly , her fatigue and inertia . Although no direct solution was possible , a series of talks with a psychologist helped her to assimilate and accept her difficulties , and the symptoms then diminished .  | Neurasthenia offers an excellent example of the interrelationship between physiological and psychological factors in adjustment . In some cases a person may be at low ebb physically , and his lack of energy and stamina predisposes him to weak psychological adjustments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ neurasthenia may arise from entirely psychological causes . Long continued emotion is exhausting , because it is an emergency state not intended to be maintained over a period of time . If a person is fearful for a prolonged interval , he burns up his surplus nutritional energy because of his heightened metabolism . The after-effects are fatigue and weakness . In many cases these symptoms are treated most effectively by rest and medical care , even though they arose from psychological causes originally . In some cases , neurasthenia has a slight adjustive value of a low quality . If the individual persuades himself that he is really ill , he can explain his failures on this basis and get out of irksome duties . The symptoms also gain him the sympathy , recognition and consideration that are ordinarily given to a sick person . A neurasthenic ailment thus has an adjustive function similar to that of a hysterical one . Nervousness. ? Ordinary nervousness is a very common form of maladjustment , but usually is poorly understood . The best interpretation of nervousness is to regard it as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ symptoms predominating . The nervous person can not relax ; he constantly engages in minor meaningless movements . He squirms in his chair , fusses , fidgets , and constantly moves about . He is irritable , complaining , and likely to be quarrelsome . Small distractions , such as persistent noises , annoy him excessively , and he is too much disturbed by sudden shocks . Along with these motor symptoms a nervous person usually shows some visceral ones such as " nervous indigestion , " and some verbal signs in the form of worry and indecision . Organic factors may contribute to nervousness , but not in the way that is believed popularly . Nervousness is not due to " weak nerves , " a common conception that has no scientific foundation . It is true , however , that the symptoms of nervousness can be caused by  | toxic conditions , such as a chronic infection of the tonsils or the appendix , or by glandular disturbances , especially by an excessive secretion of the thyroid gland . In many instances , disease is an indirect cause of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or if he fears that he may not recover , nervousness may arise as an emotional reaction to his hopeless difficulties . In such cases the organic disease is the thing that is feared , but the nervousness itself is primarily psychological . Much nervousness has no organic basis , but represents a persistent nonadjustive reaction to unacljustable frustration . A person ho is responding to a problem to which he can not adjust has an excessive tendency to react . He is " all keyed up " to make a response , but is inhibited because he can not discover any adequately adjustive behavior . An inhibited strong impulse tends to raise the general level of readiness to respond to other stimuli . The individual therefore " releases " his readiness , so to speak , by means of the nervous symptoms . The motor agitation of the nervous person is the most direct evidence of this . The irritable behavior shows that the person is easily aroused to fear , anger , or complaint by petty stimuli to which he would not react emotionally except for this exaggerated responsiveness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there is a noise and to be bothered by small distractions are further indications of this same condition . Examples of nervousness vary greatly in intensity . Temporary nervousness in embarrassing situations is common and is soon overcome when an adjustment has been made . Persistent nervousness , however , is a habit of personality . : A chronically nervous person often carries the stimuli for his maladjustment around with him as a feeling of incompetence or inferiority . Other persons have developed intense habits of wanting to carry out every act or idea immediately , and consequently are irritable and nervous when they meet the slightest obstacle . Such cases are hard to cure since they represent the end result of a lifetime of habit formation . Worry and Anxiety. ? Little need he said about the origin of worry and anxiety , except that they are the verbal equivalents of " nervousness . " Just as the individual who can not ad just to a diffi-  | culty is impelled to engage in useless motor activities , so also he is stimulated to think and talk about the frustrating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the worrier goes over his troubles again and again , unable to arrive at a constructive solution . Anxiety differs from worry in being more intense and in having a more general effect on the individual 's whole adjustment . A simple worry usually concerns a limited and fairly specific problem , while a person with anxiety neurosis may appear anxious in all situations . Repression is often an accompaniment of anxiety . If a person refuses to admit to himself the real cause of his fear , he may transfer the emotional reaction to all sorts of other situations . For example , a young man was prevented from adjusting to his problems by his father , who dominated him and made all decisions for him . Inhibiting a recognition of the real cause of his fear , the boy showed a widely generalized anxiety about his health , his studies , and his social relationships . Anxiety , like many other characteristics of personality , may become habitual . A habit of worrying is formed by the repeated occurrence of this reaction in situations involving frustration , and then @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ encountered . To relieve a state of worry , an individual should talk about his problems freely with a person in whom he has confidence . The persistent nonadjustive response may be overcome by seeking advice and assistance . Any active and constructive attempt to adjust will reduce worry , even though it is not entirely successful , because it gives the worrier a sense of having clone something about his difficulties . The basic cure of worry and anxiety , of course , is the full readjustment of the individual to the situations that have baffled him . MENTAL HYGIENE The aim of mental hygiene is to prevent maladjustments and mental disorders . This aim is accomplished in two general ways , by treating minor disorders before they grow more serious , and by arranging the influences acting upon individuals so that they are node capable of solving their adjustive problems adequately . The  | treatment of incipient maladjustments and psychoneuroses is carried out chiefly by psychiatrists or psychologists , or by clinics in which these professions work together . This practice is a part of clinical psychology , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the primary responsibility for preventive and positive mental hygiene lies with parents , teachers , employers , and people in general . Whenever one person has a contact with another , he may be a desirable or an unfortunate influence from the standpoint of mental hygiene . Principles of Mental Hygiene. ? The principles of mental hygiene arise from a knowledge of the nature and causes of maladjustments . The chief thesis of the psychological approach is that abnormal behavior originates from inadequate adjustments to the thwarting of a person 's motives . Since everyone meets with some frustrations , the person with better mental health is the one who can make good adjustments when difficulties occur . The ability to make good adjustments comes from the habits of adjustment that the individual has acquired through his past experiences . In a limited space , it is possible to state only what some of these desirable habits are . The methods by which such habits may be trained would require several volumes , and touch the fields of child psychology , educational psychology , and psychiatry . A few of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Individual Factors in Mental Health. ? The mentally healthful 4erson has an objective attitude toward himself . He sees his problems rationally , and is guided by facts and circumstances rather than by wishes and desires . Because of this objectivity , the ability to " sit back and take a look at himself , " he can detect defensive behavior when it is incipient . The well-adjusted individual has insight into his own conduct . He has learned his typical ways of behaving not by " blind trial and error , " but with some perception of the relationships between ends and means . Since he " knows himself , " he can assimilate his shortcomings without having to compensate or rationalize . Another important characteristic of the well-adjusted person is that he has acquired consistent reactions toward his problems . He does not wish and fear the same thing , but has learned harmonious and  | unconflicting responses to the major factors in his life . A lack of consistency in reactions leads to dissociation , one of the basic factors in maladjustment . Social Factors in ! @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ good adjustment pertain to the individual 's social relationships . First , the well-adjusted person engages in adequate and varied social activities . He does not keep too much to himself , or shun the ordinary amusements that are enjoyed by his group . Maladjustments thrive on solitude , and are less often found in genuinely sociable persons . Moreover , good adjustment demands social objectivity , or " fair-mindedness , " the ability to see the other person 's reasons , to understand his conduct , and hence to compromise more effectively . It is very important for every individual to have someone in whom to confide . Many maladjustments are made worse because an individual has no one with whom he can discuss matters that seem shameful or fearful . Consequently he worries alone , or else succeeds in repressing the unpleasant thoughts . A thorough talk about one 's troubles , with a person in whom one has great confidence , will do much to relieve worry and to prevent repression . Any individual who is able to guide his life by these principles of mental hygiene can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mental health . references REFERENCES See Chapter XI , page 250 , for references on abnormal psychology .  | The most serious mental disorders are the psychoses , which are so severe and so inclusive in their effects that the individual is unable to make the simplest adjustments demanded in everyday life . The psychoses are approximately equivalent to " insanity , " but the latter term is a legal one and has no precise psychological definition . Most psychotic patients should he cared for in mental hospitals , although numerous cases are not in institutions . Certain characteristic symptoms are common to the psychoses , and are found in disorders that arise from very different basic causes . These psychotic symptoms are not entirely unlike certain aspects of the behavior of normal people , but they differ strikingly in the degree of intensity with which they occur . For purposes of description , psychotic symptoms may be divided into two general classes . The first group includes the inhibition of normal systems of behavior , the things that the psychotic patient does not do that would be expected of normal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ systems of behavior . Not all of the symptoms described occur in all psychoses . Indeed , one psychosis is distinguished from another chiefly by the typical pattern of symptoms that each presents . The Inhibition of Normal Systems of Behavior. ? Many symptoms of the psychoses consist of the suspension of activities that are typical of normal persons . These are among the less spectacular characteristics , but are very important in identifying and understanding the grave mental disorders . Disintegration. ? A significant symptom common to many types of psychotic conditions may be termed disintegration . The disinte-  | grated patient can not relate his various experiences and thoughts , and can not combine them into a consistent whole . Figuratively speaking , the reactions of such an individual have " fallen apart . " Ile has lost the ability to perceive the connection between the real world of experience and his own desires , thoughts , and fancies . He does not discriminate , judge , or reason clearly . Lspecially significant is the failure of the function of self-criticism . The patient readily and uncritically accepts ideas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and hence is susceptible to the development of delusions . He is prone to display emotion that is inappropriate to the present conditions , and to harbor beliefs that common sense would reject immediately . A very pronounced degree of disintegration is confusion . In this state , the individual is bewildered , perplexed , and unable to perceive anything clearly . The introspective side of this condition is sometimes called clouding of consciousness , which means that the person has only a vague and chaotic awareness of external events . Apathy and fVithdrawal. ? Another striking symptom is the tendency of many psychotic persons to withdraw from social contacts . This seems to be caused by a great apathy , an utter indifference , to persons and events in the environment . When such a patient is asked how he feels , the typical reply is " all right , " and when asked how he likes the hospital , " it 's all right . " These answers are spoken with little trace of feeling , and it is evident that the patient does not care what happens @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in general . Very apathetic patients are inaccessible in various degrees , that is , they can not hold dependable communication with other persons . Sometimes psychotics appear to shut out the impressions from the environment . They do not know what is said to them because they are paying no attention . In other cases , evidence indicates that the individual can understand , but that he is inhibited from answering . An apparently inaccessible patient of this type , in a clearer moment at a later time , may give a correct account of all that has happened in his presence . A related symptom is retardation , or the slowing down of all responses . The individual moves slowly , talks slowly , and may re-  | main silent for a long time before answering a simple question . Withdrawn patients also often show stereotypy of speech or of mannerisms . One mutters " never die , never die , never die " in a scarcely audible undertone from morning to night ; another constantly paces in his room , three steps forward and three steps backward . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ catalepsy or catatonic stupor . Patients showing this symptom are often bedridden and completely helpless . They hold themselves in one posture for long periods of time , are mute , and sometimes do not even make the effort to eat . In less pronounced cases , the catatonic symptoms are displayed by great retardation , absence of voluntary activity , and a tendency to retain any posture in which the individual is placed . ( See Case 1 , on page 182 f . ) ' Dementia. ? When used alone , the term dementia does not imply type of disorder , but refers to a symptom found in many psychoses . Dementia means the deterioration of the intellectual behavior of the ( individual . As a psychosis progresses , many patients become progressively less competent mentally . Dementia is shown in two principal ways . First , the patient has difficulty in remembering ; he forgets common information that he had learned in school or at his work . At the extreme he may not remember his name , the names of his parents or his children , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recall . Second , the demented person is usually incompetent in learning and in solving new problems . Even if his cooperation can he enlisted , he can not learn skills that formerly he could have acquired with ease . Dementia seems to be permanent in many cases , that is , the lost mental competence is not regained even when other symptoms of mental disorder may have disappeared . Disorientation. ? Many psychotic individuals are disoriented , which means that they do not know time , place , or person . An individual is said to be disoriented in time if he does not know the approximate date , and disoriented as to place if he does not know where he is . He is personally disoriented if he does not know who he is . In some cases disorientation is evidence of disintegration or confusion , while in other instances it may be caused by dementia .  | Abnormal Systems of Behavior. ? The most interesting sympoms of the psychoses are the definitely abnormal systems of behavior that are shown by psychotic patients , but not by norThal people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in emotional tone . Hallucinations. ? A hallucination is a sensory perception in the absence of an appropriate external stimulus . A hallucinated individual reports that he sees things and persons , hears voices , or smells odors that are not actually present . Hallucinations may occur in all types of sensations . The simplest visual hallucinations consist of flashes of light or color . A little more complex are hallucinations of vague visual shapes that the patient interprets as snakes , ghosts , or unnamed beasts . Most visual hallucinations , however , concern actual objects and persons . One . patient describes the pictures that he sees on the walls , where there really are none . Another sees a man and a woman following him around the hospital , and reports their appearance in considerable detail . Auditory hallucinations are probably the most common type . They range in complexity from a buzzing in the ears , through hearing a sound such as the constant ringing of church bells , to hearing human voices that scold , accuse , or curse the patient . Some patients carry on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Hallucinations of touch are sometimes reported , as when a patient feels worms crawling on his skin . Another psychotic person reports that he constantly smells the odor of a skunk , which he believes to emanate from his own body . Hallucinations of sweet or bitter tastes also occur . Hallucinations are often related to the patient 's delusions . An individual with delusions of persecution often reports that he sees his tormentors , and even more frequently that he hears their accusing voices . Somewhat similar to hallucinations are the illusions sometimes seen by psychotics . These differ from hallucinations in having some external stimulus , which is misinterpreted . Thus a patient calls a strange physician by the name of an old friend and seems to recognize him as'such . Or , an affected individual may hear voices in the sound of running water , which cease when the water is turned off .  | iNormal persons experience illusions too , but the illusions of the nane , like their hallucinations , are accepted as being real . Delusions. ? Delusions are abnormal , false beliefs that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the face of contrary evidence . Delusions shade gradually into the " crank " opinions held by some apparently normal people . It is difficult to draw an exact line between the tenets of the parlor statesman who knows just how to save the country , and the overt delusions of the mentally disordered . The delusions of the psychotic vary greatly in consistency and elaboration . Systematic delusions may be detailed and apparently plausible , requiring careful checking to discover their falsity . At the opposite extreme , some delusions are very unsystematized , being transparently false , internally incoherent , and variable from time to time . Psychotic delusions may show any degree of systematization , from great to small . ( 1 ) Melancholy Delusions. ? Three chief kinds of delusions are usually distinguished , in terms of the general attitude accompanying the false belief . An individual with melancholy delusions believes that he is sinful , guilty , and cast out by the world , or that he suffers from some impossible organic loss . In this group , delusions of sin or of self-accusation are most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " unpardonable sin , " or that he is responsible for all the misfortunes in the world . This delusion is accepted with humility , and the individual believes that he deserves any punishment that might be inflicted upon him . In other cases of melancholy delusions the individual asserts that he has no stomach , or that his legs are rotting away . ( 2 ) Delusions of Persecution. ? A second general type of false belief is the delusion of persecution , which has some similarity to the melancholy delusions , except that the individual blames his state on the conspiracy of other persons . The patient often gives an elaborate account of a great plot to poison him , to keep him in confinement , or to kill him . Prominent public figures or well-known societies frequently are accused of directing the persecution , and patients sometimes have detailed plans to defend themselves from  | the oppression . In recent times , many patients have harbored delusions that electric power companies or radio stations are maliciously sending shocks through their bodies . Many years ago the devil was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the radio . Thus delusions keep pace with scientific progress . ( 3 ) Delusions of Grandeur. ? The third general class consists of delusions of grandeur . The patient in this condition believes that he has great wealth or power , or that he is some great person . Most grandiose delusions are less well systematized and less plausible than are typical persecutory delusions . An occasional patient consistently will act out the part that he is a king in exile , or a great inventor who has been robbed , but most delusions of grandeur are shallow , changeable , and not well integrated . They are more likely to occur in the later stages of a disorder after some dementia has set in . There is some relationship between the three chief classes of delusions , and a succession of delusions is often found in the same patient , first melancholy , then persecutory , and finally grandiose , This sequence has a psychological significance . First , the patient feels very distressed , and develops melancholy beliefs . Then to explain why he is so miserable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ delusions of persecution . This is very similar to the " rationalization " process found in normal people . Finally , to explain why he should he singled out for persecution , the delusions of grandeur appear . E.Fcessive Emotional Changes. ? One large class of psychosis is characterized by extreme emotional reactions which may be either positive or negative . Severe depression is a term that explains itself . The individual seems to suffer greatly , his outlook is very pessimistic , and he is in the depths of despair . This condition is usually accompanied by a slowing down of all reactions . Often the depressed patient attempts suicide , since life holds nothing for him . Morbid depression differs from the despondency that might be shown by a normal person in having no logical cause sufficient for the response shown . As iii the case of all other symptoms , depression may exist in various degrees , from small to great .  | The opposite of depression is called euphoria ( " good-feeling " ) or elation . The patient in this state is excessively happy without knowing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bothers or worries him . Laughing , loud talking , and heightened motor activity frequently accompany euphoria . Thinking is likely to be very quick but superficial , resulting in flight of ideas . A state of euphoria and overactivity together is called an excited or manic condition , which may exist in any degree . Another emotional excess found occasionally in psychotic persons is i orbid anger or irritability . A patient may be quarrelsome or irascible persistently , or he may show great outbursts of furor for short periods of time , often unprovoked by any sufficient external circumstance . These are accompanied with a great show of muscular activity and strength . Patients in extreme manic excitement or morbid anger satisfy the popular conception of a " madman . " It should be noted that few psychotics have these spectacular outbursts . The great majority of patients are quite tractable , and offer few difficulties of control . THE CLASSIFICATION OF THE PSYCHOSES For a number of years it has been customary to classify severe mental disorders into two large groups , the organic psychoses and the functional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , including conditions due to old age , hardening of the arteries of the brain , syphilis of the nervous system , alcoholism , brain injury , epilepsy , and a large number of other organic factors each of which contributes relatively few cases . The so-called functional psychoses were believed at one time to be entirely psychological in origin . Although this conception is being broken down , the group still presents a useful classification for descriptive purposes . It consists of schizophrenia ( dementia praecox ) , manic-depressive psychosis , and paranoia . In spite of the classification of the two groups , it is incorrect to suppose that the neurophysiological approach is applicable only to the organic psychoses , and the psychological point of view pertinent solely to the functional disorders . There are organic factors in both classes , but these are more definitely known for  | the " organic " group . Psychological causes also play a part in determining the symptoms of both categories . The various psychoses are not equally common , for more cases exist of some than of others . An approximate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ during 1934 may be of some service in giving the picture of the relative frequency of the disorders . Organic group ( total ) 40% Senile and arteriosclerotic 18% Paresis 8% Alcoholic 5% Other organic conditions 9% Functional group ( total ) 45% Schizophrenia ( dementia praecox ) 19% Manic-depressive e 15% Paranoia 2% Other functional conditions 9% lf'ithout psychosis 15% Total 100% The " other functional conditions " of the table refer chiefly to severe psychoneuroses of the kinds described in the preceding chapter . Of the mental hospital patients " without psychosis , " the largest single group are alcohol and drug addicts who , while not yet mentally disordered , are receiving treatment in such an institution . ORGANIC PSYCHOSES Senile and Arteriosclerotic Psychoses. ? In old age , malnutrition of the brain frequently causes changes in conduct , and especially an impairment of the intellectual functions . In many cases this is complicated by arteriosclerosis ( artery-hardening ) of the brain . Senile Dementia. ? Unmixed senile dementia presents a simple picture that is just what the name implies , a deterioration of intellect in old age @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ organs , skin , glands , and hair show the changes characteristic of senility . The brain undergoes the same type of degeneration also . It loses weight , the convolutions become shrunken , and many nerve cells degenerate . The mental symptoms develop gradually . The usual first signs are failures of immediate memory . The senile individual can not  | remember persons recently met , although he may still recall childhood events in great detail . In a further stage of dementia , even longlearned things may be lost , and the individual is unable to tell his name , his age , or his former occupation . The deterioration of memory may be irregular in some instances . For example , one old patient was not sure of his own name , but could remember the names of two teachers with whom he studied as a child . Senile dements often die of concurrent diseases such as pneumonia , or else lapse into unconsciousness and succumb quietly to sheer old age . None recover . While many senile dements are contented and cheerful , others show behavior that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , selfish , and quarrelsome , which probably are reactions to their inability to do things for themselves . Occasional delusions occur , in which the patient may believe that his family is trying to poison him or to defraud him . These delusions usually develop in persons who have been suspicious and distrustful in earlier years . The disintegration of senility releases and intensifies the habits of distorted thinking that have been formed during an entire lifetime . Senile dementia rarely is found in persons younger than sixty years . One study found the average age of onset to be 74 . Some persons are senile at sixty while others live quite unaffected into the nineties . This variation is due to the same factors that determine physical old age , such as constitution , diseases , nutrition , and the nature of the individual 's life work . There is some evidence that alcoholism and certain infectious diseases hasten senility. 7'Cercbral Arteriosclerosis. ? The hardening of the arteries of the brain progresses with the hardening of other arteries , and is often found in old age . This seriously @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intensification of the symptoms of senile dementia . High blood pressure together with hardened arteries may result in the bursting of cerebral blood vessels , which causes local damage to the brain . A sudden rupture of a cerebral blood vessel is apoplexy , commonly called " a stroke . " The individual is unconscious for a time , and subsequently has a motor impairment such as a paralysis of one side of the body . Apoplexy is frequently associated with senile dementia .  | Alcoholic Psychoses. ? Excessive indulgence in alcohol causes several types of mental disorder . Intoxication. ? Common drunkenness is itself a psychosis although fortunately a temporary one . The mildly intoxicated person becomes genial and happy ( euphoria ) , and shows some excitement and flight of ideas . With more alcohol he may display an irrational exaggeration of his normal personality trends , becoming loud , aggressive , suspicious , boastful , or sad . Normal inhibitions of conduct are weakened , the individual remembers poorly , and finally lapses into a stupor . This condition would be regarded as a serious mental disorder except @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Intoxication often functions as a defense mechanism against an individual 's maladjustments . When under the influence of alcohol , a person forgets his troubles , and escapes from an awareness of his conflicts and frustrations . This explains many persistent tendencies toward alcoholism . A permanent cure of alcoholic excesses seldom is achieved by physiological measures alone . It is necessary also to treat the psychological maladjustments that made the man take to drink . Drunkenness is a not infrequent expression of an already existing mental disorder of some other type . If a mental patient has been drinking when his symptoms develop , it does not always mean that his psychosis is of alcoholic origin . Instead , the alcohol may be only an incidental or contributing factor . Chronic Alcoholism. ? Continued alcoholism causes changes in the nervous system as well as in other organs of the body . The behavior symptoms include tremors , loss of memory , and some degree of dementia . The chronic alcoholic has a poverty of ideas , his judgment is poor , and he does not reason clearly . Emotionally , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ feelings of others , but irritable and impulsive when his own acts meet with interference . Delusions sometimes develop in deteriorated chronic alcoholics , just as they do in other persons whose rational appreciation of reality has been impaired from any cause . Delusions of self-accusation and of unworthiness are common , the origin of which is apparent . Other  | frequent delusions are that the patient 's wife is unfaithful to him , or that his family are persecuting him . These seem to arise from " projection . " Feeling that he is unfaithful to his family , the alcoholic defends himself by believing instead that they are unfaithful to him . Since alcoholic dementia is due to an organic deterioration of the brain cells , the outcome is unfavorable . Treatment can check the disorder from developing further , but can not restore what has been lost . cute Alcoholic Psychoses. ? A chronic alcoholic may have acute psychotic episodes , precipitated either by an intense or prolonged spree or by some accident or illness that lowers his vitality . There are several varieties of these outbursts . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very acute condition of short duration . The most prominent mental symptoms are an extremely fearful and agitated emotional tone , and visual hallucinations of a terrifying nature . Fantastic animals such as snakes , rats , and lions are often seen , or else hideous leering faces . These hallucinations are sometimes accompanied by delusions of persecution . The patient trembles , is restless and excited , and can not sleep . After a course of three to ten days , the outcome of delirium tremens is either recovery or death . A slightly different acute condition is alcoholic hallucinosis . The hallucinations are characteristically auditory and consist of accusing , threatening , or insulting voices . There is less clouding of consciousness than in delirium tremens , but the duration of the disorder is longer . It occurs only in chronic alcoholics . A particularly interesting disorder , Korsakow 's psychosis , is usually associated with alcoholism , although it arises fundamentally from another cause . Recent studies indicate that it is due to a deficiency of vitamin B , which chronic alcoholics often have because they neglect their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the patient has a striking loss of memory . To fill the gaps that he can not remember , he " romances " about supposed experiences . A patient who has been in a hospital for days , for example , will give an account of a play that he saw on the preceding evening , or of a conversation that he had with friends . ther Drug Psychoses. ? Prolonged addiction to morphine , heroin , hashish and other habit-forming drugs results in mental de-  | terioration that may amount to a psychosis . The withdrawal of the drug produces acute symptoms of anxiety , agitation , prostration , and sometimes delusions and hallucinations . Paresis. ? Paresis , which is also known by the names of " general paralysis of the insane " and " dementia paralytica , " is the principal psychosis caused by syphilis . Its diagnosis depends upon physiological evidence as well as on the development of the characteristic symptoms . A Wassermann test is made of the spinal fluid of the suspected patient which , if positive , indicates a syphilitic infection of the nervous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only about three per cent of syphilitic individuals develop this psychosis . To explain this fact theories have been advanced that paresis develops from a special strain of the syphilis germ , that it is precipitated by accidents , alcoholism , etc. , or that persons vary in their susceptibility . The last theory has the most to commend it . For example , no case of paresis ever has been reported among the American Indians , although many of them have syphilis . A case of paresis has been cited ( Case 8 on page 195 f . ) . Tlae Development of Paresis. ? Paresis typically begins in middle life , ten to twenty years after the initial infection with syphilis , and has a long course of development . In the first or preliminary period the first changes noted are in mood , judgment , and character . Because of failing memory and judgment the individual may make blunders in business , sometimes losing much money . His moods are irregular , and he may be foolishly optimistic at one time and deeply depressed at another . Paretics @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and engage in alcoholic and sexual excesses . Often these are regarded as character faults , and the nature of the disorder is not recognized . Disturbances of reflexes also occur at this time , but these are not detected unless the person is examined by a physician . The second or fully developed phase of paresis develops gradually from the first stage . The symptoms are now unmistakably abnormal . The , patient usually develops a stumbling , incoordinated manner of walking . His voice is thick because of an inability to control the muscles used in speech . Seizures or " fits " sometimes  | occur . Mentally , he shows an increasing dementia and often is disoriented . At this stage several types of paresis may he classified . The simple demented type merely deteriorates . The " expansive " type develops unsystematized delusions of grandeur . Such a patient is happy , talkative , and tells silly stories of his great power , wealth , or virility . The " depressed " type has melancholy delusions , believing that his inner organs are wasting away , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expansive or grandiose delusions seem to be most frequent . In the third or terminal stage of paresis , if effective treatment has not arrested the disorder , the patient is in constant tremor , emaciated , helpless , and paralyzed . His delusions disappear in utter dementia , and the termination is fatal . The Treatment of Paresis. ? The ordinary remedies for primary syphilis are ineffective for paresis , but in 1917 it was discovered that a prolonged fever would often leave a paretic patient in an improved state . The fever treatment , which is now standard , is administered in two ways . The patient may be innoculated with malaria , a disease that produces fever and can he controlled . High-frequency electrical devices also may be used to raise the body temperature . With these treatments the disorder often can be arrested in the earlier stages and the symptoms lessened in severity . Many patients are improved enough to be discharged from hospitals , although complete cures are not common . Juz , enile Paresis. ? Juvenile paresis develops in some children who have congenital syphilis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and sometimes queer , impulsive behavior . It is not treated as successfully as adult paresis and is almost invariably fatal . Epilepsy. ? Epilepsy is not precisely a psychosis but is a serious disorder that probably has an organic basis . The typical sign of epilepsy is the fit or seizure , which is an episode having considerable uniformity from case to case . Before a seizure the epileptic has preliminary signs , which consist of flashes of light , subjective sounds , or moments of nausea . The seizure proper begins when the patient becomes rigid , falls , and loses consciousness . A fter sonic seconds ,  | convulsions begin as rhythmic contractions and relaxations of the muscles . Saliva foam is whipped up by the movements of the mouth , and the tongue may be bitten during the convulsive jaw movements . A typical seizure lasts a few minutes , after which the patient remains unconscious for a time , although relaxed . Following a seizure , the individual is usually fatigued and depressed . Epileptic seizures have a great range of intensity and frequency . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and a momentary lapse of consciousness . The number of seizures may vary from a few in a lifetime to several in a clay . Extreme conditions of " epileptic insanity " show delirium , confusion , and great excitement . This state develops in some epileptics , who may then become patients in mental hospitals . The causes of epilepsy are probably organic , but they are not known with certainty . Studies of particular groups of epileptics have suggested that brain in juries at birth , intracranial pressure , deficiency of the parathyroid glands , and faulty nutrition of the brain are causes . Probably epilepsy has no one cause , but several that lead to approximately the same end result . It can not be cured dependably , but can often be aided by medication , diet , and the avoidance of undue emotional excitement . THE " FUNCTIONAL " PSYCHOSES Manic-Depressive Psychosis. ? Manic-depressive psychosis has been called the disorder of emotional extremes . The affected person is either in the manic or excited condition or else is depressed and retarded . Up to about fifty years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but they have much in common . The first point of similarity is that both mania and depression affect the emotional tone and the activity level of the individual , although in opposite directions . Intellectual functions are not disturbed seriously in either condition , and little or no permanent dementia results . The second reason for grouping the two together is that they often occur in the same person . An individual may show a deep depression at one time , and then , perhaps a year or two later , have an attack of a maniacal type . This characteristic alternation may take a number of  | forms . Several attacks of mania or of depression may be separated by intervals of normality . Or , a patient may change from a depressed to a manic condition or vice versa without any appreciable period of normality between . Many individuals , however , have only one attack of one form , without subsequent recurrences . Manicdepressive psychosis is typical of middle life , the greatest number of first admissions to hospitals from this cause being in the decade from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is comparatively rapid , and about 65 per cent of cases recover within one year of the onset of the trouble . A case of manic-depressive psychosis has been described . ( Case 4 on page 183 f . ) Manic State. ? No one else in the world seems as happy as a mild case of mania . The individual is joyous , optimistic , and smiling . He is also accelerated in all activities , moves quickly , talks rapidly , and even thinks with more than ordinary speed . Irritability and anger are shown only if he is prevented from carrying out his wishes . The individual 's attention is flighty , however , and he talks and acts at random , thereby easily betraying his abnormality . In " acute mania " these symptoms are exaggerated . A patient in this condition moves constantly , shouts , sings , and may be very destructive of clothing and furniture . Since he sleeps little , an acute case of mania may wear himself out physically from the continued exertion . The patient may be disoriented and confused temporarily @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his condition . Delusions of persecution or grandeur of a fleeting sort are sometimes seen , but they are not common among patients of this class . Depressed State. ? The depressive psychosis is the opposite of the manic condition in all essentials . The individual is grief-stricken , sad , and depressed . Retardation of speech and movement is also typical . The patient talks in a low , plaintive voice , and very slowly . Often some time will elapse before a question will be answered . Most mildly depressed patients are oriented and understand that they are not normal . The greatest danger to depressed persons is that of suicide . Many are committed to hospitals after having threatened or attempted to kill themselves , and it is suspected that a large number of actual suicides are motivated by this condition . Some  | depressed patients have delusions of sin and unworthiness or of incurable disease , but the majority are not deluded . Theories of Manic-Depressive Psychosis. ? The causes of manicdepressive psychosis are not well agreed upon . Both physiological and psychological theories have been advanced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to glandular disorders , especially those of the thyroid gland which regulates metabolism and hence determines the level of activity . Selected cases of depression have been treated successfully with glandular preparations , yet this method has proved not to be a cure-all . Focal infections such as those in teeth or tonsils possibly account for a number of cases . In a greater number of instances than chance would allow , a manic-depressive patient has suffered recently from typhoid fever , scarlet fever , or fevers following childbirth . These infectious diseases may be a predisposing factor , but the evidence is inconclusive as yet . Heredity is often mentioned as a cause of insanity , and especially of the manic-depressive psychosis . This is not proved , however , since the statistics used are known to be faulty in many respects . The psychological theories rest upon the observation that manicdepressive patients usually show a certain " type " of personality before the critical attack , and that normal persons also vary with respect to this trait . The cyclothymic personality is subject to tips and clowns of mood @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be too elated by success and too depressed by difficulties . A " cyclothymic " person has not learned how to compromise , but sees all situations either as entirely good or entirely had . This trait may be the result of certain processes of habit formation in infancy and childhood , which later serve as a predisposition toward the psychosis . Neither the physiological nor the psychological theories of manicdepressive psychosis are very satisfactory , and it is hoped that future research will reveal a more adequate explanation . Involution Melancholia. ? One variety of depressive psychosis that is sometimes classified apart from the manic-depressive group is involution melancholia . It occurs at the involution period or climacteric , the time of life at which the sex glands cease to function in  | persons of either sex . The symptoms include irritability , depression , anxiety , delusions of sin or of persecution , and frequent attempts to commit suicide . The patient is more agitated than in simple depression . This disorder illustrates clearly the interlocking of physiological and psychological factors . The glandular causes are apparent , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ factors contribute also . A woman in middle life sees that her children are grown and no longer require her care ; a man sees the time ahead when he can no longer pursue his work . These are depressing situations , as is felt by almost all normal people who pass through them . It is not surprising , therefore , that the combined glandular and adjustive causes should coincide in some instances with enough severity to produce a psychosis . Paranoid Conditions. ? The nature of delusions , which are an Important factor in many mental disorders , may be investigated most successfully in connection with the psychoses in which they are the chief symptom . Some years ago the term paranoia was applied to all disorders characterized by systematized delusions , but this diagnosis now is limited to the infrequent cases in which the delusions are the only consequential symptom . Pure cases of paranoia have systematic delusions , but show no dementia , disorientation , confusion , or excessive emotion . It is probable that most paranoics are not in mental hospitals , for the very reason @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Several varieties have been designated by special names . Religious paranoia consists of a belief that the individual is divinely inspired to found a new religious practice . Many religious paranoics attract followers and establish cults of more or less consequence . Inventik'e paranoics believe that they have made great discoveries , and litigious paranoics engage in endless lawsuits . Underlying these conditions in varying degrees are the fundamental delusions of persecution or of grandeur . " True " paranoia is not as common as some similar psychotic states that are called paranoid ( paranoia-like ) conditions . Paranoid schizophrenia , the other symptoms of which are described in the next section , is quite prevalent . A case of this sort will be cited .  | A Paranoid Case. ? ( Case 14 . ) Gregory E. was a college senior when he developed his delusions . He had always been a quiet , studious boy , although not of the highest intelligence . In spite of the fact that he was a good athlete , he had few friends , kept to himself , and was inclined to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and athletics by his brother , to such an extent that his college career had been disappointing . Although previously in good health , he began to complain of feeling ill . Eventually he disclosed a belief that his illness was caused by poisoning . He thought that the men of the fraternities , of which he had not become a member , were poisoning his meals . They stood behind him in restaurants , he said , and made secret signs to the waiters to put poison in his food . To escape his tormentors he fled to a distant city , where his queer behavior attracted attention , resulting in his commitment . Later , in the mental hospital , he developed delusions of grandeur . Be claimed that he was the greatest athlete of all time , and was imprisoned and poisoned because the fraternities would not permit such eminence to a nonfraternity man . The Development of Delusions. ? The development of Gregory 's delusions offers an excellent opportunity to investigate the process psychologically . First , there is a long-standing habit of distorted thinking by which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for his own shortcomings . This is an adjustment mechanism , hit upon by trial and error , and retained because it is satisfying . Thus he has been learning to be a paranoid for a long period of time . Second , the precipitating factor appears . He feels ill , just generally physically ill and miserable , and also somewhat confused in his thinking . There is reason to believe that this factor may be physiological . But why should he , who has been in robust health , feel ill ? In keeping with his long-established habit of blaming others , the thought of poison occurs to him . Perhaps this idea is rejected at first . hut it is such a satisfying explanation that he finally accepts it . This is aided by the growing state of confusion . The delusion of persecution is now formed . He retains enough rationality , however , to ponder on why he was persecuted . This is solved by the thought that great people are always persecuted . 1f he were the greatest athlete  | of all time , people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pondered for weeks until the " if " becomes accepted as a fact , and the ideas of grandeur complete the delusional system . Delusions , therefore , occur because they are adjustments . They permit the individual to reach an understanding that is personally satisfying to him . The same process operates in the formation of the unproved beliefs of normal people . The paranoid state is an exaggeration of the normal process , under conditions of disintegration . YSchizophrenia ( Dementia Praecox ) . ? The most prevalent of all psychoses is known by the alternative names of schizophrenia and dementia praeco.v , the former being preferred . These names refer to two important symptoms of the psychosis . Schizophrenia literally means " split-mind , " a separation or disharmony among the various aspects of personality . Dementia praecox , " precocious deterioration , " signifies the intellectual retardation that appears in many cases , though not in all . This dementia is " precocious " in that it occurs earlier in life , as distinguished from senile dementia . In fact , dementia praecox is a psychosis of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ five to seventy , the greatest number have their onset in the decade from twenty to thirty . Cases of schizophrenia have a number of common characteristics . The outstanding symptom is emotional apathy . The schizophrenic is indifferent to events that stir feeling in a normal person . He does not care about his friends , family , /or business . He also neglects his person , and is slovenly and dirty . Schizophrenics show the symptom of disintegration in striking degree . They laugh when there is no cause , but may show no emotion when there is a sufficient reason for it . Their reactions are quite divorced from the real world of experiences . Delusions and hallucinations occur in most instances . More than half of the patients in this class show dementia , the symptom that gave the disorder its earlier name . Within the general frame of schizophrenia four special types are usually described . These have the common symptoms in varying degrees , and also other particular symptoms . Not all schizophrenic patients can be classified definitely in one of the four types , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Schizophrenia. ? A few cases of dementia praecox show apathy , indifference , deterioration , and no other striking symptoms . These constitute the " simple " form of the disorder . The onset is usually gradual , and the changes may not be noticed until they have progressed far . Typically , an adolescent or young adult becomes indifferent , listless , and devoid of any ambition . He may do more and more poorly at school or work until finally he does not bother to try at all . He sits at home and shuns the company of other persons . There is some indication that the idle time is filled with pleasant daydreams . Emotional delapidation and intellectual dementia may appear later . Only a few of the hospitalized cases are classed as " simple " schizophrenia , but these statistics are unreliable , as many such persons may be cared for at home , while others may become tramps and vagrants . Hebephrenic Schizophrenia. ? The word hebephrenic means " child-minded , " but this term does not give an accurate description of the type that it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ types of schizophrenia and a considerable variety of patients are so designated . The classical hebephrenic type is distinguished by a more sudden onset than the others , and by greater disintegration . The chief characteristics are silliness of attitude , and incoherence of speech and behavior . Hallucinations are common , but delusions are shallow and changeable . A case of this type will be cit ( Case 15 . ) Helene W. , nineteen years old , finished the ninth grade two years ago after an undistinguished school career , and henceforth remained at home . The first symptoms were noticed about six months ago . She would quarrel with her mother , and then go to stay with a married sister . After a few clays she would become angry with the sister and return home again . Gradually her family noticed a foolish trend in her conversation . On several occasions she screamed in the night , saying that a man was under her bed . At other times she acted as though she were being chased by someone , which may be evidence of hallucinations . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ threatened to kill her father and herself . She was then committed to a mental hospital . Examination at the hospital showed  | that she was completely disoriented . She gave irrelevant answers to questions about school subjects and common information . She has a few scattered delusions of being chased by men , and calls the physicians by the names of former acquaintances She is overactive and very destructive , tearing her clothing and dishevelling the furniture in her room . She lies on the floor and rolls over and over , striking herself lightly with her hand while doing so . Frequently she laughs for minutes , but at other times she screams or cries . She makes foolish grimaces and mannerisms , and it is impossible to carry on a connected conversation with her . This girl shows many of the typical symptoms of a newly developed case of " hebephrenic " dementia praecox . Catatonic Schizophrenia. ? The catatonic type has two varieties , catatonic stupor and the rather misnamed catatonic " excitement . " The distinguishing feature is stereotypy , that is , the persistence either @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The onset is like other classes of dementia praecox but is often more gradual , requiring several years to develop fully . A rather typical case of catatonic stupor follows . Another case has been described before . ( Case 1 on page 182 f . ) ( Case 16 . ) Daniel E. , a well-educated young man , developed a psychosis at the age of thirty-one . For ten years before this time he had been increasingly " nervous " and " absent-minded . " He would start for a visit , and then forget his destination . At times he mistook strangers for acquaintances , and often seemed unable to understand what was said to him . A few weeks before commitment he left his job , became despondent , and showed an almost complete lapse of memory . He had no sense of responsibility but depended entirely on his wife and others to tell him every little act that he should perform . He bought poison , but never actually attempted suicide . He had no delusions , although he once said without any evidence of emotion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he took no interest in his surroundings , stayed in bed most of the time , did not attend to his personal needs , and had to be aroused for his meals . He varied greatly from day to day , however , and on one occasion talked enough to demonstrate a good memory for past and recent events . Gradually he became worse . He did not speak for several  | months , but sat bent over in a chair looking at the floor for hours at a time . He showed " waxy flexibility , " retaining for a long period any posture in which he was placed . About one year after admission he was given the metrazol treatment , which is described in the next section . He grew more lucid , answered questions , said that he felt better , and appeared almost normal at times . His behavior , however , was still apathetic and lacking in interest . Characteristically , he remembered many things that had happened while he was mute and apparently inaccessible . So-called catatonic " excitement " sometimes alternates with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but devoid of emotion or feeling . A catatonic patient will sometimes throw articles of furniture about , attack other persons , or cry out loudly . More common than these extreme outbreaks are stereotyped movements . The individual will pace up and down for hours , or will execute repeatedly a fantastic series of gestures . Although active instead of stuporous , such patients are very withdrawn . Their behavior is autom-tic and not responsive to the environment , hence it is appropriate to include them in the catatonic group . Paranoid Schizophrenia. ? The delusional form of schizophrenia is the most common , and the least likely to recover under ordinary conditions of hospitalization . The symptoms include disintegration . apathy , withdrawing , and often dementia , as well as the characteristic delusions . This condition has been described in the preceding section , with illustrative cases . ( Case 14 on page 243 , and Case 3 on page 183 . ) Interpretations of the " Functional " Psychoses. ? For many years the functional psychoses have been difficult to understand , and the various explanations commonly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , however , a number of discoveries concerning the treatment of the functional psychoses have led to a new approach that promises to provide a reasonably satisfactory interpretation . Physiological Evidence. ? Since 1937 , a number of new physiological treatments for the functional psychoses have yielded promising results . although a diversity of methods have been used , it is significant that they all act upon the same fundamental characteristic ,  | the metabolism of the brain . The earliest of these treatments is that given by means of narcotics . A sleep-producing drug , such as sodium amytal , is administered to put the patient into a deep state of unconsciousness , which is continued for hours and repeated at frequent intervals . After coming out of the influence of the drug , the patient is often improved mentally . From 22 to 60 per cent of cures of various functional psychoses have been reported by experimenters who used this method . The sodium amytal is known to dilate the cerebral blood vessels and to decrease the oxygen and sugar " uptake " of the brain tissues . Another @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is made to breathe a mixture of oxygen and carbon dioxide , or of oxygen and nitrogen . The oxygen content is gradually decreased until the patient becomes unconscious ; then he is revived by increased oxygen . Marked improvement has followed this treatment , especially in cases of catatonic schizophrenia , but the gain has proved to he temporary in most instances . Another treatment that has received wide trial uses is insulin , the hormone that regulates the concentration of blood sugar . The patient is given large closes of insulin , which reduce the sugar content of the blood until he becomes unconscious . This treatment is repeated at intervals , and has resulted in a large proportion of cures in some selected groups . More recently metrazol , a drug related to camphor , has been used similarly . The injection of metrazol produces almost immediate unconsciousness , and brings about convulsions like those of an epileptic seizure which last for several minutes . Ten to twenty such treatments are given at the rate of two or three per week , after which psychotic patients often show @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ described on page 246 , was so treated . Both insulin and metrazol treatments affect brain metabolism . Insulin starves it for sugar , and metrazol decreases its assimilation of oxygen . After this temporary deprivation , a " rebound " seems to occur , resulting in an increased metabolic rate with consequent improvement . As yet , no way has been devised to stimulate the metabolism of the brain directly without first starving it . Such a method , if discovered , would be very promising . It is significant that cases both of schizophrenia and of manicdepressive psychosis have been benefited by tlicsc treatments . This  | confirms the long-standing suspicion that there is no hard and fast boundary between these two psychoses . In general , the largest number of cures have been secured with early cases . Thus one experimenter who used metrazol reported 85 per cent cures of schizophrenics who had been ill less than six months , but no cures in cases of over three-years standing . It is probable that the permanent damage to the brain shown by the dementia of the older cases @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ evidence just cited does not exclude the importance of psychological factors in the functional psychoses . In many cases that have been studied in sufficient detail , the origins of personality trends and of delusions have been found in the life histories of the patients . The particular conflicts and frustrations that the individual encounters determine the nature of his inadequate adjustments . Delusions are false thinking , an exaggeration of the normal tendency to rationalize and to excuse ori 's self . Therefore they can be explained only in terms of thinking mechanisms , that is , psychologically . Many of the research workers who have investigated the physiological treatments also have emphasized the importance of concurrent psychological treatment . The treatments by insulin , metrazol , and other drugs render the patient lucid , accessible , and able to talk sensibly about his troubles . The other essential part of the treatment utilizes this increased clarity to help the patient understand the sources of his abnormal reactions , and try to make more effective adjustments . Psychological treatment or psychotherapy is carried out by means of interviews . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his frustrations , under the guidance of the psychiatrist . Gradually he develops insight into the psychological causes of his abnormality , is no longer so sensitive to his frustrations , and so is prepared to attempt new means of adjustment . Evidence shows that the new physiological treatments give rise to many more cures when they are accompanied by psychotherapy than when they are given alone . Concluding Orientation. ? By combining the physiological and psychological evidences , a fairly satisfactory tentative hypothesis con-  | cerning the functional psychoses may be suggested . The " inhibition symptoms " such as disintegration , apathy , disorientation and dementia probably are due to physiological causes , such as inadequate nutrition of the neurones of the cerebral cortex . On the other hand , the more positive indications of abnormality , including hallucinations , delusions , and excessive variations in emotional tone , seem to arise from the individual 's experiences , habits , and frustrations . It might be said that who will become psychotic depends chiefly on physiological conditions , whereas when the individual will break down and what symptoms he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ however , are interrelated . A person with relatively little physiological disturbance would develop a psychosis only if he experienced a very great psychological conflict , while one who was badly predisposed physiologically would become upset by a relatively milder adjustive frustration . In all cases , both physiological and psychological approaches are essential to an understanding of the functional psychoses. references REFERENCES Bagby , E. The Psychology of Personality . New York : Henry Holt and Company , 1928 . Bentley , M. , and Cowdry , E. V. The Problem of Mental Disorder . New Fork : McGraw-Hill Book Company , Inc. , 1934 . Conklin , E. S. Principles of . lbnormal Psychology , Revised Edition . New York : Henry Holt and Company , 1935 . Dorcus , R. M. , and Shaffer , G. V. Textbook of Abnormal Psychology . Baltimore : Williams and Wilkins Company , 1934 . Fisher , V. E. An Introduction to Abnormal Psychology , Revised Edition . New York : The Macmillan Company . 1937 . Landis , C. , and Page , J. D. Modern Society and Mental Disease . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Morgan , J. J. B. The Psychology of Abnormal People , Revised Edition . New York : Longmans , Green and Company , 1936 . Moss , F. A. , and Hunt , T. Foundations of Abnormal Psychology . New York : Prentice-Hall , Inc .. 1932 . Rosanoff , A. J. Manual of Psychiatry and Mental Hygiene , Seventh Edition . New York : John Wiley and Sons , Inc. , 1938 . Shaffer . L. F. The Psychology of Adjustment . Boston : Houghton Mifflin Company , 1936.  | Differential psychology in its broadest sense is concerned with all of the differences in behavior among individuals and among groups . Its fundamental aim is similar to that of all psychology , namely , the understanding of behavior . Differential psychology approaches this problem through a comparative analysis of behavior under varying environmental and biological conditions . By relating the observed differences in behavior to other known concomitant phenomena , it may be possible to tease out the relative contributions of different factors to behavioral development . If we can determine why one person acts differently from another , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . SCOPE OF DIFFERENTIAL PSYCHOLOGY Individual variation is a universal phenomenon throughout the organic scale . Superficial and inadequate observation often creates an impression of similarity and even identity among the members of a group while the differences pass unnoticed . " All cats look gray at night " but upon closer inspection each becomes an individual in his own right . Every psychological investigation in which more than one subject was employed has revealed wide individual differences . From the lowest form of life to man , no two individuals react alike when presented with the same objective situation . Thus in experiments on conditioning , ' the number of trials required to establish the conditioned reaction ranged from 79 to 284 in a group of 82 protozoa ; from 34 to 1112 in a group of 14 crustacea ; from 3 to 35 in a group of 59 fish ; from 30 to 40 in a group of 13 pigeons ; and from 3 to 17 in a group of I1 sheep . Equally wide differences were observed iii a series of learning projects 2 in which small samplings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and monkeys of two species were tested with the same type of problem  | box containing a series of steps of increasing difficulty . The range of trials required by each group to learn step I was as follows : 16 guinea pigs , 53 to 407 ; 24 albino rats , 30 to 453 ; 62 cats , 9 to 136 ; 17 rhesus monkeys , 19 to 310 ; 6 cebus monkeys , 42 to 327 . Within the human species , individual differences have long been recognized . Many of our basic social institutions , and in fact the patterns of societies themselves , are largely colored by the fact that individuals differ from each other . In our everyday activities , we are constantly adjusting ourselves to individual differences among our associates . Certain broad biological or cultural groupings , such as age , sex , racial , or national groupings , also play an important part in social interaction . Such group distinctions have frequently been made the basis of social institutions and attitudes , to the almost complete exclusion of any consideration of individuals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inquire into the nature and origin of any behavioral differences which may exist among these major groups . HEREDITY AND ENVIRONMENT Basic Mechanisms. ? The causes of individual variation are to be sought in the individual 's heredity and in the environmental conditions to which he has been exposed . Every trait or reaction of the individual depends both on his heredity and on his environment . Traits and activities can not be classified into those which are inherited and those which are acquired . The problem resolves itself into a determination of the relative contribution of hereditary and environmental factors in the development of the individual . To what extent can the development of any given characteristic be altered by the control of environmental influences , and to what extent is such modification limited by hereditary conditions ? Individual variations found under similar hereditary conditions may be attributed to the operation of different environmental factors . Similarly , when the environments are sufficiently alike , any dissimilarity in behavior may be attributed to differing heredity . The understanding of the mechanism of heredity has been greatly furthered by the concept @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the union of one germ cell from each parent , the  | ovum of the female and the spermatozoon of the male . Each of these cells contains hundreds of thousands of very minute particles , called genes . A gene is the carrier of a " unit character , " that is , a hereditary factor or influence which always operates as a unit or in an all-ornone fashion . These unit characters of the geneticists are not to be confused with psychological traits , but are of a much more elementary nature . Thus even such a relatively simple characteristic as eye color depends upon the combined influence of a very large number of separate genes . Such complex hereditary determination would of course produce varying degrees of a trait , even though the individual genes may be characterized only by presence or absence . It is obvious that any attempt to identify psychological characteristics , and especially such a manifold and ill-defined phenomenon as " intelligence , " with unit characters is entirely inconsistent with the concepts and data of genetics . The hereditary basis of individual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of possible gene combinations , especially in the case of such a complex organism as man . It is not surprising that duplicate individuals are not produced by chance , when we consider , first , the extremely large number of genes ; secondly , the variation in gene pattern among the individual germ cells of a single parent ; and thirdly , the union of germ cells from two parents in the production of any one individual . The only exception to this individual diversity of gene constitution is that of identical twins , who develop from the union of a single ovum and spermatozoon . Such twins are always of the same sex and identical in appearance . Fraternal twins , on the other hand , do not reveal such close resemblance and may be either of the same or opposite sex . The hereditary similarity of fraternal twins is no greater than that of ordinary siblings , * since they result from the simultaneous development of two fertilized ova . There is a popular belief that inheritance is indicated only by resemblance to parents or immediate ancestors . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the mechanism of inheritance . The germ plasm is not produced by the individual parents , but is transmitted " Siblings " is a general term employed to cover both brothers and sisters .  | by them to their offspring . Hence the individual inherits from all of his direct ancestors , and not from his parents only . Some characteristics which may have been latent for many generations may become dominant because of a particular combination of genes , and the result will be an individual very unlike his parents in some one respect . Instances of this sort are not uncommon in family histories . Another popular misconception is that the influence of heredity ceases at birth and that of environment does not begin until after birth . Both parts of this statement are false . Hereditary factors may influence the development of the individual throughout the life span and their manifestation may be delayed until a relatively late age . Similarly , environmental influences operate from the moment of conception and are not limited to any phase of the life cycle . Thus the importance of temperature , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ surroundings of the developing embryo is rapidly coming to be recognized . A further source of confusion is to be found in the common habit of speaking about functions and activities as being inherited . heredity can exert a direct control only over the development of structures . In so far as a given activity involves the presence of certain structures , such as vocal organs , hands , glands , nervous system . the hereditary factors underlying the development of these structures will influence activity . Likewise , the nature and degree of development of organs will affect their functions . But this is only a limiting condition imposed upon the development of a given type of behavior . Hereditary factors may prevent the appearance of a function through the absence of the necessary structures , but the converse does not hold . Within the limits set by the individual 's structural characteristics , there are almost infinite possibilities for varied behavioral development . The concept of environment itself requires some clarification . The popular definition of environment is a geographical or residential one . A child is said to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because he lives in the slums . Or his " environment " may he described as a French village , an American small town , or a British mining community . To the psychologist , this is a very inadequate designa-  | tion of environment . Psychologically , environment is to be regarded as the sum total of the stimulation which the individual receives from conception until death . It will be noted that this is an active concept of environment . The mere physical presence of objects does not constitute environment unless the objects serve as stimuli in the experience of the individual . The definition is also a more inclusive one , covering all forms of stimulation and extending over the entire life cycle . Experimentally Produced Variations. ? In general , it may be said that the earlier an environmental condition operates in the life of the individual , the more pronounced will be its effect . After an advanced stage of growth has been attained , the organism is much less modifiable . For this reason , the stimuli to which the organism is exposed during the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ future development . Variations in diet and nutrition , glandular secretion , and other conditions of the mother which affect the chemical constitution of the blood have a marked effect upon the characteristics of the embryo . The structural development of the individual is definitely influenced by such environmental factors . It is also possible that a certain amount of rudimentary learning may occur during prenatal life . The presence of certain reflexes and other simple movements iii young embryos has been definitely established . Such responses may early become conditioned in various ways to changes of temperature , pressure , and other stimuli furnished by the intrauterine environment . The study of prenatal behavior opens interesting possibilities , although so far it offers only very meager information . In the field of structural development , however , specific data on prenatal influences are more plentiful . In the fruit fly , for example , a defective gene causes the animal to produce " reduplicated legs , " that is , certain joints of the legs , or entire legs , may be doubled . Although the inheritance of this defective @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appear under certain environmental conditions . " I f animals know n to have the defective gene are kept at a sufficiently wanii temperature , the additional leg or joint will not develop . Successive generations bred under these conditions will  | have a normal appearance . If , however , any of the offspring are allowed to develop in colder temperatures , the defect will reappear . This furnishes a definite illustration of the fact that even a clearly demonstrable " inherited defect " is actually only a tendency to develop in a given way under certain environmental conditions . Experimentally produced " monsters " furnish very striking examples of the influence of prenatal environment . ' In experiments on fish eggs , " Siamese twin " fish have been artificially produced by inhibiting or retarding the rate of development at an early age through cold . insufficient oxygen , or by the application of ultra-violet rays . In some cases , one twin is much smaller than the other and is deformed , the larger twin being perfectly normal . Two-headed monsters have been produced among tadpoles and several @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mechanical stimuli . Striking variations in the number and position of the eyes of minnows have likewise been induced . If the eggs of the minnow are allowed to develop in sea water to which has been added an excess of magnesium chloride , peculiar eye conditions will appear in a large majority of the embryos . Instead of the usual two eyes , many will develop a centrally placed " Cyclopean " eye ; others may develop a single lateral eye to the right or left of the head , or two eyes which are abnormally close together . In the human , the influence of environmental factors upon the development of stature and weight of the body has been attested by a considerable body of data . ' ' Numerous experiments have demonstrated the possibility of pronounced alteration in behavior through postnatal environmental variation . Animals reared in isolation from other members of the species or from individuals of the opposite sex , or in close association with a human child , have developed curious modifications of behavior . Activities which are commonly assumed to be " unlearned ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to marked changes . Thus experiments in which birds were reared in isolation or in exclusive association with birds of other species have demonstrated that , although the birds will develop some sort of song when they reach a certain stage of structural development , the specific nature of the song depends upon stimulational factors . " Sexual behavior has also  | proved to be dependent upon learning in its specific manifestations . Some form of sexual activity will occur at a definite developmental stage because of the presence of glandular secretions in the blood and other physiological factors , but the particular way in which such activity is expressed and the object towards which it is directed will vary according to environmental circumstances . ' A recent investigation in which a young chimpanzee was reared for a short period in a typically human environment throws further light upon the factors affecting behavioral development . The animal showed remarkable ability to develop typically human behavior in its feeding and sleeping habits , play and social behavior , response to language , reaction to clothing , and similar activities . The degree @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ behavior of this ape is indeed suggestive , especially in view of the fact that the period of residence in the human environment was only 10 months , and did not begin at birth , but when the animal was 7% months old . ' Children Reared in Isolation. ? Several cases are on record of human children who were brought up either in isolation or in exclusive association with lower animals . The most famous case is probably that of the " Wild Boy of Aveyron . " In September , 1799 , three hunters came upon a boy of 11 or 12 in a French forest . The boy was completely naked , unkempt , scarred , unable to talk , and seemed to have been leading a wild , animal-like existence . He finally came under the observation of the French physician , Itard , who subsequently published a detailed account of the case . ' When found , the boy seems to have been markedly deficient in all forms of behavioral development , including the sensory , motor , intellectual , and emotional . After five years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ abandoned the task , having failed to bring the boy up to normal . This has led many to conclude that the Wild Boy of Aveyron must have been an imbecile from birth , who had been abandoned by his parents because of his mental deficiency . Such a conclusion , however , overlohks several important points . In the first place , marked improvements were effected by the training , even though a normal level waS not attained . For example , although the boy could not  | learn to articulate sounds , he succeeded in learning simple written language , being able to reproduce written words from memory and to use them to express his wants , as well as to understand their use by others . Secondly , had the boy been feebleminded because of a basic structurally imposed deficiency , he should probably have been unable to survive in the very trying circumstances of his primitive environment . Finally , the fact that the training was begun so late in life may furnish an adequate explanation of its lack of success . Subsequent educational efforts are inadequate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more recently discovered " wolf children " of India represent a similar case . These were two girls , aged about two to four and eight to nine , respectively , who were found living in a cave with wolves in a sparsely settled region in India and were subsequently adopted by a local missionary who attempted to train them.10 Mention should also be made of the celebrated case of Kaspar Hauser about whom so much has been written . Some accounts suggest that this boy was an heir to some princely house and was put out of the way by political enemies . He was apparently confined from early childhood in a dark cell not large enough for him to stand upright . When he awoke he was accustomed to find bread and water , but he never saw the person who brought them and had no knowledge of the existence of other human beings . He lived under these conditions up to the age of about 17 , when he was released.11 In all of these cases , the child 's behavior when first brought into a civilized human @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Sensory acuity , posture , locomotion , language , emotional expression , reactions to other human beings , and other forms of behavior which are generally regarded as more or less " fixed " by the individual 's constitution were found to be markedly altered in these children . The implications of these observations have been very aptly summarized by Stratton ' ' as follows : " Lack of association with adults during a certain critical period of early childhood , it seems likely , produces in some or all normal children marks like those of congenital defect . Thy evidence seems against the romantic view that a civilized community is a chief  | obstacle to the development of personality . On the contrary , the higher forms of personality become possible only in and through such a community . By our biological endowment alone , or by this as developed by maturing and learning in an infrahuman environment , we remain man-beasts . We become human only by active intercourse in a society of those who already have become human . " Isolated Communities. ? The study of children @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cultural facilities are very limited , presents in a milder form the same situation encountered in the cases of the " wild children " described above . These investigations have ordinarily dealt with fairly large groups and have employed standardized tests and better controlled observations than the case studies reported in the preceding section . In one investigation conducted in England , the Stanford-Binet Intelligence Examination was administered to 76 canal-boat children and 82 gypsy children.13 Both groups had very limited schooling , the canal-boat children attending school on only about 5 per cent of the total number of school days , and the gypsy children on about 35 per cent . The home surroundings were also intellectually very inferior , the canalboat children leading a more isolated existence , with fewer social contacts than the ' gypsy children . In both groups , the results indicate very vividly the influence of schooling and home environment upon intelligence as measured by current tests . The average IO of the canal-boat children was 69.6 , that of the gypsy children 74.5 . This difference is in keeping with the better school attendance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It will be noted that both group averages are well below the " normal " IO of 100 . Taken at face value , these averages would suggest at best a borderline group , with a few distinctly feebleminded individuals . Further analysis , however , brings out the influence of the restricted educational facilities . Thus a marked tendency was found for the older children to obtain lower IQ 's than the younger . The correlation between age and IO was - .755 among the canal-boat children and - .430 among the gypsy children . Such a finding is quite contrary to the data on growth of intelligence under ordinary conditions , which show that the IO tends  | to remain quite constant throughout life . The discrepancy can only be explained in terms of specific environmental influence . The intellectual environment of the younger canal-boat or gypsy children is not so far below normal as that of their older brothers and sisters . The younger child in any home is exposed to relatively simple intellectual stimulation ; as he grows older , differences in schooling and in the cultural level @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is corroborated by a comparison of siblings within the same family in both the canal-boat and gypsy groups . Such a comparison revealed a fairly consistent drop in IQ from the youngest to the oldest children within each family , the IQ 's of the youngest children falling within the normal range . Similar results have been obtained in a number of studies on children living in isolated , backward mountain communities and rural districts in the United States.14 In such studies , scores on performance tests , which are less dependent upon schooling , tend to he higher than scores on the more highly verbal type of tests . All tests , however , show a marked and consistent age decrement . Thus in one investigation , the average IQ on the Pintner-Paterson Performance Scale dropped from 91 at ages 6-8 to 75 at ages 14-16 ; in the Goodenough test of Drawing a Man , it dropped from 80 to 49 . In another study , the median IQ on the Myers Mental Measure , dropped from 83.5 at age 7 to 60.6 at age 15 . Commenting upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the authors of one of these studies write : 15 " An estimate of intelligence is based on the information the child has been able to obtain . In the mountain environment increments of information become less large with increases in age , and the seven-year-old has relatively more chance to gather information than the 12-year-old in the same environment . " Family Resemblances. ? It is a common belief that family resemblances in psychological traits are entirely attributable to heredity . The study of family likeness has traditionally been the hereditarian 's favorite source of data . It is not uncommon to hear a child described as having his father 's business acumen , his aunt 's musical talent ,  | " taking after " his grandfather in obstinacy , and perhaps inheriting a keen sense of humor from an Irish grandmother on his father 's side ! The successful son of an eminent family attributes his accomplishments to the fact that he is " well-born . " A lecturer 's vigor and zeal are explained by his coming from " pioneer stock . " A boy 's ingenuity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " when one finds that he is descended from a " long line " of boat builders and inventors . Nor is this type of interpretation limited to popular and everyday discussions . Many otherwise accurate and well-conducted scientific investigations on family resemblances contain the same logical fallacy , that is , they ignore the fact that close relatives generally live together . The environment of individuals within a single home is certainly more similar than that of persons picked at random . The closer the hereditary relationship , furthermore , the greater the environmental proximity . Thus parents and children , and brothers and sisters usually live in the same home , whereas more distant relatives , such as uncles and nephews , or cousins , come into less frequent contact . Related individuals also constitute in part each other 's environment and may be rendered more alike by this mutual interaction . Thus it appears that a hierarchy of family resemblances could be produced by environment alone , which would coincide with that actually observed . The two major methods employed in the study of family resemblances and differences @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ applied chiefly by eugenists . Genealogies are traced and elaborate pedigree charts drawn up for families which are outstanding either for their talents or their deficiencies . This method was launched by Sir Francis Galton in his book on Hereditary Genii 's , ' " in which he reported data on 997 eminent men in a total of 300 families . Similar studies subsequently conducted in different countries have all yielded essentially the same results . ' All show that eminence tends to run in families . Similarly , the investigations on degenerate and feebleminded families , the best known of which are probably the Jukes is and the Kallikaks , is show that such characteristics as mental deficiency , crime , and pauperism tend also to  | run in families . To argue from such results to heredity , however , is quite unjustifiable . The operation of environmental influences in each case is too obvious to overlook . Investigations by the correlation method have revealed a hierarchy of family resemblances in mental-test performance . " Identical twins show the closest resemblance , the correlations between their scores often being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are found between fraternal twins . Sibling correlations are lower , and parent-child correlations the lowest of the family relationships which have been investigated . The correlations vary somewhat with the nature of the test and the age of the subjects . It is interesting to note that the correlation between fraternal twins is quite generally higher than that between siblings , although the hereditary similarity is no closer in the latter than in the former . Special Family Relationships. ? Investigations on foster children and on identical twins reared apart suggest the degree to which ordinary family resemblances may have resulted from environmental similarity . Foster children show a rise in IQ after adoption into a foster home , this rise being greater the younger the child and the higher the socio-economic level of the home . The resemblance between siblings living in different foster homes , furthermore , is much less than that ordinarily found between siblings in the same home . Thus in one group of 125 pairs of siblings , each adopted into a different foster home and separated for a period of 4 to 13 years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in contrast to the correlation of about .50 usually found between siblings living in the same home.21 The study of identical twins who have been separated in infancy and reared apart in different foster homes yields data which are particularly crucial for the problem of heredity and environment . In a recently published investigation , 22 19 pairs of such twins were tested and observed . The findings varied from one pair to another , but when the environments were sufficiently unlike , the twins revealed marked discrepancies in all traits , including intellectual , emotional , and even such physical characteristics as general health and bodily vigor . Naturally , when the twins were adopted into homes which  | offered very similar intellectual and emotional stimulation , their behavioral development was also quite similar . Mere geographical disparity does not constitute a difference in psychological environment . As an illustration of the results obtained when the environmental difference was sufficiently large to yield clear-cut results , the following case study is reported : Case IV : Female twins , separated at the age of 5 months and reared by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ led the life of an active farm woman on a prosperous farm . Mary had lived largely a sedentary life in a small town , clerking in a store during the day and teaching music at night . Mabel had only an elementary school education , while Mary had had a complete high school course in an excellent city school . At the time of examination , a vast difference was noted between the twins in intellectual , emotional , and physical traits . Physically , Mabel is described as robust , muscular , and in perfect health , while Mary was underweight , soft-muscled , and in poor general condition . Mabel weighed 138% lbs. , Mary only 1103A lbs . Intellectually , an equally striking difference was found , but in favor of Mary , whose Stanford-Pinet IQ was 106 as compared with Mabel 's IQ of 89 . Even larger differences were found on some of the other tests . Temperamentally , these twins are described as no more alike than two persons chosen at random . TRAINING AND GROWTH The Concept of " Mental Growth . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he compares the individual 's performance at successive ages or , more often , he compares the performance of different individuals from each age level . The differences found in such an investigation may be properly designated age changes in mental traits . To call them " growth , " however , is to make assumptions which extend far beyond the scope of the data . Attempts have been made , for example , to plot " growth curves " of mental traits , by analogy with the growth curves found in height , weight , bodily proportions as indicated by various indices , and the like . Such mentalgrowth curves show merely the performance of individuals at successive ages in some standard test situation .                     