@@774256

txt  | that the island was being bombed until low-flying planes strafed a buddy at his side . A second type of evasion of anxiety is manifested by delay and procrastination on the part of leaders . In the ancient world combat was postponed because " the signs were not propitious , " a type of thinking in which leaders projected their own feelings of insecurity upon the external world . Herbert Hoover manifested typical evasive behavior in the early depression years . When the situation demanded immediate action , he set up a factfinding commission to study the problem . Endless preparation is a third way in which anxiety is demonstrated . Legislative bodies sometimes evade an anxiety-provoking problem indefinitely by setting up " courts of investigation , " by " tabling resolutions " and by other tactics . Although this method has become socially acceptable on a group level , it should be recognized as purely neurotic . A fourth manifestation of anxiety is retreat from final consummation of a task which is almost completed . Hitler , for example , had an opportunity to invade @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ follow up his advantage . The paranoid trend in his personality demanded that he be constantly menaced in order to preserve his motivating force . Panic completion of a task is a fifth manifestation . Such a reaction in group form may be seen in the activity of legislative bodies at the time of adjournment prior to an election . The last phase is that of undoing work previously completed . For instance , the Michigan state legislature decided to pass a bill to protect workers who contracted pneumoconiosis . In its final form the bill undid all possible benefits by stipulating that a worker would be eligible for aid only if he were able to prove silicate particles in his sputum six months after contracting the disease . This is impossible since particles do not show up in the sputum until years after the disease is contracted .  | Psychopathologic reactions of leaders and groups may have costly results . The dynamics of group anxiety manifestations can be understood by psychoanalytic thinking . Further study is needed . In industry and in the Army , psychiatric guidance has proved valuable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have attacked problems of leadership and over-all morale , in some instances favorably guiding War Department policies . The author advocates applying similar methods to problems arising in legislative bodies . A broad field exists for more intelligent handling of group difficulties . Postchoreic Personality and Neurosis . Stephen Krauss ? analyzes the relationship between postchoreic personality and inclination toward neurosis . Two groups of patients are compared : ( 1 ) 24 ( 13 women , 11 men ) who had had chorea from 6 to over 20 years previously , studied in 1933 , and ( 2 ) 28 neurotics ( 23 service personnel , 5 civilians ; 22 men , 6 women ) with history of chorea 6 ? 50 years previously . Patients were studied with regard to heredity , personal history and military record , constitutional evidence of chorea , personality type and neurotic and organic symptomatology . Work-ups included the Rorschach test , intelligence and motor coordination tests in most cases , and electroencephalography in some . Both groups showed typical changes following chorea. ( 1 ) Hyperkinetic symptoms , either generalized and constant ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and episodic ( facial tics , blinking , stammering , head nodding ) were exhibited . There were also coarse tremors on performance and increased associated movements . ( 2 ) Neurasthenic symptoms of vertigo and headache , sometimes resembling migraine , and , rarely , insomnia , vomiting and enuresis were observed . ( 3 ) Psychasthenic symptoms of impaired vitality , lack of drive , early fatigue , forgetfulness , difficulty in concentration , inability to learn , diminished perseverance and fright Footnote  | at unexpected noises and occurrences were typical . Postchoreics tended to have colorless , lame or faint personalities without much drive in life or distinction in career . ( 4 ) Peculiarities of character resembling those seen in schizoid psychopaths , namely , sensitivity , seclusiveness , taking things too seriously , querulousness , suspiciousness , brooding and grumbling , were also typical . ( 5 ) Peculiarities in temperament were noted in the Rorschach test . These were introversion , stereotype responses and lack of productivity probably ( inc to the mental hypokinesis and meticulousness . Postchoreics showed restricted feelings both in inward and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was not impaired . In 14 of 21 electroencephalograms , organic abnormality was revealed . Typical postencephalities show subcortical impulsiveness , hypokinesis and moral deterioration , whereas postchoreics reveal an opposite subcortical lack of drive , hyperkinesis and overconscientiousness . In order of frequency the postchoreic neurotics were shy , " bad mixers , " subject to dizziness or giddiness , irritable or excitable , fidgety , shaky or jumpy , had headaches and insomnia and showed easy fatigability , inability to sit still , bad co-ordination , emotionalism and a tendency toward associated movements . Psychiatric diagnoses were most frequently chronic anxiety state with depressive , somatic or hysterical amnesias . Hereditary factors were found in 23 of the first series of 24 cases . The twenty-fourth case had been diagnosed as hysterical chorea . In order of frequency , family histories revealed psychopathy , schizophrenia ( 11 of 24 ) , epilepsy , migraine and alcoholism . Chorea was frequent among siblings . Choreics , therefore , start life with a constitutional nervous deficiency which is augmented by the disease . Studies show that neurosis among postchoreies develops infrequently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the war , no neurotics were found , whereas in the second series , studied during the war ,  | 2.5 per cent of patient population in the hospital on a particular day were neurotic postchoreics . In peace , postchoreics choose a life compatible with their limited mental agility and vitality . In war , they are forced into situations demanding more energy and vitality than they can muster . The ensuing conflict results in neurosis . Chorea is not a transient symptom but results in a life-long detrimental personality change . Prophylaxis is important and includes strenuous therapy to minimize the original attack and prevent recurrences . Measures which give promise of success are nirvanol ( phenyiethylhydantoin ) and intravenous typhoid vaccine during attacks , diathermy of the brain and sulfonamides in short courses to prevent relapses . Obsessions and Conditioned Reflexes are discussed by A. Austregesilos ( Rio de Janeiro ) . Obsessions are manifested clinically by emotional disturbances which may be lateralized ( phobias ) or generalized ( anxiety states ) . Any idea , object , sentiment or image may be the starting point of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( Freud 's Angstneurosis ) develop . Many of these states date back to repressed desires in childhood . Others do not lend themselves to Freud 's interpretation , but rather are sequelae of conscious experiences . In either case there are always elements in obsessions which suggest that they originated in conditioned reflexes . Austregesilo has observed many patients in whom the obvious causes of phobias and anxiety states were conditioned reflexes , notably those referable to the circulatory , digestive and sexual organs . In the sexual sphere , especially in impotence , conditioned reflexes may appear in forms which would appear ridiculous were they not morbid . Odors , gestures , emotions and other causes may completely impede sexual function , lead to sexual neuroses and even to weariness of life . Gastrointestinal disorders may be psychosomatic sequelae to conditioned reflexes . It is well known that appetite is a psychic phenomenon , whereas hunger is Footnote  | an organic function . Faulty training in eating habits during childhood , especially in well-to-do families , releases countless conditioned reflexes first manifested by " capricious " appetite and subsequently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ infrequently in later life mucous colitis and chronic colitis may be traced to . conditioned reflexes . The cardiologist often has to deal with cardiac neuroses and other psychosomatic disorders of the cardiovascular system , notably those pertaining to arterial hypertension . Frequently the physician himself , by telling the patient what his blood pressure is , becomes responsible for an anxiety state . The skin and mucous membranes are often the seat of psychosomatic disorders or of purely psychogenic symptoms elicited either by the patient 's own ideas or by the treatment . Almost all psychic and emotional disturbances originate in conditioned reflexes which transform instincts into emotions . These escape consciousness , become automatized and are transformed into anxiety states which can not be controlled either by volition or by rationalization . Treatment consists primarily of thorough mental analysis , accompanied by nutritional , metabolic and endocrinologic study and followed by suggestive , or persuasive , but chiefly re-educational , psychotherapy . Patience and persistence are required to'attain the desired goal . Treatment of Psychogynecic Disorders by Hypnoanalysis by the gynecologist is discussed by William S. Kroger9 ( Chicago @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the outlines of clearcut clinical entities so that specialties are no longer clearly delineated . This is demonstrated in functional gynecologic disorders which are the result of psychologic and physiologic factors . Psychogynecic derangement is suggested as a better term . Therapy should be rapid , efficacious , and applicable to patients in all income groups . Hypnoanalysis is an effective and rapid form of ther-Footnote  | apy and is used successfully in ridding patients of unpleasant sensations and for treating battle fatigue and other war neuroses . It offers the greatest promise as a shortened method of psychotherapy . True frigidity is defined as the incapacity of women to have a vaginal orgasm . Hormone therapy is only substitutional even if successful . Surgery is valueless and psychoanalysis , while successful , is expensive and time consuming , and requires extensive technical training for the therapist . Since the gynecologist treats the vast majority of functional gynecologic disturbances , many of psychologic origin , a knowledge of psychopathology is as indispensable to him as histopathology . Hypnoanalysis has been utilized in gynecology and obstetrics and other branches of medicine and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a therapeutic procedure can be eradicated by proper technic . Such therapy is appropriate in cases of frigidity since this condition is an illness of the unconscious ( a neurosis ) which is not amenable to routine therapy , and since it is masked by other symptom equivalents , elicited only after extensive diagnostic procedures . Long classic psychoanalysis is not indicated in a problem crying out for relatively rapid relief . Nine of 12 patients with true frigidity , after a wide variety of symptomatic treatment , were permanently relieved by hypnoanalysis . One patient was a latent homosexual and two others were not relieved after 15 and 25 hours of therapy respectively . Two were permanently relieved spontaneously without any manifest reasons being revealed to the therapist . The time required for cure ranged from 8 to 60 hours . Hypnoanalysis is a rational procedure in psychogynecic therapy because the recovered material is replete with significant details ; new personality patterns can be engrafted ; symptom removal by direct suggestion is not utilized , and the cures , even when spontaneous , are complete and permanent . Hypnoanalysis and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ memory , free association , and posthypnotic suggestion are tremendous timesavers . Hypnoanalysis varies only in degree from psychoanalysis , since it utilizes many of the concepts of the Freudian theory including interpretation of the transference , free association , piecemeal disintegration of the . patient 's resistances , reintegration into consciousness ( assimilation by the ego ) of the repressed material , and redistribution of the psychologic energies formerly exploited by the symptom complex of frigidity . Thus the patient gains insight into factors responsible for the symptom complex . The technic of hypnoanalysis can be mastered by any physician who understands the psychologic processes of present day psychopathology . Hypnoanalysis has grown out of the old cathartic method of Breuer and Freud , who used hypnosis for traumatic cases . During World War I many psychotherapists used hypnosis in treating neuroses . The name hypnoanalysis was suggested by J. A. Hadfield for the technic which he used successfully in dealing with conversion hysteria and states of anxiety . Hypnoanalysis seems to be very effective in cases of hysterical conversion , particularly in those with hysterical amnesia associated with traumatic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of psychotherapy for many emotional conditions , and considerable research on its various possibilities is under way in several psychiatric centers . See also the 1945 YEAR BOOK OF NEUROLOGY , PSYCHIATRY AND ENDOCRINOLOGY , p. 402 . ? Ed . An Electrocardiographic Study of Psychoneurotic Patients . Sigmund S. Winton and Leon Wallacet ( Michael Reese Hosp. , Chicago ) analyzed a series of electrocardiographic records of a group of psychotic and neurotic patients shown by physical examination and functional inquiry to be free from organic heart disease , in order to ascertain whether electrocardiographic abnormalities fitted any definite pattern characterizing this group . Only patients under the age of 40 with a negative history and negative physical findings of organic cardiovascular disorder were selected . There were 57 women and 19 men with varied symptom complexes . Their fail-Footnote  | are of adaptation was due to anxiety states , tension , depression and dissociation from reality . The chief complaints of many of the patients were referable to the cardiovascular system . Commonest complaints were palpitation occurring with excitement or effort , a constricting sensation in the precordium not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the throat , dizziness , vertigo , and dyspnea with excitement or effort . Six patients who received shock treatment were recalled after periods of 6-48 months to determine whether therapy had any effect on their electrocardiograms . All were known to have made adjustments sufficient to enable them to return to their work . Standard limb leads and chest leads CF2 , CF4 , and CF5 were taken while the patients were recumbent . No combination of electrocardiographic abnormalities fitting a distinct pattern characterizing psychoneurotic patients was found . There was a tendency for about 12 per cent of these patients to present a right heart strain pattern , suggested by tall P waves , right axis shift and S-T depressions in the limb leads . Deep S2 waves as an isolated - abnormality occurred almost as frequently as in routine electrocardiograms of normal young individuals . Flat or inverted T waves in leads I and II occurred about 15 times as frequently in psychoneurotic patients as in a large group of young , healthy aviators . S-T depressions of at least 0.5 mm. in leads I and II occurred @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ normal individuals . Faulty Management of Psychiatric Syndromes Simulating Organic Disease . A. E. Bennett2 ( Omaha ) analyzed previous treatment received by 121 women and 29 men finally admitted to the psychiatric department of a general hospital . The psychic illness in most cases was not recognized until there was a frank psychiatric syndrome . In some , a diagnosis of nervousness was Footnote  | made , but the patients were not told where they could receive psychiatric help . Grouped according to symptoms , 111 of the 121 women had been treated for gastrointestinal complaints , 36 for colitis or spastic constipation , 7 for " intestinal flu , " 10 for hemorrhoids or rectal conditions and 50 for gastric complaints ( ulcers , " acid stomach , " nervous indigestion , gallbladder disease or cancer phobias ) . Of 88 women suspected of having endocrine disorders , 53 had received treatment ( mostly hormones ) for pelvic complaints and 21 for thyroid disease , whereas 14 had been treated with extensive liver , iron or other glandular injections . Thirty-one women had received genitourinary therapy : 16 for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and 15 for urinary frequency , floating kidney or bladder symptoms . Thirtynine had had extensive cardiovascular diagnoses ; 6 , full dental extractions to relieve nervousness , and 5 , treatment for ocular disorders . Fifty-seven women had had long periods of bed rest for arthritis , suspected tuberculosis or vague infections . Thirty-one had received excessive sedation . Fifty-eight had sought aid from cultists and others ( Table 1 ) . Only 17 had had previous psychiatric diagnosis or treatment . Surgery had been performed 205 times on the 121 women . There were 84 pelvic operation 's , 40 appendectomies , 16 thyroidectomies , 11 operations on gallblad , ders , 3 on kidneys and 24 on tonsils or nasal sinuses , and 5 operations for postoperative adhesions , 21 for rectal conditions and 1 for varicose veins . Previous therapy among the 29 men included gastrointestinal treatment in 55 instances . Seven men were given genitourinary therapy ; 12 , endocrine therapy ; 12 , cardiovascular therapy ( 6 with long rest periods and digitalis medication ) ; 16 , therapy for headache or vague nervous complaints @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; 22 , prolonged rest for rheumatism , tuberculosis or supposed infection , and 8 , excessive sedation . Thirteen men had sought aid from cultists . Thirty-nine op-  | orations had been performed on the 29 men , of which 14 were major operations and 25 minor . Psychiatric diagnoses on the present admission are given in Table 2 . Patients were placed on a strict psychiatric regimen and given electric shock with curare when indicated . Hospitalization ranged from four to eight weeks . Follow-up reports made one to eight years later demon-  | strated the effectiveness of psychiatric treatment ( Table 3 ) . The author deplores the tremendous numbers of maladjusted persons who are shuttling from doctor to doctor and receiving illogical and frequently detrimental medical and surgical therapy . Ile states that the failure of the medical profession to recognize and treat properly such patients is due to the failure of medical schools to correlate psychobiology and psychopathology with organic anatomy , physiology and pathology . Every physician and every medical student should read this article in the original . It reveals the present general state @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ widespread mishandling of these problems . It also present , constructive suggestions .  --  Ed . Nasal Psychosomatic Syndromes Accompanying and Following Acute Anxiety are discussed by Winfred L. Post3 ( M.C. , A.U.S. ) . Nasal disturbances variously diagnosed as aerial sinusitis , otitis or allergy frequently develop in combat airmen . The etiologic role of acute anxiety was studied in combat veteran airmen hospitalized in the United States for operational fatigue ( anxiety reaction ) . Patients with nasal symptoms were examined frequently before discharge to determine the effect of psychotherapy on the nasal condition . Nasal complaints included hyperesthetic rhinitis , nasal block , enstaehian block and headache . The nose partakes in the general homeostatic adaptation to environment and specifically in the reaction of alerting to danger . Physical exertion entails increased oxygen consumption and therefore air intake . Proetz has shown that smooth muscles in the nasal turbinates and in the erectile tissue in the nasal walls are innervated by sympathetic fibers which when stimulated by drugs , exercise , sudden noise or pain cause contraction of tissue and enlargement of nasal air space . There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The adrenergic stimulus and turbinate contraction is followed by turbinate congestion , swelling and Footnote  | nasal block , possibly due to a negative sympathetic state or to parasympathetic excitation . An example is the nasal blocking which occurs on sitting quietly in a warm place after exercising in the cold . Patients with anxiety reactions are in a constant state of alert or show sympathetic , overreaetion to minimal stimuli . Nasal symptoms therefore would be expected on theoretical grounds . The author reports 11 eases which demonstrate the association of nasal functional activity and the emotional state . Active anxiety with adrenergic stimulation evokes hyperesthetic rhinitis . The after-phase of anxiety causes nasal blocking , which may result in secondary or prolonged infection . Therapy should be directed toward improving the emotional state . Two illustrative cases are given here . CASE 1. - Radio operator , single , 22 , flew 53 combat missions . He had nasal blocking and headache when he first started flying and throughout the last half of his combat tour . In the hospital he complained of indigestion , irritability , discouragement and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He improved steadily on psychotherapy alone till called home because of his mother 's illness . On his return he showed increased fatigue , tension , worry and nasal symptoms , which again improved with psychotherapy . CASE 6 . ? Soldier , with anxious , inhibited and dependent personality , had had prolonged service in Iceland . His symptoms , including nasal block and headache , had improved under psychotherapy . One day when Iceland was mentioned he developed an acute anxiety reaction with simultaneous temporary disappearance of nasal and eustachian block and " popping " in the ears . Adrenergic stimulus resulted in contraction of the turbinates and hence in increased air space . Psychologic Factor in Bronchial Asthma . Iracy Doyle4 ( Univ . of Brazil ) reports a case . Girl , 13 , was seen in the fourth year of illness . The history showed progressive aggravation of symptoms until she was confined to hed with severe weakness and occasional states of collapse which required artificial feeding , stimulants and sedatives . Prognosis had been considered poor . Heredity , syphilis and allergy were excluded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a sister , the patient 's Footnote  | asthma developed during an attack of whooping cough which both had simultaneously . The first asthmatic episode had occurred in connection with a sudden fright caused by a fire . Personality study revealed exaggerated emotional dependence on an excessively protective mother , egocentrism , jealousy of ' the younger sister , anxiety , which was heightened at the time of dyspneic crises , lack of self-confidence and tendency to isolation . The initial traumatic experience which set off the first asthmatic attack , the fire , appeared frequently in dreams accompanied by great emotion and was the basis for aggressive fantasies concerning the younger sister . The sister 's birth was the central event in a relatively transparent dream accompanied by anxiety , wheezing , dyspnea and fear which carried over into the waking state , with need to seek the mother 's protection . In the dream the sister 's birth was characterized as bad , and this thought was followed by a scene involving selfpunishment . There was constant feeling of guilt . Asthmatic attacks served as self-punishment and offered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ family away from the younger sister . Affective transference followed the same pattern of jealousy and dependence on the mother with desire to monopolize attention . Not only did the asthmatic symptoms disappear completely as a result of treatment , but the patient 's personality and attitude toward life changed and better adjustment to family , social and school environments was achieved . Whereas she had previously been considered backward by parents and teachers , she progressed astonishingly in her studies . In bronchial asthma , even when the existence of an allergic state seems evident , the possibility of a psychologic element responsible for the onset of attacks should be considered . Study of the psychologic life of asthmatic patients seems to indicate that they are subject to conflict between the tendency to dependence on the mother and emotional attitudes incompatible with such dependence . The asthmatic attack as an expression of the conflict represents symbolically an inhibited cry by which the individual protests against separation from the mother . In Treatment of Bronchial Asthma , by Derbes and Engelhardt ( Philadelphia : J. B. Lippincott Company , 1946 ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bronchial Asthma , " by Thomas M. French , which contains a succinct discussion of allergic and psycho genic factors , psychodynamic background , possible physiologic mecli-  | anism , emotional elements and psychotherapeutic procedures . A great deal of special investigation has been done in this particular field of respiratory conditions. ? Ed . Thoracoplasty and Claustrophobia . Jerome Hartz5 ( Johns Hopkins Hosp. ) points out the fact that anxiety states and restlessness sometimes occur after thoracoplasty and lead to many difficulties in postoperative management unless the nature of the psychiatric episode is understood . Two case histories illustrate such reactions in patients who went through the first and second stages of the operation without excessive anxiety but became increasingly restless and anxious after the last stage . CASE 1 . ? Miner in his middle forties had pulmonary tubereulosis complicating silicosis . After the first and second stages of thoracoplasty symptoms of peptic ulcer developed and were relieved by a brief Sippy regime . After the third stage the patient became restless , sleepless and tense and had a recurrence of ulcer symptoms . He wept , insisted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nightmares . Sedation was tried without avail . At psychiatric interview he was tense and anxious , with shallow , rapid respiration . He said he was frightened and could not get his breath . The walls seemed to be closing in on him , and he obtained relief from fear only when outdoors . When he fell asleep briefly he would wake with a start , shivering and sweating , from a dream of the walls collapsing on him or of being crushed in the bottom of a mine . He wanted most to go home to his wife , who was a strong maternal figure . He also believed that he had to go home to settle a compensation claim which had been tending a year . He responded well when arrangements were made for him 10 go home and to get a compensation hearing . This emotionally immature man was overtaxed by long separation from a protective , mothering wife and by having old , deeply hidden fears of being crushed reactivated by an extensive operation which encroached m his breathing space . CASE 2 . ? Woman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ executive , had had a two stage thoracoplasty followed by acute spread of tuberculosis to the other side immediately after the second stage . For five days after successful pneumo-Footnote  | thorax she grew rapidly more anxious and fearful . She would not sleep and insisted on sitting upright day and night ; she breathed rapidly and shallowly and coughed and wheezed heavily . She insisted on having the windows open . Heavy sedation culminated in a brief period of delirium . She said the next day that she could not sleep because she was afraid she would suffocate . Claustrophobia was of long standing , having kept her out of closed elevators and small windowless rooms all her life . She had not married because she had had to support a widowed mother and a deaf brother . Her attitude seemed one of resentment , mixed with emotional dependence on these two people . It was learned that she feared that fluid would collect suddenly in her lungs as she slept and suffocate her ; hence her five night vigil . Strong reassurance about the nature of pleural effusion , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ night nurse to keep the windows open and see that she did not suffocate , enabled her to sleep . The nurse and the sedative were unnecessary after a few nights . These two cases call attention to a mental syndrome occurring in claustrophobic patients , following thoreeoplasty . Such patients appear to tolerate badly large actual encroachments on their breathing space , as if their previous symbolic fears were being realized . Treatment directed toward alleviating the tense emotional situation is effective in dispelling quickly the abnormal physiologic response . Cardiovascular and Respiratory Manifestations of Neurocirculatory Asthenia . Neurocirculatory asthenia is characterized by cardiovascular and neurocirculatory phenomena in patients not undergoing physical exertion and results from emotional reaction to disease or to underlying anxiety neurosis . Meyer Friedman6 ( Sall Francisco ) emphasizes that acute neurocirculatory asthenia is identical with acute anxiety neurosis whenever the latter has autonomic reference in the cardiovascular system . It is usually related to an external emotion-producing event . The chronic type , however , is due to hereditary hypersusceptibility to events which would rarely cause difficulty in the normal individual . Footnote  | There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these patients . Patients with neurocirculatory asthenia show no cardiac pathology on physical , roentgenographic and electrocardiographic examination . Kinetic rather than histologic derangements must be sought . Intermittent precordial pain is the most common and most troublesome symptom . This is sharp , piercing and transient ; penetration into the chest makes the patient fearful of taking a deep breath or of changing position . Forceful cardiac contractions or arrhythmias may occur coneomitantly . Cold , wet hands , excessive perspiration and pupillary dilatation are usually noted . Symptoms often occur at bed rest or its physiologic equivalent . Abort 22 per cent have transient arrhythmias : ventricular extrasystoles , auricular tachycardia , wandering pacemaker and auricular flutter or fibrillation . The diagnosis of neurocirculatory asthenia can be made only after study of the entire patient . True hypertension with diastolic pressure above 90 is extremely rare . Occasionally systolic pressure may go above 150 for short periods , but when other symptoms and signs of the disorder subside it falls to within normal limits . Most of these patients at times have unsteadiness or lightheadedness . This is apparently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from overactive sympathetic responses to changes in venous pressure . Intermittent peripheral arterial constriction frequently results in coldness of hands and feet and is accompanied by excessive perspiration . Emotional tension seems to be responsible . The phenomenon never occurs during sleep and is not dependent on exercise . 1 ) yspnea in these patients is induced directly or indirectly by emotion . Abrupt attacks of tachypnea and dyspnea described as " hyperventilation syndrome " also occur episodically . Hyperventilation index is usually below 1.3 . At least 45 per cent of patients with chronic neurocirculatory asthenia at times have a dull , persistent ache in the left side of the chest with maximal p 416 intensity around the left nipple . Such pain is caused by exclusively intercostal breathing with poor use of the diaphragm . Strapping to prevent use of the upper portion of the chest relieves the pain in about 48 hours . Differentiation of acute from chronic neurocirculatory asthenia is important since the chronic form is incurable , whereas prognosis is favorable in the acute form once the emotional cause is removed . In chronic cases the aim @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disease and to bear it with stoicism . His confidence is gained by ( 1 ) careful questioning and examination , ( 2 ) forecasting the occurrence of manifestations which may take place , ( 3 ) not promising cure and ( 4 ) careful explanation of the pathogenesis . He must be reassured frequently that he does not have organic disease . At the same time , every effort should be made to uncover and if possible eliminate any external emotion-producing factors , remembering that these may be events which would evoke no emotional disturbance in normal individuals . The situation should be talked over with the patient and a tolerable view suggested . Specific therapy is unwise except for symptomatic relief : quinidine for paroxysmal auricular tachycardia anticholinergic drugs for arteriolar constriction and excessive sudation or sedation for sleeplessness . Some Observations on Functional Heart Disease . Ian G. W. Hi117 points out that study of functional cardiac ? disorders and their differentiation from organic concli tions is an important duty of every physician . Tin neurotic patient , although spared the progressive deterioration of patients with serious heart @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his relatives and dependents . Hill studied functional heart disease in civilians and soldiers . The symptoms of most soldiers antedated military service . Footnote  | Symptoms included ( 1 ) those commonly found in organic disease and ( 2 ) those not usual in organic disease . In the latter group were giddiness , extreme exhaustion and fainting . These symptoms are not characteristic , of organic conditions and are seldom seen in y-Ding patients . In the first group were breathles ; mess , pain and sometimes palpitation . Breathlessness , however , was not closely related to effort and sometimes proved to be a respiratory tic . Disturbance was brought on by specific distasteful acts , fear of straining the heart or very slight exertion . If organic disease were present , clean-tut signs of congestion and cardiac enlargement would accompany serious respiratory embarrassment . Pain in functional disorders seldom resembles true effort angina . It may occur at any time , independent of effort . It is usually precordial rather than midline , and typical radiation is absent . Although aching , soreness , coldness or pricking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of coronary isehemia is absent . 1 ) ecasionally , of course , true anginal pain is felt in unusual locations and differentiation from functional pain is difficult . Patients with typical functional symptoms may have a concomitant organic lesion . Their complaints are ascribed to the organic changes , through either fear of recurrence or increased consciousness of the heart . Such patients require careful handling to avoid both overcaution and unjustifiable license . A recent infection may be the precipitating factor in some cases , and in others symptoms may have persisted since a remote , previous illness probably because of overprotection by relatives of a child physically weakened by illness . In many cases the patient relates the onset to a specific act of physical strain or injury but the symptoms are often found to have been present prior to the incident . " Heart strain " often accompanies extreme psychologic disturbances in those with inadequate personalities . Such a " strain " is merely one part  | of the neurosis . In many patients a " doctor-made " factor is apparent . A physician 's statement that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to special treatment or to bolster self-respect . Initial treatment must be designed to avoid overemphasis on the cardiac condition . In all cases fear of heart disease dominates the patient 's reactions . Exaggeration turns the physician 's statements into a death sentence and fears are readily confirmed . These may persist and be ineradicable in later years . The " weak heart " provides a shield from the buffets of life , procures attention or gives an excuse for failings . The emotional reaction to the diagnosis of heart disease remains predominant . For this reason most young patients should not be informed of innocent , often extracardiac , murmurs . In deciding for or against organic disease and limitation of effort , heart enlargement , venous congestion or active carditis should be the guide , rather than the quality of a systolic murmur . Subjects with early , asymptomatic valvular disease are not harmed by fairly strenuous exercise within limits of tolerance . Sudden chest pain which occurs during physical strain is the result of skeletal muscle damage or , rarely , angina of effort . The only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pressure . Thus " heart strain " is practically unknown , and this diagnosis should be avoided without . temporizing or equivocation . Thorough examination , firm reassurance and reasonable advice are essentials of good preventive treatment . Lymphocyte Response to Heat Stress in Normal and Psychotic Subjects . Gregory Pincus and Fred Elmadjian8 ( Worcester , Mass. ) analyzed results of blood lymphocyte counts taken on 11 normal men and 21 psychotic patients before and after 50 ? 60 minute exposures to temperatures from 104.9 to 111.2 F. at 85 ? 95 per cent humidity . All normal subjects exhibited a drop in lymphocyte count 15 minutes after exposure , whereas 20 of the 21 psychotic subjects exhibited an increased blood Footnote  | lymphocyte number after the same interval . The mean drop in count among the normal subjects was 24.5 per cent of the pre-exposure level ; the mean rise among the psychotic patients was 24.2 per cent . At two hours after the stress both the normal subjects and the psychotic patients exhibited a return toward the original lymphocyte levels . The lymphocytopenia of heat stress is presumed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stresses are accompanied by an increase in urinary 17-ketosteroids . The magnitude of the stress decline in lymphocytes is greater than indicated since it goes counter to the expected diurnal increase . On the other hand , the normal stress increase in urinary 17-ketosteroid output tends to fail in psychotic patients , a fact related to the failure of leukopenic response to heat stress . The adrenocortical response to stress is probably at fault in these psychotic patients . There may he stimulation of lymphocyte formation by heat stress . With short time stress the first stage of the adaptation syndrome involving adrenocortical hypersecretion as the result of pituitary stimulation following stress may occur . Inability of the psychotics to exhibit an adrenocortical response may be due either to a block of secretory activity in the adrenal cortex itself or to a Failure of typical pituitary secretion . Study of Diurnal Variations in Circulating Lymphocytes in Normal and Psychotic Subjects . Fred Elmad ; j ian and Gregory Pincus ( Worcester , Mass. ) demonstrated a measurable difference in diurnal lymphocyte curves of normal and psychotic subjects . Lymphocyte counts were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ normal men , six normal women and six psychotic men at various intervals during the day and night . Errors in counting were reduced by careful technic and were ascertained to be minimal . The normal subjects exhibited regular increase in the abso-Footnote  | lute number of circulating lymphocytes from waking through the rest of the day and night , with a rather abrupt drop from sleep levels after waking in the morning . The women had an average count higher than that of the men , but the slopes of the regression curves relating the count to the time of day did not differ significantly . The slope of the mean curve for the psychotic subjects differed significantly from the normal , indiealing a reduced rate of count increase throughout the day . Individual curves tended to show irregular count changes not seen in the control group . The urinary output of . 17-ketosteroids , an index of adrenal cortical activity , has a diurnal variation inversely related to the lymphocyte curve . Minimal excretion occurs at night with a rise to maximum shortly after waking and a decline thereafter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that in women , a fact which correlates with the slightly higher level of lymphocytes in the female subjects . The lymphocyte data for psychotic subjects correlate with previous findings on 17-ketosteroid urinary outputs . There is a tendency to a flat diurnal 17-ketosteroid curve , with certain individuals showing irregular curves or even reversals of the normal rhythm . The significance of these findings remains to be evaluated , but there seems to be definite evidence of disturbed adrenal cortical activity in the psychotic patients studied . What Is Wrong with the Dyspeptic Whose Findings Are All Negative ? Walter C. Alvarezl ( Mayo Clinic ) points out that most persons complaining of indigestion are found to have a normal digestive tract . The trouble , however , is real , although the cause does not lie in the digestive tract . When functional disturbance is diagnosed the gastroenterologist should then determine the type of functional disease and the mechanism and should prescribe treatment accordingly . The physician must go into the history thoroughly and not expect to Footnote  | have the whole diagnosis made for him by his laboratory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of functional indigestion the patient is by nature nervous , hypersensitive and overirritable . Often there is poor nervous inheritance . Many patients have a mild form of manic-depressive insanity . They are overactive when they feel well , overwork , become depressed and then have to hibernate . When such pa. tients feel slightly depressed they have symptoms which they or their physician ascribe to the digestive organs . Many patients present symptoms which suggest psychoses . The patient with a " nervous breakdown " is very coinnon . The leading question in taking the history should be , " Are you working ? " Usually the patient has not worked for a long time . The patient should be questioned as to when fatigue occurs . If it is present on waking , the patient has usually inherited a poor nervous symptom , whereas fatigue in the afternoon is generally due to overwork . When a person over 50 years of age undergoes sudden psychic change he may have had a small stroke ( Inc to thrombosis in a small intracranial artery . The history usually reveals that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ certain day . Another possibility is undiagnosed encephalitis , indicated by lack of facial expression , inability to work and a preI iininary illness , sometimes with somnolence , severe headache , double vision and hebetude . Constitutional inadequacy which makes it hard for the patient to stand up to the strains and stresses of life is common . Such patients should be helped to understand their problem and to learn to live within their strength . Those with a sore colon or bowel are likely to have symptoms on small provocation . They should be taught how to live with their colon . A daily enema of physiologic saline or a dose of codeine as prelude to a party will help many . The dyspeptic was born to his affliction , which is touched off by overeating . Causes  | may be a short bowel , flabby intestinal musculature , inefficient liver or pancreas , or childhood diseases which have damaged the digestive mechanism . Many dyspeptics suffer primarily from constipation and would be well if they took a daily enema of warm physiologic saline . The hypersensitive digestive tract @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is usually found in hyperreactive persons with exaggerated knee jerks . Poorly cooked or greasy food may cause digestive up sets . A sensitive person may be disturbed by food slop pity prepared or served or by disturbing surroundings while he eats . Stout persons may be found to have overeaten or to have eaten too fast , so that the food is left to putrefy or ferment in the colon . Eating in a tense or quarrelsome family atmosphere , in a noisy restaurant or while upset or annoyed may cause puzzling attacks of abdominal pain in some irritable persons . Symptoms often disappear in the restful atmosphere of a hospital . Foods to which the patient is allergic may be identified by an elimination diet consisting of nothing but lamb , rice , butter , sugar and canned pears for two days . If improvement does not occur in two days , it is not likely to do so later . Heartburn is a fairly common functional trouble which may be caused by anger , certain foods , overeating , excessive smoking and certain liquors . Signs of organic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ diarrhea . Panic may bring on diarrhea in some highly nervous , overreactive persons ; others are allergic to certain foods . Some patients drink far too much water ; this tends to make the stools too soft . Persons with functional diarrhea seldom have to get up at night to empty the bowel . Blood sedimentation rate is useful diagnostically . In cases of regional enteritis or chronic ulcerative colitis the rate is sometimes more than 50 mm. in an hour , whereas in cases of apparently functional diarrhea it is less than 20 mm . Even when amebas are found in the stools the diarrhea may be due to a neurosis . Tabagism should be suspected when the patient com-  | plains of ill health with heartburn , nausea , indigestion , abdominal distress , night pain or loss of weight and has been smoking excessively . Symptoms often disappear when the patient gives up smoking . Young women who complain of vomiting often mean only the bringing up of mouthfuls of food . When regurgitation occurs immediately or shortly after meals and is not associated with nausea a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ surgery is of no benefit . Occasionally this disease is associated with anorexia nervosa . Abdominal pain which is relieved when food is brought up is often present . Treatment consists mainly of exhortations to hold the food down . Improvement in home conditions or the securing of rest may effect a cure . The author diagnoses chronic appendicitis only when the patient , usually young , has had one or two attacks of abdominal pain suggestive of acute appendicitis . If these are followed by indigestion and poor health , appendectomy may effect a cure . Diverticulosis is a rare disease . Diagnostic signs are chills and fever with intestinal obstruction , a tender mass in the left lower quadrant of the abdomen and a typical roentgen picture of spasm in the last 6 cm. of the descending colon . ) istress attributed to long-standing cholecystitis is usually of a psychosomatic nature . In rare cases the distress is due to food allergy . A hunger pain may resemble that of ulcer so closely that the physician is dependent on the reports of roentgenologists for the diagnosis of pseudoulcer . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ certain foods or an oncoming cold . Sometimes an ache or a burning pain in the right lower quadrant of the abdomen continues for years after appendectomy . Many of these cases may be psychosomatic in origin , whereas others are due to fibrositis , neuritis or arthritis of the spine . Many women complain of fatigue , indigestion , dizziness , nausea , vomiting and inability to stand any strain but forget to mention that these episodes are  | preceded by migraine headaches . The attractive woman with expressive eyes and mobile features who is ( wck of thought and movement is often prone to migraine . Such patients have a great tendency to tenseness and fatigue and are hypersensitive to sights , sounds and smells . Surgery rarely helps . but many have been nearly cured by being taught to avoid fatigue , tension , excitement , worry and annoyance . Alvarez believes that when symptoms are found to be of a functional nature , the patient should be soin formed . Study of Peptic Ulcer was made by Hugh Gainsborough and Eliot Slater " to determine the role @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ addition to the usual clinical . roentgen and laboratory studies , each patient in a group of 130 men and : 32 women was given a routine psychiatric investigation . Psychiatric diagnoses were made in the cases of 19 men and 6 women who manifested mild chronic anxiety neurosis , fairly severe anxiety neurosis , mild recent anxiety neurosis , mild hysterical reaction , chronic mild obsessional neurosis , minor mental defect with instability and various forms of psychopathic personality . in only three cases was psychiatric treatment indicated . Psychiatric abnormality was present in only 15 per cent of the total group . In the group with duodenal ulcer there were 72 men and 12 women , in the group with clinical duodenal ulcer , 25 men and S women , and in the group with gastric ulcer , 33 men and 12 women . Duodenal ulcers predominated in the entire group ( 72 per cent ) , and 30 per cent of the patients with any type of ulcer were men . From the age distribution it was possible to estimate roughly the proportion of the total liability to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) . Psychiatric findings are given irr Table 2 . No difference was discovered between the male group with duo-Footnote  | denal nicer and that with clinical duodenal ulcer ; these groups were therefore treated together . At a few points there were significant differences between the groups with duodenal and with gastric ulcers . A psychiatrically positive family history was obtained for 25 per cent of all patients , a proportion no larger perhaps than is found among the general population . The incidence is known to be over 50 per cent for neurotic patients . A history of childhood neurosis was more frequent among women than among men ; it was no greater for the latter than for the general population . The group as a whole was of rather superior intelligence . Patients with gastric ulcers had not done as well in school as those with duodenal ulcers . The men of the group were above average workers . Of the men with duodenal ulcers , 27 had led a somewhat undersexe.l existence ; this was true of only 3 patients with gastric ulcers . Only one man @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ group as a whole - mere energetic disposition and tendencies to anxiety , irritability , obsessions and hypochondria . The authors conclude that lie obsessional type of personality is more than normally susceptible to ulcer , although not all . ulcer patients are of this type . Obvious neurotic features were uncommon in the group studied . A neurotic reaction to the illness was present in 9 men and 4 women , and a degree of hypochondria was found in 41 men and 9 women .  | Treatment was generally satisfactory , but the incidence of relapse was high . Well over half the group had relapsed within a year of discharge . The chance for surviving without relapse after discharge was calculated for the men as follows : 3 months , 73 per cent ; 6 months , 62 per cent ; 9 months , 55 per cent ; 12 months , 42 per cent , and 18 months , 33 per cent . One-third were expected to relapse within four months . On the basis of these and other studies the authors conclude that women are far less subject to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do not find it surprising that a considerably higher incidence of constitutional instability was seen among the women than among the men . The ratio of duodenal ulcer to gastric ulcer was 2.6 : 1 ; the ratio of men to women with duodenal ulcer was 6:1 , and with gastric ulcer , 2.75:1 . The proportion of married women in this series was very small . The existence of a hereditary constitutional factor was suspected from an analysis of the incidence of gastric disease and indigestion in the family . Extraordinary causes of psychologie stress were infrequent . The stresses observed were principally those inseparable from an ordinary wartime life . Since the failure of medical treatment concerned relapse after the patient returned to work rather than healing of the ulcer , the authors suggest that more attention be paid in the follow-up period to the adjustment of work conditions , use of resettlement facilities and careful discussion with the patient of his social and psychologic problems . See also L. J. Saul : Psychogenic Treatment of Peptic Ulcer Patients , Psychosomatic Medicine 8:204-210 , May-June , 1946 . ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Special Reference to X-Ray Findings and Treatment . Thomas J. Cox ( M.C. , U.S.N.R. ) and Itruno O. Junnila3 ( M.C. , U.S.N. ) studied 161 men , aged 19-42 , treated over 13 months for duodenal ulcer . All had been overseas during the war from 6 months Footnote  | to 3 years ( average 18 months ) . Eighty-three had had predominating gastrointestinal complaints and had been diagnosed as suffering from ulcer . Seventy-eight had had predominating anxiety symptoms and had received neuropsychiatric diagnoses . However , both groups revealed essentially similar history of acute anxiety state associated with epigastric complaints , similar findings and similar response to therapy . Precipitating factors were both combat and personal . A definite correlation existed between the roentgen findings and the anxiety stale . During the first month of anxiety state there was no apparent pathology ; during the second month , pylorospasm and irritability of the duodenal bulb , and during the third month , the characteristic " niche . " Treatment comprised a bland diet , 1/2 gr. phenobarbital three times a day , 10 drops tincture of belladonna @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ needed and psychotherapy aimed at the cause of the acute anxiety and at resolving the precipitating problem . Patients responded rapidly , epigastric symptoms subsiding in a few weeks and the ulcer healing radiologically in 6 ? 12 weeks . Radiologic healing usually coincided with disappearance of anxiety signs . The authors suggest that underlying anxiety neurosis is a major factor in the etiology of duodenal ulcer . Stimuli from emotional tension are transmitted through the hypothalamus and autonomic nervous system , producing pylorospasm , hyperacidity and duodenal irritability . The resistance of the duodenal mucosa is lowered with resulting erosion . All patients with anxiety neurosis do not develop ulcer . The somatic manifestations of emotional states probably are determined by early environmental influences . Brief Psychotherapy in Treatment of Gastrointestinal Disorders . Malcolm L. Hayward4 ( Univ . of Pennsylvania ) reports that many gastrointestinal disorders may be relieved by brief and simple psychotherapy . Footnote  | Some patients lose all their symptoms when they are assured that careful objective studies show nothing abnormal , whereas in others the symptoms may persist . hi all cases thorough questioning concerning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had complained of abdominal discomfort may admit that what really bothers him is restlessness or nervousness . When patients deny that nervousness and unhappiness are related to their symptoms they should be told kindly but firmly that all their studies are negative , that their symptoms are due to some hidden emotional disturbance , that medical treatment can do nothing for them and that they should consult a psychiatrist . This is particularly true of patients who demand an operation . When a patient admits that nervous tension is a large factor in his problem one should begin a thorough investigation of the cause . At the start of treatment , sedation and a bland diet will do much to alleviate symptoms and will increase the confidence of the patient in the doctor so that psychotherapy is more readily accepted . The doctor should show patience , kindness and a desire to help and to try to discover and eliminate I he cause of the tension . One can not make progress by scolding or arguing with the patient . The doctor should constantly ask leading questions as : When did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ life , 11 that time ? What things upset you most ? At what time of day do you feel worst ? What are you doing at that time ? What are you really worrying about ? What In you want that you ca n't get ? What would make you happy ? The important problems are those that cause the patient most pain and of which he is often most ashamed . It will therefore take time for him to recognize the doctor as a friend to whom he can talk openly without fear of being criticized or ridiculed . Gradually the patient speaks less of his somatic symptoms and more of his emotional problem . He should then be helped to find a solution . The doctor should not  | tell the patient what to do or even give him " good advice . " Avenues of escape may be discussed , but the patient should be left to make his own decision . The patient should be encouraged to express himself freer- , since the release of pent-up emotions can produce so much relief that he is able @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ without guidance . He should not be hurried ; he will be able to decide for himself when he is ready . Long interviews are unnecessary , but the patient should be encouraged to return as often as desired . Psychogenic Vomiting . Jules H. Masserman5 ( Univ . of Chicago ) points out that the term psychosomatic implies a dualism of mind and body which does not exist . Rather , behavior is a total reaction to the environment . At the physiologic level , neural and hormonal mechanisms may be demonstrated experimentally , but the clinical phenomena observed in neuroses can be explained only by broader biodynamic concepts of motivation , symbol formation and conflict-engendered motor and organic dysfunction . Because of the infant 's complete helplessness , ingestion of food is his first and most important interpersonal relationship . The association of gastrointestinal function with emotional values becomes ingrained in total behavior . Clinically , psychogenic vomiting may take many forms and meanings . However , because of their relative frequency , four main groups are considered here . ( 1 ) Reactive vomiting is dependent on culturally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; e.g. , a person may vomit at the sight of a half eaten worm in the salad . ( 2 ) Neurotic vomiting is symbolic , recurrent and detrimental to adequate adaptation , e.g. , feeding disturbances of maladjusted children or vomiting during an unwanted pregnancy . ( 3 ) Symptomatic vomiting may occur in severe character neuroses , such as " anorexia nervosa " found in intelligent but extremely dependent , selfish , demanding , socially antag-Footnote  | ouistic , emotionally and sexually puerile women . ( 4 ) Vomiting may be bound in association with psychoses , where it may accompany depression , a stereotypy or a delusional experience in schizophrenia . Therapy must embrace both medical and psychologic measures . For immediate relief and to gain rapport with and co-operation of the patient , the patient may be given sedation , atropine to inhibit the peripheral mechanism of vomiting , gastric demulcents , such as tragacanth and bismuth , and intravenous feeding or dry diets . Cure , however , will depend on the success of psychotherapeutic measures designed to make the neurotic behavior less necessary and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ energies into more constructive channels . Nausea and Vomiting of Pregnancy were studied by G. Gladstone Robertson6 ( Glasgow ) from the viewpoint of psychosomatic medicine . This study was suggested when it was observed that a particular dyspeptic syndrome was not uncommon in married women who were sexually frigid . The symptoms usually began soon after marriage , or , if later , with cessation of sexual interest . In its initial phases the syndrome usually appeared at times of day which could be related to the impending threat of coitus ? at late evening or at the weekend . The earliest and most constant symptoms were abdominal distention , eructation of wind and of small quantities of gastric juice , and a decreasing taste for fats with decreasing ability to digest them . Attacks of nausea appeared later , with or without vomiting . The condition was likely to persist indefinitely but with little or no deterioration in general health . A study of the emotional state of these patients at the time of onset of symptoms revealed the common feature that sexual relationship with the husband gave rise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ physiologic response to the repetitive effect of this emo-Footnote  | Lion . Such patients came to dread coitus and to develop signs of anxiety . The author has called this syndrome rejection dyspepsia . A high proportion of patients were unduly attached to their mothers and invariably had a history of protracted or severe nausea and vomiting during their pregnancies . To determine if the nausea and vomiting of pregnancy were related to frigidity , the author studied consecutively 100 pregnant women . Of these , 57 had nausea and vomiting and 43 had none . The latter group was therefore regarded as a control . Six of the group of 57 women had a history of previous dyspepsia , against none in the control group ; 20 showed undue attachment to the mother , against 4 in the control group . Disturbed sexual functioning was present in 40 of the 57 women , whereas only 4 of 43 in the control group showed such disturbance . The author 's clinical and statistical investigation of the vomiting of pregnancy indicated that the syndrome may be the physiologic equivalent of an emotional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ undue mother attachment and , to a lesser extent , a history of previous dyspepsia . The frequency of undesired coitus and the physical propinquity of the mother were likewise relevant as shown by the fact that dramatic recovery often followed removal of the patient from proximity to the husband or the mother . Therapy should be individualized and should be directed toward bringing about cessation of sickness through changing habits in the patient 's life situation . The approach must be sympathetic , tactful and unrushed , and interviews must be conducted in privacy . If success is to be achieved , the patient , besides unburdening herself , should receive an acceptable explanation capable of convincing her that the factors discovered by inquiry were really the cause of her vomiting . Improvement after such discussions is often marked in the case of recently married women , although older women who may have been frigid from the beginning are more re-  | iractory to treatment . Emphasis is placed on the need to supplement physical examination of the patient with investigation of her emotions and life situation . Psychosomatic Treatment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kroger and s . T. DeLee ' 7 ( Univ . of Illinois ) . Vomiting of pregnancy may express the woman 's Zuiconseious rejection of the pregnancy , or , in women who want children , it may abet the expected and desired " morning sickness . " The authors treated 21 patients whose symptoms ranged from exaggeration of physiologic vomiting to illness so severe that therapeutic abortion was considered . Therapy previous to hypnosis had included dietary restriction , sedation and parenteral fluids . During hypnosis strong posthypnotic suggestions were made that the patient would stop vomiting and that she would ask for food and retain it . Four patients were treated with hypnoanalysis utilizing age regression . Patients were regressed to a preadolescent age and then slowly reorientated to the present , the development of emotional conflicts and faulty attitudes or habit patterns being elicited . Negress , 30 , para II , gravida III , last menstruation Jan. 1 . 1943 , was hospitalized twice for excessive vomiting . During her third admission in April she appeared acutely ill , depressed , excited , un-co-operative and jaundiced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stiff neck and epigastric pain and had a weak , irregular pulse . Therapeutic abortion seemed imperative , but it was decided to try hypnosis . The patient vas placed in a deep somnambulistic state for two hours and given strong posthypnotic suggestion . A dramatic change occurred , with relief of apprehension and excitability and ability to retain food . She was hypnotized daily for six clays , improved steadily and thereafter continued an uneventful prenatal course . Of the 21 patients , 19 were cured by hypnosis or li , ypnoanalysis . Five were cured by one session and the others by two to six . One patient could not be hypnoI ized , and in the other , although light hypnosis was induced , the vomiting stopped for two days . then recurred . The mechanism of cure may lie in raising the Footnote  | vomiting threshold directly or in preventing gastrointestinal contractions from reaching the higher sensorium . In hypnoanalysis , eliciting conflict material brings relief to the patient and facilitates later psychotherapy . Emotional Factors in Course of Pregnancy . Raymond Squier ( Greenwich , Conn. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ describe two patients with psychosomatic abortions or stillbirths . CASE 1 . ? Woman , 35 , intelligent but stubborn , was frigid and showed ambivalence in instinctual drives , attitudes and opinions , with father identification , hostility toward males and rejection of the role of female and mother . She had had a premarital induced abortion and three postmarital spontaneous ones . During an appendectomy , the right ovary had been resected because of a small ovarian cyst . Otherwise she appeared physically normal . She and her husband belonged to 0 blood group and were Rh positive . During the unsuccessful pregnancies she had received various medications , including sedation , progesterone and thyroid . Psychotherapy led to resolution of conflicts and a fourth successful pregnancy . Vaginal bleeding and onset of labor occurred following psychologic stimuli on two occasions when both the obstetrician and the psychiatrist were out of town . CASE 2 . ? Woman , 29 , intelligent and musical , was frigid and introverted and showed obsessive-compulsive tendencies , hatred of mother , desire to be a boy and a history of sexual trauma @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . She had had one stillbirth , not explained by autopsy . After psychotherapy she delivered a healthy child . Hearing was not impaired . Over a month post partum there was transient enlargement of the left ovary , probably a cystic corpus luteum . Abortion habit may develop in certain personalities and may be interrupted by psychotherapy . Evaluation of internal and external agents producing abortion requires much further observation . Obstetrics forms a wide and almost unexplored field for the psychosomatic specialist . Obstetricians should realize the importance of a psychosomatic approach in their handling of the patient and of psychotherapy by specialists in clinically puzzling cases . The mother 's personality adjustment Footnote  | also may influence the infant 's health . The obstetrician can greatly aid the pediatrician by passing on his observations . Organic and Hysterical Anesthesia : Method of Differential Diagnosis with Aid of Galvanic Skin Response . Fredrick C. Redlich ? ( Northington Gen ' ! Ilosp. , Tuscaloosa , Ala. ) tested the galvanic skin response ( bioelectric changes accompanying sweat gland and vascular activities of a normally functioning sympathetic system ) of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with traumatic transection of the spinal cord and 7 with hysterical anesthesia . Diagnosis of injury was confirmed by surgery or corroborative neurologic findings , and of hysteria , by rapid psychotherapeutic cure . The response ( GSR ) was recorded with the Grass electroencephalograph . Electrodes were placed on the patient 's normal hand and forearm , and he was told to lie quietly with eyes closed . The test must be conducted silently with the patient motionless , as GSR may be elicited from numerous stimuli such as flashing light , conversation , aroused emotions , movement of toes , etc . Both pinprick and light touch were used to test tactile function , and in normal areas these produced a typical deflection from the base line . There was no GSR when anesthetic areas resulting from organic injuries were stimulated by pinprick or touch . A normal GSR followed stimulation of hysterical anesthetic areas . The test therefore offered an objective method of differentiating organic from functional anesthesia . Since , however , the GSR was obtained in these tests by stimulating organic hypesthetic areas and areas showing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it was concluded that the test is suitable only where complete interruption of the sensory pathways is suspected . Failure to obtain a GSR indicates interruption of the OSR reflex arc and corroborates previous findings that Footnote  | sympathetic and sensory afferent pathways are identical . The investigation also supports the thesis that hysterical and hypnotically induced anesthesia result from dissociation or inattention to the sensory input . from the anesthetic area . The CTSR was similar in hysterical and malingering anesthesias . Psychosomatic Aspects of Lupus Erythematosus are discussed by Joseph E. Pisetsky7 ( M.G. , A.F.S. ) . with report of a case . Not only do appendages possess the attributes of the body image , but the body surface itself plays a great role in tridimensional self-evalnation . Any alteration in the texture , continuity or color of the integument creates a dislocation in the pre-existing pattern of the body image and may serve as the focus from which a sense of inferiority or social insecurity originates . Since society 's demands for physical perfection are stringent , decided deviations from the norm may precipitate the reaction of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the time of his enlistment in the Army and caused him to he taunted and held aloof by his barrack mates . In his subsequent relatively isolated occupation as a cow hand he was not accepted by his fellow workers and had difficulty ill securing employment . Girls were reluctant to go out with him , and even prostitutes accepted him with hesitation . As repeated attempts at treatment failed and he realized that his disease was chronic and might he permanent , he became bitter . Mildly paranoid ideas appeared . He eventually set up a small cattle business where his human associations were reduced to a minimum and he could live alone . His feelings of inferiority persisted , and he continued to believe that people considered his disease filthy , infectious and disfiguring . Social , economic and heterosexual striving were thwarted , and the patient reacted with a moderate depressive state , chronic feelings of inferiority and a desire to remain withdrawn and seclusive rather than to attempt to obtain satisfaction of the libido . Little work has been done on the effect of the psyche on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ symptoms are more prevalent in patients with atopic dermatitis than in those with lupus erythematosus . Phobic and compulsive-obsessive symptoms are commonest in both , although less decided in patients with lupus erythematosus . Unpleasant situations connected with family problems , illness , economic insecurity and trauma occurred oftener with exacerbations in the patients with Iupus erythematosus . The economic future and independence of the patient with an obnoxious cutaneous disease depend on his ability to cope with the feelings of inferiority and depression which it engenders . Many persons who become conscious of their disturbed body image are inclined to shrink from social contacts and withdraw to an isolation in which they are not basically at home . This tendency must be vehemently counteracted to prevent patients from magnifying the implications of disabilii ies . Persuasion , verbal encouragement and enlightening talks , which are not too scientific and technical , on the nature of cutaneous diseases will do much to dispel a pessimistic attitude . In severe cases more drastic psychotherapeutic measures may have to be adopted . Psychologic Aspects of Psoriasis . E. Wittkower2 R.A.M.C. ) reports on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ military patients , aged 18-44 , with a diagnosis of psoriasis . Personality types varied widely and showed no uniformity of emotional . conflict . Eleven patients were predominantly compulsive , nine unaggressive , eight bisexual , seven phobic , three overaggressive and three hysterical . Onset of psoriasis in 14 of the 86 patients was during early childhood , and no assessment of their personality before onset of psoriasis could therefore be made . Of the remaining 72 patients , 29 seemed emotionally well adjusted and 43 maladjusted . A familial history of psoriasis was obtained in the ratio of 1:2 patients in the childhood group , 1:3 in the well adjusted and 1:6 in the maladjusted . Tn the 72 patients with onset of psori-Footnote  | asis after childhood , there were definite precipitating emotional factors in 29 and possible precipating emotional factors in another 20 . The author concludes that individuals with a powerful hereditary element may develop psoriasis in any case , whereas others need a catalyst to mobilize the dormant predisposition . This catalyst most often is an emotional crisis specific to the personality type . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Psychologic symptoms also may arise as a result of the skin lesion , which to many laymen signifies infection or venereal disease . From the military viewpoint it is important to protect the soldier with psoriasis by emphasizing in venereal disease lectures that many skin affections are not venereal , contagious or a reason for disgrace . Emotional Factors in Obesity . William M. Nicholson3 ( Duke Univ. ) points out that obese persons have no desire to be told that they eat too much but prefer a diagnosis of " gland trouble " with medication . Often physicians comply and treat them with various substances more or less harmful or useless . Marked restriction of caloric diet alone will cause loss of weight , but experience in clinics has shown that diet therapy alone rarely succeeds in reducing weight for more than a short time . Danowski and Winkler report 80 per cent failures in long term treatment by calculated diet . To evaluate factors in reducing obesity the author studied 93 private patients , who were divided into four groups . All were found to have emotional problems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1 consisted of 38 patients who received superficial psychotherapy . No calculated diet and no medicine was given , but caloric values were discussed to some extent . Group 2 consisted of 35 patients given only a calculated diet of 800 calories , which was adequately explained by an experienced dietitian . Group 3 consisted of 10 patients treated with only 5 mg. ampheta-Footnote  | mine sulfate three times daily . Group 4 consisted of 10 patients treated only with thyroid given to the maximal point of tolerance . Success was arbitrarily classified as a weight loss of 5 kg. or more maintained for one year . Among the 38 patients treated by psychotherapy , there were 26 successes and 12 failures , and among the 35 treated by diet alone , 9 successes and 26 failures . There were no successes among the patients treated by amphetamine or thyroid . This study does not indicate the etiologic factor for increased food consumption in obesity but does suggest that emotional tension and psychoneurosis will produce obesity in certain persons . In experimental animals obesity has been caused by hypothalamic lesions , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ man . The author analyzed 88 patients with myxedema , Cushing 's syndrome , hyperinsulinism , pituitary tumors , menopausal disturbances , inactivity due to debilitating illness and postinfectious encephalitis . It was found that the incidence of obesity in endocrine disease is little , if any , higher than in other conditions necessitating inactivity . The author agrees with Gray that " treatment of obesity depends more on the mind than on the body . " Administration of drugs tends to make the patient rely more on the drug than on himself . For permanent weight reduction , psychotherapy and re-establishment of proper dietary habits are essential . Obesity as Manifestation of Neurosis . Obesity of the common , or exogenous , type is the physical expression of neurosis in most obese patients observed by Henry B. Pichardson4 ( Cornell Univ . ) . Most obese patients are women . The psychologic gain afforded by obesity is maintained by destructive suppression of part of the personality and is accomplished through symbolism , in which fat is associated with phantasies of pregnancy , is a protective mechanism or becomes a substitute @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ desires . Fear of weight loss is evidence of such a gain . Anxiety is important in most cases and is frequently accompanied by a sense of guilt and depression . Gaining weight symbolizes self-deprecation since men are not attracted to obese women . Eating may be an outlet for anger , frustration and insecurity or act as an anesthetic which shuts out problems and worries . A compulsion to rid the body of a hungry , empty feeling causes food addiction . Although the process of eating fails to fulfil the psychologic craving , more food than can be utilized is continually ingested and fat accumulates . Appetite ( zest for food ) is not responsible for overeating . A craving for food suggests deprivation in early infancy when reception of food is indistinguishable from reception of affection . Later deprivations , physical or emotional , reinforce earlier ones . Treatment involves understanding of the underlying psychologic factors . Psychotherapy directed to helping the patient to resolve his basic conflicts is necessary before lasting weight reduction can be accomplished . A highly individualized patient-doctor relationship and consideration of the patient @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sought . Once psychologic barriers are removed , weight loss is easily accomplished by ingestion of fewer calories than are required by the metabolic processes , forcing utilization of the body 's fat stores . Administration of endoerine preparations may have a psychologic use , and administration of vitamins may reassure the patient against the supposedly damaging effects of dieting . Psychosomatic Backache . Morgan Sargent ( M.G. , A.i ' . S. ) points out that discussions of backache generally stress organic pathology . Backache , however , is a frequent complaint of persons with anxiety states . Psyehogenic factors may be primary or may prolong symp-Footnote  | Iomatology . The author studied backache in an Array Air Force convalescent hospital for those sufferingfrom severe anxiety states . The men had all served arduous duty overseas , where most had belonged to air crews . Patients suffered primarily from psychiatric . conditions , and in addition some had backache . All received careful clinical , roentgen and laboratory examinations and , when indicated , orthopedic consultation . Organic disease was demonstrated in less than 4 per cent . Others fell @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conversion hysteria backache . Patients comprised enlisted men rather than officers , probably because of the lower educational level among enlisted men . Collectively they showed fewer symptoms of overt anxiety and nervousness than the other patients . Most gave a history of previous back injury but had had no symptoms for years until subjected to the stress of army life . Pure hysteria occurred uncommonly . One patient had fallen down stairs 12 years before , landing on the base of the spine . IIe was asymptomatic until the past three to four years , during which time Ire had had intermittent low backache . Roentgen examination revealed a small spina bifida oeeulta of the fifth lumbar vertebra . The patient volunteered that his backache disappeared when he experienced extreme anxiety . Another patient was struck in the hack during a crash landing in July , 1944 . Ile continued flying with a strapped back for one month until he was shot down , captured and interned in a neutral country . Since then he had had a dull aching in the lower back which extended upward after standing or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ diffuse and moderate tenderness irr the lumbosaeral area ; slight rorrghening of the apophyseal articulations of the fifth lumbar and first sacral vertebrae was evident roentgenographically . Because of these findings the condition - was thought to be organic , and he was given bakings with infra-red rays and massage therapy , without relief . The nonsomatic nature of his complaint was demonstrated  | one month later during an appendectomy performed under spinal anesthesia . He complained throughout surgery of pain in the lumbosacral area although the surgical anesthesia was complete at least up to the ninth dorsal vertebra . In the second group were functional backaches due to muscular tension resulting from increased nervous tension . This condition occurred most frequently . Patients had insomnia and combat dreams and were nervous , tense and unable to sit still . They fatigued easily . The more restless was the patient , the worse his backache . Backache was usually lumbosacral but occasionally dorsal or cervical . It was intermittent , being absent sometimes for days , and was worse at morning , at night and after exercise or long standing or sitting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ syndromes , was diffuse . Though often attributed to injury , the injury was admittedly slight . Examination revealed limitation of forward bending and pain on tilting forward the pelvis and on straight leg-raising . There was palpable muscular tension , particularly of the sacrospinalis and erector spinae muscle groups , with fibrillary contractions in some cases . For 15 years one patient had had low back pain intermittently during periods of excitement and while flying under stress . He had marked spasm of the sacrospinalis muscles . Another patient developed low lumbar backache after a burst of flak hit the plane in which he was riding . He was uninjured and completed his tour . Examination five months later demonstrated extreme sacrospinalis muscle tension . Treatment of backache due to conversion symptoms or increased muscular tension is primarily psychiatric . In many instances pain disappeared after brief psychotherapy directed to the anxiety state . Physical therapy or local injections may cause harm by fixing the symptoms . Patients should be thoroughly studied and then given a simple explanation that their increased nervousness and tenseness result in increased muscle tension , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relief can be obtained by co-operation with the psychiatrist . Persistent Enuresis : Psychosomatic Study . Harry Stalker and David Bands ( Univ . of Edinburgh ) studied 67 unselected patients with enuresis . All the usual psychiatric methods of treatment were tried with little success . A few patients were improved by hypnotism . Ephedrine was found to give better results than other agents . The authors used ephedrine hydrochloride , beginning in adults with the maximal official dose of 11/2 gr. at night and increasing by 1/2 gr. every few nights according to tolerance and therapeutic effect to a maximum of 3 gr . Dosage for children was adjusted according to age . Smaller doses were given by day when indicated , espe ( dally when diurnal symptoms were severe . Fluids were restricted in the evenings . Improvement was measured on a rough percentage scale . Three patients improved 25 per cent , six , 50 per cent and six , 75 per cent . Eight were cured . Minor toxic symptoms prevented use of the larger doses in some . Thus it is clear that ephedrine may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ study was made on adolescents and adults , many of the conclusions reached may be applied to enuresis in children as well . Enuresis is a local autonomic symptom complex , ineluding several of the following : nocturnal enuresis ( which itself may not always be present ) , rising at flight , diurnal enuresis , diurnal frequency and urgency , and encopresis . There is little evidence that the syndrome is due to local overactivity of the spinal micturition reflex , but the beneficial effect of large doses of ephedrine might suggest this . The cerebral control of micturition consists in a release of inhibition when micturition is desired . Most enuretic patients have cystometrograms of the unin-Footnote  | hibited nenrogenic type showing a lack of cerebral inhibition identical with that found in some organic cerebral diseases . Psychiatric abnormalities are found in most patients with enuresis , the two largest groups being the anxious and the psychopathic types . Disorders of autonomic function are common in all anxiety states . The correlation between psychopathic states and enuresis is striking . the same lack of inhibitory control being displayed physiologically @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Electroencephalographic abnormalities are common in children with behavior disorders and enuresis but not in such children without enuresis . The electroencephalographic and cystometrographic findings link enuresis with personality in its fullest neuropsychiatric sense . The constitutional aspects of enuresis are further shown by its predominance in males in association with autonomic disorders , especially heavy sleep . Family records of serious psychiatric conditions and of enuresis are common , whereas family history of psychosomatic disorders occurs less frequently . Psychopathologic causes should be , and were , shown to exist before age 3. when bladder control should be established . They were so numerous and serious as to appear almost as important as the constitutional factors . Abnormalities of breast feeding were especially frequent . The enuresis syndrome is not purely emotional in origin . Rather , the total personality in its constitutional , neurophysiologic and emotional aspects is involved . Nevertheless enuresis usually disappears either spontaneously or as a result of treatment . The authors believe that enuresis is not merely a symptom but a disease in itself . Psychosomatic Approach to Problem of Stuttering in Psychotics . Dominick A. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) studied 20 psychotic patients who stuttered in an effort to correlate neuropsychiatric and psychosomatic disorders with the problem of stuttering . Only 1 in every 350 psychotics stuttered , and most of these were schizophrenics . Fifteen patients were classed as introverts , five as extroverts . In every ease in which data were available there was some outstanding nenropsychiatric or psychosomatic disorder in the family history . One or both parents were described as nervous , temperamental , worrisome , demanding , rigid or not understanding , and an attitude of overprotection or lack of sympathy was common . Absence of warmth and affection was characteristic of the parent-child relationship . In schizoid patients emotional instability was always noticeable and underlying tension and anxiety usually marked . Most had excessive sweating , fine tremors , ties and purposeless jerky movements of the body associated with the tension factors of stuttering . Blushing , palpitation , dilated pupils and variations in blood pressure were also noted . Ten patients began stuttering between age 5 and 8 ; only two started after age 10 . Persistence of the disorder through childhood @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ four times as often as females . Stuttering was precipitated in seven patients by sudden fright . accident , illness , operation , forcible conversion from left- to right-handedness or a tense and worrisome home environment . Nine had other stutterers in the family . Stuttering is a symptom of an underlying neurotic condition with multiple etiology and can only be understood through a psychosomatic approach . The stutterer hesitates to make decisions and is constantly fearful . Speech difficulty arises in situations representing a threat to the personality . Speech becomes an acutely conscious process and is associated with fear and embarrassment . In three quarters of Barbara 's patients the early childhood history revealed traumatic experiences , nightmares , hysteria , sleep disturbances , nail-biting , enuresis  | or emotional lability . The outstanding characteristics in all patients were fear and tendencies to asocial behavior . See Meyer in the 1945 YEAR BOOK OF NEUROLOGY , PSYCFIIATRY AND ENDOCRINOLOGY , p. 395 . ? Ed . Epidemiology and Psychosomatic Affections . James L. Hallidays ( Glasgow ) approaches the rise of psychosomatic affections in modern life from an epidemiologic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a nation 's mental health , as well as other observations , places the beginning of the trend to psychosomatic disorders between 1860 and 1880 . In the etiologic field of the individual a relevant characteristic is the presence of well marked obsessional trends , the predisposition to which is determined b ; texcessive frustration of emotional development during the pregenital phases of early life . A positive family history of the same or an associated affection is often seen but is usually referable to the parent 's influence on the child rather than to any genetic inheritance . In the etiologic field of environment relevant precipitating factors may be attributed to an increase in predisposition associated with changes in the milieu of infancy and/or an increase in precipitating situations in the milieu of adulthood . Epidemiology was founded and formulated on experience gained by the study of infectious diseases but is equally applicable to many modes of morbid behavior by no means confined to the psychosomatic affections . Others of particular medical interest are poor working capacity , poor morale , delinquency and crime as well as the happenings and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ administration , religion and international relationships . Changes in the world of the child and of the adult in Britain , as well as in other western European countries , between 1870 and 1930 are responsible for the fact that an increased proportion of the population Footnote  | shows undue predisposition to physiologic dysfunctions ad obsessional trends in behavior . A further effect may have been a reduced incidence of histrionic personality characteristics and of gross hysteria . The industrial revolution of the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries had unforeseen medical consequences . The concomitant overcrowding , dirt , squalor , lack of sanitation , long working hours , etc. , were attended by a great increase in mortality , especially from infectious diseases . With the development of bacteriology , prevenlive medicine gradually became a distinct branch of knowledge in its own right . The science of nutrition was then developed and its importance strongly underscored by the two world wars . Ilefore 1940 there was a spreading but vague realization that social factors in the environment were important causes of inefficiency , unhappiness and illness . The term social medicine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a synonym for preventive medicine in its applications of hygiene , nutrition and industrial medicine , but it is now evident that social medicine also comprises that further development of preventive medicine which utilizes the technics and concepts of psychologic , psychosomatic and psychosocial medicine . The biologic consequences of the changing structure tf society involve the question of survival for West European man on both sides of the Atlantic . Problems include the declining birth rate ; the high level of ' incapacity for work " occurring , and even rising , at a time when physical health is steadily improving ; the self-destructive tendencies imposed both from without and within which limit output and spontaneous creativity , and the still lingering menace of another world war . Modern medicine in - the form of social medicine is now lacing its responsibilities in pointing out that such problems exist , that they are of primary importance to the public health and that their nature can not be understood nor a truly scientific guidance for action be obtained without applying psychosomatic and allied concepts .  | The promotion of long term programs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in various types of diseases should be accomplished and carried out systematically and scientifically in accordance with the methods already available , particularly with those that can be applied under controlled experimental conditions . A consistent , steady pursuit of the type of research that may eventually afford efficient quantitative measurements of the emotional states and their component parts should be encouraged. ? Ed . MILITARY PSYCHIATRY Psychiatric Casualties in Combat were observed by H. H. Garner9 ( M. ( ' . , A.TT.S. ) during several months ' contact with a large ntunber of such patients seen during the engagement of an infantry division in a very active theatre of operations . Since accepted nomenclature is inadequate to furnish a clear concept of the psychiatric problem encountered , the following outline of the types of psychiatric syndromes is given by the author . I. Acute disorders related to combat A. Anxiety states with usual symptoms of autonomic overstitnulation and varying degrees of tremor . Pronounced startle reaction is a common accompaniment . a ) Terror b ) Severe anxiety reactions e ) Moderate and mild anxiety reactions d ) Subjective @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ B. Conversion manifestations e ) A.phonia , deafness , amblyopia b ) Paralyses c ) Tremors , tics and myoclonus d ) Visceral ? e.g. , vomiting , etc . C. Disturbances in sensorium a ) Clouded states b ) Acute confusional symptoms e ) Amnesic states II . lonacute syndromes related to combat A. Psychosomatic syndromes B. Organic disease Footnote  | TII . Mood disturbances related to combat A. Depressions B. Manic reactions C. Others IV . Volitional disorders A. Self-inflicted wounds B. " Riding the sick-book " escape C. Straggling and disappearing D. Malingering V. Psychiatric syndromes not related to combat A. Psychoneuroses B. Psychoses VI . Blast injuries and neurologic diseases . Psychosomatic syndromes may further be divided into ( 1 ) those without previous organic disease but with physiologic disturbance secondary to emotional stress , ( 2 ) those with known organic substratum , ( 3 ) those with only subjective symptoms but long-standing history ( e.g. , " tension " headache ) and ( 4 ) those which are largely volitional ( e.g. , mild " gas " pains which the soldier hopes may seem important @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ subjective symptom produced with intent to deceive was rarely seen by the author . Some soldiers , however , deliberately attempted medical " escape " by self-inflicted wounds , and some wounded themselves accidentally , possibly through subconscious motivation as described by Freud in relation to errors in speech or writing , or by Dunbar in relation to fractures . Psychoses , mood disturbances and psychoneuroses involving interpersonal relations were also infrequent . In combat the soldier desires to escape a physically Threatening situation but is prohibited by superego and conscience drives . If , however , he develops an acute overwhelming fear reaction , there is " escape " in a psychiatric syndrome . The soldier 's ability to control fear depends on : ( 1 ) duration , severity and nature of the stress ; ( 2 ) his sense of responsibility to individual buddies or to the group ? squad , platoon or company ; ( 3 ) his pride and desire to maintain family honor ; ( 4 ) the army organization which limits " escape , " and ( 5 ) political idealism . Of these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most important in infantrymen . Factors which tend to diminish fear control are poor leadership , poor group identification , previous traumatic situations , adverse environmental factors , physical illness , a passive role during battle and extremely severe or prolonged stress . Every man has a breaking point . When he can not distinguish harmful from harmless stimuli , salvage for line duty is impossible . From 1940 to the present a special section in this YEAR BOOK has been devoted to reviews of the various aspects of military psychiatry . The reader will find many references in former YEAR BOOKS having a bearing on the topics appearing in the present section . See also McNeel : War Psychiatry in Retrospect , American Journal of Psychiatry 102:500-506 , January , 1946 . ? Ed . Delayed Combat Reactions in Air Force Personnel . Charles W. Miller , Jr.1 ( M.C. , A.U.S. ) discusses the origin , manifestations and treatment of war neuroses or psychoneurotic reactions detected after the screening process incident to evacuation , redistribution and reassignment but not before that time . Origin depends in part on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , some during stress and the more " normal " after the stress . Manifestations vary . A borderline normal syndrome comprises irritability , lowered morale and poor adaptation . This may represent transient regression or the natural immaturity of youthful officers . There may be frank symptoms , antisocial behavior or alcoholism , the last two constituting problems in management . Overly harsh measures aggravate the condition , and excessive leniency fosters offenses . Depressive reactions and feelings of guilt may arise from awareness of an actual failure , from having escaped the disastrous fate of comrades , from a feeling of responsibility for the death of a disliked or hated associate , or from more deeply seated psychopathologic mechanisms . The psychopathic personality with aggressive drives , aggressive behavior and hostility is often found in men with a history of previous psychopathic Footnote  | personality or instability but , good service adjustment . After the direct release of aggression in combat such individuals have difficulty in controlling drives and may suffer severe anxiety . In others the aggression results from regression and is not a true delayed reaction but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ environment . Another type experiencing delayed reactions is the dependent , inadequate individual who received emotional support originally from his family and later from the group . Afterward , when at loose ends , he displays a fundamental maladjustment . Other symptoms seen are hysteria , amnesic episodes or phobias which are usually a reactivation of childhood phobias . " Poor morale situations " are most important in producing delayed combat reactions . These may be domestic but are usually of a military nature and lie within the scope of the military , rather than the medical authority . ( hood administrative management , suitable assignments , fulfilled promises , a real job rather than boondoggling and wise leadership are essential to psychic health . Treatment of delayed combat reactions is relatively satisfactory if instituted early and if the environment is good . Mild anxieties may respond to simple explanation of tension-producing mechanisms with reassurance . I n more severe cases pentothal narcosis is valuable in releasing tension and in eliciting psychologically traumatic material . Abreaction alone , however , is insufficient . Current military or domestic frustrations may be more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ directed toward utilizing the assets of the personality so that the patient attains synthesis and reintegration . Neuropsychiatric Problems on a Battleship . Lawrence P. Hinkle , Jr.2 reports that an anxiety syndrome similar to the " effort syndrome " of World War I was one of the major medical problems on shipboard . Pat ients appeared worried , dejected and suspicious . They emphasized the reality of their symptoms , among which Footnote  | recurrent . headache , especially of the " neurasthenic cap " type , precordial distress described as sticking , pressure or pounding , sighing respirations , dizzy spells and fainting were all common . Midepigastric distress , usually postprandial , was very connnon and sometimes had to be distinguished from peptic ulcer . Morning nausea , poor appetite , unusual food intolerances and spastic constipation as well as urinary frequency occurred . Sleep disturbances with nightmares or insomnia were common and morning fatigue which wore off during the day almost universal . Irritability , coffee habit and excessive smoking were characteristic . Indications that the autonomic nervous system was hyperactive were revealed by fine tremor of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reflexes . Tenderness was noted in those with epigastric pain , and the spastic colon could be felt in those with spastic constipation . The psychosomatic aspect of the syndrome was borne out by various findings , e.g. , high gastric acidity in those with epigastric pain , cardiovascular instability and slightly elevated afternoon temperature . A positive diagnosis was based on the entire syndrome , each patient having the characteristic signs and or history . Neuropsychiatric disease appeared almost entirely among predisposed men . In 87.3 per cent there was history of either similar mild symptoms or childhood disturbances , such as bedwetting , tantrums , nightmares , delinquency and truancy . In 86.3 per cent there was family history conducive to emotional disorders : nervous breakdown , divorce , infidelity , alcoholism or absence of parental supervision and affection . Only 5.9 per cent were negative in both respects and these patients had reactive depressions or were suspected of concealing facts in their past . Causes of anxiety , in order of importance , were : ( 1 ) home family situation , ( 2 ) sexual conflicts , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( 4 ) personal health . Prolonged relatively safe duty aboard ship ap-  | parently did not cause psychiatric disease , since disturbances were no more common among those who had been aboard 31 months than among newcomers . Only radiomen apparently developed " operational fatigue . " Anxiety states were twice as frequent in these men as in the total group , probably because of their especially arduous duty . Anxiety states in others were often provoked by removal of a susceptible individual from his accustomed environment to one requiring new adjustments . The aim of treatment was to prevent these mild states from becoming serious and requiring prolonged hospitalization . The nature and causes of the condition were carefully explained and the fact that symptoms were not serious was emphasized . Each man was assured that he would be treated aboard his ship and that symptoms would gradually disappear . Problems and conflicts were resolved when feasible . Patients were admitted to sick bay and given mild sedation for several clays when necessary . Cigarets and coffee were forbidden , afternoon exercise was advised to aid sleeping habits , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the illness . Following treatment , proficiency , conduct and punishment records were satisfactory . Less than 15 per cent of the group required second hospitalization . Improvement in hysterical paralyses and paresthesias was marked . Although basic personality faults could not be altered , most men developed insight into their condition and adjusted themselves to " getting on with the war . " Acute War Neuroses : Special Reference to Pavlov 's Experimental Observations and the Mechanism of Abreaction . William Sargant and IL J. Shorvona ( SutIon Emergency Ilosp. , London ) correlate the phenomena observed in 10,000 neurotic casualties with Pavlov 's concepts of cerebral functioning . Pavlov visualized the cortex as an intricate integrated structure , constantly receiving excitatory and inhibitory stimuli from both Footnote  | external and internal sources . These stimuli are elaborated in specific areas into complex conditioned ( temporary ) reflexes , which are conducted along special paths . In addition , there are unconditioned reflexes ( stimuli or instincts ) concerned with fundamenta I drives . A third system subserves abstraction and speech . Excitatory and inhibitory stimuli must be in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decreased effect or a period of temporary inhibition known as the equivalent or paradoxical , phase . Still stronger stimuli may engender an opposite response , with excitatory conditioned stimuli resulting in an inhibitory effect . This is the ultraparadoxical phase . An ultraparadoxical inhibition is termed ultraboundary . Constitutional make-up determines in part the point at which stimuli become beyond-limit and the subsequent reaction . In hysteria inhibition predominates . Stimuli which would not affect a normal individual produce cortical incapacity . Pavlov cites certain dogs ' reactions following a terrifying experience when their kennels were flooded and they almost drowned . Afterward , recently acquired conditioned reflexes were lost , and the dogs took months to reacquire them . Even then , the reflexes were again abolished by any minor suggestive experience , such as trickling water . Analogously , in war neuroses excessive stimulation may cause a morbid condition , the ultraparadoxical phase , followed by states of excitation or inhibition and loss of normal conditioned reflexes . Patients observed by the authors showed wild behavior , stupor and hysterical reactions . Impaired speech was common , possibly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may be due either to chaotic cortical excitation or to general cortical inhibition with subcortical release . Pavlov found that dogs suffering loss of weight , infection or endocrine disturbance had less stable conditioned responses . Similarly , men physically run down are more subject to neuroses.  | Treatment of war neuroses consists of continuous narcosis , modified insulin therapy , combined insulin therapy and narcosis , and ether therapy . In ether therapy , the patient is asked before anest liesia to discuss events preceding the breakdown ; then , cinder light open mask etherization , he is encouraged to lint himself back in the situation of stress . When therapy is successful the patient becomes quickly and wildly excited , forceful restraint sometimes being necessary , nd starts abreacting . The patient is encouraged to cry , shout and struggle , because the greater the excitement , the better the therapeutic result . In terms of Pavlov 's concepts , the mechanism of reaction may be a breaking of localized inhibitory foci ( " rupture " of higher nervous activity ) and abolition of recently built-up conditioned behavior , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ canine conditioned reflexes . Recovery depends on excitement , not on eliciting the precipitating stress , and is best when excitement culminates in " collapse " temporary total inhibition ( ultraparadoxical phase ) . Results of ether therapy are shown in the following ease report . Sapper , 43 , developed tremulousness and stupor successively during the Normandy campaign . Under sodium amytal , given intravenously , he gave a full account of his experiences but afterward was unimproved . Modified insulin treatment and narcosis proved unavailing . After three weeks he was given ether . He struggled , shouted and imagined himself hack in Normandy but did not recount his experiences as before . Afterward , however , he got up and carried on normally except for two short relapses , which cleared on excitement treatment . Ether abreaction is particularly successful in patients with dynamic stereotypy of thought or behavior , e.g. , localized hysterical jerkings or anxious ruminations . Depressed patients in whom excitement can be induced are often improved . Patients with strongly depressive thought tone need counter-balancing support , sedation and psychotherapy . Agitated and intensely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  | inhibition may be made worse . Patients with aggressive personalities occasionally become unmanageable . For these , a combination of methods of treatment may prove effective . The authors ' most striking observation wa 's the frequency with which they encountered the series of events represented by the sequence : traumatic experience , ale normal psychiatric state exhibiting stereotypy of behavior or thought , artificially induced excitement , collapse and recovery by the patient . The last three occur in abreaction and have been described nonprofessionally in accounts of religious revivals . Excerpts from John Wesley 's description of converts in 1739 are given and , for comparison , some from Grinker and Spiegel 's description of the phenomena o I ' abreaction under pentothal sodium , observed in 1 Ile North African campaign of 1942 . Wesley : " . . . . who broke into strong cries and tears . . . great drops of sweat ran down her face and all her bones shook . . others were in violent agonies . " Grinker and Spiegel : " . . . . the skin becomes covered with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . . . The intensity of the emotion sometimes becomes more than they can bear , . .. " Wesley : " While 1 was speaking one before me dropped down as dead , . Grinker and Spiegel : " . . . . there is a collapse and the patient falls . . Wesley , describing his experience , stated : " .... him that was a lion .... is now a lamb ; hint that was a drunkard . ... is now exemplarily sober ; . . . . Drinker and Spiegel , describing their results , stated : " . . . . the paralyzed can move , and the terror-stricken psychotics become well organized individuals . " Residuals of Combat Induced Anxiety are discussed by Charles O. Sturdevant4 ( Gardiner Gen'l Hosp. , Chicago ) . The symptoms were seen in men near separation from service or admitted from pass or furlough to this hospital because of acute emotional disturbances . These patients are similar to men who will be encountered Footnote  | after discharge . Most of them were relatively stable , mature and well adjusted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and psychologie reorientation in peacetime and in civilian pursuits . This type of patient has specific therapeutic needs and good prognosis as contrasted to the more classical types of psychoneurosis . In general , the residual anxiety reaction showed many similarities to the usual types of neurotic illness but differed in that no fixation of symptoms or fundamental personality change had taken place at the hospital level . symptoms seemed no more established than those in " combat exhaustion , " which apparently does not correspond to any recognized psychiatric syndrome . The differences were noticeable in a comparative study of 36 patients with residual anxiety states and 36 patients with psychoneurosis in whom histories indicated neurotic adjustment in the past . The symptoms of the latter group were more typical of established psychoneurotic reactions . An analysis of the onset of symptoms revealed breakdown in combat after extreme experiences in 10 men in the group with residual anxiety ; 23 developed symptoms of a similar character weeks or months after removal from the battle situation for other reasons . Symptom analysis showed little fixation of anxiety as compared with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was designed to permit relief from anxiety through ventilation and reconstruction of traumatic experiences on a conscious level . Hypnosis and pentothal sodium or sodium amytal hypnoanalysis were employed . Continued explanation and reassurance with a gradual reorientation in peacetime and civilian relationships usually resulted in lasting relief from symptoms and return to the former level of stability . The author concludes that a combat-induced anxiety state which is specifically a product of the stresses of war does exist .  | Disorganization of Behavior in Fatigue with respect to skilled activities was studied by D. Russell Davis- , ( Cambridge ) . The Cambridge cockpit , an apparatus similar to the Link trainer used for instruction in instrument flying , was employed . It was designed to execute maneuvers less complicated than those of the Link trainer , and the operation of the controls , similar to those of an aircraft , could be scored . It was so specialized , however , as to be suitable for the testing of pilots only . The test was assumed to be fatiguing , the important factor in producing fatigue being regarded as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ satisfying to themselves . They strove to attain a standard of accuracy which was at least partly derived from their flying experience , but because of the characteristics of the apparatus it was difficult to attain the standard required when flying an aircraft . In any event , subjects were likely to fall short of the standard they set themselves . Thus , their efforts to attain a satisfying standard were frustrated , and they suffered the experience of failure . In this situation they were obliged to perform a skilled task for a relatively long time . The observed disorganization had two phases , in each of which it was associated with characteristic changes of feeling . The two phases , with the associated effects , were considered to constitute two distinct reactions to the test conditions . In the first phase , all parts of the work were similarly affected . Although there was little or no increase in their duration , errors became more frequent and were overcorrected . Activity became excessive ; movements of the controls tended to be too extensive , and there was a large @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ irregularly over the work and was held by aspects which had acquired a temporary urgency . Subjects felt under strain , dissatisfied and irritable , Footnote  | and they were preoccupied with the test after it was finished . Signs of emotion , such as agitation and restlessness , were observed , and there were indications that muscle tonus was increased . Flushing of the face was common , and visible sweating also occurred . 1n the second phase , some parts of the wort , were affected more than others , those regarded by the subjects as of greater importance being the better preserved . Errors became less frequent , but their correction was tardy and they were greater . Movements of the controls were often as extensive as in the first phase Intt were fewer . Concentration failed and interest flagged . Some subjects were satisfied with a lowered standard of accuracy . whereas others were dissatisfied with their attainment but made an insufficient response to remedy it , either emotionally or in organized activity , and they were apathetic and discouraged . Postural changes varied ; flushing and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Ilernard L. Diamond and Alice Rosso ( Dibble Gen'l IIosp. ) studied the reactions of 150 newly blinded soldiers and their determining psychologic factors . All blinded soldiers were routinely sent first to one of two general hospitals for medical , surgical and prosthetic t reatment , and then to a convalescent hospital for - vocational rehabilitation before discharge . Psychiatric examination was performed on arrival at and before departure from the general hospital , or about one to three months after onset of blindness . Of the 150 soldiers , tudied , 134 had been blinded in combat and 16 by noncombat injury or disease ; 81 had no vision , 43 had light or movement perception , and 26 had 20/1,000 to 20/200 vision in the best eye . Associated injuries included brain damage in 11 cases , extremity amputations , fract nres and wounds of varying severity and extent . Emotional adjustment was good in 59 per cent , borderline in 23 per cent and poor in 18 per cent . Criteria Footnote  | for " normal " or good were complete freedom from anxiety , depression , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ acceptance ( ) I ' the disability ; willingness to undergo reorientation and rehabilitation , and desire to re-establish socioeconomi ( ? independence . Adjustment was considered poor when symptomatology corresponded to that necessitating reclassification to limited duty on psychiatric grounds alone . Patients in the borderline classification showed minimal signs . Symptoms among the maladjusted i n order of frequency were anxiety and hysterical man ) festations , mood disturbances , undesirable aggressive behavior and attitudes , excessive dependency and apathy , unrealistic attitudes , obsessive guilt reactions , and mental confusion with impaired memory . Pre-existing neurotic and psychopathic traits seemed to be the major factors determining defective adjustment . Thirty-two of the 150 soldiers exhibited such traits . Of these 32 , 15 were maladjusted , 11 presented borderline symptoms and 6 were well adjusted . Soldiers with previous " nervousness , " gastrointestinal complaints or neuroses tended to be excessively dependent and to resist rehabilitation . Some accepted blindness with smug , self-contented affect as a realization of complete passive dependency wishes . Soldiers with aggressive psychopathic backgrounds reacted with emotional outbursts and alcoholism but eventually did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , depression and remorse . Aggression and hostility followed , directed both outwardly and inwardly . Of the 16 soldiers with noncombat injury or disease , 6 were maladjusted and 4 presented borderline symptoms . The degree of vision seemed to influence adjustment . Twentysix per cent of soldiers retaining only light or movement perception were maladjusted as compared with 15 per cent of the totally blinded and 11 per cent of those with 20/1,000 vision or better . The explanation probably lies in the finality of total blindness and the fact that 20/1,000-20/200 vision is of considerable ben-  | efit to the soldier , whereas perception of motion or light alone tantalizes and confuses him . False hopes and incomplete understanding were also determining factors . Soldiers stated without exception that the false hopes previously extended in misdirected kindness perpetuated the psychic trauma , prolonged the anxiety and made everything infinitely harder . Soldiers should be informed immediately and unequivocally of the disability . Incapacitating anxiety was often alleviated by discussion of what had happened , the exact cause of blindness and the soldier 's future prospects . Brain damage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adjustment . Only 11 soldiers showed definite brain damage , and of these , 4 showed mild symptoms , including headache and memory impairment , and 5 more marked disturbances . Anxiety and depression occasionally arose following poor family reactions . Sometimes overprotection by a wife prevented self-orientation . Soldiers are fully capable and desirous of re-establishing their psychologic and socioeconomic independence . Society must refrain from sentimentality and assist them in attaining stature . Psychosomatic Dermatologic Syndromes in Military Service . Daniel J. Sullivan and Eugene S. Bereston7 ( AC. , A.U.S. ) discuss observations made on 26 patients with functional dermatoses , including disseminated ueurodermatitis , urticaria of psychogenic origin , localized and generalized pruritus of functional origin and hyperhidrosis . Possible organic etiologic factors were excluded by comprehensive laboratory and physical examinations . These skin conditions were psychosomatic phenomena exactly similar to psychosomatic symptoms occurring in any other organ group . The " organ selection " in any particular case is often difficult to evaluate , but the fact that the etiology in a certain case is primarily psychogenic is often relatively easy to detect . Those eases @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are probably reflex symptom complexes which originally started as allergic phenomena but later became nonspecific and were set off by psychogenic unrest . Hyperhidrosis is one of the commonest symptoms of anxiety states . In certain patients other symptoms such as tremulousness , restlessness or tachycardia may predominate . Urticaria of psychogenic origin is a reflex symptom complex similar to neurodermatitis . In some cases the original attacks of urticaria had been on an allergic basis , but subsequent attacks were shown to be purely psychogenic . The authors recommend that persons with psychosomatic dermatologic syndromes be excluded from induction into the service as are persons with chronic asthma , peptic ulcer , etc. , since these syndromes are aggravated by the environmental stress of military service . Predisposition is a common and important characteristic . In predisposed individuals faced with situations which are frustrating , potentially threatening or distasteful , an initial attack , new attack or aggravation of a psychosomatic dermatologic syndrome can be expected . Prognosis is poor as far as continued military service is concerned , even on limited duty . These patients react like chronic asthmatics @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Psychogenic Disorders of Upper Gastrointestinal Tract in Combat Personnel . Edwin A. Weinstein and Martin H. Steins ( M.C. , A.U.S. ) found that in the Mediterranean theater gastric disorders occurred commonly , were primarily psychogenic and were abnormal only when incapacitating . Patients may be classified in three groups : ( 1 ) those with manifest anxiety , including gastrointestinal symptoms ; ( 2 ) those with little overt anxiety but many gastric complaints and ( 3 ) those without anxiety who have hysterical vomiting . Patients in the first group develop insight quickly ; those in the second group , particularly officers , mask their anxiety Footnote  | behind irritability , resentment and various fears , as of cancer , etc. , whereas those in the third group continue vomiting till permanently secure from combat . Differential diagnosis of neurotic gastric disturbance is usually possible on clinical and psychiatric grounds alone . In neuroses , the patient attributes all symptoms , e. g. , headache and fatigue , to his stomach and endows it with attitudes . Neuroses have a prolonged history ( unlike hepatitis ) with failure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ peptic ulcer ) . Anxiety and hostility develop in all soldiers exposed to combat . In the well motivated , non-neurotic soldier , hostility is expressed by purposive action against the enemy . Most neurotics can not express overt aggression without production of anxiety . Symptoms are often found in those with ambivalent attitudes of dependence and hostility toward parents or the Army , seen as a parent-substitute . Expression of hostility against those on whom one is dependent creates anxiety . Hostility may be completely repressed , hedged in by compulsions and meticulousness , exhibited in neurotic symptoms or vented in temper outbursts . The hostile soldier is unable to gain security through identification with the group . In poorly motivated soldiers resentment may be directed against Army or country . Childhood patterns may be reactivated . Children commonly express resentment by rejecting food . Likewise the neurotic soldier expresses resentment of the combat situation by refusing symbolically the Army-parent in the guise of food . Patients should have a thorough history and physical examination at once , only essential laboratory or x-ray procedures , and minimal hospitalization . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ symptoms , except in cases of hysterical vomiting , but by the degree of associated anxiety , manifested by apathy and depression , insomnia , frequent catastrophic dreams , obsessive thoughts , preoccupations , guilt feelings and impaired ability to evaluate proximity of artillery fire . Patients should be treated in neuropsychiatric wards ,  |p464  fed a regular diet and not given medication unless necessary . Psychotherapy should include narcoanalysis , reassurance , explanation , " ventilation " and , above all , a sympathetic , understanding and frank explanation of the genesis and nature of the disease and of what is expected of the soldier in the future . Narcosis rarely benefits patients with predominantly gastrointestinal complaints . Attitudes of hostility and of conscious resistance to cure may be altered by group psychotherapy . Physicians must guard against counterhostility in treating hostile or irritable patients . Functional Gastrointestinal Disorders : Lessons Learned from Military Medicine . James A. Halsted " ( Harvard TJniv. ) emphasizes that in the Army prompt diagnosis and brief psychotherapy in the early stage of the illness were essential to proper management of functional gastrointestinal disorders @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ manifestation , differentiation between peptic ulcer and functional distress was essential . The patient without ulcer had neurotic symptoms in addition to dyspepsia . He was generally an habitue of sick call , gave a history of neurotic disorders and often came from a broken home . Diffuse epigastric distress occurred during or after a meal with occasional regurgitation . Other functional disturbances such as insomnia , lightheadedness , undue fatigue and headache were the rule . Usual food intolerances and lack of improvement on hospitalization were characteristic . The patient with ulcer , however , had few neurotic complaints . He was relieved by eating , rarely vomited and ( lid not have a background of emotional instability . He complained only when questioned and improved rapidly when hospitalized . Thus a reliable differentiation could be made by history and brief examination . The uniformity of the neurotics ' symptoms may be due to suggestibility since this disturbance at times seemed epidemic . Footnote  |p465  Functional disturbances are found ( 1 ) in association with organic disease , ( 2 ) in normal persons subjected to extreme physical or emotional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gastrointestinal intolerance to nicotine , alcohol , etc. , and ( 4 ) as one manifestation of general emotional disturbance or neurosis . Increased gastrointestinal mobility is apparently the essential feature in functional conditions . Symptoms may occur regardless of hyperacidity , anacidity or normal acid values . Vascular changes in the intestinal wall are probably of secondary importance . Spasm of the body and pylorus of the stomach sometimes occurs . The patient with a low threshold for gastrointestinal symptoms must be taught his limitations , e. g. , avoidance of alcohol and correction of eating habits . Antispasmodics , simple diet and adequate rest are helpful . Prompt psychiatric treatment of men with emotional disorders is important . When accurate , positive diagnosis has been established , a physiologic explanation of the symptoms should be made and the fact that symptoms are real made clear . It is important to assure the patient that he has no organic disease and will get well . The connection between tension-producing situations and the symptoms should be pointed out and an attempt made to further adjustment . The patient will have to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be changed . Bland diet , antispasmodic drugs and mild sedation may be used at first , but these measures are temporary and for relief of secondary manifestations only . Their continuance tends to perpetuate the neurosis , making further psychotherapy more difficult . Proper handling at the beginning of the illness usually prevents invalidism due to fixed neuroses . Peptic Ulcer among Soldiers in the Mediterranean Theater of Operations . James A. Halsted ( M.C. , A.U.S. ) and Henry Weinberg , ( lied . Dept. , A.U.S. ) studied 200 consecutive cases of peptic ulcer seen in a North Footnote  |p466  African general hospital from March , 1943 to January , 1944 . There were 16 Negroes in the group . Patients were enlisted men who had been referred from other hospitals . Fifty-four patients had engaged in slight to moderate combat and nine had sustained minor ' wounds . Diagnosis was established by x-ray and if necessary by other laboratory procedures . Psychiatric histories were obtained from 100 . For comparison a second group of chronic dyspeptics without demonstrable pathology was studied . The group arbitrarily comprised 500 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The ratio of ulcer to nonulcer patients was about 1 : 3 . In the ulcer group , 72 per cent had characteristic symptomatology ( dull pain , both nocturnal and between meals , which was relieved by food ) . Seventy-four ( 44 per cent of the 167 patients questioned ) had a family history of digestive disturbances , 39 per cent an unfavorable childhood environment , 13 per cent childhood enuresis and 20 per cent common anxiety phobias ; 19 of 49 married patients had been divorced or separated . Symptomatology existed prior to army life in 113 ( 57 per cent ) . Of these , 33 suffered recurrence or aggravation within a month after entry into the Army and 79 after arrival overseas . Of the 87 ( 44 per cent ) with onset after entering service , 24 became worse overseas and 50 ( 25 per cent ) had their first symptoms after leaving the United States . Thus of 150 patients with peptic ulcer before embarkation , 103 ( 69 per cent ) had aggravation or recurrence directly correlated with nervous tension . There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gastric ulcers . Of the 50 patients developing symptoms overseas , 9 ( 18 per cent ) had gastric ulcers . In the Italian theater only 3.4 per cent of combat infantrymen hospitalized for chronic dyspepsia had peptic ulcer . New ulcers were seen more frequently in base troops than in combat troops . These factors would suggest that ulcers are more likely to occur from frustrating situations than from dangerous ones where there is oppor-  |p467  ( unity for release of energy through aggressive action . Complications included 8 ( 3.5 per cent ) major hemorrhages , 10 ( 4.5 per cent ) perforations and 3 pyloric instructions . The most striking difference between the ulcer and nonulcer patients was in mental reaction . The dyspe k 's described symptoms anxiously , whereas the ulcer patients rarely volunteered information . In the former the symptoms seemed a direct expression of anxiety and insecurity ; in the latter they did not . Negative x-rays could generally be predicted in patients unduly concerned about their stomachs . Response to treatment also differed . Ulcer patients improved quickly on relatively crude diets . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in differential diagnosis and is interesting , as army policy has been to discharge the ulcer patients and to try to salvage the dyspeptics . Because of the mildness of the disease and the high military quality of the ulcer patients , it would seem that they could be successfully utilized in noncombat status . Ulcer patients minimized or concealed symptoms in order to be accepted and kept in the Army . They were aggressive and good soldiers as shown by the fact that 117 ( 59 per cent ) had been promoted . The ulcer patient tended to be restless , impatient and unable to relax . He showed superficial assertive independence and self-sufficiency covering underlying anxiety and insecurity . There were accompanying feelings of resentment and hostility . Ulcer patients manifested abnormal drive . The dyspeptic , however , magnified his Illness and was overcome by it . Because of the different personality types found in the two conditions , the authors conclude that peptic ulcers do not develop from psychogenic dyspepsia . Correlated Gastroscopic and Psychiatric Studies of Soldiers with Chronic Nonulcerative Dyspepsia , made In a forward @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Italy , are discussed by James  |p468  A. Halsted , I. Richard Schwartz , Samuel it . Rosen . Henry Weinberg , and Stanley M. Wyman.2 One hundred ten consecutive and unselected patients complaining of chronic dyspepsia were studied by clinical , roentgenographic , psychiatric and gastroscopic observation . The purpose of the installation was to provide facilities where patients with gastrointestinal complaints could be diagnosed rapidly , with evaluation of fitness for duty , in an area close to the front . The practical military value of this procedure lay in the fact that most of these patients presented psychosomatic syndromes , prolonged hospitalization for which produced intensification of symptoms and consequent loss of manpower . An attempt was made to correlate gastroscopic abnormalities with psychiatric status . The soldiers studied presented a fairly uniform clinical picture . Symptoms had started before entry in the Army in 75 ( 68 per cent ) , after entry but before coming overseas in 11 ( 10 per cent ) and after arrival overseas in 24 ( 22 per cent ) . Often symptoms had been greatly aggravated since entry in the Army @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more dangerous there was an exacerbation . Hospitalization brought about little subjective improvement . Forty-one per cent had mild to moderate abnormalities of the gastric mucosa consisting of redness , exudation and edema . There was no correlation between appearance of the mucosa and symptomatology , the symptoms being the same whether or not the mucosa was normal . Of the total , 84.5 per cent had a psychoneurosis , as did 75 per cent of those with gastroscopic abnormalities , whereas 15.5 per cent were psychiatrically normal . The authors believe that the gastroscopic abnormalities noted , being those of superficial gastritis , represented functional circulatory changes resulting from nervous tension rather than signs of organic disease . Gastroscopy in neurotic patients may be undesirable . Such a formidable procedure tends to fix the attention Footnote  |p469  of the patient more strongly on the stomach , making psychotherapy more difficult . On the other hand , gastroscopy is considered an objective method of examination which should help to clarify greatly the whole problem of " soldier 's stomach . " If used purely from the viewpoint of research it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are taken . Nail Biting : Incidence , Allied Personality Traits and Military Significance . Joel Milan Hill concludes , after studying male naval and marine personnel evacuated from the Pacific area , that nail biters are usually less successful in combat than others , although in some instances they may undergo combat without hospitalization for nervousness or may remain in combat for long periods before hospitalization for nervous conditions becomes necessary . Two groups were studied : ( 1 ) soldiers evacuated because of nervous disturbances other than psychosis or psychopathic personality and ( 2 ) those with no sick admissions because of nervousness who were being separated under the point system . In the first group 45 per cent were nail biters , more than half having had the habit as long as they could remember . Only 6 per cent of the routine separatees bit their nails . Of those who bit their nails , 73 per cent were unduly irritable . Fist fights were infrequent in early life , and rage was often expressed by trembling and weeping . Poor parental adjustments , emotional instability and previous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cent of the non-nail biters were not unduly irritable . Ninety per cent had had the usual number of fist fights , and 93 per cent had never trembled and wept when angry . Nail biters least useful for military combat purposes are characterized by ( 1 ) unhappy child-parent relationships , ( 2 ) multiple early neurotic complaints , ( 3 ) irritable , explosive tempers , ( 4 ) weeping and trembling when angry , ( 5 ) infrequency or absence of fist fights Footnote  |p470  in early life and ( 6 ) emotionally disturbed response to combat killing . Psychosomatic Problems in Military Orthopedic Surgery are discussed by J. Vernon Luck4 ( M.C. , A.U.S. ) . Psychogenic musculoskeletal symptoms were found in 11.1 per cent of patients hospitalized in the orthopedic section of an Army Air Force regional hospital and in over 25 per cent of patients in the orthopedic outpatient clinic . Approximately 1,000 patients with such symptoms were studied . Examinations included an ( abbreviated neuropsychiatrie history similar to that recommended by Menninger , a critical analysis of subjective and objective findings , and appropriate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : those not associated with relevant organic lesions , those secondary to organic lesions and those perpetuating symptoms of previous lesions . Psychiatric diagnoses included conversion reactions , anxiety or tension states , psychogenic elaboration of pre-existing pathology , and simple maladjustment . Neurasthenia , hypochondria and compulsion neuroses rarely occurred . Concomitant functional and organic symptoms were common and necessitated treatment of both components . The study revealed several criteria for differential diagnosis of psychogenic symptoms . Description of pain in neuroses included feelings of tension , pressure or weight , tightness , " pulling sensations , " throbbing , numbness or a radiation from a distal point proximally . Unlike symptoms found in organic syndromes , neurotic pain often was not influenced by position , immobilization , motion or rest of the joint . In neuroses there occurred daily variations of site , inability to relax , diffuse weakness , a feeling that an extremity was missing or compelling impulses to change position continually to prevent " deadness . " History of recurrent episodes or of onset during stress was highly suggestive of psychogenic etiology . Footnote  |p471  Characteristic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , hysterical paralysis , coarse intention tremor , and anxiety symptoms ( apprehension , frustration , bounding pulse , dilated pupils ) . Other findings were vasomotor instability , hyperhidrosis , hyperactive reflexes , camptocormia ( forward flexion of the spine ) and other bizarre postures , astasia-abasia ( ability to sit and move in bed but not to stand or walk ) , and blindness , deafness , aphasia or aphonia . The sacral region , coccyx , knees , feet , neck and shoulders were most often affected . In neurotic hypalgesia , unlike organic , there was often diminished pain to pinprick in the underlying deep structures , such as periosteum , ligaments or joint capsules , and diminished sensitivity in usually painful structures , such as the tendo achillis . Tenderness of affected areas tended to be diffuse rather than specific . Also , the resistance encountered in flexing a joint could be overcome by steady firm pressure , whereas in organic lesions this was impossible . Definite atrophy of all structures sometimes occurred in hysterical paralysis and caused orthopedic problems . Prophylactic measures are important in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The patient should be kept well informed as to his physical condition and well occupied in mind and body . Early superficial psychotherapy , correction of environmental conflicts , explanation of existing psychologic symptoms , identification of underlying conflicts , administration of sedatives for insomnia or chronic fatigue and occupational therapy may abort the psychologic disorder . The author agrees , however , with Portis that " one can not warn too emphatically against making the psychotherapeutic approach a new panacea for all patients . " Laryngeal Neurosis Incident to Military Service . Benjamin Riseman and Walter J. Aagesen5 ( M.C. , Footnote  |p472  A.U.S. ) observed this condition in 14 men and 3 women , aged 22-40 , only 1 of whom had been overseas . Hoarseness was the chief complaint , and aphonia or diplophonia was rare . Some patients had additional somatic complaints , but none had sensory disturbance . A complete clinical study was made in every ease , and thorough exploration of the larynx and subglottic region by direct laryngoscopy and inspection with an anterior commissure scope or tracheoscope was done . Malingering , infection , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ climatic conditions were excluded as etiologic factors . Ten patients presented typical dysphonia plicae ventricularis or vicarious phonation ; i.e. , voice was produced with the ventricular bands or false cords instead of with the true vocal cords . In these cases phonation while the ventricular bands were restrained with forceps proved good . In two patients , the vocal cords were bowed upward with consequent chink formation and loss of expiratory blast . In another , the anterior third of each true cord became lax on phonation , causing an oval chink . In two , the posterior third of the vocal cords failed to tense and close . One patient showed no abnormality . Psychiatric examination in all cases revealed mental or emotional conflict . Treatment consisted chiefly in dissolution of the patient 's basic mental conflict . Those resistant to therapy were subject to further proceedings . Therapy included suggestion , suggestion under narcosis , reassurance , relaxation , appeal to patriotism , speech education , harmless local treatment and catching the patient unaware in normal speech . In one instance a patient was told that a tumor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only survivor among five who had been overcome by gas , presented an asphyxia phobia . Previous otolaryngologie and psychotherapy had failed . Another patient who expressed worry concerning his aged mother was apparently resistant to therapy . IIe suddenly recovered after getting drunk .  |p473  Psychogenic factors included cancer phobia , marriage without parental approval , worry over family financial plight , resentment of superior officers and fear of failtire or of overseas duty . In two cases fear of promotion and consequent responsibility provoked the hoarseness . Fifteen patients were returned to duty . Two enlisted women with numerous somatic complaints were discharged . All recovered a normal voice . Psychogenic Deafness is not rare , according to Norvil A. Martin6 ( M.C. , A.U.S. ) , and its diagnosis and treatment may be facilitated by sodium pentothal narcosis . Since it is impracticable to subject all deaf patients to narcotherapy , selection of patients should be made by the psychiatrist , psychologist and otologist in collaboration and should be based on existing emotional factors and discrepancies in organic findings . From 500 patients , average age 29 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Santa Barbara , Calif. , 75 were chosen by the aforementioned criteria for sodium pentothal narcosis . Seventeen had been in combat , 58 had not . Patients were given strong suggestion before and during treatment that hearing would return . Twenty-six patients ( 5.2 per cent of the total series ; : 34.6 per cent of the 75 who received narcotherapy ) had purely psychogenic deafness and recovered their hearing . Thirty-five ( 7 and 46.6 per cent ) had psychogenic deafness superimposed on organic disease . Only 14 ( 2.8 and 18.6 per cent ) were unimproved by the therapy . Of 36 cases of blast deafness , 38 per cent were psychogenic . The author believes that since most patients with psychogenic deafness had not been in combat , emotional factors may be significant in civilian deafness . A simple lest for screening deaf patients would be highly desira , ble and may be found in the utilization of conditioned reflex pathways to sound . It is exceedingly important that psychogenic deafness be detected before Footnote  |p474  the patients reach an institution where they are given educational programs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Douglas A. Thom , Charles F. VonSalzen and Allan Fromm-7 ( M.C. , A.U.S. ) point out that modern medical and surgical skill has saved an estimated 1,200 ? 1,400 paraplegics . Equal aggressiveness is needed in their rehabilitation . Paraplegics are confronted with the colossal task of adjustment to a severely handicapped life . The psychologic and personality factors affecting their adjustment are important in planning effective care . The authors studied 6 officers and 103 enlisted men , aged 19 ? 39 , who had been paraplegic from 3 to 27 months . Education ranged from five years of elementary school to graduation from college . There were 7 cervical , 52 dorsal , 42 lumbar and several cauda egnina lesions . The study comprised 1 ? 11 , : ! hour psychiatric interviews , observations and informal chats with the group and conferences with physicians , nurses , attendants and technicians . There were relatively few psychoneurotics or psychopaths . No characteristic personality trends appeared . Forty-five per cent manifested either episodic or prolonged situational depression . Most were willing to consider themselves lucky that they survived the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ control , sexual function , ambulation , medical condition and future economic status . In general , patients belonging to stable , closely knit families or patients with pretraumatic extraverted personalities , high feeling tone and little intellectualization reacted well to the disability . Ambitious persons and those previously showing intense personal effort experienced greater difficulty . Those with psychopathic traits reacted poorly . Regression was frequently manifested . Patients demonstrated increase in feelings of dependence beyond the limits of necessity . The hospital was regarded as a refuge . In some instances family visits offered emotional Footnote  |p475  solace . In others the overindulgent pity or apparent neglect and disregard by the family proved a bad influence . Patients reacted to frustrating experiences by emotional lability , temper tantrums , irritability and impotent anger . While learning to use braces , the patients often reacted to the difficulties encountered by loss of interest with childish rejection of the goal . It was a problem to maintain a high degree of motivation among these men . Study courses were begun but not finished . Autistic thinking proved common . All of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This fantasy was unwittingly encouraged by both overoptimism and overpessimism among the medical officers . If the pessimistic doctor was shown to be slightly wrong , the patient was willing to believe him wrong in everything . Unrealistic attitudes militated against the energetic , highly motivated adjustment necessary to rehabilitation . Paraplegic patients , unlike those with chronic disease , should reveal consistent uphill progress . In the Army they are a homogeneous group with relatively simultaneous occurrence of disability , sequence of progress and rehabilitation . The first six months after injury are taken up in preserving life by combating infections , healing decubitus ulcers and initiating urinary control . The ego begins to accept invalidism . During the second six months , there is attainment of self-care and trial of ambulation . The first sparks of motivation are struck . In the last six months medical and surgical procedures become secondary to rehabilitation . Reconditioning should aim beyond restoration of maximal physical and emotional fitness . During the last six months of hospitalization the patient should be sufficiently well trained to insure success in his placement and suitable occupational @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a definite job provides motivation . The effect of personnel on the patient is well known . Less considered is the effect of the paraplegic patient on the personnel . At first the staff often suffers emotional  |p476  shock , anorexia , excessive sympathy or irritability . Changing personnel is therefore inadvisable . Patients need understanding beyond the specialist 's care and the assistance of a trained psychiatrist . The Enuretic Soldier in an AAF Basic Training Center . Harold H. Benowitz5 ( Med . Dept. , A.-U.S. ) reports observations made on 172 enuretic subjects selected from a larger group on the basis of completeness of psychiatric examinations . The clinical examination included an intake interview by the psychiatric social worker , a neurologic examination and an evaluation by the psychiatrist . Whenever possible , a reliable social history was obtained from the soldier 's home community , and reports from the soldier 's squadron commander were utilized . In cases of possible mental deficiency the soldier was given the Wechsler Bellevue intelligence test . A tabular form was devised for the purpose of gathering the desired information under such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ race , ( 3 ) environment , ( 4 ) family background , including parental and sibling relationship , ( 5 ) marital status , ( 6 ) conflict with authority , ( 7 ) education , ( 8 ) chief civilian occupation , ( 9 ) health , ( 10 ) sex history , ( 11 ) length of service , ( 12 ) job performance in the Army and ( 13 ) clinical disposition . Most of the patients had concealed their enuretic condition from the medical examiners when they came into the Army . However , it usually came to the attention of medical officers during the first few months of service . Seventy-six per cent of the group were age 25 or younger . Although only 6 per cent of the total field strength were Negroes , 35.5 per cent of the total number of soldiers referred to the clinic for enuresis were Negroes . Rural environments predominated over urban . Civilian work histories indicated that 71 per cent of the group were farmers , truck drivers or unskilled laborers . Footnote  |p477  Fifty-one per cent of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ grade , and only 7 per cent had been engaged in professional pursuits . With the Wechsler Bellevue intelligence test , 8.7 per cent achieved a mental age of 10 or less . Some disturbance in sexual development was found in 53 per cent of the group . Ten per cent were actively homosexual or had strong latent homosexual drives . Slightly more than half of the group were married , a fact which may be explained on the basis that many enuretic patients seek in their wives a substitute for a passive , overprotective mother figure . Although as a group the enuretic patients had had little or no conflict with civilian or army authority , they made a poor adjustment in the Army because of fears that their condition would be discovered and because of social pressure from fellow soldiers . Enuresis is believed to be a personality response to , i specific type of pathologic family situation . The parents of the soldiers with enuresis were either separated ) r divorced in about half of all cases . Over 60 per cent of the enuretic soldiers felt that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of hostility toward him or stated that he was absent from the family picture . On the other hand , over 50 per cent gave histories which showed an extreme degree of dependence on the mother figure . Adjustments to siblings were largely normal . Enuresis was seen to be one of the main ways in which hostility toward the father was unconsciously expressed . Sexual defect or disturbance indicated strong oedipal attachments . Complete and adequate social and psychiatric histories should be taken by competent personnel at preinduction examinations to eliminate enuretic individuals since men with enuresis make a poor adjustment in the Army and are almost always discharged from the service after having made little or no contribution to the nrme1 forces .  |p478  Classification of Types of Behavior Noted in General Prisoners . E. H. Malone9 ( M.C. , A.US. ) discusses four cases seen in a disciplinary barracks and presents descriptive and classificatory methods which have proved useful in formulating a simplified approach to psychiatric evaluation of such cases . One case is presented here . Male prisoner , white , 28 , reared on a farm @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The father had been convicted of assault on his wife and ultimately deserted the family . The patient was happily married at 22 and had two children . He adjusted in the Array without difficulty until he learned that his mother was seriously ill . Failing to obtain release from the Army , he finally went AWOL . His mother subsequently died , and he stayed at home taking care of his wife until apprehended . In this patient news from home aggravated instinctual drives , tender and aggressive impulses toward the mother and family . When he was restricted from going home , instinctual needs were frustrated . He developed anxiety from which he escaped by going home . Instinctual deprivation leads to anxiety which in turn leads to flight . Physical flight is one method of handling anxiety . Reactions to anxiety constitute the clinical material of psychiatry . Psychoanalysis has pointed to the following anxiety situations as significant in the development of the individual : ( 1 ) birth , ( 2 ) separation from the breast , ( 3 ) training in eating , urination and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 5 ) the Oedipus situation , ( 6 ) the inverted Oedipus situation . Attempts have been made to ascribe certain reaction types to the anxiety occurring at certain phases of development . For example , the paranoid reaction has been considered a result of latent homosexuality , connected in turn to the inverted Oedipus situation . It has been pointed out by many workers that the entire life history has to be taken into account in determining the factors involved in any given type of behavior . Footnote  |p479  Animals commonly react to frustration by escape and develop neurotic behavior if prevented from doing so by mechanical restraint . Types of human behavior which ( all . in this general category are : ( 1 ) running away from home , job or any situation which provokes anxiety ; ( 2 ) refusal to take part in social activities , work , sexual activities , fighting , the Army , marriage or other situation , a reaction which is seen in extreme form in catatonia , and ( 3 ) sleeping on guard , a not uncommon offense in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stealing , misrepresentation and lying , punishment mechanisms , neuroses , homosexuality , drug addiction , alcoholism and psychomay be reactions to anxiety situations with one such response sometimes leading to another . If the various types of behavior exhibited by general prisoners are to be grouped together in one category to which a name such as psychopathic personality or neurotic character is to be applied , each individual ease should be regarded as a composite of behavior types . Particular behavior types will occur as a result of particular environmental restriction in the individual ease . Occasionally the resulting type of behavior will lead to the individual 's being considered in another category ? neurotic , psychotic or mentally defective . Psychopathic Personality was studied in a general hospital in the South Pacific by Keith D. Heuser ' ( M.C. , I T.S.A . ) , who determined the Rorschach patterns of 28 a tients . The backgrounds of the psychopaths in this series were remarkably constant : broken homes , nomadism , truancy , " lone wolf " behavior , an early dislike for the orld in general , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with arrests and disorderly conduct , an utter disregard of the feelings of others and lifelong history of periods of marked emotional lability and impulsiveness . Footnote  |p480  The purpose of the study was to correlate clinical and I orschaeh findings to determine any demonstrable components of the total personality of the so-called psychopath which would be of diagnostic and clinical significance . The standard experimental conditions provided by an isolated military hospital would be difficult to duplicate elsewhere . Patients did the same things at the same time , ate the same food , were in contact with the same people and saw the same movies . 1+7ach day was much like the day before , and the fluctuating conditions of civilian life were absent . During a period of acclimation patients were interviewed and , in some cases , tested . Those evidencing depressive , psychoneurotic or psychotic coloring as well as those with borderline intelligence were eliminated from the group to be studied . On the basis of information gained by the Rorschach studies , the author concludes that the psychopathic personality appears to be shallow , flat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ normal behavior . The psychopath lacks the intellectual depth adequate to understand his behavior although his intelligence is within normal limits as measured by clinical and psychometric appraisal . The cognitive subdivision of his personality seems rather to be ruled by primitive basic instinctual and sexual drives to the exclusion of rational behavior . There is no apparent interpersonal conflict over this deviation in integration , and he continues blithely along his way , colliding repeatedly with social customs . He is emotionally vacant with little innate emotional control . The emotion present , when aroused , is characterized by violent upheavals and uncontrollable behavior of the rage reaction type which , at the time of the outburst , is of psychotic nature and appears to mimic insanity even in the legal sense of the word . The psychopath appears to be a social misfit , usually totally unmodifiable and exhibiting a deeply ingrained disorder of temperament .  |p481  Alcohol As a Factor in Naval Delinquencies . Albert C. Cornsweet and Bernard Locke2 summarize the inIluence of alcohol in producing delinquent behavior in ecu admitted to a naval disciplinary barracks . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to have been due in large part to alcoholism . Type of offenses was similar in both alcoholic and nonIcoholic groups , with 94 per cent absent without leave . The alcoholic group averaged three years older . Previous offenders made up 76.1 per cent of the alcoholic group I , and 53.8 per cent of the nonalcoholic . Twice as many alcoholics as nonalcoholics had records of civil arrest 32.3 per cent compared with 16.7 per cent ) . The average alcoholic had completed 8.8 grades of school , compared with 9.3 grades in the total group . torclerline or defective intelligence was found in 11.5 per cent of the alcoholics and in 0.9 per cent of the total group . Divorces and separations were 27 times as frequent among alcoholic offenders as in the nonalcoholic group . There were positive psychiatric findings i 1I 69.8 per cent of the alcoholic group as compared 11 ith 16.8 per cent of the other offenders , with occasional use of narcotics noted in three alcoholics . Neuropathic factors were evident in the family histories of 33 alcoholics . There was a greater @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a whole . Three primary groups of offenders were noted . In the first were the older , chronic alcoholics who had been drinking heavily for many ny years . There was little relationship between their alcoholism and entrance into the service . Little could be done for these men by the Navy , particularly during wartime . In the second group were the neurotics and psychopaths who began using alcohol as an escape from anxieties and fears aggravated by the stress of war . Therapy was valuable in some who were not too emotionally disturbed . The third group cornprised misinformed and inexperienced youngsters , who Footnote  |p482  demonstrated their " manhood " by drinking heavily . To repress feelings of inadequacy and frustration , they turned to alcohol . This group presented a distinct challenge to the psychiatric services and disciplinary retraining organizations . Most could be helped since their basic problems were not as severe as those of the other groups . Use of Ether in Narcoanalysis of Patients with War Neuroses . Henry I-I . Brewster3 ( Philadelphia ) describes the method used in a hospital @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the front for psychiatric reasons and who had been treated with pentothal or sedation and rest in forward hospitals . A psychiatric history was obtained from each patient , with special attention to the circumstances immediately preceding his breakdown as well as to the content of his dreams , both of which supplied starting points for an ether interview . On the morning of his admission to the hospital the patient was told that he would be interviewed in the afternoon and would be given some medicine which would make it easy for him to talk about his experiences . No food was given for six hours before the interview , and one-half hour before 0.6 mg. atropine sulfate was given subcutaneously . As a rule no sedative was given . Five patients who received sodium amytal the day before the interview had only an ineffectual emotional response under ether . Ether was administered by the open drop method in a semidarkened room by a trained anesthetist . The patient was prompted by the psychiatrist to relate in chronological order the events leading up to his psychiatric difficulties . Within two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which he was reliving his painful battlefield experience and expressing the emotion associated with it . It was necessary for two to four attendants to restrain the patient during the excitement that occurred while he was reliving a traumatic incident . As soon as he had made the mental transition to a Footnote  |p483  hypnotic state , ether administration was stopped . He remained in this state as long as the psychiatrist chose to maintain it . This allowed the examiner to probe a raumatic incident , to recover the facts of an amnesic period and to investigate the history in short , to control psychocatharsis to the extent indicated . The psychiatrist brought the patient out of the hypnotic state by reviewing chronologically the events leading up to admission to the hospital . Since the patient was conscious throughout the ether interview , he did not usu. - ally forget the material discussed during the abreaction . It is suggested that when the patient is slow in shifting to the hypnotic state or grows restless the psychiatrist intensify verbal , auditory or visual suggestion . Suddenly the patient talks in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in his past experience aid is fully hypnotized . The psychiatrist may suggest a series of events he mistakenly thinks were traumatic and fail in his purpose . In that event , he should allow the patient to be t herized just short of unconsciousness and should then Investigate further the medical history . Aspiration of stomach contents and apnea are not likely to occur if the patient has fasted and has been atropinized . The ether interview should not be attempted if the patient has a pulmonary infection . Since ether is rapidly absorbed and rapidly eliminated by the lungs , it is more readily controlled than pentothal . If the anesthetist is experienced and if oxygen and a mask are readily available , the factor of safety is increased . In the cases studied the ether interview provided a useful means of surveying the conflicts of the neurotic patient and was also useful in clarifying diagnosis , as in the case of a mute patient who under ether appeared to have severe anxiety , hysteria or psychosis . Ether is contraindicated in severely agitated patients in whom it may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was an adjunct in the treatment of patients who had had little previous psychiatric  |p484  difficulty but had developed moderate to severe anxiety during and after combat and of those with hysteria . Fifty neurotic patients received a two week treatment program , including group psychotherapy , but did not receive ether interviews . Only two of these were capable of resuming duty overseas . Of 100 similar patients receiving the same treatment plus the ether interview , 50 were satisfactorily performing noncombat duty overseas one and two months after discharge from the hospital . Group Analysis in a Military Neurosis Center . S. II . Foulkes4 ( R.A.M.C. ) points out that most war neuroses result from environment . Therapy should aim to alter attitudes precipitated by the breakdown , not to change basic personality patterns , which would be impossible in cases in which hospitalization lasts only a few weeks . Rehabilitation must restore self-confidence and desire and ability to work and should increase tolerance to army strain . This result is best achieved through arousing interest in people and through cultivating spontaneous participation and absorption in concerted effort @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ analysis , though of individual benefit , do not reorient. the soldier to spontaneous activity or group obligation . Treatment should emphasize spontaneity to increase self-confidence and social responsibility . Patients should select ward committees , run ward meetings and clubs and so far as possible help to formulate hospital policy . In group analysis the therapist encourages free exchange of information and opinions , assists in formulation and interpretation of views and gently steers the group into tackling self-manufactured difficulties , resistances and oppositions . Resistances , particularly in transference , may have to be specially brought up . Group analysis has many advantages , among them . economy of time . Furthermore , seeing the patient in a quasi-real life situation better reveals the effect of his symptoms and complaints on behavior and his existing Footnote  |p485  a t:titudes , morale , co-operation and powers of resilience and compensation . The group situation intensifies and shortens therapy , possibly because of its self-treating nature and " on the spot " treatment of social difficulties . Other favorable factors are that it produces ( 1 ) a social situation and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " ( 3 ) activation of the " collective unconscious , " ( 4 ) the " exchange factor , " ( 5 ) reconditioning of the sego and superego by group consent or disapproval , ( 6 ) modification of individual transference situations and ( 7 ) improved social adaptation . Internal and External Causes of Anxiety in Returning Veterans are discussed by Arnold Eisendorfer and hurray D. Lewis5 ( M.C. , A.U.S. ) . Men frequently show anxiety and depression during combat stress . Those who serve well overseas but break down on coining ( tome are also seen but are less well understood . Some men have even attempted suicide after receiving orders for rotational return to the United States . In these cases there is latent anxiety associated with certain unresolved emotional conflicts . The men make a very successful adjustment to the Army because to them war is a socially approved flight from internal dangers and furnishes an outlet for sadomasochistic tension . Return from a combat area to family relationships means facing the relatively greater internal dangers of unresolved personal conflicts and results in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 23 , had served with the A ntphihian Engineers 18 months in New Guinea and 22 months overseas before rotational return . He felt well until joining his family , at which time he developed venereal disease phobia , insomnia , visual complaints and premature ejaculation . He was the fifth of nine siblings . The mother was described as a " very excitable , selfish , cold-blooded , money-mad woman " who had fought with and finally separated from the father , whom the patient regarded favorably . The mother was accustomed to whip the children and had always taken what money they earned . While overseas , the patient felt that family letters had been " wonder-Footnote  |p486  ful " and his mother more like he had " always wanted her . " On return , he found her living in adultery . He got drunk , picked up a girl , had intercourse twice with premature ejaculation and subsequently developed incapacitating venereal disease phobia . This patient demonstrates intense unresolved Oedipus conflicts centering around the mother , with ambivalent attitudes of hostility toward her , accompanied by persistent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ demonstrated in his rage at her adultery . He developed incest guilt and accompanying castration anxiety expressed by disease phobia . His sadomasochistic coloring of intercourse enhanced the anxiety . Because he desired to annihilate his devouring mother , intercourse carried the threat of annihilation ( castration ) for him . CASE 2. - Sergeant , 31 , excitable , after 29 months in the Aleutians , where he had had an excellent record , suddenly developed nervousness , palpitation and gastric disturbances in June , 1944 , on hearing he was to return to the United States . He had been a " model baby , " the oldest of six siblings . He expressed hostility toward his father and regard for his mother . He had had miscellaneous sexual intercourse during adolescence , had married a family friend precipitously four days before induction and had normal sexual relations at that time . On furlough home in 1944 , he had developed impotence . His condition on a second furlough during the course of his interviews remained unchanged , but as bivouac training proved satisfactory and he showed no serious resistance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his unit in February , 1945 . This case demonstrates the problem of a dependent individual who was fearful of adult sexuality . Marriage represented the danger of possible castration . He married , nonetheless , in a surge of confidence in his masculinity at a time when he was flushed with the role of departing hero and sure that a socially acceptable flight in overseas duty was imminent . Return home confronted him with the need for mature heterosexual adjustment , an internal danger situation more threatening to him than the external dangers of war .  |p487  Lasting Lessons of Overseas Military Psychiatry. s . A. MacKeith6 discusses ways in which the lessons of artime military psychiatry can be applied to civilian ractice . In an advance psychiatric center in Italy an attempt is made to give the patient intensive treatment and a pease that his case was well understood and was being wiftly and skilfully handled . A dynamic hospital routine was built up on this basis . Patients were kept busy with physical training , games , competitions and all kinds of recreation . They were also responsible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and nursing . Both in their work and in their play much use was made of a simple form of the " leaderless group " Technic , with the patients choosing their leaders , organizing themselves and seeking ways and means and supplies . At this center hardly any occupational therapy was done in the ordinary sense . Good results were obtained . " Secondary gain " from symptoms was slight in most cases , and the original psychiatric symptoms responded very well to treatment in a high proportion of cases . Abreaction , prolonged narcosis , modified insulin shock therapy and a few psychiatric interviews for each patient were used as indicated . A lively , optimistic , big family atmosphere was credited with much of the success of treatment . The plait resulted in group treatment . If in civilian life a better understanding were established with general practitioners and industrial physicians , making it easier for them to give patients contact with a psychiatrist at a really early stage of their breakdown , psychiatrists would first see the neurosis iii a milder , less complicated and much more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and offices to learn what they are like and to recognize special stresses and early signs of breakdown . Army experience suggests that the psychiatrist should look for the matt ( often a foreman ) whose integrity and conscien-Footnote  |p488  tiousness have made him one of the mainstays of his workshop in the past , but who , more recently , has displayed gradual deterioration in spirits , temper and efficiency . Another type to look for is the injured workman whose convalescent stage is going awry and who is in danger of developing a severe " compensation neurosis " with a general paranoid flavor . In metropolitan centers hospital levels should be established corresponding to the military exhaustion center , advanced psychiatric center and rear psychiatric center for prognostically selected groups . Specialization by the various psychiatric hospitals would create a strongly therapeutic group atmosphere . Psychiatric beds in general medical wards are undesirable since more is lost by the unsuitable general hospital atmosphere than is gained by having physicians and surgeons at hand for consultation and patients more willing to be hospitalized . In the Army much was learned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ specially trained Opinion Survey team led by a sociologist . Peacetime civilian morale may be studied by this and other methods . Even if large scale personnel selection is not employed throughout industry , it might be well to select industria I leaders , Civil Service employes , teachers and even psychiatrists on the basis of the experience and research of the War Office Selection Boards for Officers . Although the man with low grade feeblemindedness was of no use to the Army , much was learned about usefully employing men with high grade feeblemindedness at manual labor , where they worked well and were content , self-respecting and well behaved . Tests and interviews in basic training were used to select men for suitable jobs . Army experience indicates that psychiatry must be adequately represented at the higher administrative levels in the national health service , since it was found that the most able consulting general physician was  |p489  linable to grasp completely the complexity of psyeliiatric problems or to plan well for their solution . The doctor 's enjoyment of working in a service depends not only on his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but also on his relations with his colleagues and on the general atmosphere of the service . In the Army all psychiatrists worked together with a strong team spirit , enthusiasm and justifiable pride . SPECIAL THERAPY What 's What about Shock Therapy . Nolan D. C. Lewis ? ( New York State Psychiatric Inst. and Hosp. ) summarizes the present status of insulin , metrazol and electric shock therapy . Their use is justified in carefully selected patients . Insulin coma is time consuming and difficult to apply hut still advisable in some schizophrenics . To be successful , treatment of schizophrenics should begin within Ilie first year . Subcoma doses of insulin may be benelicial to physical health , sedative in anxiety states and instrumental in bettering psychotherapeutic approach . Electric shock is unquestionably valuable in affective disorders . Involutional states respond in 90 per cent of cases , and manic-depressive psychosis in the depressed phase in 80 ? 90 per cent . Manic cases are less susceptible and require over twice as many treatments . Presenile depressions , depressions with obsessive trends , schizophrenic excitements and schizophrenia with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ion types and obsessive compulsive neuroses are not . Contraindications to shock therapy are tuberculosis , malignancy , advanced arteriosclerosis , history of coronary disease and severe organic brain disease . Complicitions include cardiac failure , circulatory collapse , Footnote  |p490  cerebral vascular accidents , pneumonia , reactivation of tuberculosis , lung abscess , fractures , dislocations , lame back and memory defects . Investigation should be made of the pathology of acute pulmonary and circulatory complications , cardiovascular response and lowering of hypertension , cerebral ' physiology and neurochemistry , role of supplementary psychotherapy , gain in insight as an index of recovery and reasons for relapses . Shock therapy is still under clinical trial , and final evaluation awaits more scientific reporting of results . Treated patients should be classified according to type of onset , duration of disease , hereditary and familial load , characterologic and temperament features , body type , previous treatments received , neurologic and psychopathologic reactions during treatment and psychologic characteristics during remissions . Electric Convulsion Therapy in 500 Selected Psychotics . F. F. Dino and F. T. Thorpe$ ( Sheffield , England ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of classic cases of schizophrenia , manic-depressive psychosis and involutional melancholia . Patients ranged in age from 13 to 71 years and received at least 10 convulsions . Manics and schizophrenics were routinely given more convulsions than depressives . However , the authors recommend individual adaptation to every case . In some instances depressives received as many as 70 convulsions . Some manics received six to eight convulsions within the first two days . Results were classified as recovered , improved and unimproved . Of 300 depressive females , 80 per cent recovered and 15 per cent improved . Patients with puerperal depression responded best ( 93 per cent recovery ) , senile patients better than presenile , and primary attacks better than recurrent ones . Of 39 male depressives , 60 per cent recovered and 30 per cent improved . Duration of hospitalization was considerably reduced by electric shock . Patients remained an average of three Footnote  |p491  months . Thirteen per cent of patients discharged were readmitted within 31/2 years . In the literature improvement is reported in 78 , 86.6 , 87 , 80 , 74 and 80 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tillotson and Sulzbach ( 1945 ) , comparing 70 melancholias treated with electric shock and 68 without , obtained So and 50 per cent improvement respectively . Of 65 manic females treated , 53 per cent recovered and 27 per cent improved . Kalinowsky reported a 53 per cent recovery rate and Epstein , 38 . Results in patients with puerperal mania proved exceptional , the percentage of recoveries being almost as good as in patients with puerperal depression . Of 90 male and female schizophrenics sick less than two years , only 24 per cent recovered and 18 per cent improved . Patients with early paranoid schizophrenia responded best and those with simple schizophrenia most poorly . Results were about the same in both sexes . Symptomatic relief was obtained in stupors and excitements . Epstein reported a 16 per cent recovery rate , Reznikoff , 27.6 , Kalinowsky and Worthing , 56.8 per eent . Complications included eight compression fractures of dorsal vertebrae , three shoulder injuries , occasional transient memory disturbance and a few transient Korsakoff syndromes . Reported fracture rates vary from about 1.5 to 3.9 per @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a patient , aged 38 , with puerperal mania , on the thirty-sixth postpartum day , one week after the seventh convulsion . Six deaths have been reported in the literature . Objectors to Electric Shock Treatment Are Refractory to Its Therapy . Hirsch Loeb Gordon9 ( Veterans ' Hosp. , Northport , N. Y. ) describes two types of patients who resist therapy . In the first group are negativistic schizophrenic catatonis who resent any physical interference or change . Footnote  |p492  Their resistance is general , and they improve after electric shock therapy . The second group comprises objectors who remonstrate specifically against each treatment but are in good contact , coherent , neat and well oriented . They are usually schizophrenics , sometimes depressives , of asthenic build , with delusions , hallucinations , ideas of reference , occasional feelings of depersonalization and impaired judgment and insight . They do not improve . Their refractoriness to treatment makes interesting speculation . If nervous and mental disease is considered psychosomatic , with areas and processes of psychotie activity , the objectors ' mobilization of will directed against the shock @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Patients who specially fear electric shock or ask for it as an expiative punishment are rare . It is hoped that the active workers in other psychiatric centers will review their results with electric shock therapy in the light of the patient 's attitude as set forth in this article , in order to ascertain if it has a universal prognostic significance. ? Ed . Electric Shock Therapy of Elderly Patients . Fred Feldman , Samuel Susselman , Basile Lipetz and S. Eugene Barreral ( Albany Med . College ) discuss a series of 53 patients over 64 years of age given electric shock therapy . Distribution according to age is shown in Table 1 and that according to diagnosis in Table 2 . The hospital stay ranged from 6 to 42 days , averaging 23 . Approximately six treatments per admission were given . A physical study was made of the patient before beginning treatment , including a careful evaluation of the cardiovascular status . Pathologic findings did not necessarily preclude shock therapy . Treatments were started on a three per week schedule with a grand mal seizure obtained in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ frequently than for younger patients , to space treatments more widely ( twice a week ) because of the confusion accompanying therapy . Several patients quickly showed intellectual deterioration , necessitating Footnote  |p493  essation of treatment at an early stage . These were patients in whom it had been difficult to determine the degree of dementia as compared with the degree of depression and who were given treatment as a last re- sort . On the other hand , a small number showed gratifying response with as few as two to six treatments . The auteome of therapy is shown in Table 3 . The only serious complication of treatment was the exacerbation of congestive heart failure in one patient in whom auricular fibrillation was present before treatment . Artificial respiration was occasionally necessary , ud one fractured rib was suspected . No deaths occurred in this series , but the 17 deaths ; attributed to electric shock therapy gleaned from the literature are classified in Table 4 . In only 3 of the 17 cases enumerated was the patient over 65 . In each case death was thought to have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 70 , 70 and 75 . The authors conclude that differentiation of true intellectual decline and other types of psychoses of the senium , especially depression , should be made . Patients suitable for treatment are those with definite psychotic elements of depression , mania or the paranoid  |p494  state who do not show any appreciable degree of senile dementia . The differentiation between the retardation of depression and the dulness of dementia is sometimes difficult . Delay in the response of the depressed patient may be mistaken for inability to comprehend the questions asked . If care and patience in appraising the intellectual resources are exercised , however , it can be demonstrated that memory , orientation and reasoning are unimpaired . The authors used a simple memory test whereby gross defects in memory could be detected within a few minutes . The significance of an impaired cardiovascular system should be evaluated in terms of what the future holds for the patient with and without treatment . When a diagnosis other than senile dementia can be made in a patient over 65 , especially that of depressive , manic or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The only contraindications should be extreme defects in the physical state , particularly in the cardiovascular system . Reports of electric shock treatment of psychoses associated with arteriosclerotic brain disease and senility are rare in the literature .  |p495  It is possible that relatively few cases of these conditions have been created , unless they have been considered under some other diagnostic label . I-Iowever , senile and presenile depressions seem to respond well to convulsion therapy . Results . in the aged depressed patients will depend on how far actual brain changes have determined the symptoms . The mere presence of arteriosclerotic brain changes in a depressed patient may have little bearing on the situation and certainly does not exclude the possibility of favorable results. ? Ed . Complications in Electric Shock Therapy . Louis howinger and James H. Huddleson2 ( Veterans ' Facility , Northport , N. Y. ) discuss three types of complications : ( 1 ) those due to the action of current on brain tissue , ( 2 ) those referable to the neuronal ' discharge occasioned by the current and ( 3 ) those appearing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ convulsion . 1 . Cortical changes may be directly produced by the current . Damage may be reversible , as exemplified by transient memory loss and electroencephalographic abnormalities , or irreversible , as noted at autopsy and in animal experimentation . Damage consists of neuronal degeneration , gliosis and , infrequently , vascular dilatation and minute hemorrhages. 2 . Untoward neuronal discharge effect may persist . Electric shock may cause prolonged stimulation , as in status epilepticus and manic delirium , or autonomic or medullary symptoms with cardiac or respiratory arrest . 3 . Among skeletal complications are compression fractures of vertebral bodies . These are common , ranging from 0.5 per cent detected on roentgen study of patients with back complaints to 20 per cent found on routine postshock roentgen examination . However , follow-ups have revealed no resulting permanent disability . Fracture rates for the humerus vary from 0.26 per cent in 1,133 patients ( Taylor ) to 4 per cent in 50 patients aged over 50 ( Evans ) . The femur , acetabulum , scapula , ribs and vertebral processes are rarely fractured . Dislocation at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ technics . Footnote  |p496  Cardiovascular complications have been thought to be due to the physical strain of the grand mal seizure . However , curare given to mitigate the attack has not proved protective and may aggravate the cardiac hazard . Deaths have been reported from coronary sclerosis without myocardial involvement , from coronary occlusion and from rapidly progressive heart failure . Arterial hypertension may be aggravated . Pulmonary vulnerability to electric shock therapy is an established fact but is not well understood . Aspiration may be a factor but probably is not the most important in production of lung abscess and pneumonia . Tuberculosis has been reactivated . Reported pulmonary deaths have been few . Jetter reports 0.12 per cent in 2,500 cases , and Kolb and Vogel 0.05 per cent in 7,200 cases . However , the occasional late development of symptoms and the reluctance to attribute death or injury to treatment probably has resulted in overoptimistic reporting of cardiorespiratory morbidity and mortality rates . Prevention of Postconvulsive Hyperexcitability in Electric Shock Therapy may be both expedient and lifesaving in certain cases . S. Baumoel3 ( Cleveland ) notes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ various technics . The physical stress of the seizure may be lessened by administration of curare . Cyanosis , nausea and post-treatment headache may be reduced by oxygen inhalation during the convulsion . Excessive postconvulsive psychomotor excitement is an occasional complication , as in the ease reported here . Such a reaction may endanger the patient 's life and necessitate extra nursing care . Man , 54 , with severe reactive depression but no electrocardiographic or other evidence of cardiorespiratory disease , became extremely violent 10 minutes after the first convulsion . He then suffered a circulatory collapse , probably from the double strain of the seizure and agitation . He was revived , but further shock therapy had to be suspended . Excessive postconvulsive excitement may be prevented by sodium amytal administered intravenously . Injec-Footnote  |p497  Lion prior to the treatment greatly diminishes the convulsion and may render it ineffective or even harmful . Therefore , the author recommends intravenous administration of a maximal dose of 0.25 Gm. of a freshly prepared solution of sodium amytal immediately after the convulsion . In most eases of postconvulsive hyperexcitability 1/2 ? 1/3 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under complete control . The drug must be given very slowly to minimize the blood pressure drop . The drug effect begins when the postconvulsive coma ends . Patients sleep for 1/2 ? 3/4 hour and awaken refreshed without the usual confusion or dread of subsequent treatments . Disappearance of Painful Phantom Limbs after Electric Shock Treatment . J. E. Pisetsky4 ( M.C. , A.U.S. ) reports a case . Brakeman , 55 , fell from a moving train in 1939 , sustaining leg fractures . Subsequent infection necessitated bilateral amputation below the knees . He developed an agitated depression with suicidal ideas , complained of burning and freezing feet and refused to wear artificial limbs because of pain . Electric shock therapy was instituted on July 11 , 1944 . On August 7 his condition appeared unchanged . On August 9 , after seven grand mal seizures , he became euphoric , hypomanic and interested in radio , patients and home . He asked for his artificial limbs and stated that the phantom limbs had disappeared earlier although he was not aware when this occurred . Choreatic jerkings which had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one year later disclosed continued well-being . Phantom limb has been variously- and usually unsuccessfully treated by stump resection , removal of neuroma , spinal anesthesia , rhizotomy , chordotomy , sympathectomy , alcohol or procaine injection , and roentgen and physical therapy . Van Wagenen reported cure after bilateral frontal lobotomy . Gutierrez-Mahoney reported a case in which temporary remissions occurred after convulsions and cure after postcentral cortical resection . The mechanism of action is not clear . Electric shock therapy is of proved benefit in de-Footnote  |p498  pressions and would seem indicated in cases of phantom limb in which other forms of treatment have proved of no effect and a marked affective element is present . A Gag for Use During Electric Convulsion Therapy is described by B. Andratschke , J. H. D. Myatt and C. H. Rogerson5 ( Cassel Hosp. for Functional Nervous Disorders ) . Various semirigid gags have been utilized to prevent the patient from biting his tongue . These , however , do not protect the teeth , which are frequently injured or loosened by the pressure exerted on the gag . To protect the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ideal gag should secure equal distribution of pressure over all the teeth , prevent accidental biting of tongue , lips or cheek , and minimize pressure trauma . Such a gag has been devised by the authors ( Fig. 66 ) . It is made of soft " vela " rubber , shaped roughly like two shallow lower impression trays placed back to back in one piece . The rear tapers to conform to the occlusal surfaces . The gag may be made by any good dental mechanic . The raised flanges prevent accidental biting of tongue , lips or cheek . The gag is placed in position before application of current and is almost entirely self-retaining . Airway is adequate but may be improved somewhat by hooking back the angle of the mouth with the finger . Footnote  |p499  Use of Curare in Shock Therapy in Cases Complicated by Pathologic Skeletal Conditions is discussed by Ben Harvey Gottesfeld6 ( Hartford ) . Curare was used with both metrazol and electric shock therapy in 232 treatments without complications and . with no evidence of injury to the skeletal structures or the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ complicating treatment were : fracture of the right femur at the surgical neck with overriding of the fragments and the formation of a false acetabulum ; compression fracture of the body of the seventh thoracic vertebra and hemangioma of the eighth and ninth thoracic vertebrae ; generalized osteoporosis ; kyphoscoliosis of the spine ; fracture of the right sixth , seventh and eighth ribs ; compression fracture of the spine ( ninth thoracic vertebra ) and old healed fractures of the left tibia and right radius ; localized osteoporosis of the fifth and sixth cervical vertebrae ; fracture of spinous process of the seventh cervical vertebra ; cervical osteoarthritis , and narrowing of the interspace between the ninth and tenth thoracic vertebrae with narrowing of the anterior border of the ninth thoracic vertebra in the vertical dimension . Dosage of curare depends directly on the body weight and musculature . After the initial dose , 0.5 mg. per lb. body weight was used . For example , a 160 lb. woman received an initial dose of 60 mg. intocostrin . Subsequently each treatment was followed by administration of 80 mg. , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ used . This scale is not an absolute criterion because heavily muscled men may utilize 0.7 ? 0.75 mg. per lb. body weight . The clinical picture of eurarization is far more reliable than any set rules of dosage . With rapid introduction , even small doses produce more rapid production and disappearance of curarization . In this series it was not necessary to use repeated injections of curare when a single metrazol treatment did not yield a grand mal reaction . The effects of curare Footnote  |p500  were sufficiently prolonged to permit the use of a second dose of metrazol . The rare occurrence of sensitivity reactions to curare necessitates caution . For those patients who present any suggestion of myasthenia gravis or a myasthenic response , the Bennett test is recommended . Shock Therapy in Psychoses Complicated by Pregnancy : Report of Two Cases is presented by Alexander Gralnick ( Central Islip , N. Y. ) . CASE l. ? Woman , 32 , became indecisive , agitated and fearful after the birth of her fourth child in 1938 . On admission Sept. 28 , 1944 , she showed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Her last menstrual period was September 9 . Because of her good affective reaction and a aifficult family situation , insulin therapy seemed advisable . From November 10 to December 10 she received 25 treatments of 20 ? 110 units of insulin and had 14 moderately deep comas lasting from 30 to 60 minutes . The hypoglycemic periods lasted from four to five hours . She had increased morning retching but uneventful continuation of pregnancy . She improved mentally and was discharged February 18 . On June 12 the membranes ruptured spontaneously , after which the fetal heart tones became inaudible . On June 17 she delivered a macerated fetus weighing 17 lb . She had gained 37 lb. during pregnancy . CASE 2 . ? Woman , 31 , had had two normal deliveries and two abortions . She had had two psychotic episodes improved by shock therapy . She was released on Nov. 5 , 1944 , but returned on November 17 pregnant and again mute , resistive , perplexed and confused . Shock therapy was instituted December 20 at the insistence of her husband . She had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ improved but because of her previous relapses was given 1S treatments of 20 ? 100 units insulin producing eight comas beginning January 17 . During the insulin treatment she vomited , lost weight and relapsed mentally . On February 23 electric shock treatment was resumed and she had 18 shocks with 18 grand mal seizures . She improved , was discharged in April and again relapsed in May . The pregnancy continued apparently normally , but on August 9 she delivered a macerated , recently dead fetus weighing 7 lb. 10 oz . Shock therapy is most effective in patients recently ill . Waiting for the termination of pregnancy may jeop-Footnote  |p501  ardize the treatment , particularly when pregnancy is a precipitating factor of the psychosis . In some cases therapeutic abortion is resisted because of social or religious tenets . The psychiatrist has the difficult decision of management and has little guidance from the literature . Goldstein , Weinberg and Sankstone reported inducing 13 grand mal seizures with metrazol followed by 13 , injections of 20 ? 50 units insulin without production of coma in a patient between the fifth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the baby . Polatin and Hoch reported delivery of two apparently normal full term infants following electroconvulsion therapy of the mother . In the author 's cases both women had apparently normal pregnancies until term . Both had had insulin comas . Possibly the hypoglyeemia caused some maldevelopment of the fetus which allowed it to live only until term . Lymphocytosis after Electric Convulsion is reported by Joshua Carse and Eliot Slaters Fifty patients were studied and subclassified by sex and diagnosis . Thirty patients , 15 males and 15 females , were schizophrenics or paraphrenics . The remaining 20 , including 9 males and 11 females , suffered from other mental disorders , predominantly involutional melancholia . The mean age of all schizophrenics was 33 years and that of the nonschizophrenics 52 . A laboratory technician who was present in the theater before treatment was begun made actual and differential cell counts on the fasting patient . Throughout the tests capillary blood from the finger-tip was used , and for every count 200 white cells were counted . The time at which the convulsion was given was noted , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for 21 minutes and at 30 , 45 and 60 minutes . The more remarkable changes were observed in the first quarter hour . During the 15 minutes immediately after the convul-Footnote  |p502  sion there were violent fluctuations in the number of neutrophils . In one patient there was a rise from 3,600 neutrophils at time 0 to 10,300 at six minutes . A drop in number , however , was almost as common as a rise . One patient showed 3,400 neutrophils at time 0 , 1,800 at three minutes after the convulsion , 3,500 at six minutes and 6,700 at nine minutes . When mean values of the 50 observations at every time interval were calculated , no consistent rise or fall was found , and analysis of variance showed that the differences seen were not significant . Lymphocytes , however , showed a systematic tendency for their number to rise to a maximum at the sixth minute and thereafter to decline gradually to the norm . The rise in the number of lymphocytes was more marked in males than in females and more marked in schizophrenics than in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leukocytic changes in general to a disturbance of central regulation of the autonomic system . The fact that lymphocytosis is significantly greater in the schizophrenic patients is not understood . Further discussion of this fact would require an advance in knowledge of the physiology of schizophrenia . Physiologic Basis of Electric Convulsive Therapy . Electric convulsive therapy influences mental symptoms and cures many mental patients by means of physiologic modifications of the brain and body according to W. T. Liberson ? ( Hartford ) . When a single point of the motor cortex receives a stimulus of low voltage , a single twitch of a limited group of muscles occurs . If a single cortical point is repeatedly stimulated with a higher voltage such as that used in electric convulsive therapy , an excitation generalized all over the cortex and perhaps all over the brain is produced , outlasting the duration of the stimulus and spreading far away from the excited point . In physiology this effect is called a self-sustained and self-Footnote  |p503  propagating excitatory state and is largely independent in time and space from the stimulation . Repetitive discharges @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all cortical cells , including those regions of the brain which are particularly involved in mental processes , as well as excitation of the autonomic nervous system and the endocrine system . Electroencephalograms show the frequency of the brain waves to be profoundly modified for several weeks or months after the end of treatment , permitting patients to carry on the neurodynamic events underlying psychodynamic processes in a different somatic background and to solve their mental difficulties in a modified physiologic climate . The electric current used in treatment varies from place to place , being 60 cycles per second in one city and 25 in another . Experiments conducted by the author indicate that the optimal frequency is between 100 and 200 cycles . Duration of shock should be one third of 1 millisecond rather than the 10 ? 16 milliseconds commonly allowed . The duration of the stimulus should be adjusted to the " rapidity " of the stimulated tissue . The brief stimulus technic has given equally good results and is accompanied by less memory disturbances . This means that patients for whom the classic technic is contraindicated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ considerably increased without hazard of damage to the brain , and a sort of maintenance therapy may be established in certain cases . Since the duration of the treatment period may be prolonged by this method , the patient is afforded a more lasting opportunity to solve his mental problems . The possibilities of therapy by electronarcosis and medications which may selectively sensitize or desensitize specific regions of the brain to the convulsant current foreshadow considerable improvement in the results of electric convulsion therapy . Electric Shock and Iterative Excitability . On the basis of studies on electric shock therapy , P. Delmas-  |p504  Marsaletl ( Bordeaux ) formulated a hypothesis concerning the possible iterative functioning of the epileptogenic nerve centers . To elicit a convulsion , he used continuous pulsating current of 200 volts of 50 pulsations per second supplied by an alternating current of 50 cycles derived from two ionized lamps . When the milliamperage passing through the patient 's head was previously fixed at 2 volts electric shock was produced at 200 volts . A seemingly paradoxical phenomenon was observed . To produce a moderate seizure it was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as the milliamperage at 2 volts increased . This is explained by the fact that high milliamperage at 2 volts indicates weak resistance on the part of the inactive circuit ( skin , cranial vault , cerebrospinal fluid , nonepileptogenic regions of the brain ) . When the inactive circuit offers weak resistance , i.e. , when the milliamperage at 2 volts is high . the current at the moment of the electric shock may reach 1 amp . Since the two lamps and the transformer had a limited output , a significant fall in voltage at the level of the frontal electrodes corresponded to this high amperage . Whereas with 0.1 ma. at 2 volts the potential at the frontal electrodes during the electric shock is about 200 volts , with 5 ma. the potential falls to 100 volts . The fact that the time of passage of the current at the moment of electric shock had to be increased indicates the need to compensate for the fall of voltage at the level of the electrodes . An apparatus was therefore devised in which the time of passage of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ By designating as the time of passage of the current the time necessary for the needle to return to zero from 1 ma. ( previously determined at 2 volts ) and by using 200 volts on an open circuit it was possible to obtain a convulsive seizure without fail in all subjects tested . Furthermore , by utilizing this time factor and varying voltage from 170 to 200 and 230 volts , it was possible Footnote  |p505  to obtain a subcrisis or epileptic " absence , " and epileptic crisis and a supercrisis , respectively . This indicates that there is a relationship between the fixed number of repetitive excitations ( 50 pulsations per second ) and the three voltage values . These three modalities of epileptic crises may also be obtained by varying the time of passage of the current , that is , the number of repetitive excitations , which increases on passing from subcrisis to crisis and supercrisis . When the current ( 200 volts ) producing the crisis is turned on , there is first an electric spasm manifested by contraction of all nmscles . This lasts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? 0.4 second ) and loss of consciousness occurs simultaneously . After a latent period of " elaboration " ( 1.0 ? 30 seconds ) tonic and then clonic contractions appear . With a current of 230 volts the time of elaboration is shortened and the electric spasm is quickly followed by tonic convulsions . With 170 volts there is only simple electric spasm followed by loss of consciousness and vegetative phenomena which last a few minutes ; there are no subsequent convulsions . If the voltage is still lower , 50 ? 60 volts , the time element still being equal , only an electric spasm without loss of consciousness supervenes ( abortive crisis ) . Thus there is a fundamental difference between electric spasm and convulsions proper . The former appears without a latent period and lasts only during passage of the current ; it is assumed to be a motor phenomenon of cortical origin . The convulsion appears after a period of elaboration , several seconds after passage of the current . This peculiarity links it with the convulsive centers of the autonomic system , and the chain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this assumption . The rhythm of 50 pulsations per second seems to be most appropriate for elicitation of an electric shock . The facts presented indicate that the appearance of the electric convulsion depends not on the quantity of  |p506  the electricity or on the wattage but rather on Lapicque 's laws of iterative excitation of the nervous centers . Combined Shock and Corpus Luteum Hormone Therapy . Otto Billig and John D. Bradley ( Asheville , N. C. ) point out that autonomic dysfunction is considered by many to be an etiologic psychosomatic factor in schizophrenia . The hypophysis and the sympathetic centers in the hypothalamus are closely interrelated with the endocrine system . Hellbaum has attributed the increased incidence of psychosis among older women to a decrease in the luteinizing hormones of the hypophysis . The authors previously noted that premenstrual exacerbation of psychosis suggests deficient progesterone production resulting in unopposed action of estrogenic substances and subsequent irregularities of the autonomic system . Benedek and Rubenstein correlated the reduced progesterone level with a " regression of instinctual tendencies " from the " genital level to a pregenital level , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and intensifying symptomatology . The authors concluded that in psychoses showing onset or reactivation during the postovulation or premenstrual phase , estrogen-progesterone imbalance may be a contributing etiologic factor and the administration of progesterone in combination with shock therapy is indicated . The authors treated nine patients with a diagnosis of schizophrenia ( four post partum ) , two with manicdepressive psychoses in the manic phase and one with schizo-affective psychosis . All had received shock therapy varying from 8 metrazol convulsions to 70 insulin shocks but had continued to have premenstrual exacerbation of symptoms . In six cases the interval between shock and hormone therapy was from three months to two years and in four cases , from four to eight weeks . Patients received 2 lug . progesterone ( lutocylin , Ciba ) intramuscularly , mostly on the twelfth and fourteenth Footnote  |p507  days following the first day of the preceding menstrual cycle or , in cases of amenorrhea , at intervals of four weeks . When indicated , dosage was increased to 5 mg. per injection or to a third 2 mg. injection on the sixteenth day . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ symptoms occurred in 11 cases after the first month of treatment and in 1 after the second . Six patients followed from six months to four years made a good recovery . Two others more recently treated were improving . One manic patient continued to have some premenstrual tension . Three schizophrenics relapsed after one year , but of these , two had received inadequate hormone therapy ( four to five month courses ) . Some Cerebral Complications in Shock Therapy . Poul Hedegaard and Niels Hjerrild3 ( Augustenborg , Denmark ) report six cases in which epileptiform seizures developed following electric shock therapy . Schizophrenia was present in four with illnesses of 5 ? 11 years ' duration , psychopathic degeneration in one with mental deficiency and psychopathy with depression in another . Four patients had received insulin previously and three cardiazol therapy . All had poor prognoses . Four received far more electric shocks than usually given , 45 , 64 , 99 and 140 convulsions respectively , because of the temporary benefit derived . One received 17 , and one , whose condition was ' complicated by a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 90 to 275 minicoulombs . Air encephalograms of all six proved uninformative . In one patient the seizures stopped spontaneously ; in three they were controlled by medication . The authors do not believe that their findings contraindicate electric shock therapy . The hazard of possible epilepsy is small and insignificant compared with a major psychosis . The series is presented as a warning against promiscuous use of electric shock in minor ailments with good prognosis . If numerous shocks result in cerebral damage , probably some damage occurs when Footnote  |p508  even a few are given . Further study and follow-up examinations are needed . Brain Changes Associated with Electric Shock Treatment : Critical Review . According to Bernard J. Alpers4 ( Jefferson Med . College ) , survey of the literature on changes caused by electric shock in the brains of experimental animals and human patients reveals a wide diversity of opinion . Petechial hemorrhages in experimental animals probably result from greater amounts and density of current than are used in human beings . Scattered cell loss and cell changes observed are interpreted as being reversible . Even where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fact that some changes do develop indicates that the treatment must not be regarded lightly or used indiscriminately . Dogmatic assertion that no brain damage is done by passage of repeated electric currents through the brain can not justly be made . Results in human beings treated with electric shock have been less conclusive than those in animals . Extraneous factors have entered into nearly every case , making analysis of the direct effects of electric shock difficult to evaluate . Advanced age , cardiac complications producing cerebral anoxia , latencies between treatment and death of the patient and complicating brain syphilis have obscured whatever effects may have resulted from shock therapy . Nevertheless , changes of some sort occur . In most cases these are probably functional and unattended by irreversible brain damage . Clinical evidence supports this contention , since confusion , anxiety , memory loss and other effects disappear in the course of time . Damage may occur , however , ( 1. ) as a result of many treatments even in young and healthy subjects , and ( 2 ) in the presence of existing brain damage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prescribed with caution in patients with known brain damage such as cerebral arteriosclerosis . Fatalities are unusual . The problem is therefore to learn whether brain damage occurs and , if so , how frequently . Since these facts are not yet known , electric shock must be regarded as a form of treatment to be used judiciously and sparingly for those conditions which can definitely profit by its application . Morphologic Changes in Brain of Monkeys after Convulsions Electrically Induced . Armando Ferraro. ) eon Roizin and Max Helfand5 ( New York State Vie . 67 ( left ) . ? llomogeneoonly colored pigment , free or embedded cellular elements of blood vessel walls ; perivascular space appears dilated and pale . Nissl stain ; medium power magnification . Eig. 68 ( right ) . ? Same field ; high power magnification . Courtesy of Ferraro , Armando ; Roizin , Leon , and Helfand , Max : J. Neuropath . &; Exper . Neurol. 5:285-308 , October , 1946 . ) Psychiatric Inst. and Hosp. ) present findings in the brains of 10 Macacus monkeys subjected to electric shock @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ similar in number of convulsions , intensity and dura-Footnote  |p510  tion of current flow and method of administration to that used on human beings . All animals responded with characteristic grand mat convulsions . None developed motor disability , organic defects or behavior changes . Between 70 and 90 volts Fig. 69. - Hypertrophy and hyperplasia of astrocytes surrounding blood vessel ; Picture were used , with time of current flow 0.1 ? 0.4 second . Lower voltage induced only petit mal attacks . Neuropathologic studies were made using the usual technics . Serial sections from representative parts of the entire brain were taken 12 , 24 and 48 hours after the last convulsion . Nerve cell alterations were mostly of the reversible type , related to circulatory and vascular changes . There were distention and edema of the perivascular space as a result of increased vessel permeability and , in addition , deposition of homogeneously colored pigment in the cellular elements of the vessel walls ( Figs. 67 and  |p511  Picture 68 ) . These changes apparently aroused a reactive hyperplasia and hypertrophy of the glia elements in the neighborhood of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) . Occasionally blood cell diapedesis and extravascular deposition of siderophile pigment occurred ( fig. 70 ) . The dilated blood vessels were surrounded  |p512  Figure by small and large phagocytes containing this granular pigment ( Figs. 71 and 72 ) . These compound granular corpuscles were probably filled with hematic pigment , as were the blood vessel walls . Here and there in the white matter of the frontal and parietal lobes acute swelling of the oligodendroglia cells were seen ( Fig. 73 ) . Irregular nerve cell degeneration ( tigrolysis with  |p514  Figure nuclear displacement and spongy cytoplasm ) could be made out ( Fig. 74 ) . With an increase in intensity and duration of current there occasionally occurred blood vessel congestion and hemorrhagic suffusion ( Fig. 75 ) which amounted to small petechial hemorrhages in some instances ( Fig. 76 ) . Hypertrophy and hyperplasia of astrocytes , especially around blood vessels , seemed to indicate a local tissue reaction . These findings suggest that the severity  |p515  Figure of the lesions is proportional to the intensity of the electric current , duration of the current flow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the animals treated most vigorously . Both the cellular and vascular changes were distributed particularly in the frontal lobes and were thought to result from the electrically induced convulsions . Changes were most pronounced in the areas of tissue traversed by the main course of the current , although they were not always present along the entire path . There was practically no diffusion of current into adjacent brain tissue . Studies in. normal controls occasionally showed some slight morphologic changes . Thus many serial sections are necessary for a quantitative evaluation of slight morphologic alterations . When the current traverses arteries there is an initial  |p516  constriction followed by a period of dilatation which may be severe and prolonged , leading to secondary hemolysis . In fatal eases there may be widespread engorgement of blood vessels with nonclotted " homogenized blood " resulting from prolonged disorder of the respiratory centers . The authors conclude that reversible chemical or structural changes and possibly some permanent slight structural damage may be at the base of the temporary alterations in the mental processes occurring in patients receiving electric shock therapy . Experimental @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ during Insulin Coma , Cardiazol Convulsion and Electric Shock and during Course of Action of Folliculin and Scopochloralose is reported by H. Baruk , David , Racine , Vallancien and Owsianik.6 In insulin coma , as soon as coma sets in , collapse of the cerebral vessels is noted . They seem to become empty by means of passive aspiration . The brain appears pale and anemic . After coma subsides and the animal revives , the blood vessels fill again and the brain resumes normal coloring . The passive evacuation of the cerebral vessels results from general collapse of the entire circulation , as can be demonstrated by electrocardiograms taken simultaneously . These reveal marked disturbance of myocardial function during the coma . The effect on cerebral circulation is illustrated in Figures 78-80 . In cardiazol convulsion the aspect of the brain is entirely different . The convulsive crisis is preceded by brief , severe vasoconstriction of the brain which can only be registered in motion pictures . Vasoconstriction is instantly followed by pronounced vasodilatation with violaceous discoloration of the brain , which becomes swollen and protrudes through the operative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Footnote  |p517  Figure convulsion for they at first show violent contraction and expulsion of their blood content and then dilatation and enormous swelling . These changes occur not only In the large vessels but in the arterioles and capillaries.  |p518  General circulation is also affected , as shown by graph . representing blood pressure and oscillometric index obtained in a patient during a cardiazol crisis . In electric shock the authors were able to study only one experiment in which they observed phenomena similar to but less marked than those in cardiazol epileps . The prevailing theory concerning the mode of action of therapeutic shock is that it produces changes in the Figure vegetative centers of the brain stem . The authors maintain that the shock acts mainly on cerebral circulation . Parallel to these vascular alterations run changes in mental activity . It is obvious , therefore , that the brisk reappearance of strong cerebral circulation may bring lucidity to a clouded mind , at times in spectacular manner . Since , however , this violent circulatory reactivation is brief , the awakened mental activity is also short lived @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ initial state . Best results are obtained in mild cases , e.g. , depressive states with slight vascular impairment , which are subject to recovery on slightest stimulation . On the other hand , therapeutic shock methods present grave dangers to the subsequent nutrition of  |p519  I lie cerebral cells . This delicate system can not with impunity be subjected to such violent " pump action " which favors the appearance of microscopic hemorrhages and distinct cellular lesions , apart from specific and well known lesions elicited in the cerebral tissue by the passage of electric current . From the psychologic and humane points of view these methods have the disadvantage ? especially if treatment is given systematically without discernment and without the patient 's consent ? of violating and mutilating personality without attacking the true biologic or mental causes of the disease . The late sequelae of the treatment , which now begin to appear , attest to its danger . Two of the authors have recently reported bulbopontile lesions ( myoclonia of the soft palate and larynx ) , of vascular nature , produced by electric shock . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , sometimes using scopochloralose in addition . They demonstrated a slight vasodilating cerebral action of these preparations . Insulin As a Sedative in Treatment of Psychotic Patients in a Tropical Hospital . Richard A. Brunner and Joseph W. Owen7 discuss the use of insulin sedation in 21 patients requiring sedation to prevent undue loss or fluids due to tropical conditions . An initial dose of 10 units of insulin was increased daily by 10 units until the desired results were obtained . The preparation was given subcutaneously at 7 : 00 a.m . Breakfast was omitted , and the patients were kept in bed for four hours . They then received 400 cc. of a 25 per cent solution of corn syrup ( Karo ) by mouth . During the entire period patients were under careful observation . Pulse , respiration and general condition were noted , and blood pressure and rectal temperature were taken at least every half-hour . A decrease in activity and slight drowsiness were the desired effects . Treatment was terminated immediately if drowsiness became deep or if the pulse , tern-Footnote  |p520  perature or general condition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some slowing of pulse rate and mild cold perspiration with mild drowsiness indicated the desired sedation . From 40 to 70 units of insulin was usually sufficient to maintain the desired symptoms until evacuation one to four weeks later . Treatment was terminated immediately by administration of the syrup solution if symptoms were increased above the optimal level . It was generally found that the optimal condition could be readily controlled . Insulin presented some distinct advantages over more commonly used sedatives . Sedation continued well after termination of treatment , appetite was increased , and food and water were taken much better . Care was simplified , and patients were quieter , easier to control and in better contact and showed a general lessening of psychotic symptoms . Their improved condition facilitated evacuation . Treatment of Mental Illness at Home by Small Doses of Insulin : Appraisal of Results in 12 Cases . Insulin subcoma shock therapy can be administered hypodermically at home to ambulatory mental patients with comparative safety and gratifying results , according to Newman Cohens ( Boston State Hosp. ) , who reports use of this method @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ week in increasing doses until mild hypoglycemic shock manifested by weakness , perspiration , hunger and drowsiness is produced . Usually 50 ? 90 units is sufficient . The dosage is maintained as long as the ' optimal effect continues . Mild coma usually supervenes , but deep coma is deliberately avoided . As a rule hypoglycemic manifestations appear in an hour , or in an appreciably shorter time if insulin is given intravenously . Some patients develop insulin sensitivity so that dosage may be reduced while maintaining the desired effect . Dosage should always be minimal , and the intensity of hypoglycemia should be controlled by feeding . Footnote  |p521  The patient carries on normal activity during treatment but may lie down if the reaction is upsetting . Psychotherapeutic discussions are carried out early in hypoglycemia . A physician or nurse observes the pulse , blood pressure , respiration and general condition during the entire treatment . Complications must be understood and carefully watched for . Mild hypoglycemic shock is continued for a variable length of time and terminated by feeding . Barbiturates , which may negate he effect of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the author had a variety of mental conditions , many of which had been refractory to all treatment . Improvement occurred in one to six weeks in all cases and dramatic improvement or recovery in several . Weight gain and increased sense if well-being were important concomitants . Follow-up studies of four to nine months indicated persistence of favorable results . The method successfully avoids the stigma of hospitalization and is relatively safe with proper supervision . After-care is simple . Subcoma is less severe than actual shock treatment , producing no irreversible brain ( lainage even when over 100 treatments are given , and consciousness is not clouded after treatment . The fact that psychotherapy may be used during treatment is highly important . The beneficial results obtained are usually Inickly apparent , cumulative and lasting . Subcoma insulin treatment seems specifically to relieve anxiety and tension , conditions associated with practically every type of mental or emotional disturbance . It is therefore possible to use this method in many types of mental illness , provided the physician is prepared to give the several hours requisite to proper management . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ states that between February , 1936 , and December , 1945 , 161 patients were treated by this method and 48 by the Freeman-Watts technic of prefrontal lobotomy at Footnote  |p522  the Juqueri State Hospital , Sao Paulo . Most patients had chronic schizophrenia and had already been treated by two or more shock therapy methods . Egas Moniz leukotomy in 135 schizophrenics resulted in 108 failures , 21 complete or social recoveries , 4 improvements and 2 deaths . Freeman-Watts prefrontal lobotomy in 45 schizophrenics yielded 39 failures , : complete or social recoveries , 2 improvements and 1 death . The Egas Moniz method had already failed in 30 oJ ' the 45 cases submitted to the Freeman-Watts technic . One patient in this group had social recovery , and 2 were greatly improved ( 10 per cent favorable results ) . In the 15 cases in which prefrontal lobotomy alone was performed there were 1 death , 2 complete or social recoveries ( 14 per cent ) and 12 failures . The difference in favorable results for the combined methods ( 10 per cent ) , the Freeman-Watts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Moniz method alone ( 18 per cent ) may be due to unequal distribution of the material among the various groups , So that conclusions based on comparison of these data have only relative value . Results obtained in treatment of 835 patients with schizophrenia by metrazol , electric shock , insulin and cerebral leukotomy are discussed . A series of at least 20 convulsive shocks or insulin comas were given when these methods were used . Of those ill six months or less , 40 were subjected to metrazol and 27 to insulin , with 45 per cent recoveries for the first method and 77 per cent for the second . Of those ill 7 ? 12 months , 40 received metrazol and 30 insulin , with recoveries in 20 and 77 per cent , respectively . This group also included two patients treated by leukotomy , one of whom recovered . The largest group consisted of patients who had been ill more than 13 months . Insulin gave 22 per cent recoveries and leukotomy 10 per cent . Failures occurred in 50 per cent with insulin , 69 per @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and 83 per cent with  |p523  leukotomy . Leukotomy was carried out only on patients with severe mental conditions which had not yielded to other treatment . Mortality was 7 per cent for insulin , , per cent for electric shock and 1 per cent for leukotomy . The only death in the group treated by leukotomy was due to operative hemorrhage . Recovery in 14 per cent and great improvement in ( i per cent of those treated by leukotomy despite the patients ' poor condition was considered significant . Furthermore the method was found easy , inexpensive and relatively safe . Prefrontal Lobotomy : Survey of 331 Cases observed from six months to nine years is presented by Walter Freeman and James W. Watts ' ( George Washington Univ . ) . The frontal lobes subserve foresight and insight . Severance of the thalamofrontal radiations deprives the ego functions of their emotional component , thereby liberating the personality from crippling preoccupations . Surgery aims to sever sufficient thalamofrontal raditions to remove the dominating emotional force of the psychosis without hindering satisfactory social adaptation . Its extent depends mainly on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ patients requiring less extensive surgery , as well as on diagnosis , patients with 4obsessive compulsive neuroses and schizophrenics requiring the most intervention . After surgery patients lend to be emotionally shallow , easily influenced in mood and act , cheerful , uncomplaining , outspoken and buoyant . Introspection is impossible . Since sequelae may nclude epilepsy , untoward aggressiveness or disabling inertia and dependency , surgery is indicated only in rases with otherwise poor prognosis . Mortality is about per cent . A survey of 331 cases by the authors showed that after surgery about half the patients were usefully occupied , one-fourth remained at home and one-fourth were ( lead or institutionalized ( Tables 1 and 2 ) . Best Footnote  |p524  results were obtained in obsessive tension states with or without compulsions , in hypochondriasis , in intractable psychosomatic conditions and in agitated depressions . Painful physical disorders ( tabes , carcinoma. phantom limbs , thalamic syndrome ) may be relieved , possibly because of abolition of fear of pain . Alcoholism , paranoid states and psychoses with organic brain disease are not benefited . Clinical Survey and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ complications of lenu-kotomy reported by Jan Frank2 ( Chichester , England ) Footnote  |p525  were major epileptiform convulsions , seen in 18 patients . Usually there were one or two fits ? in two cases four to six at short intervals . All responded readily to anticonvulsion drugs administered for two months , and no recurrence was observed later than eight months after operation . Fifteen of these patients had a posterior cut and three an anterior cut ( 7 cm. from the midline ) . The impairment of simultaneous grasp and of discriminative conceptual thinking as well as a tendency to perseveration following the operation were not noticeable after the follow-up 10 months later . Only in those over 55 was any impairment of intelligence seen after the first year . In these patients discrepancies were noted in vocabulary , verbal and performance scores to the disadvantage of performance . r ! " ' The mental state after operation depends entirely on the type of illness , on the previous personality and , to some extent perhaps , on which and how many fibers were cut . The days immediately @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ phenomena of frontal brain damage . Patients whose attitude had been remote became familiar and crudely jocular . The physician was often able to establish contact with the patient for the first time in years . This phase of frontal release lasted only a few days and appeared in only about 40 per cent . The attitude of the majority was quietly friendly , with many sentences punctuated with " thank you , " etc . This overpoliteness disappeared gradually , traces being detectable after a year . The mental state of the first six months seemed to have no prognostic significance . Delusions once established have inertia , and for this reason the process of recovery is gradual . True auditory hallucinations in the few successfully treated schizophrenics persisted as long as delusions , but in the meantime the patient expressed his disinterest in them and his behavior lost the characteristic schizophrenic fascination with these voices .  |p526  In affective disorders the process of reintegration was much quicker . Paraphrenics with well preserved personality first successfully dissimulated and after six months or so reported spontaneously that the delusional ideas or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ None , however , regained true insight in the full sense of the word nor was really able to appreciate what the operation was for . The direct effects of the operation on psychic life were those on the personality . There was poverty of dreams and thinning of dereistic experience . Patients could no longer daydream about their wishes nor be abstractly angry in a sustained fashion . After leukotomy patients did not like adventure and wanted to remain in a more or less stereotyped routine of activities . Learning ability was often reduced . The fundamental personality pattern remained unchanged after leukotomy ; it had less legend only . No patient in the series was worse after operation . Five patients died as a direct result of the operation : four of cerebral hemorrhage and one of staphylococeic meningitis . The percentage of fatalities was 2.5 . Two paraphrenics classified as recovered relapsed , both a year after operation , one as a result of harassing environmental circumstances . One schizophrenic classified as improved relapsed after three months , and an improved aggressive psychopath relapsed after eight months . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ W. Watts and Walter Freeman3 ( George Washington Univ. ) outline the factors influencing prognosis after prefrontal lobotomy and describe the postoperative behavior which the relatives may be told to expect . Death occurs in 3 per cent of patients so treated and convulsive attacks in 10 per cent . The first attack usually occurs between 9 and 15 months after operation . One patient in 20 continues to have several attacks a year for an indefinite period . Encephalograms may help to determine which of the patients will be likely to have convulsions . The results of prefrontal lobotomy are better in elderly patients than in the young . The personality that breaks down early is more fragile than one that functions for 50 or 60 years before coming to grief . Furthermore , the older person is already established among friends and in business , whereas the young has these goals yet to achieve . After operation a patient may still have peculiar ideas or hear voices , but since they no longer produce fear or nervous tension , the individual is no longer dominated by them and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ due to the emotional charge associated with the ideas rather than to the ideas themselves , lobotomy offers a solution . In selecting patients for operation , the authors chose those in whom nervous tension , apprehension , anxiety and feelings of guilt were prominent symptoms . The patient 's relatives should be told what to expect in immediate and eventual behavior and informed that reoperation is necessary in one patient out of seven or eight . If the relatives lose hope , they are likely to allow the patient to go to a mental institution , where the prognosis usually becomes worse . A fairly accurate prognosis can be made in the involutional depressions ( Table 1 ) and in the psycho-Footnote  |p528  neuroses . In schizophrenia the percentage of patients in whom there will be good results may be predicted ( ' fable 2 ) , but which individual patient will be improved can not be determined . The character of the mental disease is of primary importance in forecasting the course which will follow prefrontal lobotomy . Certain general factors influence the prognosis regardless of the psychiatric classification @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ duration of mental symptoms and disability and degree of break with reality . Careful evaluation of the individual 's personality before onset of mental symptoms must be made before predicting the probable social adjustment . Since prefrontal lobotomy reduces the subject 's inhibitions , any previously existing tendencies toward socially unacceptable behavior may be set free , with unfortunate results .  |p529  Preliminary Report on Effect of Glutamic Acid Administration in Mentally Retarded Subjects is made by Kathryn Albert , Paul Hoch and Heinrich Waelsch4 ( New York State Psychiatric Inst. and Hosp . ) . Comparison of the effect of dl-glutamic acid hydrochloride with that of the naturally occurring form of glutamic a eid shows that the latter is as effective as the racemic dl-glutamic acid hydrochloride . The therapeutic effect may be ascribed to the natural form of glutamic acid lit the proteins of the mammalian body and of food . The chronological age of the eight patients studied , all of whom had secondary mental deficiency , ranged from 6 to 26 years , the mental age from 2 to 8 years and the intelligence quotient , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 22 to 73 . During the study two patients were dropped for causes not attributable to the treatments . No member of the group was tested until good rapport had been established and the examiner felt confident of his ability to interpret the patient 's speech , however poor . If in the initial test period , prior to the medication , there seemed to be any indication that the pataint 's failure had been caused by lack of interest or attention , that item was repeated later in the same period and the higher score taken . This higher score assessment , however , was not applied during the placebo glutamic acid period . Although it was impossible to use the same battery of tests on all subjects , this was nut important since individuals were compared only with themselves , their performances without medication ur placebos being taken as a basis for determining the rise or fall in intelligence quotient . After the intelligence quotient had been established , patients were first placed on placebo medication and biter changed to glutamic acid while others were first given glutamic acid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the glutamic acid tablets and the same number of each was given , i.e. , an average of 18 tablets Footnote  |p530  of 0.5 Gm. each per day . The patients were retested at intervals and the rise or fall in the intelligence quotient compared with the original test level . On each retest not only the original Binet , but other tests with which the patient was not familiar , were used . In seven of the eight patients an unmistakable rise of varying degree in the level of mental function followed use of glutamic acid . When placed on placebos they eventually slumped back to the previous level of performance and regained the loss when glutamic acid was reinstituted . Patients who before this medication had appeared dull , inattentive and easily fatigued became more alert , attentive and persistent in trying to accomplish the tasks put before them . Emotional regulation appeared to improve . The performance of the total personality rather than of some circumscribed intellectual functions was ameliorated . It is suggested that glutamic acid enables the patient to regain intellectual function which had been inhibited @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Other research indicates that glutamic acid may shorten the period of confusion and memory impairment following shock treatment of psychotic patients , and affects favorably petit mal and psychomotor types of seizures in epileptic patients . No biochemical mechanism has been found to explain the effect in epileptic or mentally defective patients , but some studies point to a specific role of glutamic acid in brain metabolism . The authors conclude that attempts should be made to test the possibility of improving brain function by biochemical means . Use of Amphetamine in Mental Diseases . M. Y. Sereiskii ? reports 2 cases of narcolepsy from a series of 15 cases successfully treated with amphetamine ( phenamine in original Russian article ) . CASE 1 . ? Worker , 36 , previously courageous and resourceful , in 1928 developed incapacitating insomnia , drowsiness , sensitivity , irritability , shyness , uncertainty , headaches , night-Footnote  |p531  mares , fears and uncontrollable spells of falling asleep for 5 ? 10 minutes . Two years later he had a fit after an emotional episode . Thereafter he had periodic affective instability , depressions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ successively fatigability and failing memory , auditory hallucinations in 1934 , and later rare enuresis , paresthesias spreading from finger-tips to neck , diplopia , dizzy spells and feelings of strangeness . In 1937 he was hospitalized with a diagnosis of schizophrenia . After hospitalization the felt well for six months , then gradually became impotent . He had episodes of tremors and forced crying and , in 1939 , attacks of sudden weakness following loud laughter . These caused him to fall but not to lose consciousness . Neurologic examination revealed anisocoria , with the left pupil larger than the right , sluggish reaction of the pupils to light , slight right lower facial weakness , hyperactive tendon reflexes , intense red dermographism , hyperhidrosis , slight rigidity of the neck , bilateral Vermel sign and cold and cyanotic extremities . Laboratory tests proved negative . The patient was given 10 mg. amphetamine three times a day . Within two days he improved markedly . After 25 days be returned to work . He remained well and had been working for a year when increased fatigability and attacks of sleepiness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ therapy . He continued n moderate health during a follow-up of six months . // years with both catalepsy and attacks of sleepiness . He also had nocturnal enuresis . Previous treatment with caffeine and ephedrine had been unsuccessful . The patient was placed on 0 mg. amphetamine twice a day . Attacks ceased , and after hree weeks complete recovery ensued . The patient returned to work . The capacity of amphetamine to eliminate fatigue and to increase energy in the treatment of narcolepsy led to its trial in postencephalitic parkinsonism in which lie main symptoms are dynamia and asthenia . The drug proved particularly effective in fresh cases and in cases dominated by the apathetic and adynamic or somnolent syndrome , but proved much less effective In chronic cases and acute parkinsonian conditions . Almost all patients showed a decrease in fatigue and sleepiness , an increase in energy and vitality , and an improvement in mood and general well-being . Many resumed their work , which they had been incapable  |p532  of doing for months and years . The Iarge part played by emotional factors must , however @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ amphetamine is antihypnotic . There is probably general cerebral stimulation with additional specific action on subcortical mechanisms . Affective spheres are primarily stimulated . The therapeutic effect in diverse conditions may be due to the presence of asthenia arising from diencephalic pathology in all cases . Amphetamine fails therapeutically when the participation of the cortex and the intrapsychic processes are more differentiated and succeeds in cases with expressed symptomatic diencephalic disturbance even when history and findings are atypical , as in Case 1 . The author concludes that amphetamine may be important not only in therapy but in clinicopathogenic analysis . Apomorphine As a Sedative . Fred Feldman , Samuel Susselman and S. Eugene Barrera7 ( Albany Med . College ) stress the value of apomorphine in controlling agitation and excitement . The drug is administered hypodermically . The dose varies from 1%o gr. when apomorphine is used alone to 1/ioo or 1/150 gr. if used with scopolamine . Combination with scopolamine is preferable except in patients in whom this drug produces excitement . Doses may be repeated in one-half hour and up to eight given within eight hours if necessary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and lasts from 1/2 to 2 hours . Patients often sleep , but may be only quieted . Apomorphine has been used successfully in persons aged 13 ? 90 with schizophrenic excitement , manic overactivity , involutional agitation , paranoid episodic excitement , delirium tremens , bromide hallucinations , senile or general paretic disturbed states , postoperative or postpartum excitement , hyperthyroid crises , epileptic equivalent excitement and the ceaseless activity of Sydenham 's chorea . It has been valuable also in the Footnote  |p533  confusion and restlessness of brain tumor , cerebrovascular accidents , cerebral trauma , Friedreich 's ataxia , meningitis , uremia , severe fractures and the recovery stage of electric shock convulsion or insulin coma therapy . Barbiturates given intravenously are more effective in acute anxiety panic states and in status epilepticus . Respiratory depression is the only contraindication . Complications include nausea , vomiting in 2 ? 3 per cent and , rarely , augmented excitement . As the excitement is usually due to scopolamine , it should be omitted from subsequent hypodermics . No oversedation has occurred , and no restorative has been needed . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the drug should be made up fresh for each dose . Present Status of Narcodiagnosis and Therapy is discussed by Paul H. Iloch8 ( New York State Psychiatric Inst. and Hosp . ) . Sodium amytal and pentothal are the preferred drugs . These , unlike other barbiturates , in prenarcotic doses have a stimulating effect and produce in normal persons serenity , well-being , friendliness , talkativeness , euphoria and flight of ideas . Diagnosis is facilitated , because patients under sodium amytal may disclose mental contents ( hallucinations or delusions ) or mental mechanisms ( mannerisms , echolalia , bizarre associations or incoherence ) previously uinrevealed . Psychotherapy is aided because patients exhibit changed attitudes , with more objectivity in viewi ng symptoms and more desire to discuss interpretation . Prognosis for shock treatment may be indicated in schizophrenics by contact during amytal . The better the contact , the more favorable is the prognosis . Amytal therapy ( narcosuggestion , narcocatharsis , narcoanalysis , narcosynthesis ) falls into two main types . in narcosuggestioe therapy the psychiatrist explains the genesis of symptoms , pointing out that relief from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In narcocatharsis , consisting of abreaction and later analysis and synthesis , therapy is Footnote  |p534  more time consuming . In war neuroses both types were at times effective : narcosuggestion alone in patients not disclosing new material under the drug ; narcocatharsis in the repressed . Neither has as yet been given much trial in civilian neuroses , but the increasing need for shorter psychotherapy makes investigation important . Sodium amytal therapy was given in several types of civilian cases . Sessions were weekly , about one-half hour long and numbered from 10 to 25 . Suggestion and cathartic procedures were utilized . Reticent patients , those entrenched in organic symptoms and those so dominated by anxiety that discussion previously had been impossible were particularly helped by the narcosis sessions . In general , good results were obtained in transference neuroses , especially in anxiety states , and in some psychosomatic cases , especially peptic ulcer , tachycardia , colitis and head injury neurosis . Temporary response occurred in obsessional cases and anxiety hysteria . Disadvantages of sodium amytal therapy include the probable ineffectiveness of the drug in cases @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the treatment . The latter , however , has not been reported . Mode of action is still under discussion . It may involve diminished inhibition and eased abreaction , increased suggestibility of the patient , the neurophysiologic effect on hypothalamic centers or the sedative effect of the drug . More investigation is needed of all the factors and of criteria determining effectiveness in different types of cases . See also Hoch : Narcotherapy , Psychosomatic Medicine 8:116 , Mar. - Apr. , 1946 . ? Ed . Narcosynthesis for Civilian Neurosis . Ilerbert Freed ? ( Philadelphia ) treated 12 patients selected because of expected or previously demonstrated poor affective response during routine psychotherapy . The patients were narcissistic and emotionally detached and showed corn-Footnote  |p535  pulsive or schizoid trends . Treatment consisted of 2 ? 12 sodium amytal narcosis sessions , lasting about one hour , plus additional psychoanalysis . The patients showed a great release of strong affects . Such release facilitates quick therapy , but the therapist must be able to cope with violent liberated erotic attitudes and to utilize them in synthesis with memories , fantasies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of latent homosexuality , one therapist might possibly give only narcosynthesis , and another , intensive psychotherapy . Narcosynthesis facilitated the recollection of repressed memories and fantasies in the patients treated . However , no new material was produced by four patients who previously had been psychoanalyzed . The author cites Jones 's theory that emotions spread like electricity , vitalizing memory traces . and thus bringing memories into consciousness . The defenses of the ego against being confronted with these repressed memories can be observed and must be worked with intensively . Radio Aid to Hypnonarcosis under nitrous oxide-air is described by A. Owen-Floods ( London ) . The use of inhalants to provide narcosis is satisfactory except that the patient 's speech can not be heard because of the gastight mask . Removal and replacement of the mask causes " swinging " analgesia with undesirable variation in the level of consciousness . To overcome these difficulties the author has devised an appliance by which a quiet state of level hypnonarcosis can be obtained and the patient 's talk within the gas-tight mask can be clearly heard . APPARATUS. ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is fitted into a standard rubber thyroid mask ( Fig. 8l ) . The microphone is coupled by leads to an audiofrequency amplifier and dynamic producer consisting of three pentode valves in a resistance-coupled circuit made to have a rising characteristic frequency . It is specially compensated to eliminate echo . The cabinet contains a loud speaker and a plug for another speaker , making possible transmission Footnote  |p537  of the voice to a second room where the patient 's productions can be recorded by a confidential secretary . The speaker in the apparatus and the remote speaker may be used either separately or together . In addition , the control panel has volume and tone control adjustments facilitating perfect voice reception . The two switches turning on the instrument automatically light a ruby button . Complications and Dangers in Use of Hypnotism , : A Brief Survey is presented by A. Hofman-Bang . Complications include the four abnormal categories described by Hirsehlaff and found only in hysterical persons . ( 1 ) Autosuggestive hypnosis is encountered in experimental work . The hypnotic unwittingly attempts to sever rapport with the hypnotist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ front previous experiments . This resistance may be overcome Ily using unexpected suggestions . ( 2 ) Abnormal sleephypnosis is characterized by restlessness , complete analgesia and failure on the part of the hypnotic to be Footnote  |p538  wakened by usual . methods . He may awaken spontaneously after several hours . To waken such a patient , a tuning fork should be placed close to the ear , then suitable suggestions made in a high pitched voice and finally the eyelids raised . ( 3 ) Hysterical hypnoid is characterized by hysterical symptoms , such as tremors , attacks of fear , palpitation , etc . There may be cataleptic or lethargic states or excitement with shouting and weeping fits . ( 4 ) Spontaneous somnambulism is induced by contact with the hypnotist , for instance , by placing a hand on the forehead . The hypnotic goes into an erotic state and discloses past sentimental experiences . The mechanism resembles Freud 's abreaction of repressed complexes . Unpleasant after-effects are headache , vertigo , drowsiness , fear , confusion , fainting spells or a continuance of the experimental suggestion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hypnotic to fix his eyes for more than one minute during the induction , by avoiding suggestions having strong emotional appeal , by careful dehypnotization of experimental suggestions and by gradual wakening preceded by the suggestions that the hypnotic will wake up completely clear and well and that this will take place gradually during a count of from 1 to 10 . Fainting spells or spontaneous attacks of hypnosis developing as sequelae may be treated by hypnosis with strong suitable de-suggestion . Dangers of hypnotism have been both exaggerated and minimized . Correctly applied therapeutic hypnotism in suitable subjects does not give rise to nervousness , hysteria or overdependence on the part of the hypnotic but has proved a beneficial and valuable therapy . Subjects should be nonhysterical and nonailing . The one death reported was that of a young , hysterical , very sensitive , clairvoyant girl . During a seance in which she was to diagnose the condition of a man suffering with pulmonary disease , she suddenly died . Autopsy revealed cerebral anemia and incipient cerebral edema . Death was probably due to heart failure , possibly pre- @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hypnotism . On the other hand , unscrupulous hypnotists may take advantage of weak , amoral or hysterical persons . Sexual relations have been obtained , but in these cases the true unwillingness of the hypnotic is questionable . Some investigators believe that deeply hypnotized subjects can be made to perform suggested criminal acts , particularly if the acts are " camouflaged . " For instance , a hypnotic might commit murder or suicide if told a loaded revolver put in his hand was a bell which would ring on pressing the finger , or that a poisonous solution was merely sugar . Through posthypnotic suggestion a hypnotic might also give false evidence in court or sign a forged will . However , deep hypnosis can be induced in only 10 ? 15 per cent of persons ; the consensus is that only a few of these will perform acts against their conscience . Few people can be hypnotized against their will . Also , a hypnotist with criminal intent would run considerable risk of detection as hypnotic amnesia may not be complete . In any event , the occasional abuse @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in which it may bea valuable adjunct in therapeutic medicine .  |p543  For the first time neurosurgery has a separate section in these YEAR BOOKS . Whether this is advisable may be disputed ; it is perhaps only a reflection of the growing importance of the specialty of neurosurgery which threatens to engulf and extinguish neurology to the detriment of both . ( See Bailey , P. : Practise of neurology in the United States of America , Journal of the Association of American Medical Colleges 21:281-292 , September , 1946 . ) The termination of the war has released a flood of articles concerning wounds of the head . The principal advance made in their care has been due to the introduction of antiseptic drugs ? sulfanilamide and its derivatives , and penicillin . Their use has greatly reduced the incidence of infection but has not changed the rule that such wounds should be operated on as soon as practicable and thoroughly cleaned . The introduction of penicillin has altered our methods of treating abscess of the brain . Surgeons were , in general , rather skeptical of they method @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the availability of enicillin has now made the method safe , and it is being enerally adopted . However irritating penicillin may be in the leptomeningeal spaces , it seems to be quite Ifective and without danger in the cavities of abscesses . One other aid to the treatment of these wounds was direct result of research stimulated by the war , namely , the perfection of an effective hemostatic agent from thrombin imbibed in fibrin foam or gelatin . These hemostatic agents have supplanted muscle in the operating room . There were large numbers of injured nerves during the war , and although many articles deal with them , one gains the impression that few advances were made in their care . It is still necessary , for good results , to sew severed nerves end to end . A great deal of research  |p544  was clone to find satisfactory methods of grafting . without much success . The use of tantalum sleeves has been definitely proved harmful and has been abandoned . One wonders how soon the tantalum plates will begin to come out of the scalp . Numerous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ causalgia by Weir Mitchell . Little was added to the clinical description of this Taalady , but it seems now definitely proved that the most , effective method of treatment is sympathectomy of the affected limb either by nerve block or , for more rebellious cases , by severance of the nerves . In patients who have been neglected the symptoms may prove very persistent , and various methods have been sought to give them some relief . The pathways of pain have been pursued even to the cerebral cortex , without avail . In these desperate patients relief has been sought in the emotional detachment obtained by frontal lobotomy . The matter is still under study . It will be evident from the articles included in this section that opinions , are contradictory . ( Compare , for example , the article by Pool with that by Lhermitte and Puech , this YEAR Boox , pp. 586 and 587 . ) Except for reports on the treatment of causalgia , there was a great decrease in articles dealing with sympathetic surgery . One wonders whether the last great wave is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Moniz has at last begun to be used in this country . This useful technic is indispensable for the diagnosis and treatment of all sorts of vascular conditions , especially aneurysm . For the diagnosis of lesions within the spinal canal , the introduction of a less viscid iodized oil ( pantopaque ) which can be more readily removed and is finally al ) sorbed has been of great assistance , particularly in the management of herniated disks . Because of the war , and also doubtless because of diversion of attention from other causes , there were  |p545  fewer articles dealing with brain tumors . Such as there were must still be scrutinized carefully . The results obtained are generally overstated . - PERCIVAL BAILEY .  |p546  Experiences with Early Nerve Surgery in Peripheral Nerve Injuries are reported by R. Glen Spurling and Barnes Woodhall1 ( MC. , A.U.S. ) . Present statistics for World War II show that about 25,000 patients with peripheral nerve injuries reached general hospitals ; about 7,000 cases of end-to-end suture were recorded with the Peripheral Nerve Registry . For this study samples of cases of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ group of 602 cases , 44 eases in which suture was unsuccessful were studied with regard to the causes of failure . In 89 cases in which primary suture was done on the day of wounding or shortly thereafter as a part of debridement , there were 20 failures , whereas in 419 cases in which nerve suture was performed after delayed wound closure there were only 21 failures . The 20 cases of failure after primary suture included 1 in which an error in tissue identification had been made ; 1 in which suture of a partially severed nerve resulted in a neuroma in continuity ; 11 in which suture line neuromas developed , and 5 in which suture line disruption occurred , severe wound infection playing an important role , and 2 in which , although " suture " was recorded , the nerve ends had been merely coapted with a single sling suture . Inl the 21 cases of failure after delayed suture , there was 1 in which an error in tissue identification had been made ; 1 in which regeneration was prevented by a circumferential wire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; 5 in which suture site neuromas developed , and 10 in which suture line disruption had occurred . In the last cases inadequate postoperative immobilization or accidental mobilization seemed to play an important role . In one case the record did not make clear what had been done al operation , but a neuroma in continuity was found when late exploration was done . Footnote  |p547  In a group of 571 cases of early nerve suture , statistical sampling of assessments received at varying periods after operation revealed a progressive descent of Tinel 's sign in a high proportion ; e.g. , of 59 cases assessed 6.9 months after nerve suture , only 9 failed to show this phenomenon . The trend toward motor and sensory recovery , studied at various times after nerve suture in 649 cases showed progressive improvement . Some evidence of motor regeneration was evident in 33 of .66 cases assessed 3.9 months after operation and in 15 of 28 cases assessed 8.9 months after operation . Improving sensory status was observed in 32 of 165 cases assessed 3.9 months after operation and in 17 of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the program of early nerve suture showed a promising trend toward normal regeneration in most of the cases observed , and the high incidence of failure in primary nerve suture was clearly demonstrated . In considering the question of how the experience gained in wartime peripheral nerve surgery can be translated to civilian traumatic surgery , the author points out that the wounding mechanisms in the two types of injury are completely dissimilar . War wounds are generally due to the disruptive , tearing force of a Jagged fragment of metal , with its pulsating cone of contiguous tissue destruction , whereas civilian injuries are generally cleanly lacerated wounds and closed injuries secondary to traction , fracture or dislocation . There is no factor in the typical civilian nerve division which would preclude the sequence of debridement , with or without delayed wound closure , followed by nerve suture after the initial wound is healed and before the optimal time for repair has passed . The surreon is not restricted by the fear of potential infection in the mobilization or transplantation of nerve segments , if that should prove necessary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; Preliminary Report . Barnes Woodhall ( M.C. ,  |p548  A.U.S. ) and William R. Lyons ( M.A.C. , A.U.S. ) studied samples of cases of peripheral nerve injuries from 19 separate neurosurgical centers registered at various times over a 12 month period with the recently established Peripheral Nerve Registry of the Surgeon General 's Office . From hand analyses ( analyses by a single individual ) and statistical studies they found that 85 per cent of the 450 ? 649 patients studied demonstrated progressive descent of Tinel 's sign and also showed evidence of motor and sensory recovery . The following conclusions are drawn . 1 . The percentage of failures is far greater when nerve suture is performed at the time of debridement than when it is deferred until after delayed wound closure . 2 . Available evidence suggests that primary suture is of dubious value at the time of wound revision and that coaptation suture , when possible , is the procedure of choice . 3 . Pathologic study in cases in which coaptation suture has been done leaves little doubt that such n suture properly applied does @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in either segment , while at the same time it prevents retraction of the nerve and retains it in its normal anatomic plane . Since the length of the resected coaptation suture is the only gap to be reckoned with at the time of definitive repair , the technic appropriate for correcting the defect can be readily applied . 4 . Failures in nerve sutures performed after delayed wound closure are infrequent and can be traced to two main causes : inept surgical technic and inadequate mobilization , or no immobilization at all , of the extremity after neurorrhaphy. 5 . Correction of failures after early nerve suture includes a sound policy of immobilization , consonant with function , and delegation of repair of injuries to corn . petent neurosurgeons . Footnote  |p549  6 . It is not possible to predict the eventual outcome in a contused peripheral nerve visualized at debridement , wound revision or exploration within three months after injury . Many will progress to neuromas in continuity , which may offer a more or less complete barrier to regeneration . 7 . Nerve grafting is still a laboratory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or the facial nerve , are involved . It should never be resorted to as a part ' of early nerve suture . 8 . Detailed operative records and progress notes are essential in all neurosurgical cases . The nature of the injury , particularly a contused injury for which no operative repair is done , must be described in careful detail . Operative notes must include a clear definition of the type of suture used in terms of coaptation suture , bulb suture , or primary or definitive suture . Failure to record carefully the details of early operative procelures was responsible for delay of definitive suture and for a number of unnecessary re-explorations in this study . Plan for Care of Peripheral Nerve Injuries Overseas is presented by J. L. Thomson , W. P. Ritchie , L. A. French and D. W. Wrork3 ( M.C. , A.il.S . ) . The method , which was used in the United States armed forces in World War II , required close co-operation between torward and base surgeons and demanded that each phase of treatment be accurately completed . Every soft tissue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nerve injuries , and at the time of Icbridement the type and extent of the lesion was carefully recorded . After the severed ends of the nerve were identified , they were placed beneath the proximate muscles for protection . With proper splinting there was little retraction of the nerve within the four or five weeks prior to neurorrhaphy . Primary nerve suture was not widely practiced in forward hospitals . Definitive repair was usually done Footnote                     