@@774178

txt  | then , though to a less extent , among the populations of the lands on both sides of the western Mediterranean Sea , and within the last few centuries there have been small Nordic settlements in eve Danubian and south Russian lands . East European or East Baltic Group. ? In the area to the east and south-east of the Baltic Sea , long before the Christian era , the Nordics came into contact with Siberian peoples , and in the course of many centuries a new racial type evolved , transitional between the wavy-haired Europeans and the straight-haired Asiatics . The former appear to predominate in the present racial group , but the type of hair is rather indeterminate ; hence the question mark put between brackets against the name in the table of wavy-haired racial groups on p. 146 . The colour of the hair is ash-blond ; the eyes are gray or blue-gray , and seldom show the " Mongolian " fold of the eyelid . The skullform and the face are both rather broad , while the general build is stocky with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ large part of the population of eastern Europe , including most of the Finns , the inhabitants of the east Baltic countries , the people of part of Poland and many of those of European Russia except in the south . The group has been given different names by anthropologists , and the term East European is here adopted because it best indicates its present distribution . Turanian or Turki Group. ? North of the Iranian plateau are the semi-deserts and steppes of Western Turkistan , known to the ancient Persians as Turan . Apart from more or less recent immigrants , the people of this region are of the Turanian or Turki group . They are akin to the Armenian racial group whom they resemble in most respects , but as the steppes of Turkistan have allowed Mongolian tribes again and again to raid westward , some of the Mongolian characters are found in a number of the Turki population . For this reason , and also because their language is one of an Asiatic family , the Turki peoples have sometimes been placed among the straight-haired instead of among @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The repeated south-eastward drifts of wavy-haired peoples into India have resulted in an extraordinary mixture of racial types . The last invaders form the bulk of the population in the north and west of India as well as in Afghanistan ; they belong , therefore , to  | the Indo-Afghan group , and their physical features are well shown among the people of Kashmir ; a photograph of a typical Kashmiri is reproduced opposite p. 164 . These characters distinguish them from the peoples whom they displaced and thrust farther to the south-east , viz. the much less clearly defined group which is found over a considerable part of southern India and goes by the name Dravidian ? not a quite satisfactory term , because it is used also to denote a group of languages . Most of the Dravidians are similar in several respects to those of the Mediterranean race ; they differ chiefly in complexion , for this group is characterized by dark , sometimes even brownish-black , skins , apparently due to mixing with darker predecessors , and to a very long residence , extending over several thousands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ peoples of India are also indications of an influx of Alpine racial origin . The Pre-Dravidians , as the name implies , had been in this region at a still earlier date , and in general have been forced into the less favoured parts of the central Deccan , i.e. into rough hill-country , forests and dense jungles ; some migrated into Ceylon where they are known as the Vedda . Among the various tribes which are grouped together under the name of Pre-Dravidian there are considerable differences , but in general they have very dark skins , short stature and rather broad noses ; of the peoples of India they are the least like the European groups in appearance , and it is quite possible that they owe some of their characters to still earlier inhabitants . Among these very early peoples may have been members of the woollyhaired primary race , and indeed some of the present tribes have closely curling hair and markedly thick lips . There may also have been representatives of the race from which are derived the aborigines of Australia who will be discussed later @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) ravidians migrated into a cul-de-sac in the Deccan of India and Ceylon , but later other wavy-haired peoples passed from northern India into Indo-China , the Malay region and the East Indian Archipelago ; their relatively light skin-colour is probably to be explained by their comparatively short residence in the Tropics . Because some of them live on the East Indian islands , these people have been called Nesiot , from a Greek word for islanders ; yet they form only a small minority of the population of the East Indian Archipelago , as this region has  | been a crossing place in migrations of all three primary races . ' East of the Nesiots are another set of generally wavy-haired peoples , the Polynesians , who probably worked their way behind the Nesiots through the equatorial regions relatively quickly and hence have retained a light-brown colour , together with facial characters suggesting their kinship with the European groups . After reaching the south-east extremity of Asia they became adventurous seafarers and eventually settled in the Pacific islands ; some admixture of Asiatic and Melanesian elements caused differences to occur @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , migrated to New Zealand as late as AM. 1350 . An alternative theory claims that the Polynesians originated from American Indians who passed southward by the Western Highlands to the region of Peru , whence they were carried on rafts by ocean currents to the islands of the South-west Pacific . Oriental , Hamitic and Berber Groups. ? In the scrub-lands and semi-deserts of Arabia and even of the Sahara are the homes of a racial group typified by the Arabs ; these people are wavyhaired , have a light-brown skin but jet-black hair , long skulls , and a sharp profile with a prominent and characteristically narrow nose . The name Oriental has been applied to this group to indicate its location in the Orient ( if the Middle East , and not the Far East , is understood by this term ) . Another name which has been used for these people is Semitic , but this is open to the objection that the word Semitic relates to the languages which may or may not be spoken by members of the group . Also , the term Semitic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to misunderstanding ; e.g. the word anti-Semitic implies hostility to the Jews but not to the Arabs . The Jews were originally of this Eastern Mediterranean stock , but during their dispersion they have become mixed with other peoples . At the present time there is no distinctive " Jewish race " ; the Jews are a religious and cultural , but not a racial , group . Yet because they tend to intermarry they tend to Footnote  | retain the so-called Jewish nose , with curved outline and depressed tip , apparently derived from one of the peoples of the Armenian group . Northern Africa , including the Sahara on the west and Abyssinia and Somaliland on the east , is inhabited mainly by people derived from three racial groups , viz. Oriental , Hamitic and Berber . The Oriental element is around the lower and middle Nile and in the habitable areas of the eastern Sahara . The Hamitic peoples form the main stock of the population of northern Africa and may be divided into two groups . The Eastern Hamites include the Egyptians of the lower and middle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and the Somali ; the Western Hamites include the Tuareg of the central uplands of the Sahara region and the Fula ( also known as Fulani or Fulbe ) of the savannas of the western Sudan . The physical characters of the Hamites show them to be related more nearly to the Mediterranean than to any other racial group , though their colour is brown instead of a darkish white ; among the southern Hamites the skin is even a dark brown . The hair is generally curly and the nose tends to be broad . The Berbers of the Atlas Lands 1 show a mixture of types . While there are found among them the physical characters common among the Mediterranean and allied groups , there are also taller and fairer elements ; the existence of yellow hair and blue eyes suggests an early blond , if not Nordic , immigration . The Ainu. ? An isolated group of wavy-haired people among the straight-haired inhabitants of eastern Asia are the Ainu who live in the north of Japan . In several respects they are akin to the European peoples @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now cut off from other descendants of the same primary race by a northward movement of the Mongolian division of mankind . The Native Australians. ? The aborigines of Australia , often referred to as " Blackfellows , " are darker than any other of the wavy-haired peoples . Indeed , it is questioned whether they should be grouped with the Pre-Dravidians of India or whether they should be regarded , not as descended from the wavyhaired primary race , but as a remnant of a different primary Footnote  | race ? one which has been thrust out of the more central areas of the habitable world and has survived only in this far-off continent , completely isolated since the rising of the sea-level . The hair is generally curly , though occasionally almost woolly and occasionally almost straight . The facial characters are certainly not those common among the wavy-haired peoples , for they include a flat , retreating forehead with prominent brow ridges , and very wide noses . The uncertain relationship of the Native Australians is indicated by the name being put within brackets in the table on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Woolly-haired Division. ? The present-day descendants of the woolly-haired primary race are found on both the western and the eastern sides of the Indian Ocean , but on the northern side , i.e. in the Indian area , they have been displaced by repeated invasions of other races . The Negroes. ? The true Negroes have spread from Eastern Africa westward along the open savannas of the Sudan , reaching southward to the Guinea coast and to the northern part of the Congo Basin . They have the characteristic woolly hair ; their skin is very dark brown or even black ; they are tall and powerfully built ; their skull-form is long ; they have thick lips and broad noses . The Western Sudanese Negroes of the savannas have been invaded by Hamitic peoples from the north and west , and groups of mixed descent and physical character are the result ; thus , the predominantly Negro-like Hausa of Nigeria show Hamitic influence partly due to the Fula who became their overlords . In general , the Western Sudanese Negroes of the grasslands show clear differences from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Coast and in the Congo Basin who appear to have mingled with earlier inhabitants , of shorter stature and broader skull-form . These " Paleo-Negro " people of the forests were , moreover , of a lighter skin-colour than the dwellers in the savannas , possibly because the dense vegetation has screened the people from the most intense insolation . The Eastern Sudanese Negroes , who live in the neighbourhood of the Upper Nile , are sometimes known as Nilotic Negroes or Nilotes . They have been so influenced by Hamitic elements that they have been described as merely " Negroid , " i.e. Negrolike ; yet they show typical Negro characters quite clearly .  | Among them are tribes who are remarkably slimly built and , because of the length of their legs , the tallest in the world . The Bantu. ? From Africa north of the Equator , the great southward road of racial migration has been the relatively open country of the Eastern Highlands , and along this route wave after wave of the Negro race has advanced into all the more habitable parts of the continent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ others , such as the Arabs who adventured along the East African coast . Consequently , as regards their physical characters the peoples vary , but they are collectively known as Bantu , because they speak languages of the Bantu family . They generally have the typical woolly hair , but their skin-colour includes brown of several shades as well as almost black , their lips are frequently less thick and their noses less wide than those of the true Negroes . Among the best known of the Bantu are the Baganda , Kikuyu , Masai , Swahili , Matabele , Zulu , Bechuana , Basuto and Swazi peoples . The virile Bantu tribes have exterminated or absorbed most of the earlier inhabitants of Central and South Africa , thrusting the survivors into the least attractive areas . The people of Madagascar are only in part of Negroid origin , for there have been immigrants from almost all the borderlands of the Indian Ocean . Although the island is relatively near Africa , the strong currents of the Mozambique Channel for long hindered its occupation by the non-seafaring Bantu ; on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reached by the adventiirous seafarers of the East Indian Archipelago . These peoples were of Malayan-Polynesian origin , and are of lighter colour ; among them are the Hova , now the dominant group in Madagascar . Arabs also appeared as slave-traders , and recently settlers from India and China have come to the southern part . Bushmen , Hottentots and Negrillos. ? The semi-desert of southwest Africa has formed a refuge for the Bushmen ( marked " B " on the map of racial groups on p. 148 ) , who formerly were more widely spread over the south of Africa . Their classification , from the point of view of their derivation , is an unsolved riddle to anthropologists . Their woolly hair is of the Negro type and it is so twisted that it forms close-knotted tufts showing bare skin between them ; on the other hand , their colour is a brownish yellow or yellow-brown like that common among the straighthaired races ; they also show other " Mongolian " characters ,  | including narrow and slanting eyes , recalling those of the peoples of eastern Asia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other races . Although the physique of the Bushmen has been described as poor , yet they are capable of remarkable endurance , shown , for instance , in running down game till it is exhausted , or in going a long time on very little food ; such a physical characteristic is a necessity for their survival ? given their way of life and their environment . The Hottentots , who have a wider distribution in south-west Africa than the Bushmen , are of mixed Bushman and Hamitic or Bantu origin , for while they have hair-form , skin-colour , and some bodily and facial characters like those of the Bushmen , other features and their greater stature seem to be derived from Negroid ancestry . In addition , Bushmen and Hottentots have some bodily characters which are not found among any other present-day racial group , and some which recall those shown on the cave drawings of prehistoric people of Europe . Another place of refuge from Negro or Negroid invaders is the dense forest on both sides of the Equator . Scattered within its deepest recesses have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the map ) who are termed Negrillos . Their facial characters are in general like those of the Negro-like primary race , but their colour is lighter ? possibly because the forest has protected them from much intense insolation ; they resemble the Bushmen in having unusually closely intertwining hair . Their stature is considerably less even than that of the Bushmen , and some of the tribes are among the smallest peoples of the world . The Negrillos appear to represent a relatively primitive race , and their pygmy-form is probably a response to longcontinued existence in their present environment . In this connection it may be noted that among several species of animals those inhabiting equatorial forests have become smaller than those living in other habitats . Negritos , Papuans and Melanesians. ? On the eastern side of the Indian Ocean there are fewer racial groups of the woollyhaired type . As the pygmy Negrillos have survived in the depths of the African equatorial forests , so other groups of pygmies , known as Negritos , still remain in isolated districts of the forests of south-eastern Asia and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are the Andaman Islanders and in the Malay Peninsula there are the Semang people . Others  | of very short stature are found farther east in the Philippine Islands and in New Guinea , where they may perhaps be a modification of the normal population . In the much-traversed bridge-region of the Malay Archipelago , most traces of the woolly-haired primary race have been wiped out by later comers , especially by those from eastern Asia . In New Guinea and Melanesia , woolly-haired peoples again predominate . The people of Melanesia , i.e. the Black Islands , are not actually black but rather chocolate-brown in colour ; their hair is usually woolly and , especially among the Papuans of New Guinea , it is longer than that of African Negroes . Their stature is generally medium or rather short . As might be expected from their geographical situation , they have had considerable admixture with groups of other primary races . Akin to Melanesians were the natives of Tasmania , but these people came to an end in the nineteenth century .  | RACES A.ND MIGRATIONS ( 2 ) The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have occupied practically the whole of eastern and northern Asia ; they have also passed farther eastward by the old land-bridge across Bering Strait and have spread through North and South America ( see map on p. 140 ) . The Tungus Group. ? Tlie characters of the straight-haired division of mankind are most clearly shown among the main racial group of north-eastern Asia ; here are observed the typical coarse , straight black hair , the brownish-yellow skin , the narrow , almond-shaped eyes , the rather short and stocky build , the broad , flat face and very broad skull . Because these characters are those of the people of Mongolia , this particular group is sometimes referred to as Mongol or Mongolian , but as these terms are used in other connections it has been given the name Tungus , from the branch which lives in Siberia north of Mongolia . Other Siberian peoples , though not by any means all , belong to the same group , e.g. the Buriat , and also some of those who live on the western side of the Gobi desert region @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , who made themselves masters of China , were also of this racial group , but at the present time the greater part of the population of Manchuria is the result of migration from China , and therefore belongs to a different category . The Sinic Group. ? Although Sinic means Chinese , it seems better to employ it in this connection , as the latter term may give rise to misunderstanding . The Sinic racial group does not by any means coincide either with the people who belong to the Chinese State or to those who use the Chinese language ; it is represented mainly by the dwellers in the Hwang-Ho basin and in the central and lower parts of the Yangtze basin , with an eastward extension into Korea . The Sinic people are not such typical " Mongolians " as those of the Tungus group , for their build is rather slighter and taller ; the face has not such a flat appearance ; the skin is paler and  | is of an almost yellow-olive colour ; even the " Mongolian fold " of the eyelid is less @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the limited extension , as it appears on a map , of the Sinic group , it includes more people than any other in the world . In repeated drifts , often impelled by famine , people of the Sinic group have moved southward in China , but long ago members of the South Mongoloid racial groups , described in the following paragraph , had advanced northward as far as the Hwang-Ho basin ; thus two types are now mingled in China . The South Mongoloid Groups. ? The racial characters which are most marked among the Tungus group , and less among the Sinic people , are further weakened among the widespread groups classed as Southern Mongoloid . In southern China and northern Indo-China , the climatic conditions during the period of racial differentiation were so unlike those of the steppes that the " Mongolian " development was not carried to so great a length . Even among the southern Chinese the skin is perceptibly darker and has a less yellow tinge than in the north , and there are other indications of the differences which are progressively more noticeable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Peninsula and in the East Indian Archipelago ; e.g. the build becomes slighter and the features and form are more graceful , the hair becomes brown-black rather than black , and smooth rather than straight and coarse , while the true " Mongolian fold " is present only among those whose ancestry includes northern elements . A westward drift took some of the Southern Mongoloid groups into the cul-de-sac of the Tibetan Plateau , and others made their way across the mountains into the north-east of India . The main movement , however , was to the south-east ; here this stock became the dominant one among the Malays and the other peoples of the Archipelago , and later advanced north along the island belt off eastern Asia and even reached Japan . The Japanese are of mixed origin , for there was the aboriginal Ainu element , still extant in the north , and the betterfavoured part of the islands has been settled to some extent by Sinic migrants from the adjoining mainland and to a greater extent by shorter and darker Southern Mongoloid peoples . The Palceo-Arctic Group. ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the central area of human evolution , and so poor , with its vegetation cover of tundra and scanty coniferous  | forest , that it became one of the places of refuge for successive peoples . Early groups of the European-like primary race had advanced into the north of Eurasia as the cold of the ice age decreased , and these formed the basis of the population of this region ; upon this stock were superimposed various drifts of the Mongolian-like peoples who worked their way northward in Asia , apparently before acquiring the most marked of the Mongolian characters . As a result , the racial characters of the present population are rather indeterminate ? transitional between those of the two primary races which have contributed to their ancestry . The stature of the people is short , and this has been attributed to their unfavourable environment , but as a rule they are well built and hardy . These Palo-Arctic peoples still live in the far north-east of Asia and , while they have mainly been displaced from the central part of the northern belt of the continent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the north of European Russia and , as Lapps , even into Scandinavia . It was the Palaeo-Arctic group that gave an Asiatic ancestral stock to the Finns , and the group is sometimes known as Ugrian or UgroFinn because of the languages spoken by some of its members . Racial Groups of America. ? At the time of the retreat of the ice , when man was pushing his way into the newly accessible lands , the Bering land-bridge allowed a series of movements from Asia to North America . It is quite possible that there had been still earlier migrations to America , but these post-glacial drifts resulted in the north-west of the American continent being inhabited by peoples resembling those of the northern belt of Asia , and they continued their way eastward wherever the environment was the same as that to which they had adapted themselves . A general name for these tundra folk of America and Greenland is Eskimo ; although they vary to some extent they are mostly rather short and their eyes are narrow , though the Mongolian fold is not usually present . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ large number of persons , pursued more southerly routes , and while the earlier of these , generally showing more of the European-like characters , were pushed farthest towards the south and east , the later ones of more clearly Mongoloid stock spread over the greater part of the two continents . Most of the native peoples of the Americas , to denote whom  | the term " Amerinds " has been coined , are more or less straighthaired and , like the straight-haired races of Asia , are inclined to be broad-skulled . Yet they do not normally show the characteristic Mongolian eye-fold , and the prevailing skincolour is brown of various tones ? sometimes yellowish , and sometimes the " red " or " copper " tint far too widely attributed to the " Red Indians . " Their facial appearance in some parts resembles that of the Mongoloid groups , but elsewhere it is quite different and is characterized by a sharp profile ; their stature and build also vary considerably . Moreover , it appears that the various Amerind peoples have not lived long enough in their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adaptations , e.g. their colouration does not show any clear gradation from pale to dark according to latitude ; even in the regions of greatest insolation there are not " black " tribes like those of the Old World . This is but one example of a relative lack of physical adaptation among the peoples of the western hemisphere , and in some areas this is a definite handicap ; thus , in the Amazon Lowland the natives are to a considerable extent descended from stocks evolved in cool , dry steppe-lands and they still suffer considerably from being physiologically unable to stand the great heat and moisture ? an obvious factor in hindering both the past and the future utilization of that region . Recent Migrations. ? During the last 300 years there have occurred movements of population of the first importance , for in the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries began the " geographical revolution , " i.e. the great discoveries of the New World and of ocean ways to all parts of the globe , together with continued improvements in travel and transport ; these developments made it possible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and also to drive out or even exterminate peoples of other races in distant regions . Further , the coming of the machine age , with improved methods in all forms of production , allowed great increases of population first in Europe and then in other continents . Other causes , such as the trade in slaves from Africa to the Americas , and the stimulation of the Far East to economic and political developments , contributed to complicated racial changes which went on at a rate unprecedetend in the history of mankind . Europe. ? For various reasons , within this continent there  | have been repeated shiftings of population , and therefore further complexity among the racial elements ; one consequence is that the inhabitants of the various political States now show even less signs of belonging to any particular racial group . In the nineteenth century and the first part of the twentieth century , overseas migrations took place on the largest scale ; but after the First World War and the world-wide depression which began in 1929 there was very considerable restriction of immigration by the countries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United States , several States of South America , and the British Dominions . European advances over distant regions of the world greatly slackened , though the devastations and persecutions of the Second World War stimulated their renewal on a smaller scale . The Americas. ? The migration of Europeans to the two Americas was mainly to the mid-latitude regions , and it has brought about an extensive mingling of races . It is estimated that in pre-Columbian times there were over a million Indians in what are now the United States and Canada ; conflicts between them and the white settlers , the effects of disease and drink brought by the latter , the expulsion of the Indians from their lands , the break-up of their simple economic and social systems ? these factors reduced them to much less than half a million by the end of the nineteenth century , but since then their numbers appear to remain about stationary . Of these , however , a considerable proportion are half-breeds , and also there is a certain amount of Indian blood among the population regarded as of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ century , there was a great development of the trade in African slaves to provide labour for the plantations of sub-tropical products , mainly cotton , and there has been intermingling between the " Whites " and the " Blacks . " At the present time , those regarded as " Negroes " form about 10 per cent . of the total population of the United States . On the Pacific side of North America there has been an immigration of members of the " Yellow race , " Japanese and Chinese , but this has been restricted as much as possible because of a fear of their too-great success in economic competition , and because of the objection to a foreign element which can not be assimilated to the European population and to their type of  | culture . Thus , north of the Tropic of Cancer the great majority of the population is derived from European stock . Although the West Indies are within the Tropics , their maritime situation so ameliorates their climate that the descendants of the Spanish and other European conquerors and immigrants have managed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ life . The Indian tribes were practically wiped out by one means or another , and Negro slave labour was imported . Consequently , on some of the islands , e.g. Cuba and Puerto Rico , the majority of the population is now of European descent and the minority is of Negro or mixed origin , while on other islands , e.g. Jamaica and Hispaniola , the converse is the case . Over the larger part of Mexico , Central America and South America , Europeans still form a minority . Between the Tropics no large proportion of the New World appears suitable for permanent settlement by people of the White racial groups ; apart from the highlands , where settlement is limited by need for irrigation , the main areas of South America which offer to Europeans healthy conditions of life are in southern Brazil , Uruguay , Argentina and part of Chile . Only in these areas is the population now largely composed of immigrants ? Spanish , Portuguese , Italian or German ? or their descendants . Most of the equatorial and tropical regions of the western hemisphere @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to European occupation that they are inhabited either by a scanty population of American Indians or by one of mixed origin in which the proportion of Indian ancestry is considerable ; there is not in " Latin America , " i.e. in the countries in which the official language is Spanish or Portuguese , the same prejudice against intermingling of race that is found in " Englishspeaking America . " Moreover , Negro slaves were brought into some inter-tropical parts of the mainland ; as they are well adapted to the physical conditions , their descendants are increasing in number and their interbreeding with Indian and European people has introduced further complications . The extraordinarily varied racial composition of the populations of the central parts of the New World has contributed to the difficulties in social , economic and political development which will be described later . Africa. ? In recent times , there has been a small-scale migration of people from southern Europe across the Mediterranean  | Sea into northern Africa . Important movements of population affected the whole of Africa south of the Sahara , after the seaway was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ slave trade probably resulted in a total loss of about twenty millions of people from the inter-tropical regions . It was accompanied and followed by movements in the reverse direction : Europeans landed at various points along the coasts , but the main settlements were made by the Dutch and British in the extreme south of the continent . Here climatic conditions were found suitable but the area of productive land was small , and the Europeans worked their way north-eastward to the relatively cool plateaus of South Africa ; they have also made small settlements at a number of points in the belt of East African Uplands . Their northward advance was opposed by Bantu tribes who , moving southward , were conquering the same lands from less warlike inhabitants but now gave way , in their turn , to the better-armed Europeans . Most of the White people live south of the Tropic of Capricorn . Within South Africa they number about one-fifth of the inhabitants ; the bulk of the population are of African descent , but there is a relatively small group of mixed origin . On @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ few and form but a small minority of the population . Over much of South and East Africa there have been attempts at immigration from Asia ? in this case from the nearer lands which border the Indian Ocean . On the whole , the Indians are not welcome to the Europeans , and their influx has been restricted ; they number only about 250,000 persons . Australia , New Zealand and the Pacific Islands. ? The occupation of Australia by the British during the past 150 years was hindered by the difficult conditions of the continent much more than by the resistance of the Natives , few in number and at a low stage of cultural development . The aboriginal people have been driven out of most regions open to European settlement , though Native Reserves have been formed in central and north Australia , and only about 40,000 full-blooded Natives remain in the arid and semi-arid interior and in the hot and wet northern coastal lands ; there are also about the same number of half-breeds , and these seem able to maintain themselves and even to show an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Tasmania when the White  | men arrived have been extermianted by slaughter , drink and disease . On the Pacific coasts of Australia , as on the Pacific coasts of America , there have been Japanese and Chinese immigrants , but their settlement was met by the same kind of opposition as in North America . It was therefore checked by immigration laws which applied also to labourers brought from various Pacific islands ; in the place of these " Coloured " immigrants the east coast of tropical Queensland has now been settled by White people , mainly of British , but partly of Italian , origin . Immigration into Australia is subject to a firmly held " White Australia " policy . The Maori of New Zealand were of finer physique and higher cultural development than the aborigines of Australia , and although during the nineteenth century wars both between the various tribes and also with the British settlers reduced their numbers , they have been able to adapt themselves to the new conditions . They have begun to take an active part in the economic and political life @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and with a relatively small number of half-breeds they are increasing in number ; yet they count only about 140,000 persons . The Pacific Islanders seem to be dying out . On some islands the process had begun before the coming of the Europeans and was due to constant warfare and ways of life that allowed the spread of diseases and the decline of the population . New diseases brought by the white men caused even greater mortality , and the sale of alcohol and arms increased the degeneration and death-roll . The kidnapping of labourers for plantations in distant regions also decreased the native population in some parts . On the other hand , there has been a considerable influx of settlers from the Malay Region and the Monsoon Lands , especially from Japan . The number of Polynesians is only about 200,000 , and that of the Micronesians half as great , but in New Guinea and the other islands of the Melanesian group , where the physical conditions do not encourage settlement of people from mid-latitude climates , the Natives number over a million and there have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? In these regions there have been no great recent alterations in the racial composition of the populations , but marked changes in the total numbers of the  | Native peoples . Much of Southeast Asia and most of the East Indies had succumbed to political rule by Britain , France and the Netherlands but climate prevented much permanent settlement by Whites . For a long while European officials , merchants and managers served their terms of office , but with the loss of political power most of them disappeared . Yet important results of European dominion remained in increased capacity of the lands to support a dense population , while the death roll from disease , famine and warfare had been diminished . This was notably the case in Java : a population of 5 millions at the beginning of the nineteenth century mounted to about 66 millions at present , including only a small number of Chinese and still fewer Europeans . The Indian sub-continent is another important instance of Native population increase , for at the first census in 1872 there were just over 200 millions , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ extra-tropical parts of the Monsoon Lands there have also been great increases , though there have not been similar occupations by European Powers and their influence has been indirect . Japan adopted many Western methods which have contributed to enabling the population to double itself in the last 60 years . China conserved her old ways longer , but much of her great area was already densely peopled and recently her population has reached over 750 millions ? the greatest number of any State in the world . In the nineteenth century , Russian rule extended over Northern and Western Asia which had few inhabitants . In the twentieth century , the Soviet government exploited the undeveloped natural resources with the voluntary or compulsory introduction of millions of workers from Eastern Europe . Together with transfers of Asiatic tribesmen , these movements brought considerable increases of population to areas which had mineral wealth or were capable of irrigation . Consequences of Migrations. ? Some of the consequences of the movements of peoples , during man 's evolution and history , may now be summarized . His physical characters have been very @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ changes brought about the differences between the great divisions and in the racial groups of man , but recent migrations have not resulted in any comparably marked modifications in biological make-up . Yet these migrations have  | produced a weeding-out of individuals . When some members of a community have sought new homes , it is usually the more active who have started off ; certainly , hardships and dangers have been encountered and as a rule only the strongest and the most enduring have survived long migrations . If such a process is continued or repeated for a number of generations there is a stringent natural selection of the best-equipped strains . Further , the movements commonly result in inter-breeding and the production of mixed types , and the question may be put whether the process of race mingling is " good " or " bad . " What is clear is that the individuals in the new generations show a greater variety of combinations of physical characters , i.e. they possess greater potentialities , and from them Nature tends to select those with the greatest survival value . There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ originated from the combination of different races and have " made their mark " in the world ; pride and prejudice may urge " race purity , " but science and history may make out a better case for " race mingling . " Even when it is a question of inter-breeding between representatives of widely different primary races , e.g. between Europeans and Mongolians or between Europeans and Negroes , there is no evidence that deterioration results . It must be remembered that here it is a question only of physical qualities ; cultural and social disabilities may result , at least temporarily , from racial interbreeding , and these will be dealt with later . Mental Characters and Racial Groups. ? It is frequently asserted that one race differs from another by such traits as bravery or cowardice , enterprise or conservatism , excitability or stolidity , etc. , but it is very doubtful whether such mental characteristics have any racial relationship . For example , in any racial group individuals appear to differ widely from one another in such respects . Also , a body of people may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the environment or the way of life ; e.g. a fishing community must show bravery if it is to get its food , while in some agricultural communities bravery is not so essential as capacity for unremitting toil . In consequence , tradition counts for a great deal in determining a mode of behaviour . Some particular kind of conduct is regarded as useful or necessary by a community , and this conduct is enforced on the rising generations perhaps over long  | periods ; thus it comes to be characteristic of the group . But it is not part of the biological heritage and therefore inherent ; it is a product of " nurture " and not of " nature . " Under different circumstances , perhaps as a result of migration or of historical changes , the community may cease to encourage the earlier type of conduct and may display others hitherto not brought into prominence . It is important to point out that ideas of right and wrong , and standards of moral conduct , have nothing whatever to do with racial origin . Great caution must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lower than another in general intelligence . Europeans , for example , may regard people of Africa or Asia as of lower intelligence than themselves , because the latter are accustomed to their own modes of thought and can not readily deal with ideas which are strange to them ; yet few Europeans have been able to comprehend the modes of thought and ideas of men of other types of culture , as skilled anthropological research has revealed them . Moreover , it must be remembered that a large proportion of the " backward " peoples suffer from lifelong malnutrition and chronic diseases ? factors which seriously affect physical and mental health and prevent innate capacity from finding its normal expression . The hookworm disease may be cited , for it is widely spread in equatorial and tropical regions and appears even beyond the Tropics . In some inter-tropical areas almost all the population are subject to it , with the result that their vitality is lowered and their activity , endurance and persistence in effort are greatly reduced . The disease is due to a parasite which generally infects man @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it the disappearance of characteristics formerly put down to " laziness " or " lack of moral fibre , " is a matter of education in hygienic habits . To get over some of the difficulties involved in racial comparisons , psychologists have tried to devise suitable forms of intelligence tests , but an experienced anthropologist 1 has summed up their results , spread over many years and affecting many peoples , as " erratic and contrary . " Finally , it must be once more emphasized that relatively Footnote  | great mental contrasts exist within the membership of any particular ethnic group . The conclusion of a biological investigator is : " In really important characteristics the natural differences between the races pale into insignificance as compared with the natural differences between individuals . " 1 To this dictum we may add the practical deduction of another anthropologist : " In all stocks individuals differ in ability , and civilization will always be the poorer if we close the gates of opportunity to those of superior ability whatever their blood may be . " 2 Addendum. ? The Influence of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stressed ; conversely , the stagnating influence of isolation must be considered . This is strikingly shown among the Negroes of Central Africa protected by the desert , the ocean , the coastal rim marked by rapids and falls , and the steep edges of the Rift Valley . Moreover , their own communities are cut off from one another by forests , jungles in abandoned clearings , rivers and swamps . Local changes in their speech make them unintelligible to most other groups . Settlements are kept small by scanty food supplies and raids from others breed hostility to all who enter their territory . Practically shut off from fresh knowledge and ideas , their modes of life do not advance : they may hunt or collect forest products as family groups , or practise the simplest forms of agriculture as village communities . Their language remains so primitive that it does not allow development in their thought ; religious beliefs are crude , and notions of right and wrong are bound up with these and with the particular requirements of their ways of life . After many centuries , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from overseas . Then new knowledge was forced upon them ; new occupations and new skills were acquired ; speech and thought developed ; new conceptions about themselves and outsiders arose . Great changes came about in a few decades , especially when they became involved in the Second World War , and when some went abroad and were trained in arts and sciences . Such cultural ferments spread rapidly , and the latent qualities and aspirations of the hitherto " backward " Negroes were revealed . Footnote  | CULTURAL ADVANCES ? LANGUAGES AND RELIGIONS Cultural Developments. ? Distinct from the physical evolution of man are his many-sided cultural advances ; these have been made among many racial groups and in many conditions and environments , and have spread gradually among the peoples and over the regions of the world . A fundamental development of mankind was that of speech and language , and with it have grown up ideas and knowledge of all kinds . In this chapter the chief language groups will be considered first , and then the great world religions , in so far as they affect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have geographical results . Throughout a consideration of cultural developments it is necessary to bear in mind that they are not limited to special racial groups , but may be accepted by , or imposed upon , people descended from any physical stock . Indeed , the spread of cultural conditions is largely determined by geographical conditions , such as accessibility , which helps contacts between particular peoples , and climate , which may or may not help the peoples to apply and develop knowledge gained by such contacts . LANGUAGES Languages in relation to Races and Migrations. ? Although communications over considerable distances are now relatively easy , understanding between peoples is still hindered by the existence of hundreds of distinct languages ; many of these are still further divided by dialects , which may differ so much that those who speak them can not be understood even by comparatively near neighbours . There are two main causes for this complexity of tongues . In the first place , languages themselves evolve . As time goes on , the speech of a group of people gradually changes , particularly when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ,  | a single language spoken in different areas tends to develop into different dialects or even into distinct languages . Much more rapid changes have been brought about by movements of people from one region to another . The great migrations of peoples have been among the chief causes of the spread of languages over the world , and therefore there is a broad correspondence between the distribution of the racial groups as shown on p. 148 and that of languages as shown on p. 172 . There are , however , a number of differences between the two distributions where contact of peoples has resulted in a group losing their earlier mode of speech and acquiring a new one . For example , invaders have sometimes imposed their languages upon others of different descent ; on the other hand , when the conquering group has been small , and particularly when it has consisted mainly of warriors without their families , the intruders may have been absorbed by the subject people and their language fallen into disuse . In both cases , however , there would have been alterations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ difficulties of a multiplicity of tongues have been lessened by the spread of a few languages for certain limited purposes ; a lingua franca of this kind may be used over wide areas where it is understood by some , at least , of the inhabitants . Thus , English is employed in the British Colonies by merchants , planters and officials , and by those Natives who come into contact with them . A more systematic development has taken place in the U.S.S.R. , for not only in Europe , but practically throughout the Asiatic territories ( where attendance at school is both compulsory and free of charge ) , the children of the many racial groups , speaking many tongues , are all taught Russian as a second language , while this is also the one language employed in the army . Language Families and their Distribution. ? Indo-European Family. ? Most languages have others with which they are similar because they have evolved from a common ancestor . Thus English , Dutch , German and the Scandinavian languages resemble one another in many ways ; they have spread @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ collectively known as Teutonic languages . In their westward spread they have driven out Celtic forms of speech , which now survive in the Erse of Ireland , Gaelic of Scotland , and Welsh , together with the Breton of north-western France . Another  | Figure European group is that of the Romance languages derived from Latin , viz. Italian , French , Spanish , Portuguese and Romanian , while Modern Greek is the representative of Classical Greek . In some parts of Europe only one language is spoken over fairly large areas , as is the case in Sweden and in Peninsular Italy . In many parts of the continent , however , two , three or more languages are found within short distances , while quite commonly their areas are dovetailed into one another like the pieces of a jigsaw puzzle . Also , there are regions in which some people are bi-lingual , e.g. many Welsh speak Welsh and English , and there are often " islands " of alien speech within the general sphere of a dominant language . Thus only a relatively large-scale map can show @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and central Europe , and the map in Fig. 43 can do no more than attempt to indicate the broad distribution of the main groups . It must also be emphasized that there is no close correspondence between the racial origins and speech of European people . Thus , although many who are  | largely of Nordic descent speak a Teutonic language , yet so do also many whose ancestry is largely Alpine or Mediterranean ; again , people whose physical characters are Mediterranean may employ Celtic , Teutonic , Romance or Greek speech . All these European languages have certain similarities and form one branch of a numerous family of languages which are spoken over the region from the North Atlantic Ocean to the Sea of Bengal ; because of its distribution this great group is , as a whole , known as the Indo-European ( or less accurately the Indo-Germanic ) family . The likeness between these languages is due to the fact that they are all derived from the speech of the groups of wavy-haired peoples who worked their way from south-western Asia westward and northward through Europe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ great Indo-European family includes Albanian , the Baltic languages Lithuanian and Lettish , and the Slavonic languages . In these last are comprised three groups : the East Slav tongues of the Russians , the West Slav group including Polish , Czech and Slovak , and the South Slav group with Serbian , Croatian , Slovene , Bulgarian and other languages and dialects . The third branch of the great Indo-European family of languages is known as Indo-Iranian , or sometimes as Aryan . ' The name Indo-Iranian is used because it broadly indicates the area in which the languages of this branch are spoken , comprising Iranian ( i.e. Persian ) and the tongues of the greater part of India . There are many Indian languages belonging to this branch ; among them Hindostani ( or Hindustani ) may be specially mentioned , as it has been deliberately adapted for use as a lingua franca over much of India . English , too , serves as a lingua franca for many of the educated people of India . Quite different languages have been carried from the steppelands of Central Asia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into parts of northern and eastern Europe . These languages originating in the Asiatic steppes are named , after districts from which they have spread , the Ural-Altaic family . In Asia they include , among others , the Tungus , Footnote  | Mongol and Manchu tongues spoken by groups of straighthaired peoples , while in western regions peoples of more mixed racial origin speak the allied Turkish , Magyar ( Hungarian ) , and Finnish languages . In and around the great belt of arid or semi-arid country which stretches from south-western Asia through the Saharan region to the Atlantic Ocean , including the fertile river valleys of the Nile and Mesopotamia , there has spread the Semitic family of languages . To this family belonged the ancient Hebrew and Assyrian ( or Babylonian ) languages , and the most important modern representative is Arabic which , centuries ago , was imposed by Arab invaders upon many of the peoples of south-west Asia and northern Africa . Hence Arabian dialects are spoken by most of the inhabitants of Iraq , Syria , Arabia and Egypt , and by many of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lands from Tripoli to Morocco . The Hamitic family of languages , which included ancient Egyptian , is still represented in the speech of the inhabitants of large parts of northern Africa . To this family belong the speech of three groups of people : ( 1 ) many of the Ethiopians or Abyssinians , and the neighbouring tribes of the Upper Nile region and Somaliland ; ( 2 ) the Berbers of north-west Africa , and a number of the tribes of the oases and marginal areas of the Sahara as far west as Senegal ; ( 3 ) the Hausa of the central Sudanese savannas . Although they speak an Hamitic language , the Hausa are themselves largely of Negro descent and their speech has been transmitted also to other Negro groups ; indeed , the use of the Hausa tongue as a lingua franca has spread over a large area between northern and central Africa . The Bantu family of languages has spread over most of Africa south of the sphere of the Hamitic tongues . Bantu-speaking tribes have themselves occupied much of the continent , and they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have dominated ; even some pygmy tribes of the equatorial forests speak degraded forms of Bantu . There are a large number of languages in this family , and they have many dialects ; among these dialects is Swahili , which was first spoken in Zanzibar by people of mixed Bantu and Arab descent and is now a lingua franca understood throughout the coastal districts of East Africa and even in parts of southern Arabia and in Madagascar .  | The Bushman and Hottentot languages are very similar to each other but very different from those of the Bantu , although minglings of the two types have occurred . The speech of the Bushmen , and to a less extent that of the Hottentots , is peculiar in making great use of four different " clicks " or cluckingsounds , which have given to some Europeans the impression of an uncouth tongue , and the Dutch settlers compared their speech to the gobbling of a turkey-cock ; yet scientific examination has shown that " the language in its grammatical structure is beautiful and regular . " Within South Africa there exist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Afrikaans ; the latter is a derivative of Dutch and is spoken mainly by people of Dutch descent . Although Madagascar is relatively close to Africa , the Malagasy language which is spoken by practically all the inhabitants belongs to the great Malay-Polynesian family , for it has been brought by migrants from the East Indian Archipelago . The many movements of peoples into and through the island groups of the East Indies and the south-western part of the Pacific have brought about a mingling and similarity of the tongues in this area . Yet , together with resemblances , there are also marked differences , as would be expected where many communities are to a considerable degree isolated in their island homes . Hence the term Malay-Polynesian family is used to cover a wide range of languages , including that of the Maori in New Zealand . The Malay language itself has spread from the neighbouring islands to the Peninsula , and related tongues have been carried northward to the Philippine Islands . The Dravidian family of languages has extended over practically the whole of southern India , having @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the other side , the Dravidian tongues have been driven from northern India by the Aryan languages of later invaders , though in some transitional districts there are dialects combining elements from both sources . In southern India , besides the dialects of relatively remote tribes , the Dravidian family includes four great languages which possess their own literatures ; of these , Telugu and Tamil are spoken by the greatest number of people . Tamil has extended into northern Ceylon , but over the greater part of that island the common language is Sinhalese which has  | resulted from the modification of a Dravidian tongue by Aryanspeaking invaders . The South-east Asiatic family of languages , of which Chinese is typical , stands apart from others by being monosyllabic , and having no grammatical inflexions . The written language of the Chinese is not formed by a relatively few letters combined in various ways to make different words , but by a very large number of distinct characters ; these are like small pictures simplified in order to be produced by a few strokes of a brush , each character @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Chinese language , with some thousands of such picture-words , is a difficult one to learn , and especially so to foreigners since the gradation of sounds can not be represented by European letters . Hence the Chinese language itself has proved a hindrance to communication between " East " and " West . " The same written characters are used all over China and therefore form a means of communication among those of the Chinese people who can read and write . The spoken tongue , however , has local dialects in certain regions , especially in Canton and the south-east coastal provinces where they are so marked as to form quite distinct languages . Differences in speech have been a handicap to the unity of the Chinese nation , but this difficulty was lessened by the spread of one dialect , viz , that of Pekin , which is commonly known as Mandarin ; this is now the common form of Chinese and is understood by the people of the greater part of the country . Monosyllabic languages allied to Chinese are those of Annam , Thailand ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tibetan-Burmese dialects have spread into the province of Assam and the Himalayan borderlands . Although Chinese ideas and modes of life have influenced the peoples of Korea and Japan , the languages of these two countries do not belong to the South-east Asiatic family ; they are polysyllabic and appear to be related to the Altaic group . The Koreans have an alphabet for their written language , though Chinese characters are also used . The Japanese have also adopted Chinese characters , but these indicate Japanese spoken words which are entirely different from those of the Chinese . It may here be noted that printing was first employed in China , and the use of wooden blocks each bearing one character  | can be traced back to the sixth century . The method spread to Japan , and the Koreans used metal for this purpose in the fifteenth century , some time before printing from type was invented in Europe . In the New World , the speech of the American Indians consisted of an immense number of Amerind languages and dialects which differed greatly among themselves and were not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Old World . Over much of the continent they have been displaced by European tongues , and here it can be noted only that in the extreme north all the Eskimo of the tundra speak dialects of the same language ; this is quite distinct from the dialects of the Indians of the adjoining forests . Three European languages have now spread over much of the New World . North of the Mexican border English is the dominant speech , and the United States and Canada together are often referred to as " English-speaking America " ; the chief exception is that French is the language of most of the people of the Canadian province of Quebec . South of the United States is " Latin America , " where Spanish and Portuguese are the most important languages . In most of the South American States Spanish is the official speech although in the more remote areas of the interior Indian tongues have persisted . In Brazil the dominant language is Portuguese , though in the south of that country many people of German and Italian origin retain their own speech @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ islands , into the cooler parts of eastern and southern Africa , and over Australia and New Zealand . RELIGIONS The religions of peoples have geographical relationships ; e.g. on the one hand the spread of particular religions into certain regions was influenced by position and other natural conditions , while on the other hand the beliefs of a particular group of people may have a great effect on their work , mode of life , government and relations with other groups . It is such geographical aspects of religions that are considered here . Primitive Forms. ? The religious ideas of mankind , like languages , have evolved in the various parts of the world in  | diverse ways and to different degrees . In climatically unfavourable regions of inter-tropical and sub-arctic latitudes and also in remote districts where people have been isolated from contact with others , man 's advance has been slow and primitive forms of religion still remain ( see map on p. 180 ) . These forms are very numerous , but many of them may be grouped under the term " animism . " Animism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all the objects forming man 's environment ? both animate , such as plants and animals , and inanimate , such as rocks and rivers , fire and water , the earth and the weather . Spirits or evil influences are regarded as the cause of illnesses and accidents which may befall men and beasts . A very widely held belief is that of the transmigration of souls , according to which the souls of men and the spirits of animals are transferred at death to the bodies of other men or animals ; it may be into a lower form of life as a punishment or into a higher form of life as a reward . Commonly , spirits which bring good fortune are worshipped as gods , while those which have evil effects are feared as devils . Men therefore seek to propitiate the spirits by various means : sacrifices are made , charms are devised and incantations are performed . Practically all the activities of people are involved in these animistic beliefs , and their actions are regulated accordingly ; often the ordinary work of tilling the soil @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fixed ritual having a religious compulsion . Hence the beliefs and the everyday life are bound up together in a complicated system which hinders religious advance and mental development in general , and also material improvements . Hinduism. ? This term is used to cover the multitudinous religious beliefs and the connected social organizations of the Hindus who form the majority of the population in the greater part of India . These ideas and customs have developed over a period of nearly 4,000 years , in connection with the migrations into India of the Aryan-speaking people and with their contacts with the other inhabitants of the region . At a very early time , about 1,000 ? 1,500 B.C. , the Vedic hymns already showed lofty philosophic , religious and moral ideas . At a later stage the Brahman religion evolved with its conceptions of one spirit pervading the whole universe and a  | trinity of divine personalities ; at this period , too , grew up myths of many lower gods and heroes and other manifestations of the divine essence . Bound up with these ideas and legends was the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of good or bad actions showing itself in the fate of individuals and in the transmigration of their souls into a higher or lower state . Hinduism suffered further changes over many centuries , and was corrupted by the fusion of beliefs held by the animistic tribes whom the Aryan-speaking peoples conquered . Hence the forms of the religion now differ greatly among the population of India , and many deities are worshipped . The religion of large numbers of the people has been described as a religious chaos . The observances , rites and customs dependent upon these beliefs are equally numerous and complicated ; indeed , the lower types of Hinduism can not be distinguished from animism . Yet , at the other extreme , educated Hindus have developed the earlier Brahman ideas into philosophic conceptions of a high order . Essentially bound up with the Hindu religion is the caste system which probably had its origins in primitive beliefs and practices . In India it was sanctified and strongly enforced by religion , and it was used as a means of keeping apart the lighter-skinned Aryan conquerors from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the priestly and warrior classes of the invaders . The early caste system divided the people into four distinct groups : ( 1 ) the Brahmans ? the priests and spiritual leaders ; ( 2 ) the warriors and nobles ? from whom the modern Hindu Rajputs claim descent ; ( 3 ) the traders , pastoralists and cultivators ; ( 4 ) Sudras , the low caste of the labourers , descendants of the darker peoples whom the immigrant rulers admitted into their society to perform necessary menial tasks . In connection with their work , the Sudras are now divided into more than 2,000 minor castes and subcastes , and they form a large proportion of the population . In this way the people of all India where Hinduism is practised are divided into distinct compartments or strata , far more rigorously separated than any classes in the Western world . The castes are hereditary , and in general marriages are restricted to those within each caste . The members of each caste are distinguished by their clothing or some obvious badge , and they may not closely associate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ B.C. the Jains broke off as a reforming sect . Another movement was the rise of the Sikhs in the fifteenth century A.D. , teaching the unity of God and the brotherhood of man , and abolishing the caste system within their community . They began as religious reformers but became imbued with the military spirit and rebelled , but unsuccessfully , against the Muslim , and later the British , power in India ; at a later time many Sikhs willingly accepted service in the Indian army under the British administration . Buddhism. ? Rather more than 500 years before the birth of Christ , Gautama , a young chieftain of an Aryan clan in northern India , observed the miseries of life and went into retirement to seek their cause . This he thought to be the insatiable selfishness of man , and he taught that one 's aim should be to attain " Nirvana , " by which was meant not death but deliverance , for example from evil desires ; to attain Nirvana , man should follow the " Aryan Path " ? see the Truth , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . By his followers Gautama was called Buddha , the Enlightened One , and his teaching was the basis of the Buddhist religion . A number of other , commonly held , beliefs were later incorporated into Buddhism ; one of great importance was that of the immortality and the transmigration of souls . Greek influence , through the descendants of Greeks whom Alexander the Great had brought to India , first created the figure of Buddha familiar in sculpture . Aided by a great monarch , Buddhism extended over all India , but it became affected by Hindu beliefs and practices and after a time , like other religions , lost much of its original noble simplicity and value . Later , it spread over a great part of Asia , and became changed in varying ways as it became the popular faith in Tibet and part of Turkistan , China and IndoChina , Burma , Ceylon and the East Indian Islands . In most of India itself , however , it became absorbed into Hinduism , though still remaining as the dominant religion in the Himalayan borderlands . Buddhism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in which it is now held escape evils which may arise from that system ; yet some areas tend to suffer from a great development of the Buddhist priesthood which retards advance . Also the Buddhist , like the Hindu , objection to destroying animal  | life has an obvious effect in countries where wild beasts abound and do great harm , while it also militates against the rearing of cattle and other domestic animals , as these may not be killed without committing an irreligious act . Tibet , in particular , is greatly affected by its religion . A degraded form of Buddhism is practised , for it has incorporated much of a primitive and crude form of devil-worship . Also , popular ignorance and superstition express themselves by the use of small windmills and banners on which prayers and charms are written ; as these are moved by the wind , they are supposed to take the place of praying to spirits and uttering charms against demons . Monks number nearly a quarter of the population of Tibet , and the monasteries own much of the property . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lamas , the effective rulers of the country . The head of the Tibetan government is the Dalai Lama , the Grand Lama , who is regarded as a reincarnation of the Buddha . Religions of the Far East. ? China. ? From very early times , the religious ideas of the Chinese people combined animistic beliefs in many deities with ancestor worship . This is still a powerful factor in the faith and life of the Chinese ; among the less educated , sacrifices are regularly offered in order that the spirits of ancestors should protect and aid the living , and funeral rites include presents to supply the needs of parents in the spirit world . Therefore a man both reveres his forerunners and also regards it as essential that he should have successors to make provision for his own future after his death . Three very important consequences follow from ancestor worship . First , the Chinese have looked upon the family ? past , present and future ? as the essential unit of which they form part ; to some extent the family has taken the place @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and the idea of nationality in a political sense has only recently become strong and widespread among the Chinese . Secondly , ancestral traditions and the decision of the living head of the family act as a powerful brake upon the wheels of progress , even among educated Chinese ; thus , only after rejecting the most binding conceptions of filial piety can the younger men accept new ideas and practise new methods in almost any department of life . Thirdly , the necessity of continuing the family succession is an incentive to the maintenance of a high birth-rate and it has  | been one of the important causes of the large families and dense population of China . Confucianism has had wide influence in China . Confucius , like Buddha , lived in the sixth century before Christ ; he made no claim to divine revelation but , like Buddha , taught a way of life based on a number of moral principles , among which he ranked highly filial piety and the golden rule : " What you do not like when done to yourself , do not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the conduct of men in public life ; indeed , his teaching is a system of ethical and political rules of conduct , but it is not a religion . Taoism . At the same time as Confucius there lived another great Chinese ? Lao Tse ; the two men approved each other 's work , for in their fundamental ideas there was much in common . Also , like Buddha , Lao Tse taught a " way , " i.e. " Tao , " and his teaching is therefore known as Taoism . It became a religion , and it has borrowed ideas and rites from Buddhism to such an extent that these two forms of religion in China became very similar . Buddhism was introduced into China in the first century A.D. ; it has greatly influenced Chinese ideas and it is sometimes said to be the religion of China . Yet , in the minds of most of the people , some forms of Buddhist teaching are now merged with other beliefs and practices , including ancestor worship , together with local superstitions and customs . It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ instead of being a cause of conflict as in some countries , even aid one another in promoting feelings of tolerance among the people . Korea. ? Buddhism spread from China to this country , but here as elsewhere the faith and its priesthood suffered corruption . Confucianism became the official cult ; yet some form of animism has remained the belief of most of the uneducated Koreans , and ancestor worship is almost universal . Japan. ? The primitive religion of Japan was Shinto ( the Way of the Gods ) , a mixture of nature worship and ancestor worship . It did not have a system of doctrine or a definite code of morals , but it contained two elements which later affected the relations between Japan and other States . One was the belief that the first sovereign of Japan was the grandson of the sun goddess , and that consequently the Emperors of Japan were themselves divine , and were the source of all authority within their realm .  | The other belief inherent in Shintoism was that of the superiority of the Japanese above all other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into Japan , and for some hundreds of years Shinto became absorbed into the new religion . But in the middle of the nineteenth century , a Japanese policy of seclusion and of isolation from the rest of the world was broken by American intervention . Then , in order to ensure the concentration of political power within the State and to strengthen the feeling of nationality and national superiority , Shinto was revived , organized and established as the State religion ; its tenets were taught to the children , and by every possible means obedience to its injunctions was enforced upon all Japanese citizens . The effects of Shintoism upon internal and external politics were so far-reaching and so great a factor in military strength , that in 1945 , after the defeat of Japan which ended the war which Japan had waged to obtain supremacy throughout eastern and southern Asia , the Allied Powers ordered the abolition of Shinto as a State religion . It might still be held by individuals , though shorn of direct political and military influence , and it must now take its place @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ religions hitherto considered have arisen among , and have mainly influenced , that part of the world 's population which lives in Asia on the eastern side of the great desert-belt of the Old World . Three other great religions have arisen within , or on the margins of , the desert-belt itself , and these three have had world-wide influence . On the uplands of Judah , between the Syrian desert and the Mediterranean coast-lands , a succession of prophets early taught obedience to the tribal god of the Jews and later developed the idea that He was the one and only God ; at the same time their ideas of the moral attributes of God and the corresponding duties of men were raised to successively higher planes . In this evolution of religious thought , a critical period was the sixth century B.C. ( the century , it will be remembered , of Gautama , Confucius and Lao Tse ) , when for about two generations the Jews were taken into captivity in Babylon . The national disaster was associated with religious backsliding , and with the return to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contact came elements which now form  | part of the scriptures , such as accounts of the Creation and Deluge . In Judaism there has always been a close connection between religion and nationality : the Jews regarded themselves as the Chosen People of God , and the closest bonds binding Jews together are the worship of their God and reverence for their national traditions . After the Romans destroyed the Temple at Jerusalem in 70 A.D. , the Jews no longer formed a nation occupying its own territory . They have suffered dispersal , time after time , into many lands , and from the racial point of view have experienced great changes ; yet they have maintained a continuity of religious tradition , and the Hebrew language is still enshrined in their scriptures . In recent times persecution in Europe has caused the death or flight of millions of Jews . A considerable number went to develop their " National Home " in Palestine , and now over two millions live in the new Israeli State ; others prefer to be accepted on terms of equality as citizens of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ world is estimated at approximately twelve millions ; of these , over five millions live in U.S.A. , about three millions in U.S.S.R. , and about two millions in central and western Europe . Christianity. ? Christianity developed from Judaism , and in its early growth was much influenced by the ideas then current around the eastern Mediterranean Sea . The wider spread of Christianity has been closely bound up with the political power of the States in which it has been accepted . Its early centre was Rome whence , as the " Roman " or " Catholic " Church , it extended with relative rapidity within the Empire and more slowly over the rest of western and central Europe . The " Orthodox " or " Greek " Church developed along different lines at Constantinople ( earlier called Byzantium and now Istanbul ) , and it was much later before it spread over the east of Europe . Thus Peninsular and Trunk Europe were dominated by variant forms of Christianity , and have been affected by a number of cultural differences connected with their religions , including the use @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ alphabet in the latter . After the close of the Middle Ages , several " Protestant " churches were formed in the northern part of central and western Europe , their extent coinciding largely with that of  | the dominions of the princes who desired political independence of the Roman power . Even yet , in several parts of Europe religious and political factors are closely connected ; e.g. the mutual antagonism between the Protestants of Northern Ireland and the Roman Catholics of the Republic of Ireland is one of the hindrances to their closer co-operation . With the migration of Europeans to the new lands overseas during the last two or three centuries , Christianity has enormously extended its sphere of influence . In the Englishspeaking northern part of America the dominant form is Protestantism , while south of the United States Roman Catholicism prevails . The white inhabitants of South Africa , Australia and New Zealand , having come mainly from northern Europe , are largely Protestant . Islam. ? The last faith which has so spread as to be regarded as a world religion is Islam , for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the population in regions extending from northern Africa through south-western to central Asia , and even to India and the East Indies . Muhammad ( whose name is variously spelt ) lived in the seventh century A.D. , first in Mecca and then in Medina , two oasis settlements near the western margin of the Arabian desert . Mecca was then , as now , a pilgrim centre , but in the time of Muhammad the sanctuary was the abode of a god who was merely one of some hundreds of gods of the many Arabian tribes . Muhammad rejected the current polytheism , and taught that there was but one God and that he was His prophet . Muhammad was influenced by Jewish teaching and admitted Abraham and Jesus into the ranks of the prophets . He taught also the equality of all true believers in the faith of Islam , no matter of what race or country ; he enjoined peace between them , and required of them considerate treatment of their wives and slaves . Threatened with assassination in Mecca , Muhammad fled to Medina , and thence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Islam is essentially a proselytizing religion and before long the nomadic and warlike fanatics had extended their conquests and their faith over Arabia , the south-west of Asia and even the heart of that continent , together with all northern Africa . For a time the Muslim Moors of the Atlas Lands conquered Spain , and still later the Turks advanced  | through the whole of the Balkan region ; the invaders were , however , eventually driven back from these outposts and in Europe the only considerable number of Muslims are in parts of the Balkan countries . On the eastern side of the desert home of Islam , Muslim chiefs from central Asia invaded India , and in the sixteenth century Moghul , i.e. Mongol , emperors established their rule over much . of that country . As a result , the bulk of the population in the north-west of India , where the newcomers settled in large numbers , is now Muslim . This is also the case in eastern Bengal , where the low-caste aboriginals found that the Islamic doctrine of equality relieved them of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of India , too , there are Muslim minorities . Because of the religious differences between Hindus and Muslims , and the resultant social cleavage and sometimes economic competition , there have been repeated " communal " conflicts between them in many places in northern India . Even in China , both in the south-west and also in the north-western borderlands , there are outposts of Islam ; here , however , there is mutual tolerance between Muslim and other Chinese . The Arabs extended their influence by sea round the Indian Ocean ; hence in the north-eastern coastlands of Africa , the Malay Peninsula and the East Indian Islands , Islam has largely displaced earlier beliefs . Together with their religion the Arabs introduced other cultural factors , e.g. mathematical science and improvements in irrigation ; in central Africa , however , slave trading has often accompanied their incursions . As a rule , where Islam has been imposed it has been tenaciously held , and today it is a strong bond between most of the peoples who live in or near the great desert belt . One factor in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cities of Arabia , and it is worth noting that about one-half of the pilgrims come from Malaya and the East Indies and one-quarter from Pakistan . The political effect of the Muslim religion can be paralleled only by that which was formerly exerted by Shinto , but in the case of Islam it goes far beyond the boundaries of a single State . In this connection it must be pointed out that the " Arab League " of States , which will be further referred to in a later chapter , is based not only on a common language and interests , but also on a common culture and law derived from Islam .  | MODES OF LIFE ? THE SIMPLE FORMS IN many parts of the world , people have their modes of life determined largely by the ways in which they earn their livelihood . The regions in which the main types of occupation respectively dominate are broadly shown in maps on pp. 192 , 206 , and 246 . It will be noted that to some extent they correspond with climatic or vegetation regions , since particular @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conditions . For example , the growing of plantation products requires a much moister climate than the keeping of animals such as sheep , goats and camels ; hence the former kind of work has extended over certain parts of the hot and well-watered inter-tropical regions , while nomadic pastoral peoples utilize semi-arid areas . Again , the hunting of wild , fur-bearing animals can be carried on in the cold , sub-arctic forests or even the tundra lands . Yet while nature must permit , it does not determine , the kind of work and the mode of life in a given region , for the character of the people concerned is an essential factor . The will of man , based upon his knowledge and his desires , is the driving force by which he adapts his modes of life to his environments , and also his environments to his modes of life . Particular groups of men have learned the arts of hunting , of carrying on various forms of agriculture , of domesticating animals and using their products , and of developing industries and commerce ; such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spread to other peoples and other areas . But the spread has been gradual , and even now in some regions which are in themselves suitable for relatively advanced agriculture , primitive peoples may merely collect plants which nature provides or at best may grow a few crops in a simple and ineffective manner . Again , some of the simpler forms of pastoral work are at the present time giving way to more developed methods or are being replaced by cultivation .  | The main types of occupation will now be considered in turn , in this chapter taking those connected with the simple collecting of plants , and with hunting and fishing , and then various forms of utilizing animal life by pastoral work ; the following chapter will deal with certain kinds of agriculture . This order , however , was not the normal one of human development , for the arts of agriculture were well begun before man advanced from the hunting to the pastoral stage . Primitive Gathering and Hunting. ? A very simple mode of life is that of the peoples who satisfy their needs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , seeds and fruits , by catching animals ? sometimes larger game but usually small kinds as rats , monkeys , or lizards ? and by fishing if opportunity offers . Many of the people who get their living in this way are those who appear to be of earlier racial types and to have been driven by more developed groups into the equatorial forests of the Old World or the semi-deserts of South Africa and Australia . The pygmies of Central Africa and the East Indian Archipelago , the Semang and Sakai of the Malay Peninsula , the Bushmen of South Africa and the Australian aborigines are well-known examples . There are also some Amerind tribes who still live in much the same manner , as in the Amazon valley and forested uplands of Brazil . Although these gatherers and hunters have made but small advances in most ways , they have had to develop considerable ability in their particular means of getting a living in such unfavourable or even hostile environments . Their diggingsticks , weapons , clothing and shelter are crude but serve their purpose . The need @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ settled life and prevents the possession of any conveniences or even any surplus necessities . With practically no possibility of storing food , they suffer alternations of occasional abundance and periods of hunger . They are also much subject to disease and their life is normally short . The family is the economic unit , the men hunting or fishing and making weapons while the women gather plants , prepare food and look after the children . Related single families may be associated into family-groups , ' and these are regarded as Footnote  | having the right to occupy a certain territory , though private ownership of land is an inconceivable idea to them . In some cases the families are united into tribes , but when there are organizations of this kind they are usually loose and there is little common action . Commercial intercourse with more advanced peoples does not go beyond small exchanges . The general outlook of these folk is limited : it is " here and now . " Their numbers are necessarily small , and as their lands are still being encroached upon , while @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contacts with other peoples , they seem doomed to disappear . The only hope of their survival , as independent groups living in much the same way as their ancestors , seems to be in the creation of " native reserves " where others may not settle or acquire land . In parts of the world where game or fish were relatively abundant , peoples developed hunting or fishing modes of life to a higher stage than that described in the preceding section . This was especially the case in the mid-latitude grasslands , but as these areas were capable of more effective utilization the hunters have given way before peoples who had acquired other ways of life ; the buffalo-hunting Indians of the Prairies and Great Plains of North America may be cited as a large group which has but recently disappeared . Commercial Hunting and Trapping. ? Now , the only large regions in which hunting is the characteristic occupation are the sub-arctic forests and tundras in North America , in the extreme north-east of Europe ' and in northern Asia . Even in the remote northern forests and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some important ways by the influence of people from other regions , for most of the hunting folk are no longer dependent directly upon the products of the chase ; they sell valuable furs and skins to traders and in return obtain a considerable part of their requirements , including more effective weapons , manufactured clothing and blankets and perhaps material for tents , as well as comforts such as tobacco and even some kinds of food . In this intercourse there is a two-fold danger to the hunting communities : in the first place , peoples of simpler outlook and habits usually suffer from contact with others to whose ways they can not adapt themselves ; in the second place , the increased demand for furs and the greater efficiency of the new weapons lead the hunters to reduce the p 192 Figure  | numbers , and even to threaten the survival , of the animals on which they depend . These dangers have shown themselves so markedly among the Indians and Eskimo of North America and Greenland that the governments ? Canadian , United States , and Danish ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the game . Although the hunting communities may be considered as less advanced than those of some of the agricultural and industrial peoples , they may show a high degree of adaptation to their environment . There is usually no close organization among the hunting peoples , though family units may join into bands for hunting expeditions ; in the past , however , the tribes in some regions used to act as a whole in warfare . Fishing. ? Shore dwellers in many parts of the world have in the past obtained their sustenance entirely or almost entirely from fish and other forms of animal life in the sea . These people are now few in number , and are represented mainly by inhabitants of the inter-tropical Pacific islands from the Malay Archipelago to Polynesia . Far more important is the fishing that has developed on a great scale to provide food , oil and other products as articles of commerce sold by the fishermen for use largely in densely populated industrial and commercial regions . The bulk of the world 's supply of fish products comes from four great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the continental platforms on both sides of the Atlantic Ocean and on both sides of the Pacific Ocean in the mid-latitudes of the northern hemisphere ( see the map in Fig. 45 ) . In these situations the conditions of the ocean waters allow the existence of fish in very large numbers , as the drifting plankton , the basis of all marine life , appears to develop most abundantly on the polar sides of mid-latitudes , especially where currents meet , bringing waters from warmer and cooler areas respectively . Moreover , in all these four great fishing-grounds the shallowness of the sea facilitates the capture both of the surface , pelagic fish ( e.g. herring and mackerel ) , which live more directly upon the plankton , and also of the demersal fish ( e.g. cod and halibut ) , which dwell on or near the bottom over the continental shelves . Thus in these regions there is as yet a great supply of fish for a fishing industry , but the supply tends to be endangered by depletion to meet the demands of the large populations of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the fishing-grounds are to a large extent infertile , and the people find it a relatively paying occupation to catch the fish of the sea on the one side of their homes and to sell them to the people on the other side . They use not only the grounds nearest to them but also more distant ones ; for example , the European fishermen visit the Banks off Newfoundland , and the Japanese go to the seas off western North America . In the southern hemisphere , neither the supply of fish nor the demand for it is as great as in the northern hemisphere . The Antarctic , however , has attracted whalers from the northern fishing communities , and to such an extent that international restrictions have become necessary to prevent the extermination of the whales . The fishing communities of the present time are different in many respects from primitive fishers , for they use scientific methods and equipment . Although it is a convenient arrangement to deal with their means of livelihood in this chapter entitled " simpler forms , " their general way of life @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ peoples as closely as their occupation permits . Forestry. ? The utilization of the products of forests , as of fisheries , has become largely the concern of people closely connected with those of industrial and commercial regions . In both equatorial and tropical forests , the work is carried on by natives of the regions who generally work under the direction of European or other relatively well-off business men dealing in timber for export . In the dense equatorial forests the procuring of the timber , and also of resins , nuts and dyestuffs , is hindered by several factors : the scattered growth of particular kinds of tree ; the difficulties of transportation ; the climate ; the lack of adequate labour . Therefore , although the timber is mainly hard wood with useful properties , only the most valuable kinds are cut and exported , e.g. mahogany from Central and South America , and ebony from Africa and southeastern Asia . The collecting of the latex from the " wild " rubber-producing trees in the equatorial forests of South America and Africa has given way to the production @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The tropical forests in which there is a more uniform growth of particular kinds of tree are easier to exploit , and labour is generally more abundant and more efficient ; hence there is a  | greater development of forestry in some of these regions , e.g. the teak-producing areas of Burma , Siam and the Malay Region . Nine-tenths of the world 's supply of timber comes from the forests of mid-latitudes ; of this , less than half is " hard wood " and more than half is " soft wood . " The hard wood includes oak , beech , elm , ash , maple , chestnut , walnut and the Australian eucalypts ; it is obtained mainly from the mixed forests in central Europe and the east of North America . As most of the land in these regions has now been cleared for cultivation or pasture , the forested areas are scattered over the uplands and are relatively small ; the men engaged in forestry therefore live among , and in much the same way as , the agriculturists . Soft wood is increasingly utilized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , chemicals , rayon and other commodities are obtained . The regions in which it is cut fall into two groups . In the first group are mid-latitude areas in which conifers , especially pines , firs , spruces and cedars , are numerous . The belt of great trees along the north-western coasts of North America is one of the most important areas ; another area is on the opposite side of the continent in the south-east of Canada and the east of the United States ; a third is in east-central Europe . On the whole , these soft-wood forests are less cleared for farming than mid-latitude hard-wood areas ; hence forestry is in some cases the main occupation , though elsewhere the workers may follow a seasonal change of work , going into the woods in the winter but farming in the summer . The second group of regions yielding soft wood are the sub-arctic forests ; over considerable areas of these the cutting and transporting of timber is one of the main occupations of the inhabitants . Although these coniferous forests have an enormous extent in North @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and swampy land in which there is little valuable timber , as is the case over 30 per cent . of the forest area of northern Sweden . There are also great expanses , as in northern Canada and Siberia , where the severity of the climate allows but a poor and thin growth of trees ; in Siberia little more than half the forested region is really timber country . Moreover , the factor of accessibility is of primary importance , and at the present time the sub-arctic forest areas from which soft wood is exported are mainly limited to the south-eastern border of the North American region , viz. in Canada and  | Newfoundland , and to the western border of the Eurasian region , viz. in Scandinavia , Finland and European Russia . These areas are in relatively close touch with the industrial and commercial regions where the wood is used , while the rest of the forests have very poor communication . The northern drainage systems are of little value , for most of the rivers lead down to the Arctic Seas ; also the spring flooding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of ice-jams in the lower courses present almost insuperable difficulties in some cases . Forestry is now changing its character ; in many parts it is ceasing to be an example of " robber economy . " It is widely realized that the earlier practice of simply cutting down the trees resulted in the total destruction of the forests , which might be replaced only by a poor growth of brush or tough grass ; also there frequently followed soil erosion and its attendant evils . I-Ience this wasteful method is being replaced by a careful utilization of the forest ? a co-ordinated system of felling selected trees and arranging for the better growth or the replanting of others ; the result may be illustrated by the fact that in Sweden even in the slow-maturing sub-arctic forest the growth more than compensates for the cutting . Nomadic Herding. ? This is the simplest form of pastoralism and the migratory peoples who travel with their flocks or herds from one place to another occupy three great areas in the eastern hemisphere . The main one is that which extends over the semi-deserts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ south-western and central Asia , together with the adjoining dry steppe-land of the U.S.S.R. Other areas , in which different forms of pastoralism are carried on , are the tropical grasslands south of the Sahara in Africa , and the sub-arctic forests of Eurasia . Since the people depend almost entirely upon their animals , directly or indirectly , the mode of life is bound up with the requirements of the animals and with the products they supply . The Nomads of the Old World. ? In the main pastoral area of northern Africa and south-western and central Asia sheep form the chief stock , for they can graze upon the poorer kinds of grass and shrubs , and with them are usually goats which can exist on even poorer pastures and more scanty water-supply . Most of the needs of the people are satisfied by the products of  | these animals : the milk , and generally to a less extent the meat , give the staple food , while the wool and skins provide much of the material for clothing and tents . A much smaller number of horses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ milk and their flesh and also for riding ; in some parts camels also are bred , for their milk and hair as well as for riding and the transport of tents and gear . On the cold Tibetan plateau the nomads make use of yaks . Because of the generally scanty nature of the pastures , constant movements of the flocks are necessary , and the people live in tents grouped in encampments . Around these as centres the animals are driven from one spot to another until the available grazing , or drinking water , is exhausted ; the whole encampment is then moved to a neighbouring place . With the seasonal changes of temperature and rainfall , and the consequent disappearance of plant life in some areas , more extensive migrations are compulsory to take advantage of the growth of pasture in regions of different climatic conditions . On the north-western side of the Sahara there is a southward movement into poorer areas when winter rains make their grazing possible , while the drought of summer necessitates a northward retreat to the Atlas Lands . In the Arabian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mainly on camels , live for much of the year on the semi-desert areas and take advantage of rains to go even into the true desert , but on the other hand they migrate to the better-watered margins in times of greatest drought . In Russian Turkistan Kazak herdsmen spent the cold winter on the southern margin of the dry region , where valleys at the foot of the Tian Shan mountains give shelter and supplies of water , and in early summer went northwards to the steppes , where at that season there is rain and consequently pasture . Another type of movement is that which alternates between highland in summer and lowland in winter . For example , the Kirghiz of Turkistan had winter quarters near those of the Kazak at the foot of the Tian Shan mountains , but in summer went southward to the mountain pastures . The nomadic life prevents much accumulation of equipment and limits the material aids to cultural development . Until recently , there had been little change in the mode of life for hundreds or even thousands of years , for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the same physical conditions and to the needs and products of the animals . The introduction of the camel , however , did make possible a new way of life to the people by whom it was employed ; e.g. by its means some of them engaged in trade and transport across the desert , though recently the building of roads and the use of motor vehicles have threatened this occupation . The nomadic pastoral peoples have a simple social organization into family-groups which work together ; in these the women do most of the labour within the camp , including care of the animals , while the men 's work is mainly outside the settlement . The men have the easier life and a superior position , and the head is the patriarch , to whom all owe obedience . The families possess their own animals , but do not own their grazing-lands ; the right to use these is the common possession of clans or tribes formed by related family-groups . A transition to a more advanced type of occupation is shown where pastoral people also carry on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ winter quarters where there is a sheltered situation and where water can be obtained with fair regularity , and here some crops such as hay , grain and potatoes can be grown by those of the community who remain through the year , while the rest migrate with their animals to the summer pastures ; this mode of life , dependent upon a combined economy , is known as transhumance . In Russian Turkistan the Soviet government has developed systematic transhumance in connection with very extensive collective farms , and has organized " bases " along the lines of migration to aid travel . Another advance upon the simple , practically self-sufficing , form of nomadism is the addition of trading , animal products being regularly exchanged for goods obtained from agricultural peoples . In general , nomads have an uncertain or even precarious existence , for their animals may perish in times when rain and pastures fail or when winter snow and ice prevent grazing . In such circumstances they may trespass upon the pastures or raid the flocks and herds of other pastoralists ; thus arise frequent clashes between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ neighbours who , being of sedentary habit and unused to warfare , are commonly unable to resist the sudden onslaughts of bands of horsemen or camelmen.  | Occasionally , too , large numbers of nomads may leave their region altogether and settle elsewhere . Such raids and permanent migrations acted as safety-valves for pastoral communities , but they are no longer possible because of the growth of more powerful governments in the adjoining regions . In fact , a reverse process has now become common , viz. subjugation of the pastoralists and occupation of part of their traditional lands . This is the case , for instance , in the Turkistan region , where the Russians from Europe some time ago settled and cultivated the better steppes , and then greatly extended oasis cultivation along the line of foothills which the Kazak and Kirghiz had used as their winter quarters . Nevertheless , it is doubtful whether the main area of pastoralism in the Old World is capable of being utilized in a way greatly different from that of past ages , and it is therefore likely to remain very scantily @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some of the herdsmen of the sub-arctic forests of Asia , e.g. some of the Yakut tribes who have migrated northward , have tried to keep horses and cattle , most of the pastoralists of the north of Eurasia have domesticated reindeer which are naturally adapted to the conditions of the coniferous forest and the tundra . Several groups of people are dependent , to a greater or less degree , on tame reindeer for their living , including the Lapps in Europe and the Samoyed and Northern Tungus in Asia . Recently , attempts have been made to give the American Eskimo an additional and relatively stable means of livelihood by introducing reindeer from Asia . Among the herdsmen of the north a habit of migration is necessary , viz. to the tundra for the relatively abundant fodder during the short summer , and to the forest during the winter when constant moving is required for the scanty supply of lichen which has to be scraped from beneath the snow . The reindeer are used in several ways and to varying degrees by the different peoples ? for the milk @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ riding . Moreover , the herders are also hunters to varying degrees , and often fishing is a supplementary resource ; hence the overlapping of the markings on Fig. 45 . The Cattle Herdsmen of Africa. ? The grasslands of Africa south of the Sahara are better watered than the main pastoral region of northern Africa and Asia , and the pastures are there-  | fore both richer and also less liable to disappear because of drought ; hence there are three differences between the modes of life in these two areas . First , in the southern region as a whole , cattle form the most important part of the livestock , though sheep and goats are also kept ; secondly , migration is more limited than in the north , settled habitations being common even though they are left for a time when the herds have to be taken to distant areas ; thirdly , agriculture is widely possible and its products are already used to a considerable extent by the cattle rearers , being obtained either by the pastoralists themselves or by exchange with cultivators . The pastoral @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strait of Bab el Mandeb and migrated along the grasslands in two directions ? westward along the Sudanese savannas and southward over the East African plateaus ; they were typically nomadic warriors who often subjugated or displaced agricultural tribes previously in possession of these lands . In East and South Africa the Bantu include tribes of both modes of life , e.g. in Kenya are the Masai who are herdsmen and the Kikuyu who are cultivators ; in some cases the two occupations are combined . In northern Africa pastoral Hamites have occupied both the semi-deserts in the Sahara region , as for example the Tuareg have done , and also the drier parts of the adjoining savanna lands . Among the peoples of this latter region may be mentioned the Hamitic Fula ; originally cattle-men of the poorer country , they have penetrated southward into the better savannas inhabited by agricultural Negro tribes , and these migrations have led to modifications in the modes of life of both types of people . For example , the previously nomadic Fula have formed the ruling class in the towns and villages of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other Fula have become semi-nomadic in their habits . Although the African grasslands are not subject to drought to the same extent as the more northerly pastoral regions , they have been seriously harassed by another danger  --  insect pests ; thus in one area after another the tsetse fly caused the loss of the animals and the mass-migration of their owners . Livestock Ranching. ? In some of the grasslands and scrublands of continents recently opened to European development , a more advanced form of pastoralism is carried on . In this  | work a large number of the people , like most of the present-day fishers and hunters , are engaged in supplying the needs of great industrial and commercial regions . Their method of keeping the animals , and therefore much of their mode of life , has been derived from European practices ; moreover , many of these more advanced pastoralists are of European descent . They are not nomadic , but have settled homes , even though they leave these for a time to supervise limited migrations of their charges . It must be made clear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the keeping of animals in mixed farming but the grazing of animals entirely or largely on the natural vegetation . The regions in which this type of work is the main occupation are shown in Fig. 45 , and it will be realized that they are generally unsuited to more intensive means of utilization . There are two groups : the first are tropical savannas , including the Banos and campos of South America , and part of the Northern Territory and Queensland in Australia ; the second group are extratropical grasslands or semi-deserts in the west of North America , in Uruguay and Argentina in South America , in the interior of South Africa , and in the more southerly parts of Australia . In the tropical areas cattle form the main livestock , and in the cooler , extra-tropical regions sheep are much more numerous , though cattle and in some cases goats are also reared . The regions differ greatly from one another in the number of animals they can support and consequently in the value of their products ; e.g. in Australia the rather better-watered areas have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ones have less than one-fifth of that number ? in other words , about ten acres are necessary to support each sheep . The quality of the animals also differs considerably , but because the products are largely destined for European use , improved breeds of animals and better methods have been introduced ; consequently this type of pastoralism is much more productive than that of the nomads of Asia and Africa . Migrations of flocks and herds are not as important as in the Old World ; for instance , in summer the animals may be moved to near-by higher lands to fresh pastures or to avoid floods in lowland districts . A lack of pasture in dry seasons is in several regions met by the use of fodder such as alfalfa ( i.e. lucerne ) grown with the aid of irrigation , and in Australia the boring of deep artesian wells is a partial safeguard against the drying up  | of supplies of drinking-water . These artificial means of procuring food and water mitigate the effects of climatic variations , but droughts may nevertheless be both frequent and serious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lose a considerable proportion of their animals and some may face the ruin of their business ; yet the people themselves are not in danger of their lives nor are they forced to mass migrations as in the case of the Old World nomads , and in a few years there is a recovery in the number of sheep in the country and the value of their products . The cattle of the savannas are kept mainly for their hides , which are to a large extent exported , and for their flesh , which is in part consumed in the countries where the industry is carried on and in part sent overseas to Europe in the form of chilled , frozen or tinned beef . Dairy cattle , on the other hand , are reared on the better pastures of the regions of mixed farming which will be considered in the next chapter . There is a similar distinction between the types of sheep : while those bred mainly for mutton can be best fed on the more abundant resources available in the mixed-farming areas , those bred for their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pastoral regions here described . Hence these are the main sources of the wool which is sent overseas to the great manufacturing districts of North America and Europe , the greatest amounts coming from Australia , Argentina , New Zealand and South Africa . In the driest parts of the pastoral regions , but not in Australia or New Zealand , many goats are kept ; mohair obtained from the Angora breed is exported from the South African area . For livestock ranching , little labour is required ; for the greater part of the year the animals wander freely over wide ranges , being rounded up for branding with the marks of their owners , and later for shearing , for driving to other areas or to ports , or for slaughter . Hence the herdsmen live on small stations at considerable distances from other communities , and the population of the pastoral regions is scanty . More intensive utilization of these regions in the near future appears unlikely . A recent development in the animal industry may be noted in the breeding of furred animals in captivity , instead @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ instance , farms of silver foxes have been established in the United States and in eastern Canada , and farms of minks and foxes in Lapland .  | MODES OF LIFE ? AGRICULTURE ( 1 ) Introduction. ? The cultivation , as distinct from the simple gathering , of plants probably arose independently in several parts of the world and in various ways . For example , the custom of putting food into graves for the use of the spirits of the dead may have resulted in the appearance of new shoots , and thus suggested deliberate planting ; the same result may have followed from observing the growth of roots or seeds which had been accidentally left in soft , moist earth near dwellings . When once agriculture had become even a partial means of obtaining a food supply , it brought with it other advances in man 's modes of life . A settled dwelling near the cultivated patch would be essential and this , in turn , would allow both the construction of more permanent habitations and the accumulation of various tools and other possessions . A surplus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possibility of leisure time in which agricultural implements and also hunting weapons might be improved . Moreover , forethought as well as constant work is required for the successive processes of clearing the ground , planting , keeping the ground clear of the quickly growing weeds , protecting the crop from raiding birds and animals , and harvesting . Crops which come at definite seasons have to be stored and receptacles provided ; this need must have stimulated the arts of weaving baskets and making pottery . In such ways agriculture encouraged both mental and material progress , and with its further development many other cultural advances were brought about . Inter-tropical Shifting Tillage. ? The most primitive form of agriculture is that now carried on in equatorial regions of constant heat and rain and in those of the Tropics which have hot and rainy summers . Clearings are made in the intertropical forests and savannas by the simple method of burning the natural vegetation without removing the roots , and usually with very little cultivation of the ground . Under these conditions the soil is quickly impoverished , especially when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after a few seasons at most the  | clearing has to be abandoned . A new one is then made , if possible near the village ; after a time , however , the suitable land may be used up and the whole settlement then has to be shifted some distance , to a place where cultivable land and drinking-water are obtainable . The making of a clearing is commonly carried out with the help of all the men of a village , after which each family cultivates its particular patch and lives on the produce . Women are responsible for much of the labour as well as for the preparation of the food and the care of the children , while the men often engage in some hunting or fishing . Because of the small yield of the land and the repeated shiftings , relatively large areas can support only a small number of people ; as contrasted with the luxuriance of the natural vegetation of much of the intertropical lands , their agricultural productivity is small . There are three main regions in which this kind of cultivation is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Africa , and the area which extends from Indo-China and the East Indian Archipelago to the Pacific Islands ; these regions are broadly distinguished from one another by their typical implements and by their products . ( Refer to map on p. 206 . ) In the American region the simplest tool is employed ? the planting-stick ; this , like the dibber of our country , is used to make holes into which seeds , tubers , roots or cuttings are dropped and then covered up . Where the planting-stick is employed there is little or no cultivation of the soil , and sometimes only one crop can be obtained before the patch has to be abandoned and , as a rule , five or more years elapse before it is again utilized . The chief food plants of the inter-tropical American region are manioc , from which cassava bread is made ( and also tapioca for export ) , sweet potatoes and maize . In the Malayan ? Pacific region the digging-stick is employed ; this is a heavier tool than the planting-stick , and because it digs up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ makes it possible to extend the periods during which the same patch may be utilized . The yam is grown for its tubers and the taro for its underground stems , and in some parts upland or hill rice ? a variety which does not require irrigation . Near the sea , trees are cultivated : the coconut palm , bread-fruit tree and banana and plantain trees yield their fruits , and sago is obtained from the pith of the sago palm .  | In the African region the hoe , a still more effective implement , is commonly employed ; with this tool the soil is more thoroughly worked , and in some parts the cultivation is as efficient as under the plough of middle latitudes . The patches may be utilized for two , three , or even more seasons before a shift becomes necessary . The variety of products is fairly great : among the " root " crops yams are important , among the cereals are millets which include sorghums ( the Guinea or Kaffir corn of Africa is a sorghum ) , and of the trees @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and plantains . Tropical and Inter-tropical Fixed Tillage. ? More efficient cultivation , generally applied to soils which have been less leached and are therefore naturally more fertile , enables the land to produce a greater yield and to be used for a longer time before it requires a period of fallow . Hence the cultivated area can be kept within working distance of the village , and permanency thus becomes a characteristic both of the farmed land and of the settlement . A common feature of this fixed agriculture is the keeping of domesticated animals which by their manure aid in maintaining the fertility of the soil , and in some cases are used for such work as threshing grain , transport , and even for simple forms of ploughing . In some areas this advance has been stimulated by natural conditions . For example , on highlands the vegetation is relatively easily cleared and the land can be more easily kept free of weeds ; moreover , the area of useful land is limited and therefore careful cultivation is a necessity if any considerable number of people is to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the homes of advanced cultivators employing irrigation , and here the Spanish invaders found the Aztec civilization . Maize was grown at moderate altitudes , while at greater heights was the original habitat of the potato which has since been introduced into many lands of middle latitudes . On the plateaus of Africa millets are specially important . Upland rice is the characteristic foodstuff of many mountainous districts of the East Indian Archipelago . Moreover , in Java , even before the Dutch established their plantation system , the natives had learnt from Asiatic immigrants the art of growing rice by irrigation , and for this purpose had constructed terraces on mountain-sides and led streams from higher to lower levels . Another group of regions where fixed tillage was encouraged p 206 Figure  | by natural conditions lies near the margins of the inter-tropical zone , where heat and moisture form less of a handicap to cultivation ; here , too , the alternation of a hot , wet season with one of cooler and drier weather makes possible a relatively wide range of products which have differing climatic requirements . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ factor in the development of the fixed type of agriculture . For example , the families of native workers on many Europeanmanaged plantations grew their own food on adjoining land and adopted European methods . Again , the European governments of some tropical dependencies stimulated the production of commodities intended for sale . Areas in which cultivation of varied crops occupies a large part of the ground may be concisely labelled " crop-lands . " Accordingly , some parts of the tropical and inter-tropical regions have been transformed by fixed tillage into crop-lands , but the greater areas remain as forests , woodlands or savannas . Oasis Irrigation. ? The term " oasis irrigation " is here used to include any form of cultivation which depends upon supplying water to otherwise unproductive land ; the supply may be obtained from wells or springs in small oases , by the regulation of rivers which at times flood their valleys , or by the construction of canals which take water into an arid district . Thus , irrigation as considered in this section is distinct from that which merely helps cultivation in regions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The importance of irrigation may be realized if it is recalled that the earliest civilizations were based upon it , and at the present time the total area under irrigation is over 200 million acres ; moreover , large-scale projects for bringing water to barren lands are still being carried out while others are being planned . Oases ( always including the irrigated river valleys ) are to be found in the dry regions of tropical and middle latitudes and in a relatively few cases in the less-watered parts of the midlatitude , light-rain regions . In these irrigated areas , temperature and soil conditions are favourable for cultivation , but man must organize the water-supply . The particular products which can be obtained depend on the amount of heat , and therefore belong mainly to two classes : those which require high temperatures and those which mature with less heat . The former , such as dates , cotton , sugar-cane and rice , can be obtained only  | in the hotter oases ; the latter , such as maize , wheat , barley , and a considerable number @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ season of the tropical areas , or in the summer of the extra-tropical oases . The most important tropical and sub-tropical oasis regions are in the river basins of the Nile , the Euphrates-Tigris ( Mesopotamia ) and the Indus ; it was in these regions that three of the first civilizations developed , from about 7,000 to 5,000 years ago , and today they are the homes of dense populations amounting in each case to several millions of people . Successive improvements in irrigation may be illustrated from the case of the delta and lower valley of the Nile , where the autumn floods gave an annual supply both of water and of fertile alluvium ; the natural conditions encouraged agriculture and stimulated the control of the water , thus giving rise to the great irrigation system of ancient Egypt . The simple " shaduf , " a long cane or pole suspended above the river bank , tipped buckets of water on the adjacent land , but could supply only small areas . This method was supplemented by " basin " irrigation , by which canals led water from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; the basins could be filled only during the autumn period of high water , and therefore could be used for the subsequent cool-season crops such as wheat and barley , but not for summer-growing crops such as cotton . For this reason , " perennial " irrigation was introduced about a century ago ; reservoirs were made and water brought from them whenever required , and cotton became the great export production of Egypt . Today , engineering works include huge barrages across the Nile to regulate the floods at several points , reservoirs which store thousands of millions of cubic feet of water , and innumerable large and small canals which distribute the water , as and when needed for the various crops , over several thousand square miles of cultivated land . In the Sudan , recent works have irrigated the Gezira area between the White Nile and the Blue Nile ; here the summer heat is so great that the cotton crop is grown during the cool season and picked in spring . In Mesopotamia , the different natural conditions present different problems for the utilization of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the ancient works fell into ruin largely as a result of the incursions of Mongols , and quite  | recently modern engineering made a new start in almost uninhabited districts . In Iraq there is a smaller population than in Egypt , and the chief productions are grain in the northern part , and rice and dates in the southern part . In the north-west of India irrigation canals were by no means extensive in ancient times , and the British government constructed enormous new works and organized the settlement of millions of people in what was barren country . In the Punjab , wheat , millet and other foodstuffs are grown , and in the lower Indus valley , grain , rice and cotton are obtained . The very numerous oases of the desert belt of northern Africa and south-western Asia are watered from wells , springs or small streams . They are of various sizes , but no large works are required for their irrigation ; the peasants grow grain , vegetables and fruit for their own use , and dates both for home consumption and for export @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with adequate water at its roots it can flourish even when the water and soil are too saline for other productions . On the cooler plateaus of Iran and Turkistan , grain , vegetables and some fruits can be grown ; the cultivation of the vine has spread even to the oases of Central Asia where it must be protected from the winter cold by being buried under mounds of earth . In Russian Turkistan large amounts of cotton are grown by irrigation from the Syr Daria and the Amu Daria . Similar productions come from the irrigated areas of the New World . In the United States and Mexico , engineering works lead water from the Western Cordillera into arid and semi-arid highland basins which yield grain , vegetables and fruits , and also alfalfa for feeding cattle ; the coastal areas of the south of California also depend upon water from the Cordillera . In South America , the Andes supply the Atacama ? Peruvian desert for plantations of sugar-cane and the arid region of Argentina for sugar , rice , alfalfa and fruit . In Australia , also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rice ; here , most of the irrigation is in the central and lower courses of the Murray and Murrumbidgee river systems . In many regions irrigation is complicated by the need for adequate drainage . This is obviously the case in delta lands where the ground is apt to be waterlogged ; in inland basins , too , a problem arises when the water brings with it dissolved salts and alkalis and , after evaporation , leaves on the surface  | crusts and efflorescences which prevent further utilization of the ground . On the other hand , in several areas surplus water is used for power ; it turns turbines which generate electricity , and this can be carried by cables to considerable distances and employed for lighting , heating and mechanical power . Oasis irrigation was one of the most important factors in the cultural advance of mankind . From the primitive use of flood water , the art of agriculture developed in many ways , growing new crops and utilizing improved implements ; domesticated animals were employed to draw the plough as well as to transport goods in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ improvements in methods spread to distant regions . In other matters , too , developments in irrigation brought advances . Thus in ancient Egypt each family could no longer live and work by itself on its own plot of land ; the waters had to be controlled over great stretches of country , and this involved the formation of a State in which the water , the land and the people were organized by officials so that large numbers of men worked in co-operation on the irrigation schemes . Several branches of science owe their early development to the problems which had to be solved : the construction of the irrigation works and the utilization of water- and wind-power led to engineering , and this also achieved the building of great roads and of the palaces and pyramids of the Egyptian kings ; systems of writing , measuring and calculating had to be devised ; astronomical observations of the sun , moon and stars were necessary to foretell the time of the return of the floods ; the invention of geometry was required to mark out again , after the floods @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ground . The necessary division of labour among the specialized groups and classes of people meant that the productions had to be distributed , and commerce was organized to deal with the surplus . To accommodate the rulers and officials and to give centres for industries and trade , cities were laid out . The numerous cultural advances related to irrigation effected such radical changes in the appearance of the lands that a new phenomenon appeared on the earth ? a " cultural landscape . " In this the larger features of the relief remained , but much of the natural vegetation was replaced by cultivated plants ; also , as far as man had occupied the country , the buildings and many  | results of his labours formed elements in the cultural landscape , and manifested even the workings of his mind . In most oases of the present time productivity is so great that a large number of people can be supported on a given area ; dense populations are the rule . The ways in which the land is owned or rented , i.e. the methods of land @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but also the provision of water is involved . In the case of the oases proper the owners of small patches of land may have their own wells or springs ; peasant proprietorship is common . Where river or canal engineering is necessary , this may be undertaken by commercial enterprises which sell the water to the owners of the land , and might in some cases hold them almost at their mercy . Hence some large irrigation schemes are under the control , and some are under the direct management , of the State , which determines the conditions both of the supply of water and of its use . Elsewhere , farmers may be authorized to form co-operative societies of their own to supply their needs . Plantation Agriculture. ? Three hundred years ago , Europeans had begun to establish colonies , known as plantations , in inter-tropical and tropical regions in order to obtain commodities , e.g. cane sugar , tobacco and cotton , which were sent back to European countries . Although the word " plantations " originally referred to the settlements which were " planted " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ obtained , for practically all are obtained from trees or shrubs planted , not sown ; they now produce also tea , coffee , rubber , bananas , cacao , copra ( dried coconut kernels from which oil is pressed ) and sisal ( yielding fibre for twine and rope ) . By no means the whole supply of these commodities comes from plantations , for some part is obtained under other systems of cultivation ; all plantations , however , are carried on with the main object of exporting their production . Hence it follows that plantations are business concerns and the type of cultivation is essentially different from the subsistence agriculture of the forms of inter-tropical agriculture already described . As a rule the plantations are on relatively large-scale holdings which require a considerable amount of capital , expert knowledge and skilled supervisors ; in general , the capital and organization were first supplied from European or American sources , and the supervisors were White men who remained only for a period  | of some years on the plantations . Most of the considerable amount of labour required on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from other inter-tropical or tropical regions ; moreover , the heavy seasonal needs such as planting and picking ( for effective machinery for gathering tea , coffee , sugar and rubber is not yet devised ) often have to be met by bringing in workers from neighbouring areas . In the early days the labourers were often slaves , and even later they were recruited in a form not very different from slavery ; now their condition has generally improved , though an indirect form of compulsion may still exist , as for instance where Natives have to pay a tax to the governments of colonies and the only way to obtain the money is to work in alien enterprises such as plantations and mines . In recent years , a development has become widespread in which the Natives have undertaken the production of one special commodity for export ; for example , two-thirds of the = large amount of cacao obtained from the Guinea coast of West Africa comes from the holdings of African growers , encouraged by manufacturers of cocoa and chocolate and aided by the advice and assistance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of commodities produced under this kind of native cultivation are cotton from Uganda , copra from the Pacific Islands , yerba mate from Brazil and sugar from Mauritius and Fiji . In such cases holdings are relatively small . Some plantations have been made in order to substitute scientific growing of the trees and efficient collection of their yield for the often haphazard procuring of wild products , generally of poor quality ; examples are rubber now grown in Malaya , Ceylon and the East Indies , and cinchona ( for quinine ) in Java , the plantation yield of both commodities having practically superseded the natural growth in South America . It may be further noted that both rubber and cinchona , after having been planted first under the direction of White men , are now obtained also by coloured people in the Malay region . Other commodities , too , have been obtained by alien and by Native owners ; e.g. tea , produced on large-scale Europeanand Native-owned plantations in India , Ceylon and the East Indies , while it is grown also on the small-scale holdings of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ example of a commodity produced under different types of ownership .  | The common characteristic of plantation agriculture is the concentration upon one main crop , and as this is destined for sale , the enterprise is liable to suffer from changes in the market price ; a glut in a particular commodity means a heavy fall in the world price , and perhaps bankruptcy of planters , reduction of the producing areas and loss of the means of livelihood of the workers . Most forms of monoculture ( one-crop farming ) face commercial risks which are due to conditions in distant parts of the world , in addition to climatic variations and consequent bad harvests in the producing regions . Some plantation commodities are produced within a markedly limited area : e.g. bananas are exported mainly from the mainland and islands bordering the Caribbean Sea ; quinine from Java ; cloves from the islands Zanzibar and Pemba ; coconuts and their products from the islands bordering or within the Pacific Ocean . On the contrary , other commodities have an unusually wide range of production . Cane sugar is exported @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the East Indies , and the Pacific Islands near the Tropic of Cancer ; smaller amounts come from mainland coastal belts , e.g. in Brazil , Guiana , Peru , Queensland and Natal . In Australia the earlier plantations have given place to farms . Also , sugar in India and China is not obtained from plantations , as the term is here used , nor does it even satisfy the home needs of those countries . Coffee is another widely distributed commodity ; although the greatest centre is in eastern Brazil , it is also a " Caribbean " production , and several other areas lie on uplands around the Indian Ocean . By reviewing the regions in which plantations have been formed , it will be seen that some of them have the equatorial type of climate and others the hot , rainy-summer type . Most are fairly close to the sea , though there are marked exceptions in the relatively recent developments on the inland plateaus of East and South Africa . The maritime position of most plantations , besides satisfying the special climatic requirements of particular @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ heat for the managers and workers , and it facilitates the export of the products and the import of equipment and food . The growing of cane sugar in the coastal districts of Australia between latitudes 16 ? and 29 ? S. is exceptional in being carried  | on entirely by white labour under a tropical climate ; production of cotton by white labour in tropical areas of Queensland is insignificant . It may be noticed that in this section cotton-growing in the south of the United States has not been included ; like the sugar production of Australia , cotton-growing in North America began under the usual plantation system , but the abolition of slavery led to such modifications that it is now better described as a form of sub-tropical cultivation . Tropical and Sub-tropical Rainy-summer Cultivation. ? South-eastern Asia . No sharp dividing line can be drawn between the more productive kinds of inter-tropical and tropical fixed tillage ( e.g. some of the native agriculture in the East Indies ) and tropical small-holding cultivation like that of India and southern China . Here much of the farming is of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ populations , and it produces rice , cotton and other crops requiring considerable heat and rain at the same time . In the transitional Indo-Chinese Peninsula , agriculture shows several stages of evolution , while the more easily cultivated parts have products similar to those of southern China . Except on the forested highlands and wooded slopes , there is a sufficient amount and variety of production for the Peninsula as a whole to be grouped among the tropical crop-lands . It is in China and Japan , however , that intensive methods of cultivation and the associated mode of life show themselves in most pronounced form . One of the earliest civilizations was that of China ; it probably arose in connection with the cultivation of the loess in the North China Plain , and the arts of agriculture gradually spread from there throughout the Far East . In southern China with the tropical rainy-summer type of climate , and in central China and southern Japan with the sub-tropical rainy-summer type , a most intensive form of cultivation is carried on by families owning several extremely small and scattered plots @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an average ; on the produce of these they live a hard and often precarious life . The ground is very thoroughly worked , largely by hoeing and by spade digging , and also by " wet ploughing " of the ricefields , the ploughs being often drawn by water-buffalo . Irrigation may be used for rice-growing and to supplement rainfall for other crops ( see note on p. 221 ) . The soil is kept in such excel-  | lent condition , by very careful manuring and an ancient system of rotation of crops , that periods of fallow are not necessary even though the yields are great . The long series of operations involved in the cultivation of rice makes heavier demands on the industry and patience of the workers than most crops , and men , women and children must all take their part ; on the other hand , the yield of rice is correspondingly high , and as it is the main food of China and Japan , it makes possible the extraordinarily dense farming population of these countries . Because the temperatures over most of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the year , it is possible by skilful alternation of plants which ripen at different seasons to practise doublecropping , i.e. two crops may be obtained from the same ground in the course of a year ; wheat and beans are grown after rice over central and southern China , southern Korea and most of Japan . Few animals are kept in this tropical and sub-tropical agricultural region of Asia , with the exceptions of water-buffalo , and of pigs and poultry which form an important though relatively small element in the diet of the Chinese ; recently cattlerearing has been slowly increasing in Japan . It may be pointed out that on the map on p. 206 , the northern limit of this type of cultivation is drawn to coincide approximately with that of the main production of rice in China , Korea and Japan . It also marks the area in which cotton is one of the chief crops , although in China cotton cultivation overlaps northward into lowlands of the Hwang Ho Basin , while in Japan the land is used predominantly for growing food , cotton being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the southern part of Korea and much of Japan , the production of silk has been of great importance , though artificial silk is now a serious menace to the industry . The growing of the mulberry trees , the care of the silkworms and the preparation of the fibre together constitute a very intensive form of farm-work . In China a distinction may be made between the south ? i.e. the basin of the Si Kiang and the coastal lands on both sides of Canton ? and central China ? i.e. the basin of the middle and lower Yangtze Kiang with the adjacent coastal districts . Central China has a sub-tropical climate and its type of farming is that described above , but in southern China the climate is tropical and the cultivation has some distinctive features . With a longer period of hot weather , two harvests of rice can be  | obtained in a year on the same plot , in addition to another of a grain or other crop during the cooler season . The greater production of rice makes possible an even further reduction in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ areas . Another common food crop in the tropical south is the sweet potato , and sugar-cane and citrus fruits are important products . In India there are various types of agriculturists in the south , including those who practise primitive forms of cultivation as well as those who can be classed with the skilled farmers of the Far East . Cultivation in India is most developed in the north , partly because the later immigrants into this region are at a higher level of general advance , and partly because in recent times the British government aided farming by provision of large-scale irrigation apart from that described earlier as of the oasis type . In the south-east much land is irrigated from storage ponds or lakes known as " tanks . " Taking India as a whole , rice occupies a far greater area than any other crop , though it is mainly grown in the wetter parts . Cotton has a different distribution , being obtained from areas of less rainfall ; wheat , too , is a product of drier parts of the country and much of it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ food-supply of India comes from other grains , e.g. millets , which include the sorghum known as " jowar , " and from pulses comprising peas , chickpeas or " gram , " beans and lentils . In general , cultivation in India is not so efficient as in China and Japan , and the yields are consequently lower . Hoeing is less practised and there is less careful manuring . Rice-growing in particular does not receive the minute attention given to it in the Far East ; on the other hand , where cotton is grown for export it is more effectively tended than in China . In India there is always a considerable amount of ground lying fallow , and in addition there are large areas of uncultivable land ? the " jungle " especially common in the south . In the north of India , climatic conditions , aided by irrigation , allow the cultivation of two contrasted types of plants which may be grown in rotation during the same year . The hotweather or " kharif " crops which are reaped in autumn include rice , cotton @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ among the cold-weather or " rabi " crops which are reaped in spring are other pulses , wheat and barley .  | In contrast to the Far East , India lacks pig-keeping , but has very large numbers of cattle , sheep and goats which are often pastured on the fallow and unused lands . Bullocks and buffaloes are used for transport and ploughing , and the cows yield milk from which is made " ghi , " i.e. butter clarified to the consistency of thick oil . Indian cattle-keeping and dairying is in special need of development , for production is small in comparison with the number of animals , it is often of poor quality and sometimes injurious to health , and its cost is probably higher than anywhere else in the world . The reasons are complicated : ignorance of hygienic principles , the influence of religious ideas , the consequent reluctance of the government to intervene , and the impossibility of large-scale improvements such as are possible in crop-raising through irrigation systems . In China , Japan and India agriculture is the main support of a dense @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ living and is subject to famine when the monsoons fail . Apart from the highlands on which forests still remain , these countries are tropical or sub-tropical crop-lands . South-eastern United States. ? In North America , the region of sub-tropical , rainy-summer cultivation is situated in the southeast of the U.S.A. , and corresponds broadly with the area politically known as " the southern States , " or simply " the South . " On a map showing the smaller agricultural regions of the United States it would include in its northern part the " cotton belt " and in the south the " humid sub-tropical zone . " This latter zone produces rice on floodable land in the western coastal area of the Gulf of Mexico , sugar-cane on the delta land of the Mississippi , and in Florida citrus fruits and " truckcrops , " i.e. vegetables sent by truck in express trains for the winter supply of the cities of the northern States . The cotton belt of the United States is the greatest cottonproducing region in the world ; till recently it was a one-crop area @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crops , especially maize and hay for cattle and pigs . Negro slave labour was the basis of the early cultivation of cotton , and still much of the work is done by Negroes . In connection with the important matter of land tenure , it must be noted that after the abolition of slavery the large plantations disappeared , and most of the farms were held on a tenancy basis , either by White people or by Negroes . There  | were two systems of tenure : one by the payment of a fixed rent , the other by " share-cropping , " i.e. the sharing of the crop return between owner and farmer . The farms of the southern States ( although at least twenty times as large as the holdings of the peasants in the corresponding region in China ) were generally considerably smaller than those of the northern States ; the land was often worked with the aid of a plough drawn by a single mule ? an exceptional state of affairs in the U.S.A. , where machinery and large-scale working are typical . Exceptional , too @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was much poverty both among the coloured population and among the " poor Whites . " Now , however , a further change is proceeding rapidly , stimulated by the Second World War . Many of the poor Whites and Negroes were required for army service or went north into war industries , and to make up for lack of labour , agricultural machinery was widely introduced ? notably the mechanical cotton-picker . For mechanization there were two requisites : the provision of capital and the formation of large farms by the joining of small ones , and both needs were supplied by companies largely of northern origin . Partly as a result of the changes , many ofthe Negro and White workers did not return to the region and the rural population tended to diminish ; yet the productivity of the South increased . The farmers of this North American sub-tropical crop-land do not suffer from floods and droughts to such a degree as those of the regions of the same type in Asia , but their great scourge is the cotton boll weevil ? an insect pest which did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and is still serious . South Brazil. ? South of the Brazilian region of tropical plantations is a sub-tropical area which as yet is relatively undeveloped , and therefore may make a larger contribution to the world 's food-supply . In the coastal and lower parts , some crops which need considerable heat are grown , e.g. rice , bananas and sugar-cane ; on the cooler plateau are the chief crops , which include maize , vines , beans and potatoes , while large numbers of pigs are kept . The farmers , largely of German and Italian descent , possess small properties cleared from the forest ; they use rather crude methods , subsist largely on their own products and in a number of ways lead a pioneer-like life . As a whole , the region is in process of evolution into a crop-land.  | Australia. ? In the eastern coastal areas of Australia there is a belt of sub-tropical cultivation under summer maximum rainfall conditions . Some of the production is for home use and some for sale in other districts and overseas . The region extends from south-east @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as pine-apples , bananas and papaws are obtained ; it continues along the coast of northern New South Wales , outstanding for bananas and dairy produce , and includes districts north and west of Sydney where citrus fruits are grown . Throughout this belt between the highlands and the sea , relatively narrow but important on account of its productivity , much of the cultivated land is given over to maize , sorghum , hay and green fodder crops used for the dairying industry . Sub-tropical Dry-summer Cultivation. ? In regions with the " Mediterranean " climate , the warm and wet winters followed by hot , dry and sunny summers permit the growth and ripening of warmth-loving fruits which have become the typical production of regions of this type ; of great importance are the olive , vine , and citrus fruits ? especially oranges and lemons . Wheat and barley grow during the winter and are harvested in early summer . Irrigation is often employed to supplement the rainfall , and this makes possible not only better and safer yields of the usual " Mediterranean " fruits and grain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , maize and other crops of summer-rain regions . The lack of natural grasses , save on the more mountainous areas , often prevents the pasturing of cattle and limits that of sheep and goats . A short label applicable to the regions with this type of cultivation is " sub-tropical fruit- and grain-lands . " In the Mediterranean region proper are the lands where " wheat , wine and oil " have provided the main sustenance of the people from time immemorial . In the coast-lands bordering the Mediterranean Sea , the lowlands are not extensive and the hillsides are commonly terraced . The individual plots of land are therefore small , irrigation by small streams from the uplands is simple , and by intensive work with the hoe the peasants from their small properties obtain quite a variety of grain and fruit crops , besides vegetables . Yet the total yield is not great and often a rather low standard of living is their reward . There is also a considerable export of olive oil , wine and grapes , citrus fruits and figs . Milk from sheep and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ form of sour milk and cheese . Some animals are driven up to the better-watered mountain pastures during the dry summer and brought down to the villages for the winter ; this transhumance , with summer upland huts for those of the people who tend the flocks and herds , is characteristic of the Mediterranean Lands . In North America , the Central Valley of California is a very productive region of this type ; it specializes in growing for export and uses most efficient methods . In the New World , the early settlers acquired much larger areas of land than those possessed by farmers or peasants in the Old World , hence many of the land-holdings in the " Mediterranean " region of America are relatively large ; also large-scale irrigation is utilized , abundant water being brought from the adjoining mountains . Wheat and alfalfa are grown , but the great production is of fruit and vegetables , especially those which can be sold at prices able to cover the cost of transport by rail or ocean carriers . A high degree of commercial development has been attained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vegetables in plants operated by machinery . In South America the Central Valley of Chile has several similarities to the Central Valley of California , including the supply of irrigation water from the mountains . But in Chile , as a legacy of the past , large landowners hold their workers in a semi-servile condition ; these people toil hard and live miserably . Moreover , the production is largely for consumption within the country , and hence generally lacks the stimulation of competition in export trade . Wheat is the principal crop , and barley and maize occupy much land ; alfalfa is grown as cattle feed . Fruit trees , too , are cultivated , and vines yield grapes used mainly for making wine for home consumption . In South Africa , the south-west of the province of the Cape of Good Hope has , from the first days of European occupation , been a region where wheat- and vine-growing have been characteristic . Its main developments have been in the use of irrigation from the Cape Ranges , in the export of wheat and wine to Britain and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Mediterranean " fruits . In exporting to Europe , South Africa has an advantage that its grain and fruit ripen at different times of the year from those of the northern hemisphere , and reach Europe during periods of relative scarcity in the markets .  | In Australia , regions with this " fruit and grain " type of production are found in the south-west corner of West Australia and the south-east corner of South Australia . In these States of the Commonwealth of Australia , wheat is the chief product , but the yield is low on the average and is markedly variable . The vine also is grown , and wine and dried fruit are exported . This is mainly done in South Australia where cultivation is aided by irrigation from the " Highlands " and along the lower course of the River Murray ; in Western Australia some water comes from storage basins in the Darling Ranges . Other fruits are obtained , but in general the productivity of the " Mediterranean " regions of Australia is not great compared with their area . Addendum on rice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ water of a depth of several inches during the growing season , as is described in the account given later ( p. 389 ) of the work of a Chinese farmer . The water may be supplied by heavy local rain ( as in the Irrawaddy Delta ) , by natural overflow from neighbouring streams or by an irrigation system bringing it from rivers ( as in North India ) , or from " tanks " ( as in South India ) . In all cases the cultivators enclose the fields and regulate the intake and outflow as required . Rice requires much more water than most crops , e.g. a supply perhaps ten times that sufficient for wheat . Hence it is not in general a suitable crop for oases , except where abundant water is brought from a climatic region of another type . S.R.Q. III-8.  | MODES OF LIFE-AGRICULTURE ( 2 ) Mid-latitude Plough Farming. ? In mid-latitudes the plough is the typical agricultural implement , and its use is closely bound up with the distinguishing characteristics of the farming . Although the plough is employed to some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of farming in the cooler parts of the world . Much of these areas was originally forested ; the ground had first to be cleared and the stumps of the trees removed , and it was then prepared for planting by the turning of the soil with ploughs which worked over comparatively large fields . Thus , as compared with the intensive hoe cultivation of the warmer regions , plough farming of the cooler regions is normally extensive , even though small areas of the ploughed lands may be further worked with the hoe and though specially valuable crops may be produced by intensive methods . Mid-latitude plough farming has spread into regions of several different types of climate , but in all of them only one harvest a year is possible ; also , until recent scientific improvements , the yield of the crops in these cooler latitudes has generally been less than that of those which receive more heat in their growing period . Hence , as a given unit of land has not produced a large supply of food , the number of people it could support has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stimulated movement of some of the people to unoccupied lands ; in this way wide areas have come under the plough . Because the regions over which plough farming has spread differ widely from one another both in their natural conditions and in the traditions of their peoples , there are considerable differences in the methods and the results of farming of this kind . In Eastern Asia , besides the " wet " ploughing of the warm rice lands with the aid of water-buffaloes , in the mid-latitude rainy-summer region of the Hwang Ho basin there has been from very early days " dry " ploughing with the aid of oxen and donkeys . Here wheat , millets , sorghum , soya and other beans are the chief food crops , and upon these a dense population is  | supported by intensive cultivation and thorough manuring of small-holdings , for similar methods and traditions dominate life here as in the warmer parts of China . Although the Hwang Ho lowlands are of unusual fertility , they are very liable both to disastrous floods and to droughts ; alternations of good @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ North China . Somewhat similar methods of farming as in China have spread to the lowland areas of Korea with the same type of climate , and immigrants from North China into Manchuria grow much the same crops as in their native land . In Manchuria there has been a notable development of the cultivation of the soya bean , which is of extraordinary nutritive value ; it takes the place of meat among many of the almost vegetarian people of the Far East , it is pressed for oil , it supplies food for animals , and it is now exported in great amount . With varied forms of food production , mid-latitude plough farming has converted the plains of North China and Manchuria into a crop-land of a type quite distinct from that of the subtropical region to the south . In south-eastern Siberia the climate is marked by its short summer , and is therefore less favourable to cultivation . Forest still predominates over most of the region and farming is limited to river valleys ; the hardier grains , vegetables and hay are obtained , and in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This type of farming is carried on also in the northernmost parts of Korea and Japan , and the general aspect of these three regions can be concisely expressed by the phrase : forests and farmlands . Still farther to the north , in the sub-arctic climate region , the coniferous forest has given place to farming only in the valleys of the middle Lena river system . Apart from this area , agriculture is quite exceptional , being carried on in small and scattered spots and restricted to the hardiest forms . As a whole , the region may still be described in terms of the natural vegetation , viz. sub-arctic forest . In Europe , the character of the agriculture was determined by the convergence of two streams of influence . ( i ) From the early civilizations of the Middle East came plough cultivation , especially of wheat and barley ; in Europe itself , however , was invented a heavy type of plough which , as contrasted with the simpler and more primitive form , enabled farmers to open the  | soil to a greater depth , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( ii ) From the pastoral peoples who migrated along the steppe-lands came increased knowledge of the rearing of flocks and herds and the use of their products . Thus developed the practice of " mixed farming , " combining the growing of crops with the keeping of animals ; among its advantages are the use of animal manures to increase the yield of the crops and to maintain the fertility of the soil . Even so , only a relatively sparse population could be supported by agriculture until recent advances ; these include better rotation of crops , effective draining of wet soils and marshy areas , importation of natural manures and artificial production of fertilizers , and the scientific breeding of more useful varieties of plants and animals . Meanwhile , the increase of population engaged in industry and commerce brought about an increased demand for food , especially in the form of cereals ; hence wheat , barley , oats and maize were increasingly grown where conditions were most favourable . Later , when supplies of grain were brought from overseas , the farmers in some parts of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to intensive dairy farming , keeping their herds largely upon imported cattle food . In some areas , too , there was great increase in the cultivation of " industrial crops " such as flax , sugar-beet and tobacco . In the warmer parts , fruits were increasingly produced and the making and export of wine became important in certain districts . In the Soviet lands of eastern Europe and western Siberia , a markedly greater yield resulted from the formation of largescale mechanized farms organized on a collective basis . In Britain , the Second World War , with its need for reducing imports of food , brought about two important developments . The first was the ploughing up of much permanent pasture , to bring it into a rotation by which crops of grain or roots alternate with leys , i.e. areas of sown grasses or clover . This " ley farming " or " alternate husbandry " had been long practised in areas overlapping the north and west borders of England and recently developed by scientific research in certain parts of Wales ; it was now extended widely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advantage : leys give a greater and better supply of fodder than permanent pastures , while the grass rotation helps to maintain the fertility and yield of grainbearing land . The second change was due to increased atten-  | tion given to the nutritional value of the food available in wartime . In particular , it was realized that the provision of essential vitamins in the diet of the people needed an increased production of milk and of vegetables . Hence the farming was organized so that an adequate amount of these dietetic necessities should be obtained in this country , even in post-war times when grain and other farming products could be again imported . In western and central Europe , considered as a whole , the cool temperate climate with rain at all seasons encourages midlatitude plough cultivation ; yet within this region three varieties of farming may be noted , the differences being due in part to natural conditions of climate and relief , and in part to the traditions or policies of the peoples of the respective areas . ( 1 ) On the wetter Atlantic margins @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even the ploughed land may be devoted to a considerable degree to producing animal food ; these pastoral regions are relatively scantily populated . ( 2 ) On the highlands and uplands only the valleys can be cultivated . The highlands are largely still wooded , and at a rather lower level the land is used as far as possible for summer pastures ; hence transhumance is common , and in the upland huts cheese is made from cows ' and goats ' milk . In these regions , too , only a scanty population can get a living . ( 3 ) Over by far the largest part of Peninsular Europe , arable land is dominant , although almost everywhere the aim is mixed farming ; the productivity of the work varies with the growing of particular crops , but on the whole there is a fairly dense rural population , and the general standard of living is higher than in most of the agricultural regions of the world . Cultivation occupies so much of the area that most of the region may be described as a crop-land . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ areas may be distinguished in succession from north to south . ( i ) In the north , adjoining the tundra , is the region with the sub-arctic type of climate where coniferous forests are dominant and agricultural clearings are still small . Plough and livestock farming has extended into this region , but it is not one of its main features . Potatoes for man and root-crops for animals are grown , but experiments for increasing grain cultivation have met with scant success . It appears that scientific selection , breeding and appropriate care of special  | varieties of trees may make the forests of greater value , and may prove a better investment than attempts to substitute forms of plant life which are fundamentally alien in the region . ( ii ) To the south of this area in eastern Europe , the climate is of the mid-latitude , short-summer type ; the mixed forests have been more extensively cleared and farming is more productive . Rye and oats are the chief cereals , vegetables are grown , and the keeping of cattle and pigs is an important part @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proportion of the land is still wooded , and the region may be described as one of forests and farmlands. ( iii ) Across most of the southern part of eastern Europe lies the better-watered part of the mid-latitude , light-rain climate region . In this belt , moderately high temperatures and sufficient rainfall during the summer allow a wide variety of crop production like that of the adjoining region of central Europe . Grain , including much maize and wheat , and root crops supply food for men and animals , industrial plants are grown , and vegetables and fruit of many kinds also contribute to the fairly high standard of living of a dense population . From the agricultural point of view this belt is a continuation of the cropland of western and central Europe . ( iv ) In the south-east , a scarcity of rain limits production ; the drier part of the mid-latitude , light-rain climate region has only recently been farmed on modern lines , and mainly produces grain , especially drought-resistant varieties of wheat . Towards the more arid parts , cultivation gives place @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In its farming aspect , this region may be labelled a " grain- and grazing-land . " From European Russia , modern forms of cultivation have spread into Western Asia , and two farming regions extend from Europe for a considerable distance to the east . South of the almost unchanged sub-arctic forest is a relatively narrow belt of forest and farmland , and to the south again is a broader belt of grain- and grazing-land . These regions continue as far as the highlands of central Asia , but farther east farming is carried on only in specially suitable places along the line of the TransSiberian railway , until it reaches the eastern Asiatic regions . In North America , mid-latitude plough cultivation has developed to the greatest extent in the mid-latitude , rainy-summer climate region . In the part of this region bordering the Atlantic  | early colonists grew much the same crops as those to which they were accustomed in western and central Europe , and here the agricultural production is now of very varied type with dairy farming playing a considerable part ; towards the south @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sown in the autumn ) is an important crop and tobacco has been a valuable product from plantation days to the present time . Across the Appalachians the wide , generally level expanses were opened to settlement before adequate labour was available and , to remedy the lack , mechanical power was applied to agriculture . First steam engines , and then internal-combustion engines using petrol , were employed to work huge fields , not only ploughing but also carrying out all the subsequent operations to the final reaping , storing and transport of the harvests . Thus the vast extent of this region was rapidly brought under cultivation ; moreover , the use of machinery in America was adopted in Europe and was a considerable factor in aiding the development of farming in that continent . The use of machines on large farms with relatively few workers led in America to a different type of distribution of the agricultural population from that of Europe . In the Old World the most common arrangement is for the farmers to live in groups in villages surrounded by their lands ? a heritage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scattered clearings and when farm-houses were built closely together to resist attack . In the " Middle West " of America , the open prairies and peaceful conditions allowed wide-scattered homesteads to lie in the centre of their own holdings ; hence , until other means of livelihood were developed in the region , the farmers lived almost isolated lives . In the central part of North America , north of the " cotton belt , " maize , winter wheat , other grains and root crops , and in the east tobacco , are obtained ; much of the farm produce is used for the fattening of enormous numbers of cattle and hogs . North-west from this area is the " spring wheat belt , " where the winters are too cold for the grain to be sown before the spring , while to the north-east is an area where hay is produced in large amount and dairying is important . Over much of the central areas of the United States the work , though " extensive , " is productive and maintains a fairly dense farming population at a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  | Atlantic coast of the northern part of U.S.A. to about longitude 100 ? W. the country is of the crop-land type . Farther west , both in the United States and in Canada , the growing of grain , especially wheat , together with sheep- and cattle-rearing , spread into the region of light rain , which became a grain- and grazing-land . Here , however , dangerous advances were made . At times of good or average rainfall settlement extended westward and a system of " dry farming " was adopted ; conservation of soil moisture was attempted by loosening the surface and so preventing the loss of water by capillary action . At times of drought , however , the pulverized soil was blown from this " dust bowl , " farms became useless and were abandoned . This is one instance of the serious problem of soil erosion , discussed at the end of this chapter . Farther north , the mid-latitude , short-summer climate region straddles the international boundary from the Atlantic westward till it swings northward in the Prairie Provinces of Canada . In this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the eastern part dairy farming has become important locally ; yet large tracts of forest remain , the agricultural population is generally scanty , and the region is a forest and farmland . On the west of the continent , parts of the dry interior plateaus of the Cordillera in British Columbia and the adjoining state of Washington are utilized for wheat production , and in some of the valleys fruit is grown with the aid of irrigation . The coastlands of British Columbia and Washington , which have a climate comparable with that of western Europe , have but small areas of lowland in which agriculture is possible . Forests and farmlands are therefore characteristic of the mid-latitude Pacific coastal region . In South America , the only large area developed by cultivation under the plough is the Pampa around the Rio de la Plata and the lower Parana river ; this area lies mainly in mid-latitude , rainy-summer climate region where the dominant crops are maize and wheat , and alfalfa is grown to help with the feeding of large numbers of cattle , pigs and sheep . Near @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the region has been transformed into a crop-land , and the export trade has determined much of the production in this part of South America . In particular , towards the end of the nineteenth century came the development of processes for freezing and chilling meat during its trans-  | port across the Tropics to Europe ; this allowed a great development of cattle-rearing and stimulated the growing of fodder . Machinery is commonly used , especially on the many large farms . As in the " Mediterranean " climate region in Chile , so in this eastern part of South America the past acquisition of great estates by Spaniards has left its mark in the frequency of large holdings . The estancias , once extensive cattle ranges , are now often large farms under a single management . In the areas of less rain , farther to the west and south , development came later . Here are wheat-growing districts , in which more of the farming is done on a smaller scale ; the land has been leased to Italians and other immigrants who either pay a definite @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their landlords . The still drier areas are mainly given up to livestock ranching ; hence much of southern Argentina is a grain- and grazing-land . As droughts are of fairly frequent occurrence , agricultural prosperity is rather hazardous , especially when the droughts bring a scourge of locusts from the semiarid region north-west of the Pampa . On the west side of South America and in about the same latitudes , there is a small area of plough farming in the midlatitude , rainy climate region in Chile . The cool , wet climate and the products broadly resemble those of the north-western coasts of Europe and North America , and the area is of the forest and farmland type . In South Africa , plough cultivation by Europeans extended first over the interior plateaus with the mid-latitude , light-rain climate , and then northward to some parts of the tropical , rainysummer region which because of their height have somewhat similar temperatures . The area with most cultivation is in the State of South Africa , where there has been most White settlement ; here the production of maize @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ carried on partly to satisfy the local demand derived from the mining and other developments of the Union . Export is hampered by the interior situation and the general lack of facilities for communication . Farther north in Rhodesia and Zambia there are fewer White settlers , there is a smaller local market and export is even more difficult ; some maize and tobacco are grown and cattle are kept . Although the area of South Africa over which plough culti-  | vation has spread appears on a map to be large , the farms are often scattered , and especially in the north they are interspersed between lands worked by native hoe cultivation . Also , the yield of the crops is generally rather low and , as in South America , harvests may be ruined by drought and locusts . In Australia , plough cultivation occupies the south-east of the continent , overlapping the mid-latitude , rainy climate region of the coasts and uplands of eastern Victoria , and in the interior the more extensive area of light rains . The latter region is of the grain- and grazing-land @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ work is of a markedly extensive character , labour being scarce and machinery therefore widely used ; though the yield is by no means high there , is a surplus for export . Sheep are grazed both on farms and on natural pastures , and the production both of wool and wheat suffers considerable fluctuation due to occasional droughts . In the better-watered coastal region , besides cereal-growing much cattle-rearing and dairying is carried on and market gardening in restricted areas . In Tasmania the climate is of the same type , the growing of oats and hay , potatoes and apples being indicative of its relatively cool and wet climate . Both in south-eastern Victoria and in Tasmania , there is so much wooded upland that these areas fall into the category of forests and farmlands . New Zealand has a similar climate , and with its large proportion of forest on uplands and highlands it , too , has the general character of forest and farmland . Economically , it is in the main a pastoral country , in so far as the object of farming is to obtain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ North Island , and wool and mutton from sheep in South Island . Sown pastures are the main basis of the production , the animals being fed partly on natural grasses but largely on nutritive grasses introduced from other lands ; hence the high yield and the large exports of the pastoral industry . In addition a relatively small area is under wheat with a high yield . SOIL LOSSES AND THEIR PREVENTION Whenever man interferes with nature he runs a risk ; he upsets a balance which has been very gradually brought into a state of virtual stability , and his actions may comparatively  | quickly cause unforeseen and perhaps disastrous changes . These undesired consequences may threaten farmers of all types and in all regions when they substitute their crops for the natural soil cover of grass or forest , or when they introduce their animals to feed on areas which had not previously supported them .. By such actions the age-long processes of soil formation , by which the growth of food-plants has been made possible , are altered ; also , other changes imperil the continued existence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the soil , which in many countries have already become acute , are of two main kinds . One is a gradual impoverishment by the removal of constituents which supply nourishment for plants ; this clearly occurs when crops are harvested and their products are sent away from the neighbourhood , or when animals are fed upon pastures and the beasts or their products are exported ? unless by artificial manuring or other means the loss is made good . This impoverishment is relatively slow , and with fertile soils it may not become apparent for years , yet in the long run it is only by good management that productivity can be maintained . The second peril , a far more urgent and practically worldwide problem , is soil erosion : the rapid removal of large masses by water or wind . Where trees or grasses form a more or less continuous cover , their roots or other underground parts bind and protect the soil ; but if the natural vegetation is destroyed for the sake of cultivation or by grazing animals , the run-off of rain and the effects @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cut in the surfaces and soils may be washed or blown away so that large districts become barren wastes . Soil Impoverishment. ? The chief cause of the impoverishment of the soil is the removal of certain constituents , especially phosphates , nitrogen , lime and potash . Some plants use up more of one particular material than others do ; for instance , the grain of wheat contains a relatively high proportion of nitrogen and therefore is a valuable proteid food for mankind , but for that very reason the repeated cropping of wheat seriously reduces the nitrogen content of the soil . As another example of a special need it may be mentioned that sugar-beet makes heavy demands on potash . Considered in general , however , the mixed farming carried on in Britain requires much  | Figure lime , while as regards an actual deficiency in the soil , low crop yields are frequently due to a lack of phosphorus . A very ancient method of avoiding soil impoverishment is to give the land a rest and so to allow natural processes some opportunity of restoring the lost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shifting tillage ; again , for many centuries the plough farming of Europe gave to the fields in turn a period of fallow once in every two , three or four years . Another old-established aid in maintaining fertility is the use of a rotation of crops which make varying demands upon the soil . The graph given above shows the reduction of yield by continuous cropping of corn , i.e. maize , on experimental fieldplots in Illinois , U.S.A. Apart from seasonal variations due to weather conditions , over a period of about forty years the yield per acre decreased from about fifty bushels to less than twentyfour bushels . Where corn and oats were grown in rotation the reduction was not so great , and where clover was also taken into the scheme the yield diminished much less and even in the worst year was over forty bushels . The introduction of clover into common farming practice  | about the seventeenth century was important , for in addition to providing a valuable animal food it increased fertility ( though the reason was not then known ) by a positive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Clover , like beans , peas , vetches and alfalfa , belongs to the group of leguminous plants on the roots of which bacteria form nodules by utilizing nitrogen from the air ; even if the above-ground parts of the plants are removed , the roots with nitrogenous nodules are ploughed into the soil and benefit subsequent crops . Mixed farming has a somewhat similar advantage in maintaining fertility , for the animal manure returns a certain amount of nitrogen and other elements to the soil , as well as some humus , while the spreading of cattle bedding on the fields has the additional value of improving the physical condition of the soil . Returning to the diagram in Fig. 47 it is to be noted that the top part of the graph shows that not only can the yield of a farm be maintained ; it can even be increased if , in addition to a rotation of corn with oats and clover , animal manure and artificial fertilizers are applied to the soil . The letters " MLP " indicate manure and lime phosphate , and with this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fifty to over sixty bushels per acre . Other forms of good farm management have been evolved , and the practical problem of the present time is to induce , or to enable , farmers in general to follow the methods which are most suited to their requirements and their circumstances . But , taking a long view , it may be realized that other problems may arise . For example , in many parts of the world the soil constituents , after being utilized first by plants and then by man , are sent by modern methods of sanitation through sewers to the sea . In the sea-water a very small proportion may be utilized by marine plants and supply part of the needs of fish and thus may become of some use as human food , but the great proportion of the valuable soil material is lost to mankind . Again , there may be a problem of continuance of the supply of some of the artificial fertilizers . In the rocks of the world as a whole there is an abundance of lime , and there is no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ century the greater part of the supply of nitrogenous fertilizer came from the enormous deposits of nitrates in the desert area of northern Chile , but although these are far from being ex-  | hausted they are now drawn upon to a comparatively small extent ; today the main sources are the by-products of the manufacture of gas , coke and other substances , and the synthetic production of nitrogen compounds from the air by electrical energy . Potash is chiefly obtained from minerals , beds of which are utilized in several countries where there are considerable reserves . Over wide areas potash salts , associated with which are sodium salts , are washed down by rivers , of course in small quantities in any particular case , and slowly accumulated in the ocean or in inland seas . It is possible that the salts may be extracted from sea-water on a large scale in the future , and already the brine of the Dead Sea is evaporated to obtain fertilizer material . Finally , phosphates , including the widely used superphosphates , are derived to a small extent from guano @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a by-product of steel manufacture , but mainly from rocks of several kinds . Although phosphate reserves are great , they are not illimitable , and some scientists foresee a time when the constant requirements of phosphates can no longer be met . Soil Erosion. ? The United States ' Department of Agriculture , in a publication addressed to farmers , thus begins its account of the problem : " Soil erosion is as old as agriculture . It began when the first heavy rain struck the first furrow turned by a crude implement of tillage in the hands of prehistoric man . It has been going on ever since , wherever man 's culture of the earth has bared the soil to rain and wind . " To understand the situation in different regions of the world , one must distinguish between the action of running water and that of wind . Rain and streams bring about their greatest destruction in areas where there is considerable precipitation and the land surface has appreciable slopes . Where these factors are not very marked , there may be sheet erosion in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ away over whole fields that the farmer may scarcely realize the cause of the gradual deterioration of the soil . More common is gully erosion , where the rain collects in furrows and streamlets develop , progressively increasing their catchment-area ; after heavy rains they may visibly tear away their banks and beds , making great gashes in the fields . It is estimated by the Department of Agriculture that already in the United States , during the relatively short period of culti-  | vation , fifty million acres of formerly good land have been ruined , three times as much has had its most productive soil washed away , and about the same expanse has been started upon a similar , literally downward , path . Erosion by wind is most marked in regions of less rainfall and more level ground . For example , in the Great Plains of the west in the United States and Canada strong winds sweep up the lighter particles from the surface and produce great dust storms that travel across the continent , transport countless tons of soil and leave behind them barren wastes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United States showing the areas either moderately or severely affected by various types of erosion discloses only relatively small areas undamaged . The other continents have been exposed to soil erosion in different degrees . South America , less exploited for cultivation , has suffered less than North America . The countries of central and north-western Europe have not experienced severe trouble , probably because gradual extension of farming has , in its slow development , adapted itself better to climatic conditions . The lands around the Mediterranean Sea , however , with their typically hilly country descending steeply to the sea , and with alternate seasons of rain and drought , have by no means escaped . The cutting down of forests , and the eating of young shoots by goats , have increased the rapidity of the winter run-off and led to the removal of soil and even sub-soil . In fact , there has been not only loss to cultivation , but silting up of the lower courses of rivers and the formation of coastal swamps ; hence , too , have followed difficulties for navigation , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Indeed , here are factors which have affected the history of the Mediterranean peoples , and even , it has been claimed , one cause of the weakening and final break-up of the Roman Empire . In Asia , it appears that in south and central China stripping of forests caused serious stream erosion , though this was partially remedied by the careful terracing , while in the drier parts of north China wind erosion has caused serious inroads upon once valuable areas of loess . Japan has suffered , on the other hand , from the attacks of heavy rain upon its mountainous surface . In different parts of India , with their contrasting types of climate , all forms of erosion have reduced the generally  | low productivity of the soil and thereby contributed to the low standard of living of the Indian people . As might be expected from the arid or semi-arid conditions of the greater part of Australia , wind erosion is a menace in that continent . There , as in North America , pioneers advanced into the interior , ploughed up the soil and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in better-watered regions , and as a consequence exposed their lands , animals and livelihood to the ravages which followed in the lean years of drought . Africa is reported to have suffered , up to the present time , more than any other continent ; in several parts it has become . increasingly difficult for the land to support its population . The most striking deterioration has occurred on the margins of the Sahara , where cultivable land has given place to scanty pasturage , and the semi-desert has in turn become almost completely devoid of vegetation . To what extent these changes are due to man 's action in bringing about soil erosion or to natural changes in climate is a vexed question . A similar difficulty exists in determining the causes of depopulation observed in other desert regions . If , then , the problem of soil erosion is so serious , what can be done about it ? Scientists , particularly those working for government agencies and advising farmers , point out that much harm has irretrievably been done but future trouble can be largely prevented . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cutting of timber must be so arranged that younger trees still remain to grow , while their litter on the surface and their roots below it protect the soil from water erosion . In some semi-arid regions wind erosion may be checked by planting rows of trees as wind-breaks . Other dry areas would be better kept for grazing ; in this case , however , attention may be paid to the introduction of more suitable pasture plants , and also to the danger of over-stocking with its risk of the animals eating all the vegetation cover in times of scarcity . In some districts the damage has gone beyond the power of farmers to deal with it , and local or State governments must act . One instance is where reafforestation is necessary , for this requires much capital and no return comes from the timber for many years ; another case is where large gullies have been  | formed and their further extension can be checked only by skilled and extensive engineering . In this connection may be mentioned the plight of those countries whose peoples lack adequate wisdom @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , are already faced with most serious problems of soil erosion . Over much of Africa , help from outside seems to be essential if the peoples of this continent are to be relieved of the heritage of their past , and enabled both to improve their own standards of living and to contribute more to the food supply of the world as a whole . Addendum. ? Two hopeful advances have been made . ( 1 ) An illustration of scientific work is given in the production of a synthetic powder which , when ploughed into a clayey soil , draws together its very small particles into a looser , " crumbly " structure . This is easier to work , and also allows drainage of water which in turn reduces surface erosion to a marked degree . ( 2 ) International aid in agriculture ( including irrigation ) and in other means of utilizing natural resources ( e.g. the production of power for industries and transport ) has been organized by the United Nations Technical Assistance Board for Economic Development . The aim has been to help undeveloped States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advanced States . A very important aspect of this assistance is that it takes into account the fact that the workers in backward areas are usually handicapped by disease , poverty and lack of eduction ; hence preliminary measures include the provision of medical skill , better diets and instruction of a general as well as technical kind . In carrying out its programme the Technical Assistance Board uses the specialized resources of other United Nations organizations such as the World Health Organization , UNESCO , and the Food and Agricultural Organization .  | MODES OF LIFE ? INDUSTRY AND COMMERCE THE peoples hitherto considered are those occupied in obtaining animal and vegetable products ; together with miners , they form the group of primary producers . In order that their products may be used , much further work is in most cases necessary ; thus there has grown up a vast and complicated group of secondary occupations which are classified as industrial . Further , the products of both the primary and the secondary occupations must be interchanged at many stages of their preparation , and finally distributed to widely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is involved , and commerce is the work of a large proportion of the people of advanced communities . Social Conditions. ? In the early stages of development , and even at present when special skill or artistic feeling is essential , industry takes the form of handicraft and may be carried on in the homes of the workers . Such simple kinds of domestic industry , however , have now been almost superseded by work in factories ; this is carried on with the aid of machinery driven by water-power , by steam from coal- or oil-fed boilers , by internal-combustion engines using petrol or heavy oil , or by electricity derived from one of these sources of power . Hence the increase of manufacturing has been closely bound up with the advance of physical science . Moreover , by industrial development social conditions have been changed in many ways , of which a few may be mentioned . ( 1 ) Nearly all forms of work have become divided into distinct processes carried on by individuals as their special jobs , and " division of labour " is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ work is simple , monotonous and illpaid , while in other cases it is skilled and better paid . In addition there are managers and " captains of industry " who live apart from the wage-earners and have a higher standard of  | comfort . There are also those who take little or no part in the actual work but , as a result of having supplied capital for the larger undertakings , obtain a monetary return which varies with the prosperity of the particular companies ; some " capitalists " are wealthy and influential persons , but very many more are small shareholders . In this way industrial communities are complex , composed of groups of people living very different kinds of life ; there are social strata , as it were , at different levels , sometimes sharply separated from one another . ( 2 ) Another consequence of the application of science to industry is a great increase in total production and a corresponding rise in the general standard of living : yet the rise in the standard of living is very uneven . Hence , while the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ live in ways which compare favourably with the less advanced modes of life common in many parts of the world , some may live in abject poverty while others have at their disposal an abundance of goods and can command products of workers in every part of the globe . These strongly contrasting conditions give rise to difficult social problems , and occasionally to sharp clashes between the groups , in the industrial and commercial regions . ( 3 ) The increase in production has been accompanied by a great increase in the population , and as industry and commerce can be most efficiently carried on when the workers engaged in the many branches are in close touch with one another , the result has been the crowding of large numbers of people into towns and cities . In many cases , even hundreds of thousands live packed upon a few square miles , while in several parts of the world built-up districts so join one another that the countryside has disappeared . This unnatural state of affairs has brought to the people an artificial mode of life with both bad @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ health can only be maintained by special hygienic and social services , and on the other , the close proximity of people allows them to enjoy medical , recreational and educational advantages almost unobtainable in small , isolated settlements . An interesting comparison may be drawn between the industrial and commercial communities and those of the people who get their living by growing crops or by hunting or rearing animals . These primary producers are directly dependent  | upon nature , and are liable to extremes of bad or good fortune which can not be foreseen and in many cases are beyond remedy . The industrial and commercial communities are removed from the direct vagaries of nature , and though bad harvests may limit their supplies of foodstuffs or raw materials from some particular sources , they are not as a rule entirely dependent upon these and their life may go on with less disturbance . Yet they are subject to other troubles . There are occasional conflicts between employers and workpeople in the form of strikes and lock-outs . There are also dislocations of normal activity , on a far @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a loss of profit to employers ; these are the " slumps " in production and trade which have tended to occur every few years between periods of " boom , " and they may affect , to a greater or less extent , many of the undertakings in all the main industrial and commercial regions . The causes of these trade depressions are complex and not fully understood , but they lie in the economic organization of society and in the actions of men rather than in the variability of nature . It is possible that the alternation of booms and slumps may be lessened or even prevented by the " planned economies " now being developed by some States , as will be described later . Mining. ? As mining is closely associated with manufacturing and is carried on to a considerable extent in the same regions , it is convenient to deal at this point with some of its characteristics , particularly those in which it differs from the modes of life considered in the three preceding chapters . Few mineral deposits are due to present-day climatic conditions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which have been accumulated in the Atacama desert by slow deposit from surface evaporation of water . Past geological conditions have determined the existence of certain mineral resources in such present-day unattractive areas that there is a lack of other means of livelihood , e.g. gold in the Australian desert , silver and copper in the Andean Highlands , coal in Spitsbergen . Hence in a number of cases mining settlements are in unpropitious and remote districts and the miners experience isolation and perhaps hardships . Most of the mining , however , is carried on associated with other occupations , and may give rise to industries in the same locality if the particular ore or mineral fuel is of special importance in manufacturing processes .  | In such cases , miners and other workers live much the same kind of life , except during the time spent at work ; even individual families may have members engaged in different occupations , the men and lads in mines and the young women perhaps in offices or factories . The maps on pp. 242 and 243 , showing the distribution of certain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of industrial regions on p. 246 in order to see , in a general way , to what extent mining is carried on in the same localities as other industries . It must be remembered that all mineral enterprises have to be abandoned sooner or later , either because the deposits are exhausted or because their working no longer pays ; unlike agricultural and pastoral modes of life , mining of a particular type must therefore eventually disappear from any area , and is a transitory form of human occupation of a region . Sources of Mechanical Power. ? In addition to coal and oil , water-power is an important factor in industry ; the use of water-wheels in streams greatly helped early manufacturing enterprises , and in recent years an enormous extension has occurred through the application of electricity . At the present time , the main source of water-power is falling water which turns wheels or turbines attached to dynamos , and these produce electric current able to be transmitted by cable scores or hundreds of miles . The amount of power produced depends on two factors : the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of water passing through the station in a given time . Hence , mountain regions with heavy precipitation have great water-power resources which may be actually developed when the power can be economically utilized . Obviously they must be within reasonable distance of places where industry can be carried on , and also the flow of water must be reasonably constant . In this last connection , the regime of the streams is an important consideration ; e.g. where the precipitation is largely in winter , the subsequent melting of snow and ice in summer may allow the continuous production of power throughout the year . An artificial means of securing a constant flow is the damming of valleys and the consequent formation of lakes which store the water until it is required . From this point of view , glaciated areas are advantageous where they have natural lakes ; also , hanging valleys due to glaciation may provide falls of considerable height . p 242 Figure p 243 Figure  | In lowlands , too , glaciated areas give much water-power . Though the falls are generally not high , they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ main streams of river systems , and this situation has three advantages : in the first place , there may be a considerable volume of water at the fall ; secondly , the water comes from a number of head-streams and , especially where it has traversed glacial lakes or swamps , the flow is relatively constant ; in the third place , the power is produced , not in a remote highland , but at a point favourable for industrial utilization . Another source of power occurs at rapids and falls where streams have to cut across particularly resistant rock ; e.g. the river Dnieper crosses a belt of granite in southern Russia , and supplies the energy for an enormous hydro-electric station . To secure uninterrupted working , power-stations sometimes have more than one source of power ; for instance , water may be the primary agent and coal may be used to operate steam plant when necessary . In some industrial regions there are extensive " grid systems " which draw on several widespread sources of supply , such as water , coal , lignite , peat , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ distribute the total electric power over a large area . It may here be noted that transmission of power by electricity may be cheaper than hauling coal by railway , or pumping oil through pipelines . Solar heat has been used for more than half a century in small experimental plants situated in desert or semi-desert areas within or near the Tropics , where almost continuous sunshine is available . Various devices have been employed , the genera method being to raise water to boiling-point , and thus to obtain steam which actuates a dynamo and produces electricity . A great advance was made in 1941 when in the Turkistan area of the U.S.S.R. improved types of such plants were devised first for the processing of products of the local milk supplies and then for the canning of fruit and vegetables from the irrigated lands of the region . In this area the sun 's heat has been employed also to obtain electricity which can then produce ice for commercial uses , while by other apparatus temperatures high enough to smelt metals have been obtained . The internal heat of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ few parts of the world by means of surface hot springs or by deep borings . Tidal power , as it exists in the Severn , has  | also been employed ; its use for industrial purposes on a more extended scale may be further developed as certain mechanical difficulties , which make working expensive , are overcome . The release of atomic energy , first utilized in the atomic bomb in 1945 , offers immense possibilities ; how , when and where this energy may be employed is unpredictable , but existing power resources are likely to be supplemented and may even be largely superseded , and in that case the present geographical distribution of mechanical power and industrial development might be greatly modified . Indeed , science is constantly and in many ways devising fresh methods of using natural sources of energy and thus increasing the total amount of power at man 's disposal , while there are consequent extensions of the regions of manufacturing and commercial activity . Industrial Development. ? Various forms of working up raw materials are employed to satisfy local needs ; these industries are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the world . Greater industrial enterprises are organized for a wider range of consumers and may send their products into far-distant regions . Such industries tend to congregate together in particular districts , for the workers and their families provide a " labour pool " on which other enterprises and even other industries may draw ; further , the population of such industrial areas offers a market which attracts still more industrial and commercial undertakings . Hence one might almost say in this connection that " nothing succeeds like success , " and there is a strong tendency for the further growth of manufacturing and trading in those districts which already have a start . For this reason , a great proportion of the world 's industry , and a very large number of industrial workers , are found in a few relatively small areas ; these are shown in Fig. 50 , and one may note their small extent as compared with that of regions where other types of occupation are dominant . Europe. ? A band of intense industrial development stretches from Great Britain across the " Narrow Seas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thence over central and south Germany into Czechoslovakia and Poland . The Industrial Revolution took place in Britain in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries , when local water-power and coal were employed for the making of textiles , especially woollen and cotton goods , and local ore was used for the production of iron p 246 Figure  | and steel ; similar local resources were later utilized in the adjoining countries of the continent . Other materials , such as linen , silk , leather , wood and various ores , were also the bases of manufacturing in the same and neighbouring districts . In a number of cases , the original sources of supply of raw materials or mechanical power became insufficient or were exhausted , but frequently the start already made allowed the industries to continue in the same places by " geographical inertia " ; the materials were brought from a distance , or a new source of power was utilized for the machines . In some instances , the industries remained but were adapted to produce rather different goods : e.g. the skill of the workers was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ jute instead of linen ; new substitutes were found , such as rayon for silk ; finely finished wares of metal or pottery took the place of coarser products which were more cheaply made elsewhere . This survival of industry by transference to another material or product may be called " transferred inertia . " Thus in western and central Europe , the early start of manufactures was followed by the influence of geographical and transferred inertia ; with the aid of the great coal resources of the area and the existence of dense populations which provide both abundant labour and also a great market , this industrial region became the largest in the world and now produces practically every type of commodity . From this original area , large-scale industry spread later to other parts of Europe where developments have been smaller . Around the Alps and in some of the valleys , especially in Switzerland , southern France and northern Italy , water-power has been an important factor ; also water-power has aided smaller industrial centres in northern Spain and in Scandinavia . In eastern Europe , coal , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in several districts reaching as far east as the Urals , and the U.S.S.R. has encouraged development where coal and ores are found in Siberia . North America. ? With the great industrial region of western and central Europe may be compared that on the other side of the North Atlantic , viz. the manufacturing area of the northeast of the United States which extends also into the " Lake Peninsula " of Ontario in Canada . At the close of the eighteenth century the recently formed  | United States introduced British-designed machinery into New England . Here , cotton was brought from the southern States to be manufactured with the aid first of local water-power and later with coal from the northern Appalachians ; here , in addition , other textiles , leather and metals were manufactured . Later , these industries spread southward and also westward to the central plains . Of great importance is the iron and steel industry based on the ore found at the western end of the Great Lakes and the coal of the northern Appalachians . A second large industrial region of the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ manufacturing utilizes the raw material grown in the neighbouring States , and coal and water-power from the mountain valleys ; also , iron and steel manufacturing has grown up near iron-ore deposits at the southern end of the uplands . In other parts of " the South , " a number of industries were established during the Second World War ; among them were the construction of ships and aircraft and the production of fertilizers and plastics . Elsewhere in the United States centres of industry have grown up in locations particularly favourable for obtaining raw materials or exporting manufactured products , e.g. by the Mississippi and Missouri rivers and on the Pacific seaboard . Asia. ? Over most of Asia industry is still mainly of the domestic type supplying local needs . The first change came when the Industrial Revolution advanced into eastern Asia about a century after it had spread to North America . European and American capitalists promoted this extension in their own interests , while in Japan it was also fostered by the government as an aid to the support of a dense population which was outgrowing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in several other parts of the world , the two world wars gave an impetus to industrial development when Europe was engaged in fighting and its shipping could not easily transport raw materials and manufactured products from and to distant lands . In Japan , before the devastation of the latter part of the Second World War , an important belt of industrialized districts extended south-westward along the shores of Mainland ( Honshu ) to Kyushu ; here , greatly aided by water-power , there grew up manufactures of silk , cotton , iron and steel goods , etc . Similar products were manufactured in China , but on a much smaller scale . The chief centres of silk and cotton working  | were set up at the larger ports , while iron and steel furnaces and factories were constructed at Hanyang and Hankow by the Yangtze river . When the Japanese invaded China and occupied these places in the war of 1937-45 , the Chinese removed some of the plant and set up new industrial centres farther in the interior and even in the west of China . In India @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the north-west of the Deccan , favoured by the neighbourhood of the raw material and the water-power of the Western Ghats ; jute is worked at and around Calcutta , near the area where the jute is grown and where coal from the north-eastern corner of the Deccan is easily obtained . In this area of the north-east of the Deccan , iron ore is also found and hence a large iron and steel industry has grown up . The Southern Continents. ? Except in India , industry has not arisen on a large scale in inter-tropical regions ; moreover , it has hitherto developed only to a limited extent in the subtropical and mid-latitudes of the southern hemisphere , for in these regions European settlements came later and are less populous than in similar latitudes of the New World in the northern hemisphere . In Australia , the main advance in industry was made at the time of the First World War , when the products of agricultural and pastoral work , especially wool , hides and sugar , were increasingly manufactured at home , and when iron and other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last development was markedly stimulated when aeroplanes and munitions of all kinds were made in the Second World War . The chief manufacturing centres are at and near the three capitals : Sydney , Adelaide and Melbourne . New Zealand holds the promise of future development which will be encouraged by its great potential water-power , but its present small population does not offer a large market , and export is hampered by its remote situation . In Africa , despite the varied mineral wealth , industrial growth has been slow . Only two centres have hitherto arisen . : the seaport of Durban , and Johannesburg , an inland centre of communication near which are iron deposits and the most productive coalfield of the continent . South America has been handicapped by a lack of coal and by the fact that the immense water-power of the Andes and other highlands are far from large centres of population .  | The chief manufacturing area is in the neighbourhood of Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo , and its products of home-grown cotton and other textiles are worked with the aid of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only other noteworthy industrial growth has been in the Pampa region of Argentina and Uruguay , where meat-packing and flour-milling prepare the farming products for export . Regional Factors in Commerce. ? As with industry , so with commerce , there are two types , local and wide-range respectively . For trade other than local , man- and animalpower are utilized only when mechanical means of transport are out of the question , and in this connection railway and ocean traffic play the greatest part . The nature and amount of commerce are determined partly by the production in particular areas , partly by the ease or difficulty of transport between them , and partly by the economic , social and even political conditions of the peoples of these areas . It is with the products of agricultural and industrial workers that the bulk of the world 's commerce is concerned , for one large branch of international trade consists of the export of raw materials and foodstuffs from agricultural regions to industrial areas , while another branch deals with the compensating import , largely of manufactured goods , for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trade with the inter-tropical peoples who practise shifting or most of the fixed tillage , but plantation cultivation is the basis of a good deal of commerce between tropical and extra-tropical regions . Oasis cultivation and the production of Mediterranean fruits also give rise to some important branches of international trade . The greatest amount , however , is derived from field-crops of the sub-tropical type and those of mid-latitudes ; from the former , cotton , jute , rice and sugar enter the world 's trade routes , while from the latter , wheat and maize , meat and meat preparations , dairy produce , wool and hides , tobacco and many other commodities are sent abroad . A very large proportion of these agricultural products is exported by sea ; hence the map on pages 252 and 253 , which shows the relative importance of the traffic along the ocean routes , may be compared with that of the cultivation regions in order to obtain some idea of the amount of the imports and exports based upon agricultural production .  | The great part which industrial communities play in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ showing industrial regions with that of ocean routes . The most striking feature of this latter map is the great volume of the trans-Atlantic traffic between North America and Europe . This traffic includes commodities sent from primary producing regions through the industrial areas and thence across the Atlantic Ocean , but to a large extent it represents an exchange between these manufacturing areas themselves ; it is noteworthy to what a degree industrial regions trade with each other , even in the same or similar products . The map also shows railway communications , and it must be noted that the important industrial regions have a much closer network than can be shown on a map of this scale . The closeness of the railway lines in these regions is an indication of the intensity of the trading and traffic within , as well as between , the manufacturing districts . The fact that in North America the area showing intensive railway development extends beyond the industrial regions is a reminder that in that continent railways came before roads as the first means of opening up the agricultural areas of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The routes utilized for longdistance transport by trains , ships and aircraft are sometimes referred to as the " arteries " of commerce , and the term is a useful one if it gives the idea that by these routes the interchange of commodities ? the " life-blood of commerce " ? flows from region to region , and thus maintains the economic life of the modern world . Water-ways. ? The main arteries of the world 's commerce are ocean routes , for water transport is in general the cheapest form and the one most suitable for the conveyance of large amounts of traffic over long distances . The courses followed by sailing ships in linking region to region are affected by winds and currents , but the steamships which now carry the bulk of the traffic follow routes as short as are allowed both by the positions of the ports at which calls are made and also by the shapes of the continents . As the most important of the industrial and commercial regions are in the northern hemisphere , viz. in Europe , Asia and North America , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ southward-pointing continents of Africa p 252 Figure p 253 Figure  | and South America , each a great peninsula joined to the northern land-masses by a narrow isthmus . Consequently , the cutting of ship canals through the Isthmuses of Suez and Panama made ocean traffic more direct between the regions of the northern hemisphere , and also between these regions and some of those of the southern hemisphere . In particular , the route from Europe through the Mediterranean Sea and the Suez Canal to India , the Far . East and Australia has become of very great importance , and the production and trade of all the lands near this route have been increased . Inland water-ways ? rivers , lakes and canals ? not only provide opportunities for local trade but in many cases also form extensions of ocean routes into the heart of producing and manufacturing regions ; some rivers , either naturally or after artificial improvements , allow sea-going vessels to proceed far inland , while in the case of others trans-shipment is required near the mouth of the streams . The two continents of greatest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ offer outstanding examples of the way in which natural water-ways have been improved and extended by artificial means . In eastern North America , canals have joined both the Hudson river and the St. Lawrence river with the Great Lakes , and these lakes have been so linked together that they provide continuous navigation almost into the centre of the continent . In the case of Europe , there is in the west-central part a network of water-ways , and the rivers Rhine and Danube are joined by a canal which gives through communication from the North Sea to the Black Sea ; in the east of Europe , canals so link up the river systems that water-ways connect all four marginal seas ? the . White , Baltic , Black and Caspian Seas . In Asia , the Yangtze-Kiang , and to a less extent the Hwang-ho , are of great value to commerce . Land-ways. ? Trans-continental railways appear as striking features on a map showing communications , but as arteries of world traffic they are not to be compared with ocean routes . Because of their relative speed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whole width of a continent and also they may transport perishable goods for quite long distances , but their main function is to connect interior regions with those ports which provide the cheapest means of transport to the great markets . The railway systems which thus serve  | the seaports often have a fan-shaped plan , as is shown on the accompanying map by the railways converging upon Bombay and Buenos Aires ; even greater fan-shaped groups of lines are merged in the network of railways surrounding the great ports of Europe and North America . The land-ways between ports and their hinterlands are obviously of vital importance where the rivers can not be rendered navigable , unless at a cost which the traffic could not stand . For example , in South America the productive plantation region of the plateau behind Santos and Rio de Janeiro has no navigable rivers leading to the coast , and in consequence there is here one of the two areas of close railway network in the southern hemisphere ; the other is the hinterland of Buenos Aires where , except by the main streams @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ without water-ways . Again , over much of Africa the structure of the land causes falls or rapids near the mouths of the rivers , and overseas commerce is therefore largely dependent upon railways leading inland . Africa , too , supplies examples of another type of land-way , viz. the motor road . In regions recently opened to international trade , motor vehicles may provide a cheap and efficient means of transport ? at least , until the traffic can pay for the construction of railways ; thus , in the interior of what was until recently the " dark continent , " motor roads are of considerable importance in exporting and importing commodities previously conveyed by human porterage . Another outstanding example of the importance of the motor road is the " Burma road " which links the railway system of that country to south-western China ; it was constructed across the almost impenetrable barrier of high mountain ranges and precipitous gorges when , in the Chinese-Japanese war , the Chinese government migrated to the west and was cut off from the Pacific Ocean by the Japanese occupation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ distinguish aircraft from other means of transport determine their special uses and the routes they follow . In the first place , aeroplanes have relatively great freedom in selecting their courses ; they are not hampered by the relief of the land to the same extent as are railway trains nor limited to sea areas or deep water-ways as are steamships . Secondly , aircraft need highly organized landing-places for refuelling and servicing as well as for taking up and setting down  | passengers and freight ; therefore they must work from airport to airport , planned within certain limits of distance , when they are engaged in long-range flying . Thirdly , aeroplanes are capable of far greater speeds than any other mode of transport ; from this comes their suitability , and their importance , for conveying passengers , mails and urgently needed commodities . Fourthly , the cost of operating aircraft is great ; this makes charges high and reinforces their general limitation to carrying passengers and the lighter and less bulky kinds of freight . Air routes are planned either to serve relatively small areas and in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or to meet the needs of long-distance communications and therefore make a broad pattern stretching across continents . The lines in such a broad pattern join the areas from which most of the traffic originates , and they tend to follow great circles of the globe ; see the notes printed below the map of the " Basic Pattern of World Air Routes " opposite . This map shows that the greatest volume of long-distance air traffic ( like that of ocean transport ) crosses the North Atlantic between the world 's most developed industrial and commercial regions , viz. that of north-western Europe and that which centres on New York . From each of these two primary areas , lines radiate outwards almost along great circle routes , while another series forms the circum-Pacific system which passes along the western side of the two Americas and crosses Bering Strait to skirt eastern Asia and thus to reach the Far East . Also , from the ports of the Pacific and Indian Oceans , lines go out to south-eastern Asia and to Australia . This map enables one to realize the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ how it serves the most important land areas while largely avoiding both the nonproductive spaces of the oceans and also the bad-weather area of the Arctic region . This last consideration may become of less consequence to the extent that " stratosphere flying " allows planes to navigate at the very high altitudes where the atmosphere is almost motionless .  | Another aspect of the same basic pattern is brought out in the map of Industrial Regions and World Air Routes " on p. 246 , on which the traffic lines have been transferred to a different projection . This allows one to see how the main routes fit to the distribution of the chief manufacturing areas ; e.g. it may be observed how the more northerly track from Fm . 52 . ? BASIC PATTERN OF WORLD AIR ROUTES . Note. ? 1 . This map is constructed on the Azimuthal Equidistant Projection ; which allows distances to be measured according to the scale only along straight lines radiating from the centre , e.g. from London to Tokyo and from London to New York . 2 . As all lines @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Equator ) are " great circles , " an indefinite number of these can be drawn upon a globe ; on this map parts of great circles are shown by lines radiating from the centre and also by the Equator , while the boundary of the map as a whole is itself a great circle . 3 . The shortest distance between any two points on a globe is that along the great circle connecting them ; hence great circle routes are necessarily the most direct . It may be seen that the air traffic routes shown on the map do not deviate markedly from great circles . 4 . They show only the main directions of the flow of the traffic to and from the chief areas concerned with long-distance communications by air , the centres being indicated by initials : ( Sv. = Sverdlovsk ) . Note that Panama and Fairbanks ( Alaska ) are junctions , but not in productive areas where air traffic originates . It should also be noted that in actual practice there are deviations from these " basic " lines : ( a ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ centres which lie off the direct routes ; ( b ) to avoid high mountain masses and great desert areas ; ( c ) for political reasons , to keep within the territory of some States and to avoid that of other States . Tovic-of Capri 0 5001000 2000 3000 Co 4000 5000 Distances in mi/es from London                     