@@774200

txt  | over those of other people . For instance , Polybius attributed the permanence of the Roman government to the fact that it contained a share of every good form of government : Monarchy was represented in the consuls , aristocracy in the nobles who made up the senate , and democracy in the popular assemblies . 5 . Feudalism in the Middle Ages . Rome gave way to the Middle Ages and feudalism . During this time the Catholic Church predominated . Its government was modeled on that of the Roman Empire . These times were principally religious and secondarily political . Kings , lords , barons , princes , and other rulers waged constant warfare for political independence or control . The Aristotelian classification of governments was modified to meet the exigencies of a society with its eyes constantly fixed on the day of judgment . Roman , Teutonic , and Christian institutions . were fused when the Roman Empire fell without being replaced by any new state and government . It was a strange period when men fixed one eye on the Roman greatness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the day of judgment which , when it came , could only mean the end of all government . 6 . The National State . This chaos gave birth to the national state , whose rulers at first were the sworn enemies of world empires , and to the centralized authority both of the Church and of the State . When the monarchs had served their usefulness , they gave way to democracy and representative government . Meanwhile , a new international order , composed of sovereign states , equals one of the other in the eyes of the law , appeared . It gave rise to modern international law and the concept of a family of nations acknowledging and agreeing to common rules and usages by which members were to live . The old classifications of government were juggled about to suit the thoughts of individual scholars , but the ideas and the standards remained basically unaltered . In this evolution of governments from simple primitive forms to modern complex ones , each country and state has had its own individual experiences . These have shaped its government , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no two governments in the world today are identical . This makes modern classification difficult and oftentimes inaccurate . Fur thermore the system of classification used for primitive governments ? prim itive states have been classified into war bands , matriarchy , patriarch ' , robber bands , primitive viking governments , primitive feudalism , and the primitive maritime orders ? is useless for modern governments . The ancient Greek classifications had no categories for despotism , autocracy , cont it u tional government , conservative government , and radical experiments , none of which modern classifications can ignore .  | COMMON TYPES OF CLASSIFICATION Many writers have set up their own bases for classification . Thus J. Q. Dealey , 4 for example , divides governments according to the extent of popular control which can be discerned in their conduct . There is some validity to most of these ; but if government , as this volume aims to show , is the exercise of power , then governments may be classified according to ( 1 ) the number of people who exercise the power , ( 2 ) the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ responsibility for the exercise of the power . r . According to the Number Who Rule . a . MONARCHY . The state which is guided by one physical will is a monarchy , no matter whether the power has been derived by election , hereditary succession , or usurpation . A real monarchy can exist only when the power of the single will is effective and dominant . Such pure monarchies as survived or appeared in modern times had been modified or had passed out of existence by the end of the nineteenth century except for Russia , Siam , and a few other states . Monarchies today are modifications of the absolute type and are called limited monarchies , which will be mentioned shortly . Monarchies may be divided according to the method of acquiring supreme power into ( 1 ) hereditary monarchy , ( 2 ) elective monarchy , and ( 3 ) usurped monarchy . Hereditary monarchy is so-called because the monarch inherits the crown according to a fixed rule of succession , as is the case in England and Sweden , and as was the case @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ takes its name from the fact that the kings are chosen by an assembly ; for example , in the early Roman monarchy the kings were chosen by the Senate . Usurped monarchy is so-called because the ruler simply takes the power , as King Ahmed Zogu did in Albania in 1928 , when he had himself proclaimed Zog I. Monarchies may be divided according to the way in which the ruling power is exercised into ( 1 ) absolute monarchy and ( 2 ) constitutional or limited monarchy . Absolute monarchy ( which may also be called arbitrary and despotic monarchy ) exists where the ruler need consult no will but his own . The Russian Tsars of the last century are an excellent illustration . If such monarchs rule well and generously , as Elizabeth did , they are called benevolent despots . If they rule harshly and badly , as Ivan the Terrible did , they are Ailed tyrants . Constitutional , sometimes called limited , monarchy is the most prevalent form today . The monarch 's powers are limited by a fundamental law or will . England @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Footnote  | King is governed in most of his actions by rules and regulations adopted by Parliament and agreed to by him . Monarchy is believed to be the oldest form of government known to man because it is the most simple and efficient . The political chaos , which followed the World War of 1914 to 1918 , showed how natural it is for people , who are uncertain of themselves , or who need leadership , to turn to a single man for rule . This has always been so . Monarchs are the result . Monarchy was almost universal during the Middle Ages and the last stronghold of absolutism in the West disappeared with Tsarism . This was believed , at that time , to be the inevitable consequence of historical development . In fact , it was then stated that democratic and representative government were on the march , so that it was only a question of time before all absolutism would disappear and only limited monarchies could possibly survive . Thus the slogan " Make the world safe for democracy " was natural and logical in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so sure that democracy is inevitable for all people , and indeed in some places it is on the defensive . Recently a new type of ruler has appeared . He does not change the government , which he takes over , but allows it to retain its old form while he exercises the real power with the freedom of an ancient despot . These men are known as dictators . Thus Italy is a monarchy headed by King Victor Emmanuel , while Mussolini rules ; Germany is technically a republic , for it has a parliament ; but Hitler , combining the presidency and the chancellorship in his Fuehrership , has absolute power ; and , Kalinin is the president of Soviet Russia , while Stalin is the master and ruler . Dictators are rulers but not monarchs in the sense in which that word is used in this classification . It is an interesting anomaly that the definition of monarchy is government by a single will , but in dictator states like Italy the real power is exercised not by the monarch but by someone else . The reason @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the most vigorous king is merely to advise , encourage , warn , and help . In England the king has largely lost all political powers and stands chiefly as a symbol or a sort of rallying point for the Empire . And although titular head , he stands above parties and strife , perhaps commanding greater respect and loyalty than the average elected president . His court is an expensive institution and is prized by the state . Such chiefs are only monarchs in name and not in fact . Before the present war all forms of representative and democratic governments were to be found parading in the guise of monarchy in Norway , Denmark , Sweden , England , Holland , and Belgium , which list is not complete . There are certain strong points to be noted in absolute monarchy . In its  | earliest stages it was often connected with religion , the monarch usually claiming to be descended from the gods , as is still the case with the emperor of Japan , who is supposed literally to be divinely given . Monarchy is simple in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which gives it strength and unity . Responsibility is easily fixed , and in modern monarchies the king is expected to avoid party strife , ruling impartially . There is little doubt that this form of government is ideal for disciplining primitive peoples and producing obedience . It is also excellent for the concentration of powers and the welding of a state into a political unit . Monarchy also has its weaknesses . There is no guarantee that an hereditary monarch will do or be able to do the work expected of him . The concentration of powers tempts the ruler to exercise his duties not in the interest of the people as a whole but to his own advantage and to that of his immediate advisers . There is also the ever-present danger that a monarch may lose his powers to others . Finally , most writers agree that absolute monarchy is not effective or wise for advanced and highly civilized people , no matter how capable and fine a particular ruler may be . b . ARISTOCRACY . The state which is ruled and guided by a few people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ set apart by birth , age , landowning , wealth , priesthood , education , military functions , and the like . It is government by a comparatively small part of the population . The Greeks considered it to be government by the best . As a matter of fact it makes little difference what the actual form may be ; the power is exercised by a small group so that the large majority have no voice in affairs . Thus all governments partake of the nature of aristocracy , for the monarch can not possibly handle all the functions of his government , while in a democracy the masses have neither the knowledge nor the time to rule . The more common types of aristocracies are divided according to the method used in selecting the ruling classes into ( I ) aristocracies of birth , ( 2 ) of property , ( 3 ) of the military class , and ( q ) of the priestly class . Birth is no guide to a true aristocracy ; property is no test of fitness to rule ; and neither the military @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ led to the further division of aristocracies into real and sham , the former existing where the few fit rule because of virtue and talent , the latter where they do not . While education does make for better government , it does not necessarily make for good government unless those who rule are inherently fit to do so in the beginning . The English government of the eighteenth century was a good example of an aristocracy of land and birth . Ancient Persia was a religious aristocracy , while Napoleon 's Empire was dominated by a military aristocracy .  | A term often used in connection with aristocracy is oligarchy , which Seeley called " deranged " or " diseased " aristocracy . The Greeks called it government by the few in their own interest , or government by the wealthy ; it was also called plutocracy . Aristocracy has some outstanding strengths , just as monarchy does . When it is based on ability to rule it is of the highest quality , for it is character and ability and not numbers that make for good government . Aristocracy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , thus honoring authority especially if it happens to be based on custom and tradition . It makes for stability , curbing passion and violent change , which are great dangers to a democracy . Montesquieu said that it possessed an inherent vigor unknown to democracy , ' for it stands between the tyranny of monarchy and the unrestrained violence of the mob . It is willing to use genius and can maintain a vigorous and consistent policy both in domestic and foreign affairs . But at the same time it also has weaknesses , which are so pronounced that aristocracy is out of general favor today , being classed as undesirable and barely distinguishable from oligarchy . It fails to recognize the effect of the use of power on the masses , but its greatest weakness lies in the fact that there has never yet been found any sound principle on which the fittest to rule can be consistently selected . And even when the most fit do rule , they are always subjected to the temptation of misusing their powers . Thus it is elementary that heredity is no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ yet those who govern on that basis tend to develop arrogance and class pride , which in themselves are often inimical to sound government . The great value of aristocracy lies in its stress upon training , ability , and efficiency , in contrast to the democratic assumption of mass equality and ability . Among the most ardent modern champions of aristocracy have been described as an ethical concept and a social condition ; but as a form of government it is the rule by the many . Aristotle called it mob rule ' and had only condemnation for it , saying that which was everybody 's business was nobody 's business . Other definitions are : that government in which everyone has a share ; 7 that form of government in which the mass of the people possess a share in the exercise of the sovereign power , ' which is built on the assumption that there is political equality among all men , and in which the ruling power is not vested in any Footnote  | single class ; and , a government in which the majority rules by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has ever existed have all the people shared directly in the ruling power ; and tests of age and literacy have been held to be consistent with the democratic exercise of governmental functions . Until recently women were generally excluded from suffrage , and governmental offices vary in the type and extent of powers which they carry . Thus , while democracy is based on a theoretical equality it operates in fact upon a basis of inequality . For this reason Gettell says a democracy in fact exists where the following conditions are in effect : ( I ) if the form of government is supported by general consent ; ( 2 ) if the laws are made by representatives who are chosen by a wide referendum or by popular suffrage ; ( 3 ) if the governing head is elected directly or indirectly by popular vote or is responsible to the legislature ; ( 4 ) if the right to vote is conferred equally on a large part of the population ; and , ( 5 ) if the opportunity to serve in a governmental capacity is open to all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as ( r ) pure or direct or as ( 2 ) representative , sometimes called republican . A pure democracy is one in which the will of the people is directly expressed in mass meetings or in a primary assembly instead of through an assembly of representatives or delegates . It is practical in small states and is supposed to have existed in ancient Greece . Survivals may be seen in small communities , such as the New England town meetings , and in the Swiss cantons of Appenzell , Glarus , Uri , and Unterwalden . Representative democracy is the more common form . In it the will of the people is formulated and expressed through a small body of persons chosen by the people to act as their representatives for lawmaking and governing . It is important , however , that the electorate should be broad in order to represent the people as the ultimate power ; otherwise the government may not be a democracy . This type of democracy is based upon the principle that the people as ? a whole are not capable of exercising the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ history , it did not become prevalent until the middle of the last century . Its essentials seem to be : ( r ) that the electorate should be democratically constituted ; ( 2 ) that the agents must reflect the will of the people during their term of office ; and ( 3 ) that the agents are subject to an enforceable popular responsibility . Obviously these are severe tests and would lead to the conclusion that no representative democracy could exist if women or any other group were Footnote  | excluded from the polls . In most such democracies there is only a minority of the total population who constitute the electorate . It is generally believed that a representative democracy exists if the legislature is popularly elected . The late government of France was a good example of such a democracy . Our own government is republican in character , which means that it is based on a widely extended suffrage , is operated by a small group of officials in the interests of those who elected them , and that these officials hold their office at their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ good behavior . Under a broad interpretation such a classification might include elective monarchy , but a strict interpretation excludes monarchies and applies the classification only to aristocracies and democracies . The worship of democracy by many people prompts a listing of its virtues , for blind worship is almost as dangerous to democracy as despising it is . A government based on popular control , election , and responsibility is likely to insure , in the long run , greater efficiency and truer service of the interests of the people than any other form of government . The individual has an opportunity to secure his rights by standing up for them . Each individual contributes to the general prosperity by promoting his own , thus following the greatest incentive in any society . The masses are elevated , and patriotism , love of country , and loyalty are generally increased . Really free men are produced , for only a small share in the government makes men free and not subject . It is often argued , but has never been proved , that the elected officials of a democracy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ serving under other forms of government . Since in democracy sovereignty and its exercise are based on consent and not force , the dangers of revolution are supposedly reduced . Obviously many of these contentions are open to challenge as they stand . There are also several weaknesses to be noted in the democratic form of government . It disregards on its face ability , aptitudes , and training , and has a tendency to distrust specialists and experts , entrusting the government to those who are untrained and often unfitted for complex duties . There is a lack of enforceable responsibility within its operation , and it permits the breeding of agitators , flatterers , demagogues , and bosses . Groups are leveled down rather than lifted up , so that education , science , literature , and art , are poorer than they would otherwise be . It is vulnerable to attack by armies and mobs , and it has not been able to stand up indefinitely against ardent nationalists . The poorest and the most ignorant make the decisions because they are the most numerous ; thus it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the superior shall survive and that inferiority must perish . There never has been , nor is there now , a real democracy with equal  | opportunity for all . It is costlier than other forms of government , slow and cumbersome in operation , especially in matters of justice , and destructive to confidence in the legislature . Wealth becomes a formidable influence in perverting legislation , while politics becomes a trade and a profession . Parties and their organizations acquire undue power as legislators and executives tend to swap laws for votes . Obviously , these statements are also open to challenge as they stand . Consideration of the strengths and weaknesses of democracy in light of the events of our times raises the question of the future of democracy . Before the war it was believed that its universality was inescapable . Now that thesis no longer holds . Russia , Turkey , Italy , Germany , and other states with democratic constitutions have adopted dictatorial rule as the confidence in representative government has declined . As this chapter is being written dictatorial rule menaces all the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whole world . A successful democracy requires a constitution , security of property , security of rights , some means for insuring the will of the majority , political intelligence among the people , and direction of the wisest and the best . Some people because of their experience or natural aptitudes or training seem to be better suited for democracy than others . To succeed , democracy demands the preparation and training of citizens . It must lean upon general literacy and a strong middle class . Therefore some writers feel that it has no place in Asia , and that the lack of some one or more of these essential elements is responsible for many of its failures in Central and South America . In any case the burdens of democracy are supposedly great , for as the state grows the complexity of voting increases beyond the competence of the people . The initiative and referendum are the last of these complex burdens . In some quarters voices are heard demanding even the popular control of foreign affairs . The assertion is often made that there are far too @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ handle them . There is a tendency also in modern representative democracy to transfer elective duties to administrative functionaries , which obviously is also destructive to democracy . 2 . According to the Location of Supreme Power and Authority . Governtncnts classified according to the place where supreme power is located may be divided into two groups , namely , those with a unitary or centralized system of government and those with a federal or decentralized system . a . CENTRALIZE ' ) OR UNITARY GOVERNMENTS . All modern governments have territorial subdivisions , which are called by different names : commonwealths , cantons , counties , communes , or townships . Whenever the whole  | power of government rests in one central organ or in several central organs and there is no division of powers between the central government and the subordinate states , the government is said to be centralized or unitary in form . The subordinate districts , departments , communes , and counties are parts of the central government acting as its agents for the administration of local government . They are subject to it in administration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been conceded to them . England and most European and Asiatic governments belong in this class . The government of republican France was the classical example . Such governments are strong in that they easily achieve uniformity of law , policy , and administration . Their foreign policies and national defense programs are coherent . Their governmental machinery tends to be more efficient and less expensive . Having a single patriotism , they are more easily adaptable to changing conditions with a minimum amount of conflict of authority , confusion , and overlapping and duplication of powers . They are weak in that local self-government is absent . The policies settled by the central agency may only remotely apply to a given local community because they are made by officials who may not know the local conditions . Unitary governments are not suited to a liberty-loving people , and they are unsuitable for large countries with communities varying in character and make-up . The local community suffers from neglect while the national parliament is overburdened with petty details . There is a tendency to destroy local initiative , while interest in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Whenever the governmental power in a state is divided by agreement , constitution , or fundamental act between a central government and the individual states or territorial subdivisions , the government is said to be federal or decentralized in character . In most cases such an arrangement has resulted because the central government has been created by the smaller states . This is the case in the United States , Switzerland , Australia , and some of the countries of Latin America . Under this arrangement there are several local governments each supreme within its own sphere , which has been marked out with definity and clarity . The central government as a rule exercises power in national affairs , military matters , foreign policy , commerce , patents , money , copyrights , revenue naturalization , and other common functions . The local states regulate safety , welfare , and police matters . The tendency is for the . central power to expand at the expense of the local states or political units . The strengths of the federal form are several . It permits local self-government to grow , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the central organization . The balance of government is observed ,  | and such a system has proved particularly efficient in vast areas . It stimulates interest in public affairs because a greater number of people have a share in the government than under the unitary type . There is less danger of despotism , and at the same time the central administration and parliament are relieved of many petty details . Differences between local groups are usually easily settled . Bureaucracy is prevented ; patriotism is stimulated ; local communities are permitted experiments , and consistent national policies are possible without choking local autonomy . Like all other forms of government the decentralized form has its weaknesses . While it is strong politically and externally , it may be weak internally and economically . It is weak in foreign affairs , and one administration is often embarrassed by the action of the former administration in such matters . The division of power internally necessitates innumerable arrangements for uniform laws concerning crime , labor , marriage , divorce , banking , exchange , and the like . Conflicts of jurisdiction arise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ government , and even between a state and the citizen of another state . This double system is cumbersome , slow , and expensive , especially since it divides lawmaking between two sets of powers . It is notorious as a government of constant compromise and change . C. CONFEDERACY . A modification of the federal form is confederacy , in which each local or member state maintains its own sovereignty and grants to the central government or organization certain powers for mutual support or defense . The United States prior to 1789 and Germany from 187o to 1918 are examples in point . Under this arrangement there are many sovereignties , the arrangement often lacking an executive head and judicial machinery . The confederacy provides protection and uniformity in foreign relations , war , and interstate relations . It is transitory in character , lacks stability , and exists at the pleasure of the member states . d . BUREAUCRATIC GOVERNMENT . Cutting across these types is the bureaucratic type of government , in which the power is exercised by ministerial bodies and administrative chiefs . Generally it means a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a professional class . The career service of Prussia from 1720 to 18o8 was an example . Bureaucratic government is based upon training , seniority , merit , and permanent tenure . It is skilled and capable , but formal and brittle . It is efficient but dry . Opposed to it is popular government , with brief tenure subject to the will of the people and indifference to training . Of this same nature is paternalistic government , which aims to promote public welfare by government services extended to . ill types of enterprises and activities . Finally in this classification there is the individualistic government , which operates on the principle that the  | greatest latitude possible should be provided for individual enterprise . Many ' believe that government 's sole function is to remove obstacles from the path of the individual , and that that government governs best which governs least . 3 . According to the Location of Responsibility . One of the assumptions of some writers on politics is that governments have two main functions , namely , to make laws and to administer them . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the governing power , it is common to divide governments into the cabinet and the presidential types . a . CABINET , MINISTERIAL , OR PARLIAMENTARY GOVERNMENT . Cabinet government is deemed to exist when a prime minister standing at the head of a cabinet is responsible for the proper exercise of his powers to a parliament . In bi-cameral governments it is usually the lower house to which he is responsible . This form of government is also known as parliamentary and ministerial . It is especially useful in permitting collaboration between the executive and legislative authorities and fixes responsibility squarely upon them , for they may be challenged and turned out of office at any time . It is flexible , elastic , and helpful in times of international crises and domestic emergencies , and yet the administration is always subject to popular control . England possesses and France did possess such governments . On the other hand , the guarantees sought by those who believe in a separation of powers are sacrificed by such a union of the executive and the legislative powers . The government tends @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; and unless the bi-party system prevails , cabinets have a tendency to be compromise or coalition cabinets drawn from several parties , which has a paralyzing effect upon consistent and definite programs . Finally , the legislature tends to abdicate its legislative initiative , leaving the recommending of at least the major bills to the cabinet . b . PRESIDENTIAL OR NON-PARLIAMENTARY GOVERNMENT . The presidential or non-parliamentary form of government exists where the president is chosen for a fixed term , holding office at his pleasure until the term has expired . The legislature may not turn him out no matter how much they may dislike his policy , and he , on the other hand , may not dissolve the legislature . Such is the government of the United States . Such a government is valuable in times of crisis because stability of its administration is assured for a fixed period of years . It has proved itself energetic and powerful , and has had the virtue of being able to place experts instead of party leaders at the head of each major administrative unit . Nor is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Prime Minister .  | But in this form of government every election period is one of disturbance . There is always the possibility of a deadlock between the legislature and the executive , with a consequent loss of governmental energy . There is lack of direct responsibility because the president has only a negative and recommendatory share in legislation , which becomes largely a committee function . C. OTHER FORMS . This classification of states into cabinet and presidential types does not make due allowance for new types of government which refuse to recognize the distinction between the legislative and executive functions . Thus , for example , there is the Swiss administration carried out by an executive council chosen by the legislature for a term of years coinciding with its own . Each member of this council is the head of one of the administrative departments , and his position is much like that of a cabinet officer in England . But the members are not responsible to the legislature nor of necessity to the party . These similarities to both systems are matched by dissimilarities , so that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ others , and neither for still others . The government of Russia places the supreme constituent and legislative power in the All Russian Congress , representing various soviets organized on a vocational basis . This body has placed the power in the Council of the People 's Commissars . The whole system disregards completely any idea of a division of powers . Then there are the totalitarian states ? Germany , for example . The presidency and chancellorship are both vested in the Fuehrer . There is only one party , and while the Fuehrer is the head of that party he is theoretically responsible only to the people , which restriction he interprets as he pleases . The whole order is based on the principle of leadership . This type of government also disregards the theory of the separation of powers and operates on a dictatorial principle , placing the supreme executive power in the hands of the Fuehrer , who decrees laws at his pleasure . All officials are directly responsible to him . He is the final source of appeal and the Reichstag is his sounding board . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ purpose and of will , is flexible and adjustable to the needs of any exigency , and is stable and consistent . On the other hand , it is arbitrary and has no place for liberty and human rights ; it lays everything in the hands of one man , making him a power for good or for evil , for right or for wrong . SECONDARY FORMS OF GOVERNMENTS Governments may be classified according to the type of person or persons who exercise the power . For instance , a government ruled by priests is a  | theocracy , one ruled by military men a timocracy , one ruled by the wealthy class a plutocracy ; one ruled by the middle class is bourgeoisie , and one ruled by the laboring class is proletariat . Governments may also be classified according to whether they are well or badly carried on . For example , a monarchy which is badly administered is a tyranny ; a perverted aristocracy has been called an oligarchy ; and a degenerate democracy was branded as mob rule by Aristotle . These are secondary classifications because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in this chapter . Some of them run back in history to the days of Greece and so bear the stamp of great antiquity . THE BEST FORM OF GOVERNMENT The best form of government depends entirely upon one 's conception of what the purposes of government should be . Tests and purposes differ , but in the last analysis that government is best which best achieves its purposes . That government is best which is best administered . One test for a good government is its efficiency , vigor , economy , and prompt action . Another test is public interest in governmental affairs , loyalty , and patriotism in the citizens , and the amount of political education and freedom . Still another test is the increase in happiness and in the sum of good qualities possessed by people in the community . There are other tests as well . To us democracy seems the best government . But it is well to remember that no single form of government suits any people for all times . It must be altered and adapted to fit new demands and needs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was from despotism to democracy ; now it seems to be from democracy to dictatorship . The interesting thing about all forms of government is that the leaders claim that they represent the people . Representative government is extolled everywhere . Mussolini approves of it , for example , and says that he has only weeded out its spurious form in Italy . Good government is neither a philosophy , a subject for argument , nor a matter of opinion . It is a fact . Its test is a people who flourish even on an inhospitable soil . Bad governments kill even the best and most prosperous lands . The important fact is not the type or form of government which a people have , but the way in which it is carried on . If it respects human rights , property , and institutions , it is good . A divine form of government in the hands of ignorant devils would most assuredly come to grief anywhere , and so it is on this earth . //  | Footnote  | Systems of Government SYSTEMS DISTINGUISHED FROM FORMS AND TYPES @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is also possible to distinguish between them according to their functions , purposes , and philosophies . This has been called classification according to system . A system in this sense is an underlying program or philosophy according to which a state exercises its power or force to coerce obedience tits orders and laws . Ideas of what a proper program of government should consist of have changed from time to time and modern concepts have not always prevailed . Before examining the present systems , a view of the past systems should give a helpful perspective . SYSTEMS PRIOR TO THOSE OF THE PRESENT It is impossible to distinguish any governmental system among the earliest tribes , since government did not appear at the beck of philosophical speculation but grew out of social needs . The earliest political organizations lacked philosophy , conscious purpose , and program . Long established custom alone justified the exercise of power . Government grew and no one knew how nor when it made its appearance . It would be difficult to state when leadership , social customs , and usages ripened into institutions . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ since all systems require theory and ideals which presuppose an advanced social and political development . ' 1 . Ancient Oriental Empires . The first systems were the ancient Oriental empires of Egypt , Chaldea , Phoenicia , Babylon , Assyria , and others z These people lived in the warm fertile lands of the Near East which allowed them to grow , prosper , and organize . Natural boundaries gave them the protection necessary for them to integrate society and government . After accomplishing this task they undertook foreign conquests , adding many subject peoples to their empires . The exercise of political power aimed ( t ) to pro-Footnote  | vide the needed protection against invaders from abroad , and ( 2 ) to establish relationships between the conqueror and the conquered . Conquest made for the dominance of the conquerors over the conquered . There existed the belief that the rulers could exercise their powers over their own realm and over the conquered areas as though the lands and people were their personal property . Their power was unchecked and unbridled . 2 . The Greek Systems . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ systems which were based chiefly on ethical principles . To the Greeks the just state was the good state , and when Plato sought his just man , he did so in what he considered the just state . Each man was supposed to be a mirror of the state in which he lived , possessing its strengths and its weaknesses . Men patriotically devoted their lives to the progress of the state . So absorbed was the average Greek in his city that anything smacking of modern individualism would have been radical if not actually treasonable . Thus , although the Greeks did not develop any system peculiar to themselves , they did create many types differing according to the prevailing opinion in each state . The military oligarchy of Sparta and the commercial democracy of Athens are classical examples of how widely these differed . 3 . The Roman Empire . The Roman program was essentially legal , stressing authority , uniformity of law , universal peace , and centralized organization . The ancient Oriental empires had had a high respect for the individual and some of the city-states @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Romans were the first people to talk of the equality of man . A world empire and a universal legal system were created by a state which witnessed the transfer of power from the patrician to the plebeian groups within its own borders . Rome achieved the stability which previous governments had unsuccessfully sought to achieve . 4 . Systems of the Middle Ages . It was this stability and universality , which the succeeding ages tried to recapture . ' During the Middle Ages the universal empire became the objective of both the Holy Roman Empire and of the Papacy , while actually political diversity reigned . Because of the essentially religious character of these times , what was thought to be God 's way was considered the right way in political matters . The chief trouble lay in deciding what was God 's way , for various sources of authority believed that they had the true answers , even though they did not agree with those of other agencies speaking ex cathedra . Roman and Teutonic institutions were fused with a landholding social system , which was both @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ while the individual , Footnote  | liberty , and local self-government were emphasized . Under these circumstances the prince ruled for the people and it was his office which was important , not the man himself , although the man and the office might not be distinguishable for practical purposes . They were distinguishable only when church and political ruler came into conflict . The system was a peculiar combination of religious ferver , eschatology , magic , superstition , political relics , primitive social institutions , and stratified society . 5 . The National State . A new program appeared with the advent of the national state , which brought with it far-reaching changes . Freedom from church control was sought through the support o , f the political power against the might of universal Rome . Philip the Fair was supported by his people when France blossomed into modern nationhood . The German people flocked to the standards of their rulers when they were attacked by Charles V. National unity became the objective of most new states , and they gave it expression in the support of their rulers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Whatever the ruler willed had the force of law . The State became an object in itself , while the ruler was the living symbol ? sometimes so powerful that Louis XIV is erroneously reported to have said , " I am the State . " National armies and navies grew as the monarchs tried to strengthen their power . In economics a paternalistic and closely supervised system called mercantilism was created , which regarded economic activities as the special interest of the State . A government measured its strength in the gold and precious stuffs it could accumulate . A host of navigation acts and trading acts and closed colonial trade developed , until by the middle of the eighteenth century the system began to irk and totter . The last vestiges of the Middle Ages disappeared with the Industrial Revolution . Man had shed his shame and depravity in the Renaissance and the Reformation , and he had won freedom from the Church through his monarch . When the economic restraints following the commercial revolution became too onerous , Adam Smith , the Physiocrats , and the laissez @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resulted eventually in the doctrines of individualism . The full fruition of these doctrines has been reached today , and the world is not united in its opinion of which governmental system is the best . PRESENT SYSTEMS According to present ideas it is possible for a government to exercise its power so as to ( I ) give the fullest freedom possible to the individual , ( 2 ) submerge the individual in favor of the group , ( 3 ) strike a middle ground between emphasis on the individual and emphasis on the group , or ( q )  | eliminate all government . If the last were possible of achievement , there could , of course , be no governmental system . 1 . Systems Which Emphasize the Individual . a . INDIVIDUALISM . Individualism as a system of government was generally accepted before the War of 1914 . According to its precepts government exists to help man realize himself to the fullest . Individualists believe that if nature is allowed to follow her own rules , she will create the best society and she can do this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ control and paternalism only as meddlesome interference retarding progress . If , therefore , the individual is left alone , he will perfect himself unhampered and the ideal society will be achieved most quickly . Government aiming at man 's social well-being functions only so far as people are willing to accept it and to work towards the fulfillment of its ends . It may control an individual only in order to prevent him from interfering with the freedom of another . Government 's chief purpose is to remove obstacles from the path of the individual , and that government is best , which is least felt and noticed . ' Such are the teachings of individualism . Individualism is modern , but students may detect its beginnings in early Athens and in some of the Greek city-state philosophers . It was also implicit in the Renaissance and in the natural rights idea . Medieval Christianity emphasized individual aloofness from worldliness , while the Reformation was a revolt against authority , especially in religious matters . In spite of this , it was not until the Industrial and the French Revolutions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a congenial vehicle in democracy , which advocated the rights of man in many attacks on absolutism . The economic aspect of this battle for freedom was the revolt against mercantilism which has already been mentioned . This was buttressed by the French Revolution 's test of the rights of man and the American Revolution 's emphasis upon the individual . During the century from 1750 to 1850 these doctrines were reinforced by the ideas of the Utilitarians , who considered the best society to be the one in which the greatest number of people were happiest . Individualism was advanced from many other sources . The economic man was convinced of the respectable character of business , and followed laissez faire doctrines and practices . Competition meant individual enterprise and was the essence of good society . The idealist believed in natural rights and these were incorporated into constitutions and governmental instruments , which guaranteed the rights of life , liberty , the pursuit of happiness , fraternity , and Footnote  | equality . The biologist added his theories of evolution and the survival of the fittest , which were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a barrage political leaders should encourage the individual to develop himself to the fullest , since the sum of all individual development would make for the greatest possible progress in the State . The first formal statement of individualism was made in 1791 by Wilhelm Humboldt , who published the theory which was to play an important role in the systems of government in the western world during the eighteenth , nineteenth , and twentieth centuries . While many men developed the idea further , it was Herbert Spencer in England who expressed it best , although the impetus of John Stuart Mill was fully as telling as the speculations of Spencer . In the United States these ideas fell upon fruitful ground and became the basic American doctrine through the years of our greatest development . The views of Jackson and Jefferson were logical expressions of the new individualism , which promised so much for an undeveloped country . The fruition of the philosophy resulted in the attack on the institution of slavery and later in the emancipation of women . It is only recently that this philosophy has come @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ press , of speech , and of religion , immunity from unreasonable searches and seizures , and scores of other liberties . It made it possible for the first time in hundreds of years for the individual to disagree with the current social and political programs without rendering him liable to charges of treason and crime . It also expressed itself in the government 's withdrawal from the close regulation of economic life . It was not long before legal individualism , bolstered by natural law , was contributing to the protection of the private person . The creed of the new democracies and constitutional government everywhere spoke of inalienable rights . The critics of the individualist system assert that it reached its goal at this point ; for it had achieved the protection of the then incipient , but now powerful , capitalist class . In the minds of the individualists , government exists in order to remove obstacles in the way of free competition ; thus the Clayton and Sherman Anti-Trust acts were designed to help the free flow of competitive enterprise in the United States . This belief @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ worth , for the individual is the end in himself , and the State 's function is to develop him to his fullest capacity . This theory is based on the assumption that the individual knows best what he wants . The State provides him with a society in which to live , with facilities for an education , and with the right to engage in business . It is up to man to elect whether or not lie will sinze these opportunities . If the individual cares to use these  | opportunities , he does so ; if he does not and fails to achieve what he considers success in life , his failure is his own fault and society does not bear any share in it . This philosophy is based upon the idea that the State can not change the inherent nature of any man and therefore it is wisest if it leaves him alone . In the United States the system of individualism protected all rights . The great majority of amendments to the Constitution of the United States are ample testimony to this fact : This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which its critics have described as predatory and devastating in its inequalities . Economic differences have given rise to the newly-coined phrase " social injustice . " In a society based on unrestricted competition and on business and the dollar , liberty for the buyer and the seller unfortunately has not always been liberty for the worker . The control of labor has produced opposition and revolt because of the unhappy relations between a top-heavy capitalist class and a mass of poor workers , the former growing richer with each passing day and the latter growing ' commensurately poorer . Wage slavery and unemployment are believed to grow out of the uncontrolled type of individualism characteristic of the last few generations . At least these are the criticisms of those who have suffered from individualism . We shall not attempt to judge the validity of these criticisms , but it must not be forgotten that they often confuse the results of the Industrial Revolution with those of individualism . Capitalism may in part grow out of the philosophy of individualism , but it is essentially economic and the product of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ logical conclusion , the theory underlying individualism leads to anarchy ; for absolute freedom is the complete absence of regulation , be it state or any other . Some philosophers and idealists have advocated this idea in the past ; but unlike the idea of individualism , it never ripened into a system of government , although the anarchists in recent Loyalist Spain and the Nihilists in Russia actually gave it expression in political parties . Therefore it deserves a moment 's attention . Although defined as the absence of government , anarchy is , in the last analysis , a complete lack of governmental system . All anarchists have a few fundamental ideas in common , for there are schools of anarchists as there arc schools of collectivists and individualists . To the anarchist force used by government to coerce individuals to conform to its will merely breeds Footnote  | perversity and crime . Every use of force by the State is a repression of liberty . Everyone is supposed to surrender some of his freedom to the State , but in almost every instance the State has taken advantage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the custodian of individual freedom . Morality is the result of the free election of the proper course of conduct by an individual , and the State in exercising its governmental power is destructive of moral values . The first great critic of this aspect of government was William Godwin ( 1756-1836 ) , in his Enquiry Concerning Political Justice ( 1793 ) ? He acknowledged as right only a minimum power in society for the purpose of government . The Frenchman Proudhon went even farther , repudiating all forms of government and calling the ownership of property theft . He not only hated private property , but considered the State to be an arch-criminal . This philosophy was drawn both from liberalism , with its objections to state control , and socialism , with its opposition to private property . Anarchism has been classified by political and social philosophers into the individualistic and the communistic types . Such classification is superficial because even in communistic anarchism all societies are voluntary associations , the individual being able to terminate his association with the community when it suits his purpose . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Max Stirner 's Der Einzige and sein Eigenthum s Stirner holds that the family and society interfere with freedom and should be eliminated as quickly and as completely as possible , that might is the only test of right and authority , and that a society or state based upon authority has no right to exist . The main group of anarchists are called communistic because they believe that societies should be voluntary associations . Their ideas were originally propounded by Michael Bakunin and Prince Kropotkin , who opposed law and order because they protected the privileged classes and destroyed equality of chances . According to the communistic anarchists the police , taxes , military service , and other state functions are means of protecting the privileged against the unprivileged . The communistic anarchists advocate all manner of voluntary associations , sometimes elaborate and farreaching , but they always stipulate that these associations must eliminate political control . Some anarchists believe that a new order should be achieved gradually , while others urge that change be effected by revolution and the use of violence , so that the overthrow of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possible . Such doctrines have little use for the democratic and individualist doctrine that governments should be of the people , by the people , and for the people . The anarchist challenges this doctrine , claiming that all governments are only " by and for " the privileged classes . 2 . Collectivist Systems . a . COLLECTIVISM.9 There have been other critics of the individualistic system during the last few generations . The Industrial Revolution , like all great economic and social revolutions in history , has taken a toll in human life , misery , and suffering . This has been indiscriminately attributed to the governmental system which permits competition and capitalism to thrive . The individualism of the eighteenth , nineteenth , and twentieth centuries has not answered all the needs of society and those who have suffered under it have devised new and challenging systems , which they believe will correct its shortcomings . Most of these have been described as socialistic and proletarian . The idea of unlimited competition has been the chief point of attack for the collectivists who state that instead of less @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ free and unbridled competition , governmental control and regulation of private enterprise is vital to the welfare of the community as a whole . The collectivists claim that the individualistic society distributes economic benefits in a way that inevitably fosters injustice , because it helps a favored few to amass huge fortunes and thereby robs and starves the unfortunate masses . Obviously the general critics of governmental systems range from those who would provide means for the control of economic and social welfare by governmental regulation to those who would abolish private property by force and violence . In some instances the collectivists have not waited for government and society to correct what they consider to be undesirable conditions . They have banded together into voluntary societies for the control of production and consumption to reap such benefits as they can . Thus , consumers and producers co-operatives have come into being and to some people they mark the beginning of industrial democracy . It has ' been only a short step from his movement to the movement for state ownership of certain key industries and activities . During the years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Their theories developed until they advoatcd state control of industries : ( I ) to protect public interests in natural monopolies ( such as mining ) ; ( 2 ) to eliminate waste in certain non-monopolistic industries ( such as fishing ) ; ( 3 ) to guarantee a better protection for the future than private enterprise could give ( by means of such benefits as old-age pensions ) ; ( ; I ) to give society goods and services which are badly Footnote  | needed ( such as the service known as social security ) ; and , ( 5 ) to bring about closer social bonds by making men realize that they are bound into one great social and economic brotherhood , which is not of national but of international magnitude . Simple as these ideals are , they have been impossible of practical achievement . Many problems have arisen as to ( i ) the ownership of land , ( 2 ) which governmental units should be publicly owned , ( 3 ) how to make the state democratic in society and economics as well as at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ property , and ( 5 ) the amount of government which should be exercised in any given case . Naturally , such rocks in the broad stream of collective and social philosophy have divided the stream into several substreams . The result is that collectivism and co-operatives are governmental systems only on paper . h . SYNDICALISM . The syndicalists advocate the organization of producers so that they shall control and manage industries through groups of worker , trade , and labor unions . The term syndicat , borrowed from the French , among whom the theory of syndicalism has had some vogue , means an organization of producers managing their own affairs . Syndicalism , commonly called criminal syndicalism in the United States , is an impatient doctrine , which teaches that the action of democratic institutions is slow and weak and that democratic institutions are therefore highly undesirable . It advocates sabotage , the general strike , resort to violence , overthrow of existing government , and revolution . It sprang up in France after the Revolution and stood for a combination of local unions into a society of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ government were generally condemned as hostile to the proletariat . In 1895 the syndicalists organized into the General Confederation of Labor in France , with George Sorel as their great leader . In the United States the banner was raised by the Industrial Workers of the World under the leadership of Big Bill Haywood . The philosophy of syndicalism has been incorporated imperfectly into the Russian governmental system . Some American states have made its advocacy a crime , but the tendency of some of our courts seems to be in the opposite direction . There is something sardonically humorous in a court 's looking with favor upon a doctrine which preaches the destruction of that court as soon as the doctrine can be put into effect . c . GUILD SOCIALISM.10 Another doctrine which has been given partial trial in recent governmental systems is guild socialism . It teaches that all primary Footnote  | state and governmental functions should be vested in guilds or craft unions similar to those which existed during the Middle Ages . Such residual powers as are left may be vested in society and government . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It proposes that workers be organized into occupational unions or guilds whose function it is to control production , and that consumers , represented by the state , own the means of production . Many phases of this doctrine have been given practical trial in Soviet Russia , where phases of syndicalism have also been tried . Guild socialism denies the so-called monistic theory of sovereignty , which places the supreme political power in the state , and adheres to the pluralistic theory , which assumes that this power is exercised by functional groups and that the state is the sum of such groups in operation.11 It stipulates that industry , education , and the Church all have their organizations supreme within their own spheres and answerable to the state only in the case of those functions which are outside of their sphere . Like all socialistic philosophies , guild socialism dislikes state and government . Its supporters do not consider political democracy to be enough ; there must be economic and industrial democracy as well . Their aim is to create greater opportunities for the individual . Thus , control @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the producing group , which should have the power to determine the conditions and the character of the productive enterprises . The state should represent only the consumer , while the producer should have a national organization of his own , meeting as a congress of national guilds . Beyond these criticisms , guild socialism has no serious quarrel with democratic individualism . Guild socialism has been described as a compromise between anarchy and autocracy possessed of a decentralized government . ' 3 . Authoritarian Systems . Since the beginning of the World War authoritarian states have appeared from time to time . Their systems of government emphasize the power and authority of the state as these were never emphasized in the immediate past . They challenge directly the individualistic democracy of the last century . ' 3 Functioning social power is the center of their interest , and they contend that they can achieve a social and political optimum by directing the whole activity of the state to this end . The significance may be seen in that this system has room for only one political party and , at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and absolute Footnote  | dictatorship . There is a denial of democratic and parliamentary ideals whether the dictatorship be under the leadership of the proletariat class as in Russia or of the middle classes as in Italy and Germany . a . RUSSIAN COMMUNISM . Soviet Russia is first in point of time and length of experience in communism . Communism was established there as a result of two revolutions in 1917 . The first essayed constitutional parliamentarism ; but the second discarded it and leaped centuries to set up a new proletarian state on modern industrial lines . The second revolution organized a new society ruled by a single class of producers headed by a dictatorship which systematically purged the state of all the ancient privileged classes . The justice-mad workers used governmental power to root out all chance of future opposition . Underlying this revolution and its subsequent government was the philosophy of Karl Marx set forth in his Communist Manifesto ( 1848 ) . Marx showed that historically man had always been divided into classes , and it had been the habit of one class to exploit another @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exploited class , composed of the workers of the mills and factories , was called the proletariat . It had been created by the machines and distribution methods of the Industrial Revolution . With each passing year the proletariat were reduced to more and more miserable circumstances , while the bloated bourgeoisie , the capitalist class , grew more opulent at their expense . Their only salvation was for the proletariat of the world to unite , throw off the yoke of the capitalistic class , and create a new single-class state . World revolution was the goal . " This communistic philosophy and the Russian system of government based upon it regard the state not only as a political entity but also as a social and economic one . Production is both a social and an economic matter . Distribution , which is not for the general benefit , is forbidden . All real value lies in labor because capitalism is considered a form of exploitation . Political well-being and political equality are not necessarily synonymous with social well-being and happiness . The system does not stop there , however @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ philosophy that the exploiter does not readily give up his power . Therefore , only revolution can achieve the desired social change . Since the exploiter is taking unfair advantage of the worker , it is the prerogative and right of the worker to use every means at his disposal to overthrow his exploiter . ' The destruction must be complete , which means Footnote  | that the bourgeoisie must be killed , and the worker must seize the state whenever he can . Revolution must be spread not only among the workers , but also among the soldiers and the sailors and all similar groups . The old order must be undermined and the revolution must be complete . In short , everything is fair , if it aims at establishing the new order . At first the idea was to get rid of the state , but the prospect of such a change seemed hopeless in Russia . When the time did come for revolution , terrorism and violence were exercised without restraint . There was no compromise , for terrorism was used as an instrument of political action @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Bolshevik State . The standard was borne by the Bolshevik Party , who thereupon became the political elite replacing the old privileged classes . This party also became the international agency for the spread of revolutionary doctrines abroad . When in 1919 the Third International was organized in Moscow , it became the new agency for spreading propaganda and for the union of all communist parties which had been organized throughout the world since the Russian Revolution 16 The government which was created was absolute in power , paternalistic in nature , and intolerant of all opposition . Life , liberty , and property were all subjected to state interests . Private property was abolished . Religious worship was stamped out . All of the institutions of the old order were systematically destroyed , while political control was maintained by espionage , secret police , and resort to violence and force both for protective and exemplary purposes . A federal union of soviet republics and autonomous areas were united by a common social philosophy and the organization of the political leaders . The state was organized into a large number @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ depending on the character of the communities from which they were drawn and other factors . By the process of pyramiding committees upon committees two immense Congresses were created which theoretically were the ruling bodies . Practically , the real government was a central executive committee in which the real ruler of Russia was to be found . The personnel of the government of the Bolshevik party and of the Third International overlapped , so that Russia became the fountainhead from which the propaganda and the money for the spread of world revolution poured . As a system of government , Russian communism is economic , social , and Footnote  | political paternalism , supervising every act of the individual , caring for him through all the vicissitudes of life , dictating to him what he may or may not do . The state defines the individual 's interests , rights , and duties , giving them expression as it sees fit . b . ITALIAN FASCISM . Fascism is the bloody answer of the non-proletarian groups to the bloody revolution of the proletariat . It meets force with force and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the same controls and techniques as communism uses . It , too , is authoritarianism inspired by violence . Like communism it is a denial of western individualism ; but unlike communism , which is internationalist in character , Fascism makes a strong appeal to the purely nationalistic feelings of the masses . Its rise in Italy can be traced directly to the results of the World War and to the failure of communism 17 It is a combination of several things , being anti-intellectual , ultraradical , pragmatic , positive , romantic , and violent . With a syndicalist background , it is strongly nationalistic , looking romantically forward to the return of Italy to her position of former greatness . The Fascist Party is the nucleus about which the State revolves . Its leadership overlaps that of the State , and its Grand Council is perhaps the greatest final power in all Italy . The Italian Government is now organized on the corporative basis . The nation and national production are stressed , and the whole productive force has been organized into corporations following the lines of the guild @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economy is a unit into which corporation fits . While private property is respected , it is regulated by the State and controlled by the corporations . Each corporation is headed by a cabinet minister and each unit is carefully worked into the unified whole . Meticulous care for the individual in all walks of life , both in work and in relaxation , the exercise of paternalism through all social needs , singleparty government , resort to force as the final arbiter of right , and dictatorial leadership characterize Italy 's totalitarian system . C. GERMAN NATIONAL SOCIALISM . National Socialism in Germany is a product of the after-war experience . Like the two authoritarian systems hereinbefore mentioned , it is a single-party dictatorship . It is the logical result of Teutonic nationalism , which stresses the importance of the state beyond that of the individual . " As Fascism is the Italian middle-class answer to 17 . The system is excellently set forth in Mario Palmieri , The Philosophy of Fascism ( Chicago : The Dante Alighicri Society , 1936 ) . 18 . For conflicting evaluations see Cesare @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1935 ) and Robert A. Brady , The Spirit and Structure of German Fascism ( New York : Viking , 1937 ) .  | communism , National Socialism is the German middle-class answer to that ideology . It is a romantic revival of racism and historical objectives , seeking its essence in the spirit of the people and their relation to the soil . It is built on principles hostile to the old individualism . This system believes in a steady and constant evolution in which the forces of the State , including education , are aimed at improving the wellbeing of the state . Might is right , and the individual fits into a niche which has been created for him by the past and in which he is today to perform the duty of helping to make a better order for the future . It is not for him to speak of rights . He has only duties . As an individual he is merely a cog in the huge state machine , who lives for a moment to make the future better for those who are to follow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sacrifice , he must live dangerously . The State is highly social . The worst crime a man can commit in such an order is to act in an antisocial manner . Every detail of his life is carefully supervised and regimented , whether it be work , relaxation , travel , play , finance , procreation , or physical development . Since the government knows best what a man should do , it becomes dangerous for him to take issue with the government , and if he does so , it is at his own peril . Indeed in no authoritarian state is difference of opinion permitted to interfere with the smooth operation of the social , economic , and political machinery . As for the government itself , it is based on the German mystical concept of leadership , the people expressing themselves through the leader . Constitutions and laws become supplementary subsidiaries to the leader , if they exist at all . It is the community and the people who are deemed to be of primary importance . The people are linked to the soil and to each @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the expression of this community . The government , therefore , must be absolute in order to express the community properly and in order to promote its welfare without hindrance . State authority is placed above everything else , and it is expressed through the leaders . Democracy , liberalism , and internationalism have no place in such a scheme . The National Socialist Party is a synonym for the State , fitting into the army its leadership , which overlaps the State leadership . Russia speaks of herself as the state of the proletariat ; Italy does not say which class she represents ; but Germany announces that she is a classless state ; yet all three are authoritarian . In all , three force and power are used to compel obedience to a paternalistic government , which has a high social purpose , brooks no opposition , and punishes dissension with physical violence , imprisonment , and death .  | CONCLUSION Every government has its own system . At one extreme stands theoretical individualistic anarchism , giving the individual complete and sole right to determine for himself the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ State and all forms of political control . At the other extreme stands the authoritarian system with its paternalism , telling the individual what he may and may not do , making him a part of the social and political pattern whether he likes it or not . These systems came into being in the revolt against individualism , which is still the basis of government in the majority of states throughout the world . It is a middle-of-the-way program , rapidly being modified to meet the serious challenges of new ideas . Between the two extremes are many governmental systems which can not be classified into any of the patterns described above . Such , for instance , are the Scandinavian systems , with their producers and consumers co-operatives and their housing and recreation facilities . In spite of these social programs , the rights of the individual are carefully fostered and protected . As to which system is best , there is no final answer . Various systems arise to meet specific needs . So ours are peculiar to our times and will undoubtedly change as future times and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its own needs , and , therefore , of its own system . Footnote  | Footnote  | Citizenship INDIVIDUAL LIBERTY AND ITS LIMITATIONS THE question of the status of the citizen must always be fundamental to any study of politics . From his legal rights and obligations to the philosophical speculations concerning his ultimate relationship to the state , the citizen has been the subject of definition and description through the ages . With the rise of totalitarian government in certain countries following the first World War , a halt was called to the emphasis upon rights . This trend , however , had manifested itself much earlier with the flowering of capitalism toward the end of the nineteenth century . As governments abandoned a laissez faire policy toward industry through sheer force of necessity there resulted a restriction of individual rights . Hence the apparent conflict between so-called " democratic " and totalitarian conceptions of individual liberty may not be so great as appears upon the surface . Perhaps the criterion is the extent to which the masses have a voice in determining the degree to which the inhabitants of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of life in the machine age may mark the death knell of Spencerian or Jacksonian individualism . Even in a politically democratic country like the United States or England , the inhabitant is born into the State without his consent , his life is guarded by the State even against his own parents , and throughout his life the State regulates closely his major activities . Finally he can not leave the state legally without certain formalities ; for example , he can not get a passport without a birth certificate . CITIZENSHIP DEFINED Citizenship may be defined as the legal relationship between a permanent member of a politically organized community and that community . The idea of citizenship has always connoted certain privileges which are enjoyed by the group which is legally identified with a given state and its institutions . Noncitizens , or aliens , in the United States , for example , although entitled to the protection of its laws , are not accorded the privileges of voting and holding office . Nor is an alien resident of the United States entitled to a passport for travel abroad @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ immemorial been a prized possession . Despite the vaunted democracy of Athens , only a minority of the population could claim the rights of citizens . Roman citizenship , originally the possession only of the freemen of Rome , was first extended to the rest of the Italian peninsula and later to freemen within the far-flung empire . The Apostle Paul claimed immunity from scourging because of his citizenship in the Empire . In the Middle Ages , before the birth of the sovereign state as we know it today , such citizenship as was recognized was determined by mere birth upon the soil . JUS SOLI AND JUS SANGUINIS Among modern states , citizenship is determined either on the principle of jus soli , or birth upon the soil , or jus sanguinis , inheritance of citizenship from the parents , or on both principles . ' CITIZENSHIP IN THE UNITED STATES The United States , along with Great Britain and a number of Latin American states , confers citizenship upon all born on the soil and under jurisdiction of the national laws . A child born of parents ineligible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A child born to a foreign ambassador under the international law doctrine of extraterritoriality would not be an American citizen , although one born to a foreign consul resident in the United States would be . Congress has at times admitted collectively to citizenship the inhabitants of territories acquired from foreign states , as in the case of Hawaii in 1900 , Puerto Rico in 1917 , and the Virgin Islands in 1927 . Children born abroad of American parentage acquire citizenship through the principle of jus sanguinis , provided that the American parent has resided in the United States at some time . To perfect citizenship , however , a child thus born must when eighteen years old record at an American consulate his intention to retain American citizenship , and when twenty-one years old must take an oath of allegiance to the United States . Naturalization Laws . The United States Congress makes regulations for individual naturalization . Any eligible individual may obtain American citizenship by complying with the regulations fixed by Congress . The steps are as follows : ( A ) declaration of intention can be filed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ record designated by Congress ; ( B ) petition for Footnote  | citizenship must be filed at least two years and not more than seven years after the " first papers " have been obtained and after a residence of five years in the United States and one year within the jurisdiction of the court . The petition must be accompanied by affidavits of two citizens with respect to the applicant 's residence and moral character ; ( C ) An examination and a public hearing are conducted ninety days after the petition is filed . " Final " or citizenship papers are then granted if the applicant has satisfied the judge as to his residence , good character , and belief in the principles of the United States Government . Although African Negroes are eligible for American citizenship , all other nonwhite races are excluded . Congress has specifically excluded Chinese , and the ineligible groups include Japanese , Burmese , Koreans , native Filipinos , North American Indians , and Hindus . The arbitrary character of this legislation and its interpretation by the courts are apparent in the fact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as " white " and thus eligible for naturalization , Hindus are not deemed white and can not be naturalized . ' Civil Liberty . The doctrine of natural rights was stressed by the founders of the American system of government and was also emphasized at the time of the French Revolution . The theories of John Locke and Jean Jacques Rousseau to the effect that man , primitively in a state of nature , while instituting civil government for security , nevertheless retained " certain inalienable rights , " were basic to nineteenth century democracy . Certain states would not adopt the American Federal Constitution of 1787 until those rights were guaranteed in the first ten amendments to the document . The Bill of Rights and the Fourteenth Amendment . In the American Bill of Rights were defined what Dr. Nicholas Murray Butler has called " The Four Freedoms , " the freedom of religion , of speech , of the press , and of assembly . ' These rights are protected against encroachment of the States of the American Union by the Fourteenth Amendment , which in addition to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enforce any law which shall abridge the privileges or immunities of citizens of the United States ; nor shall any State deprive any person of life , liberty , or property without due process of law ; nor deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws . The Fifth Amendment similarly protects individual rights from encroachment of the Federal Government . Footnote  | Constitutional Obstacles to Social Reform . Liberals have at various times seen in the Supreme Court 's interpretation of the guarantees of these two amendments and of the contract clause of Article I , Section ro , of the Constitution an obstacle to social reform , particularly with respect to governmental regulation of economic institutions . Employers in their efforts to resist the demands of union labor have alleged that the laborer has the right to make a contract for employment , begging the question of the inequality of economic status of the worker as compared with that of the employer , because of which he can be forced into accepting a low wage . The Supreme Court in the case of . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ State Legislature which prohibited " yellow-dog contracts . " ' In the case of Lochner v. New York , the Supreme Court pronounced unconstitutional a maximum hours law passed by the New York State Legislature , on the ground that the statute interfered with the right of contract between employer and employees with respect to the number of hours of work . ' Since the passage of the National Labor Relations Act in 1935 , and the sustainment of its constitutionality by the Supreme Court ' it would appear that some of the former obstacles to social reform have been overcome by Federal protection of collective bargaining . Employers assert , however , that the statute unduly favors labor and demand revision of the act . Aliens in the United States . Although certain classes or groups may at times seek to pervert these constitutional guarantees to their own ends , it must not be supposed that they have not been efficacious in preserving the principles of American civil liberty . A number of fundamental rights , ranging from the right of habeas corpus to the right of contract , are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the domiciled alien as well as the citizen a One of the greatest guarantees of American civil liberty is the stipulation in the Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments that " no person shall be deprived of life , liberty , or property without due process of law . " This means that an alien as well as a citizen shall have a reasonable or fair hearing , whether his case calls for administrative or court procedure . It also means reasonable legislation and a final appeal to the courts Footnote  | By reason of these guarantees an alien can not be deported simply on the ground that his conduct or his views are obnoxious to certain individuals or groups in the country . In the case of Joseph Strecker , an alien whom the United States Department of Labor sought to deport on the ground that he had admittedly joined the Communist Party after entry into the United States , the Supreme Court held that Strecker was not liable to deportation since he was not a member of the Communist Party at the time that the warrant was issued for his apprehension @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , an alien engaged in organizing workers on the Pacific Coast , admitted accepting the assistance , political aid , and picketing support of the Communist Party , he was not deemed deportable by the United States Department of Labor since he was not a member of the Communist Party nor did he accept its program of political changes by force.1 ' The House of Representatives , alarmed by reports of " Fifth Column " activities , subsequently voted to deport Harry Bridges . The bill failed to receive the approval of the Senate and was condemned by a Special Committee on the Bill of Rights of the House of Delegates of the American Bar Association as " contrary to the spirit of our institutions . " The committee held that Bridges , " like any other alien should have a hearing under a general law applicable to all under similar circumstances . " Since the rise of Russian Communism and the totalitarian governments in Europe , American public opinion has been increasingly sensitive to foreign ideologies and the danger that they may impair the traditional American political system . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reflects this feeling . American Bar Association Warning against Intolerance . A committee of the American Bar Association issued the following declaration on March 2 , 1940 , as a warning against intolerance and the use of illegal methods to suppress unpopular beliefs : Whether threats to traditional American liberties proceed from the " Right " or the " Left " makes no difference . Whether they consist of illegal efforts to suppress the expression of orthodox opinions or of radical and unpopular opinions makes no difference . Whether they consist of illegal attempts to coerce workers to join unions or not to join them makes no difference . All tendencies to violate civil rights should be equally discountenanced at all times , but especially in the present critical period . Illegal violence in any circumstances , even against activities deemed subversive , can not be justified upon grounds of supposed necessity . Orderly methods exist under our Constitution and laws , which are fully adequate to protect our institutions and the legitimate interests of all groups . Footnote  | It is vital to liberty that the most unpopular be given @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , especially by violence , we are using the very methods of dictatorship and tyranny that we abhor.12 This statement , which might be taken as a clear , nontechnical expression of the American concept of civil liberty , affords a strong contrast to the idea of civic subordination and the legalization of violence which has become characteristic of post-World-War political institutions in Russia , Italy , and Germany . TOTALITARIAN CITIZENSHIP When the Russians embraced Bolshevism , the civil and political rights of the individual , safeguarded in England , France , the United States , and other democratic countries at that time by constitutions and charters , were subordinated to what was considered the " well-being " of the citizen . In Italy and Germany , the state is held.to be supreme , the individual a mere pawn . Both Fascism and National Socialism conceive political power as the just prerogative of the elite , a small minority which maintains itself in power by blood and iron . Lack of Citizen Rights in Soviet Russia . Despite a vaunted trend toward democracy in the Russian Constitution of December 5 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a socialist State of workers and peasants " " with all power belonging " to the Toilers of city and village as represented by the councils of toilers ' deputies . " 15 The long Bill of Rights ' is more a statement of the social and economic objectives of the Soviet government than a guarantee of the many rights enumerated to all persons . Although in Article 125 the citizens of the U.S.S.R. are " guaranteed by law : ( A ) freedom of speech , ( B ) freedom of the press , ( C ) freedom of assemblies and meetings , ( D ) freedom of processions and demonstrations , " we know that these liberties may not be enjoyed to the same extent as they may in a democratic country . We can not conceive of the Soviet government 's granting permission to citizens to organize any other political party ( there is only the Communist Party in Soviet Russia ) or allowing them to criticize communist principles in meetings 17 Despite the fact that these rights appear in many cases to exist only on paper , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ U.S.S.R. is a tribute to the Footnote  | vitality of the principle of democracy . The Bill of Rights represents an ideal toward which Soviet Russia aspires , rather than a condition already realized in actual political practice . Citizens entitled to these rights are described as workers , and it is assumed that all citizens are or should be workers . Sir Edward Pares estimates that in a population of one hundred and seventy-five millions , about two per cent , or three and one-half millions , are excluded from citizenship is A trend toward greater nationalism is indicated by the Soviet Citizenship Law of 1938 , which concentrates the authority with reference to citizenship in the highest organs of State . The statute eliminated the simplified form of naturalization and denied to foreign workers and peasants residing in the Soviet Union privileges theretofore granted , namely , the enjoyment of the same political rights as citizens of the U.S.S.R i " It is a commonplace that totalitarian government flourishes today in countries in which there has never been a vigorous democratic growth . Although the Italian Statuto , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one of them was subject to legislative infringement . The government of Mussolini , consequently , was restrained by no constitutional bounds when it proceeded to limit the press and any personal or property rights " in the interest of public order . " 20 Limited Rights in Hitler 's Germany . The same convenient constitutional " guarantees " paved the way for the advent of Hitlerism in Germany . The framers of the Weimar Constitution painstakingly set down page after page of " inviolable " private rights , only to sprinkle the same pages generously with such vitiating qualifications as " Exceptions are permissible only by authority of law . " In almost every case the rights could be limited by ordinary process of legislation . " Subordination of the Citizen under Fascism . These limitations upon the citizen and the emphasis upon his obligations rather than upon his rights are also characteristic of Fascist political thought . Italian Fascism completely subordinates the value of the individual and stresses the greater importance of society , of which he is a part . Society is the permanent , the individual is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the means . A spokesman for Italian Fascism , however , makes the following qualification : Footnote  | Fascism does not submerge the individual in the social group . It subordinates him , but does not eliminate him ; the individual as a part of his generation ever remaining an element of society however transient and insignificant he may be . Moreover the development of individuals in each generation , when coordinated and harmonized , conditions the development and prosperity of the entire social unit . ' " Democratic liberalism , on the contrary , regards the development of the individual as the primary end of the State . In Fascist theory , the individual is a mere drop in the great stream of the State , which flows on toward its sublime objective regardless of the fate of any individual . Soviet Russia and the totalitarian states have introduced also the idea of membership in the Party as the highest goal of citizenship . They have emphasized the importance of the Communist , the Fascist , or the National Socialist Party to such a point that in many respects party @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a democratic country . Only those who have qualified by devotion to the cause of the government in power or of the Leader are admitted to the party ranks , and derelict members are dropped by " purges . " CIVIC EDUCATION , TOTALITARIAN STYLE One of the chief sources of strength of the totalitarian states is the emphasis placed by both the single political party and the government upon civic education . It is in civic education , which in the totalitarian countries is carefully planned and directed , that democratic countries have shown their greatest weakness . Communism and Fascism are quasi-religions , which are inculcated in children during their formative years . Under Hitler . In Germany the schools , the Hitler Youth League , and the family are enlisted in an effort to orient the individual in the life of the state . Self-education and self-discipline are the basic principles of the Hitler Youth League , which includes all boys and girls between ten and fourteen years of age . By decree of June 7 , 1934 , children in this group devote their Saturdays to this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ summer . To break down social barriers in the Third Reich , the government provides for the exchange of city and rural students . In the National Training Schools , at which the pupils are boarded , strenuous physical training supplements the cultural program . Both compulsory labor and military service are utilized to mobilize the physical strength of German youth . Only non-Aryans are exempt from Footnote  | obligatory labor , which is required of all persons of both sexes between the ages of eighteen and twenty-six23 Every able-bodied young German must lend his brawn to the service of the state after he has finished his secondary-school examinations . For six months the young men are taught to work with their hands and are given instruction in the ideals of the totalitarian state . There are special regulations for similar service by young women . Foreign observers who have witnessed the Spartan routine which characterizes life in German labor camps have been impressed with the loyalty and willingness with which the young German , apparently imbued with a " strength , a high resolve , and a burning love " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A year 's military training follows the labor camp detail immediately ; each German male is liable to call from his eighteenth to the end of his fortyfifth year . In wartime German women are also subject to military duty 25 Under Mussolini . The body , mind , and heart of youth are similarly pressed into the service of the state in Italy and in Russia . Under the Fascist reforms in education undertaken by Giovanni Gentile , the building of national and religious character were made the backbone of the curriculum . During his attendance in the secondary schools , which is compulsory until his fourteenth year , the Italian youth is instructed in the history of his country so that he may acquire a strong patriotic bias . Not only is emphasis placed upon the achievements of modern heroes ? such as Mazzini ? in the Italian nationalistic movement , but the glories of ancient Rome are recalled , and a generous use is made of symbols such as the lictor 's rod and pictures of the King and of Mussolini . The secondary schools and the universities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the latter institutions history seems to be taught more critically than in the former . Teachers in both classes of institutions are subject to the " purification " law of December 24 , 192526 WAR GLORIFIED . Fascism in Italy has been militaristic from its inception . Mussolini strikes the dominant note in such utterances as the following : Fascism does not , generally speaking , believe in the possibility or utility of perpetual peace . It therefore discards pacifism as a cloak for cowardly and Footnote  | supine renunciation in contra-distinction to self-sacrifice . War alone keys up all human energies to their maximum tension and sets the seal of nobility on those peoples who have the courage to face it 27 THE BALILLA AND AVANGUARDIA . The young Italian is subjected to military training from the age of eight until he enters the army for compulsory duty in his twenty-first year . Patriotic youth organizations like Balilla and Avanguardia have replaced such " dangerous " organizations of the old democratic regime as the Catholic Boy Scouts . These uniformed societies for young persons were set up by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from eight to fourteen years old and the Avanguardisti those from fourteen to eighteen . ( " Balilla " was the nickname of a Genoese boy , Giovanni Battista Perasso , who performed heroic acts in the war with Austria in 1746 . ) Both organizations according to the law are part of an official educational and charitable foundation " for the moral and physical training of the young . " 29 The Militia of Avanguardisti ( Advance Guard ) and Balilla are designed to make youth " worthy of the hew standard of Italian life . " 30 The boys are taught the elements of military drill and modern warfare . They are formed in squads , centuries , and legions in imitation of the Roman army and are instructed in the doctrines of Fascism . Avanguardia really amounts to a junior Fascist army . Sports are emphasized in the training and military camps ; naval cruises are a summer feature . Physical , cultural , and patriotic education is provided for girls in Piccole Italiane and Giovani Italiane 31 Under the Hammer and Sickle . In the Union of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and militaristic character . The organizations of the Little Octobrists , comprising children from eight to ten years of age , the Pioneers , ranging in age from ten to sixteen years , and finally the Komsomol , including in its ranks in 1931 more than three million youths , make up perhaps the most comprehensive system of political education in the world . From the beginning of the Russian Communist movement the leaders have made a cult of the doctrines of Marx as modified by Lenin . The theory of Soviet education is well stated by Madame Krupskaya , the widow of Lenin , in the following passage quoted by Charles Edward Merriam : Footnote  | The Pioneer movement reaches the children at that age when the personality of the individual is still being formed and promotes the social instincts of the children , helping to develop in them civic habits and a social consciousness . It places before the children a wonderful goal , that goal which has been brought to the fore by the period through which they are living , and for which the working class of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ liberation of the toilers and the organization of a new order in which there will be no division into classes , no oppression and no exploitation , and where all the people will live a full and happy life.32 In Russia political indoctrination is , in theory , the object of education with a view toward training leaders and teachers who will carry on the Revolution . On the practical side is stressed the need for eradicating illiteracy , improving sanitation , and raising the cultural level of the family . Education for adults is carried on in the home , in the factory , in the school , and on every possible occasion to make the citizen aware of what are considered the best interests of the working class . A constant campaign is carried on in behalf of wider education and sanitation , and in the development of technical skills of value in the process of production 33 In the Land of the Rising Sun . Despite a difference in origin of the theory of the submergence of the individual citizen and his rights , which is held in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ life . Since the awakening of Japan in the middle of the nineteenth century , many of the forms of parliamentary democracy have been adopted , but beneath this facade persists the belief that the State , as personified by the Emperor , is supreme . The Emperor is revered as the direct descendant of the Sun Goddess . Deeply ingrained in the Japanese people are the principles of loyalty and self-sacrifice , against which the Western principles of liberalism and the equality of man have gained but slight headway . The indigenous religion of Shinto has been revived in Japan as a patriotic cult , sponsored by the Imperial Government , and the shrines and rites of this native faith play a conspicuous role in imbuing the young Japanese with the feelings of loyalty to the Emperor and the firm conviction that it is the destiny of the race of Yamato to dominate Asia . Japanese superpatriotism is all the more dangerous in the modern world because it combines the tribal superstitions of a bygone era with the international struggle for power in the machine age . Despite the lip @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Japanese people have never gotten more than halfway between feudalism Footnote  | and democracy , and today the armed forces of the Empire dominate the parliament 34 Military training is emphasized in education , beginning with the first year of primary school and continuing through the " middle school . " " Morals , " or loyalty to the immediate family , the nation , and the Emperor are required subjects in every primary and middle school . Conscription into the imperial military service is regarded as an honor . Only one person out of eight can qualify for the stiff examinations ; the rest are drafted into the reserve . During the two-years ' service with the colors the soldier becomes part of a fighting machine that fears neither discomfort nor death , in keeping with the Japanese proverb that " The cherry is the best of flowers , the soldier is the best of men . " " During the first World War , when democracy seemed to be in the ascendancy throughout the Western world , the Japanese for the time being were ostensibly sympathetic toward the ideals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there have been influential Japanese liberals like Inazo Nitobe , who have striven to keep Japan in the democratic pathway ; but since the rise of Germany to power the innate inclination of the Japanese people toward an authoritarian regime has reasserted itself , until the Imperial Government has aligned itself with the European dictators . For this latest orientation Japanese institutions and civic training are admirably adapted . CIVIC EDUCATION IN THE DEMOCRACIES : THE UNITED STATES In democratic countries training of citizens is much more indirect and less self-conscious than in totalitarian countries . England has rich national and cultural traditions and a wide body of literature to draw on . France was also able to draw on her culture and traditions in training citizens while she was still a democracy . This was not the case in Russia and Italy ; nor was it the case in Germany , although there was a great mass of Germanic tradition which antedated unification in 1871 . The school system was used more directly in France than it has been in Great Britain for education in citizenship 3s The United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but such tradition as has been built up since the American Revolution has been made the most of , even exaggerated . Formal schools , political parties , the press , and special patriotic organizations have all been used to Footnote  | build up a national consciousness among the polyglot population of the Republic . Great stress has been placed upon courses in the history of the country , in civics , and in government . State legislatures in some instances have made courses in American government compulsory . Private organizations like the Boy Scouts and Camp Fire Girls supplement the work of the public schools . More than a million members of these organizations every year are instructed in principles of citizenship by means of precept , symbolism , play , and excursions 37 Interest in political questions is stimulated by the two major political parties , which avowedly support the best type of American citizenship , although since the last great depression the Republican Party is avowedly the party of " Americanism " and has attacked the Democratic Party for innovations which , it is charged , have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ special organizations , like the Sons and Daughters of the American Revolution , the National Security League , the American Legion , and the Masonic Order , attempt to instill in the adult population standards of American citizenship . The press , the motion picture , and the radio also play a serious and increasingly important role in training for citizenship . Great stress has been laid by many of the special organizations since the end of the first World War upon the familiarization of the individual newly admitted to citizenship with the basic principles of American democracy . In the great centers of population certain organizations sponsor " civic birthday " programs . These were originally advocated shortly after the first World War by Mrs. Carrie Bridge-Wall , a Washington , D. C. , clubwoman , who believed that the induction of immigrants into American citizenship and the admission of natives to the franchise should be signalized by public exercises appropriate to the dignity of the occasion . Criticisms of the Liberals . The chief criticisms of the liberals of the customary methods of civic education which have been sketched @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Merriam in The Making of Citizens , which has been drawn upon so freely by the present writer . Civic education in all countries has always tended to be nationalistic , traditional , and dogmatic . Even in democratic countries there is a tendency toward overemphasis of the inflexible elements . It is rather generally believed that one 's own country and its people and institutions are superior to other countries , and their people and institutions , and that within the state the existing social and economic order is the best possible and should not be changed . Footnote  | Professor Merriam points out that in each country a scientific study should be made of just what should be recognized as the civic virtues , and that these findings should be used as the basis of education for citizenship . Need for Flexibility . Only as much of tradition as is applicable to the exigencies of modern life should survive , in the opinion of Professor Merriam . As a substitute for exaggerated nationalism and its fetishes , which have been partly responsible for the persistence of war in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ideal of internationalism . Nationalistic symbols , like the Swastika or the Hammer and Sickle , might , he thinks , be replaced by international symbolism 3s Of the need for flexibility he says : It will be found possible to establish a better balance between the element of tradition in civic education , with the conservation of established values , and on the other hand , the element of adaptation and change in social and political affairs in such a manner that a more flexible type of citizen may emerge , with a higher survival value than the wooden and inflexible type 39 The Totalitarian Challenge . It is to be hoped that the present assault upon democratic institutions will give to youth in the democratic countries the incentive to fight for ideals which has recently characterized civic training in the totalitarian states . In Italy , Fascism has promised a revival of the glories of ancient Rome . In Germany , the Fuhrer preaches the gospel of a dominant Germanic race controlling Europe and perhaps the world . Even in Japan the subjects of the Emperor are told that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ light to Asia . What has democracy in turn to offer to its votaries ? The promise of the recognition of the worth of the individual . The promise of the liberation of the human spirit . Today it is the problem of the democratic countries to make this goal more attractive to the citizen than the false Utopias promised by the dictators . ADULT EDUCATION FOR CITIZENSHIP If citizenship training is to create an alert and articulate electorate , one that will fulfill the democratic ideal of active participation in. government , there must be some means of instructing the voters and those who influence them in the fundamentals which underly public problems . This education must be so thorough that the citizen may be skilled in detecting the difference between objective information and the propaganda of competing groups and classes . If education can not accomplish this and if the voter , given a scientific analysis of the specific question , can not apply his knowledge and form an opinion of his own , then really democratic government Footnote  | must remain an unattainable ideal . That this desideratum @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ totalitarian government and who have faith in the workability of democracy . The United States Government and Adult Education . One of the great hopes of democracy today is adult education . This includes instruction given not only to those citizens who have had little formal education , but also to the high school and college graduates . The emphasis laid upon adult education in the United States since the coming of the great depression is evidenced by the increasing activity of the federal and local governments in this field . The public forums sponsored by the United States Office of Education and the Extension Service of the Department of Agriculture are examples in point . Early in the 1930 's , Dr. J. W. Studebaker , Superintendent of Schools in Des Moines , Iowa , using a grant made by one of the private educational foundations , experimented with a number of public forums held in the schools of Des Moines . Discussions on such subjects as " Why I Oppose ( or Support ) the New Deal , " " What is Civilization Doing to Us ? " and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were led by Senators Louis Murphy and L. J. Dickinson of Iowa and Albert E. Wiggam , and Lewis Browne 40 After his appointment as United States Commissioner of Education by President Franklin D. Roosevelt , Dr. Studebaker was able to expand the forum idea to national proportions . Today forums are held throughout the country , conducted under various auspices , including that of the Works Progress Administration . The Carnegie Endowment and Other Agencies . So keen has been the appreciation of the value of adult education as an agency for bringing about satisfactory adjustments of social conflict within the United States and for ultimately removing the causes of international friction that the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace has in recent years established a field service as one of the activities of its Division of Intercourse and Education . This work was begun in 1935 following the International Conference held at Chatham House , London , which arrived at the conclusion that an international solution of economic problems might prove a means of attaining world peace . The Carnegie Endowment works in conjunction with the United States Department of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ varied organizations as Library Associations , Rotary Institutes , service clubs , churches , and philanthropic and propagandist Footnote  | groups . Since much of this work is carried on in the farming sections of the country , the Department of Agriculture has taken a special interest in it , and the Carnegie staff has co-operated closely with organizations such as the American Farm Bureau Federation , Rural Young People , 4-H Clubs , and others . The promotion of conferences for the training of leaders for discussion groups in various parts of the country has been a vital part of the program 41 Public forums upon controversial subjects must have capable leaders , and both sides of a question must be presented . If there is an attempt at indoctrination or coercion , the primary end of the forum is not served . Dr. Drummond Jones , senior social scientist in the Division of Program Study and Discussion of the Bureau of Agricultural Economics of the United States Department of Agriculture in elucidating the function of the discussion group as a democratic agency , says : In the first place @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . When men think they begin to plan , to propose solutions , to test new ideas . In essence , democracy is planning ; men and women do not prefer chaos or anarchy . As our forefathers planned a political state , so their descendants may plan their economy , their society , and their world . Above all , through discussion , planning becomes the right of the people themselves ? they depend upon no one person to plan for them . Secondly , the usefulness of informational material ? new facts ? is given its rightful place in such groups ; it is a tool rather than an end in itself . Instead of trying to listen to information indiscriminately dispensed , members of a discussion group first decide upon the type of information they need to solve their problems . This is in keeping with the purpose of informational material ; a discussion group avoids the wastefulness of unplanned fact-giving.42 One of the criticisms frequently made of public forums is that they draw the support of the radical element rather than that of the conservative element . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country to adopt a critical attitude toward current problems is one of the weaknesses of democracy . Just as in the case of the present European war , the democratic powers , interested in maintaining the status quo , have been less aggressive and alert than the totalitarian powers , so in a given country the discontented elements are likely to be more alert , ingenious , and vociferous in seeking to bring about social and political change . Adult Civic Education in Sweden . In the period before the second World War the Scandinavian countries had made great strides in adult education . Footnote  | The example of Sweden is typical . With the extension of political democracy during the last half of the nineteenth century the Swedish people felt the need of education in order to fit themselves for civic duties . Following the advice of the Liberal , Adolf Hedin , that to avoid democracy 's dangers the people should have greater knowledge of economics and history , the Swedish people established a thoroughgoing system of folk schools , lecture institutes , study circles , and other adult @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the labor movement , while the co-operatives , with their system of direct or indirect representation , afford training in democratic government . The following list indicates the diversity of subjects selected for study by the adult education organizations : state and local administration , economics , current social and political questions , the liquor problem , philosophy and psychology , cultural and general history , tax legislation , agricultural cooperation , peace questions and international affairs , the history of the labor movement and socialism . By means of the consumer co-operative study circles , what might be called a co-operative civil service conducts a popularly controlled business worth hundreds of millions of kronor 43 The New England Town Meeting . An indigenous American institution the successful functioning of which presupposes an informed citizenry is the New England town meeting . The reverse of democratic when first organized in colonial times , for then only the church members or property owners participated , with the expansion of the suffrage it became an example of direct democracy . Today half of New England 's population obey the ordinances drawn up in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which still use this form . In New England the town meeting has forced citizens to acquaint themselves with civic problems . For weeks before the meeting the questions which have been outlined in the warrant by which the meeting is called have been discussed in the villages , at Grange gatherings , and elsewhere . Whether the matter be a contract for new paving or the expenditure for Fourth of July fireworks , all business of the township is aired in an assembly in which all citizens have a right to express their opinions and an equal vote . Blandford , in the foothills of the Berkshires , with two hundred and fortyfive registered voters , might be considered the typical New England town . In such a community a controversial question would bring out as many as one hundred and thirty-two voters . Footnote  | At the beginning of the two-day meeting the assemblage elects a Moderator , a Town Clerk , and the Selectmen or steering committee , which in the larger towns is replaced by a Finance Board . Although in theory the Selectmen are the servants @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ natural leaders of the community , there is room for political engineering , we are told , even in these democratic assemblies 44 The " Town Meeting of the Air " and other radio public discussion forums have been suggested by the New England town-meeting procedure . The Roosevelt Administration in the United States in its attempts to solve the agricultural problem has sponsored a species of agricultural co-operative which might be compared with the New England town meeting . In four thousand of these county production control associations in the West and South farmer members meet to discuss crop-control quotas and related subjects in organizations the basis of which is economic rather than political . Each member abides by the vote of the majority in limiting his production . Other Groups Which Instruct the Voter . The complexity of the problems upon which voters in a democracy must make their decision has given rise in recent years to many civic organizations such as municipal leagues and research bureaus , citizens ' associations , and tax-payers ' and consumers ' groups which attempt to analyze current situations , pass upon the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ public opinion before elections . Although some of these undoubtedly represent group , class , or minority interests , they are all adjuncts of democracy , and stand in strong contrast to the State-controlled propaganda agencies of totalitarian countries . CIVIC EDUCATION IN WARTIME The outbreak of war in Europe in September , 1939 , marked the beginning of a period during which we may expect increased conservatism in civic education in the democratic countries . Even if the United States should remain neutral until the end of the war , liberalism in education will encounter many obstacles . Should the United States enter the conflict , it can be expected that the maintenance of tradition will be insisted , upon by the great majority of the population , whether that tradition be good or bad . This is unfortunate from the point of view of those who advocate change , but it is one of the prices that Americans must pay for the failure of mankind to eliminate war as an agency for the adjustment of conflicting claims of nations or peoples to political and economic power , or ideological @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seriousness of the present situation because of the fierce conflict between the competing ideas of the democracies , with their championship of the worth of the individual on one hand , and on the other hand the insistence of the totalitarian states that government must he by an elite and that the welfare of the state is of primary concern 45 The " Fifth Column " and " Trojan horse " tactics of the Germans in European countries and the alleged menace to Latin American countries of totalitarian ambitions may unfortunately render suspect even unquestionably sincere criticisms of the existing order from individuals who have only the welfare of their own countries at heart . To maintain a nice balance between the exigencies of American defense and the need for legitimate social change and readjustment will be a task that democracy in the United States and other homes of liberalism will have to face . This will be both a task and a challenge for democratic statesmanship . Even though the democracies are forced to wage war in an endeavor to exterminate forces the leaders of which have decried democracy and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other democratic lands should not lose sight of the progress made in the years following 1918 in the direction of an international order from which aggressive war would be eliminated . Nor should they lose sight of the efforts toward a better distribution of income by Western governments in the attempt to solve the baffling economic and social problems raised by the industrialization of modern society . BIBLIOGRAPHY Footnote  | Footnote  | Leaders and Followers THE QUEST FOR LEADERSHIP THE phenomenon of leaders and followers is as old as social and political organization . The very existence of society by necessity leads to a stratification dividing the group into chieftain and tribe , sovereign and subjects , leader and masses , dictator and followers . That people must live together , that they are innately different , and that environments vary are basic causes for such a division . One may not accept Pareto 's far-reaching analysis , according to which social change is nothing but a " circulation of the elite " ? that is , a substitution of one oligarchy for another ; but all recent sociological interpretations have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Leader in the Perspective of History . The study of the leader and his followers offers a natural and convenient approach to politics . It deals with " human nature in politics , " thus dramatizing highly technical phenomena of modern government . It has won additional impetus in our day because of the appearance in the political arena of the spectacular leadership type of modern dictators . The exciting rise of unknown soldiers from darkness to world position invites an interpretation of politics in terms of personalities ? an interpretation indeed most welcome to a mechanized age longing for color and glamour in the drab of its daily grind . It is no mere accident that the two schools of thought concerning the interpretation of history which flourished especially in the aftermath of the first World War , the " debunking " school and the " heroic " school , center around personalities . A " devil theory of history " blames everything on the villain , thus relieving the betrayed masses of any responsibility . " Hero worship , " on the other hand , pins all its hope @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suffering society to a better morrow . ' Footnote  | Democratic and Dictatorial Leadership . In a way , such an interpretation is a return to Treitschke 's and Carlyle 's " It is men who make history " and a reaction against an economic interpretation of history which had made leaders nothing but functionaries of the driving socio-economic forces in history . Just as this theoretical controversy over character and personality in history , and individuality in society , represented an unreal simplification of social phenomena , so is the unfortunate separation labeling political organizations as leaderless democracies and programless dictatorships far from the reality of existing tensions . Only a period ripe for dictatorship could invent the idea of a leaderless democracy . True , such a simplification somehow represents the extremes of , and , one might say , the elements of danger in , the two systems . Democratic leadership is often in peril of being suffocated by program and organization . On the other hand , dictatorship often tends toward uncontrolled personal autocracy . Yet the real life of democracy and dictatorship moves on between these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two types of political systems . The essence of modern dictatorship may not be explained simply by the need for leadership . In fact , the rise of modern dictatorship is no mere accident due to a few dynamic personalities in contemporary affairs . There have been dynamic leaders and potential dictators at all times . The rise and acceptance of modern dictators is the result of social circumstances which are connected with two historical premises : the ascendancy of modern mass democracy and the breakdown of institutions . Modern democracies have to answer the problem of leadership in mass democracy if they want to meet the challenge of dictatorships . Modern dictatorships , as autocratic as they may be , have to fulfill the social needs of security and material welfare for the mass following if they expect any degree of permanence . Since both of these things are true , these rival systems in contemporary politics really belong to the same historical era . What distinguishes the different types of leader-follower relationship in these two political forms is , however , the institutional and conceptual framework in which this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of political leaders varies according to the structure of the existing political order . This social conditioning of modern leadership therefore serves as the key to an understanding of the difference between democratic and dictatorial leadership in our day . Footnote  | POLITICAL SYSTEMS AND LEADERSHIP The type of leader prevalent in a political system is always defined within the framework of its institutional set-up . The difference between the British Prime Minister and the National Socialist Fiihrer can not be resolved into a personality pattern of two different men with different temper and different experiences . These divergent types of leadership above all reflect on the varying political orders which they represent and which they themselves may even have created . Certainly historical experiences , national characteristics , and to some extent personality factors are most important in creating or preserving specific political systems . One may say that a type of leadership such as Hitler represents would be utterly unacceptable to the British people , should they choose to accept dictatorial rule . Even a comparison of the rule of Mussolini and that of Hitler indicates an extraordinary degree @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time and space , there are always two main types of political leadership , institutional and personal ? which correspond roughly to the contrasting political systems , democracy and dictatorship . INSTITUTIONAL OR DEMOCRATIC LEADERSHIP Democratic leaders always remain representatives of institutions and not substitutes for them , as the rising dictatorships claim to be . The British Prime Minister . Stanley Baldwin rose to political preeminence in his historical Carlton Club speech of 1922 , which smashed Lloyd George 's war coalition . Baldwin said of the Prime Minister , " A dynamic force is a very terrible thing . It may crush you , but it is not necessarily right . " This speech was a declaration of war against Lloyd George , the demagogue , by Baldwin , the defender of institutional politics . It was the good fortune of this very same British statesman that he found the climax of his political career in what was generally considered a masterful handling of the monarchical crisis of 1936 . It epitomized the institutional character of British statesmanship . The structure of democratic leadership is also visible in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Prime Ministers from Walpole down to Churchill illustrates this . Again , Baldwin is an outstanding example of this species . He is , above all , the plain man . His inevitable pipe is his visible bond of union with the little man . Sir Austin Chamberlain was frequently described as the most English Englishman of England , and what was said of Herriot , that he was " an average Frenchman , a stronger dose , but the same mixture , " holds true also of the average  | party leader in a democracy who tends to be , as Bagehot said , " an uncommon man of common opinions . " The same description might apply to Stresemann , who even had a type of face and figure very common in Central Germany . He was always praised for his ability to meet his adversaries halfway . Balance of mind , distaste for violence of expression , a faculty for spreading conciliation on all sides ? these are the characteristics of the democratic leader : There is , as a matter of fact , also a demagogical element @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this necessary . It would be an over-simplification , therefore , to identify demagoguery and dictatorship . However , the pre-eminent elements of leadership in a democracy are institutional . This fact leads , of course , to variety in democratic leadership according to different institutional structures . The unlike character of the British Prime Minister , the former French President of the Council , and the American President is only a reflection of the different institutional setups of these democratic governments . The pre-eminence of the British Premier is attested to by his extraordinary function in British politics : he is majority leader in Parliament , leader of the ruling party in the country , chairman of the Cabinet , and his office is the main channel of communication between the people and the Crown . The fact that he must perform these institutional functions , of course , must be taken into account in the selection of a Premier . Especially in recent decades , it has become an unwritten law that he should be a member of the House of Commons . Within the two-party system the leader @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ almost automatically becomes the embodiment of the highest political power . Strict party discipline and the right of dissolution guarantee the Premier a strong lead in the Parliament . No statute settles his position as Chairman of the Cabinet . Officially speaking , he is regarded as primus inter pares ( first among equals ) . Actually he is the " keystone of the Cabinet arch . " He can call for the resignation of any of his colleagues . Recent development- of the British Cabinet system has even led to emphasis on an inner cabinet which makes the crucial decisions , especially in time of crisis . Such a trend , however , does not mean that the British Prime Minister has lost his . chief quality , " the gift for getting difficult people to work together . " Collective responsibility in the British Cabinet system creates the necessity for teamwork . These Footnote  | institutional limits of the British Prime Minister certainly do not preclude variations in the importance of individual premiers according to their personalities . An incapable Prime Minister has , not infrequently , ruined his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gladstone , or Disraeli might easily outgrow the institutional framework . The Prime Minister 's close contact with the Crown might give him additional strength . Certainly a time of crisis offers new possibilities for a Prime Minister . This holds true especially for a premier in a war cabinet . In wartime the position of democratic leadership has to be raised anew . No doubt it would be illogical ? though we may often be tempted to do so ? to believe that the very fact of the necessary concentration of power and decision in the hands of a war premier will inevitably lead to dictatorial government . It would be just as misleading as to regard the political evolution of the last forty years showing a new emphasis on a strong executive power as an irrevertible process toward dictatorship . To strike a new balance between executive and legislative power is indeed one of the most important problems with which modern democracies are confronted . However , a balanced relation can not be established by short cuts of a dictatorial character . The tendency toward strong executive power is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are needed for leadership in war and in peace . Lloyd George paraphrased the qualities of a war minister in the following way : He must be able not only to give rousing and vigorous leadership to the nation ; he must also have vision , imagination and initiative . He must show untiring assiduity , must exercise constant over-sight and supervision of every sphere of war activity , must possess driving force to energize this activity , must be in continuous consultation with experts , official and unofficial , as to the best means of utilizing the resources of the country in conjunction with allies for the achievement of victory . If to this can be added a flare for conducting a great fight , then you have an ideal war minister . It is no mere accident that such an analysis perfectly fitted Mr. Lloyd George himself and showed at the same time the shortcomings of his predecessor , Asquith . The great qualifications of Asquith as a minister in peacetime made him a miscast in time of war . His combination of " patience , caution , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of war in which decisions have to be made with unusual speed and precision , when delay and compromise cease to be virtues . ' Footnote  | The extraordinary position in power and prestige of his position , even in peacetime , makes the British Prime Minister the most influential prototype of institutional leadership . It is the happy combination of institutional tradition and individual initiative , of control and vigor , of representation and responsibility , which can find its personification in Great Britain 's highest office . ' The French Premier . The position of the French President of the Council of Ministers was quite different from that of the British Premier because of the multiple party system in the Third Republic of France . ' There was certainly no majority leader of the English type . The task of the French Premier was not so much to keep the nation behind his majority in Parliament as to maintain a working majority in the Chamber of Representatives and some measure of accord between Cabinet members of more than half a dozen parties . Skillful conciliation was , therefore , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Minister who is the unchallenged leader of the predominant party in the coalition , as were Herriot and Blum , has to use persuasion as his chief weapon . He certainly can not whip together an ob-Footnote  | stinate Parliament with the threat of dissolution ? a power which the British Prime Minister possesses and which is largely responsible for the greater stability of the British government . Indeed , since 187o England has had only one-fifth the number of Cabinets which the Third Republic had . The fact that this very high rate of casualty was not more detrimental to the French political system may be attributed largely to the Civil Service . Guarantor of continuity in governmental policies in the midst of constant reshuffling of cabinets , it is the real executive power in France . But this very fact discloses the enervating task which confronts a French Premier . His primary function ? to serve as the connecting link between the legislative power and the executive power ? puts him " between hammer and anvil , between his two deadly enemies , Parliament and the bureaucracy . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hostile agencies is a great test of ingenuity and skill in statesmanship . The numerous " stop-gap ministries " of second-rate politicians should not obscure the fact that the French Republic has had great Ministers who have succeeded in striking such a balance and winning a leader 's prestige . It is also interesting to note that this country of suspicious individualists has often been willing to bow during a national emergency even to " authoritative leadership . " 6 The American President . A different type of institutional leadership and , no doubt , the hardest to describe in scope and character is represented by the American President . His constitutional power and prerogatives are Footnote  | ample as compared with those of British and French political leadership . He is the national leader , the head of the Cabinet , director of administration . He has an extensive power of appointment . He can exercise a wide influence on congressional legislation , and he is a legislator in his own right . Especially in the field of foreign and military affairs , he is much more than a mere @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the American Government . In fact , the whole American system is largely influenced by the president 's office . The major parties have often been described as " loose leagues to capture the presidency . " The maintenance of the two-party system is in large measure due to orientation to this situation . Yet the very fact that the concentration of power and responsibility in the presidential office is so great seems to have invited a number of checks upon actual authority of the president . The presidential selection itself effects in a way the curtailing of his power . Men of outstanding authority in the Senate are never chosen . A candidate may not be selected , as French presidents were , because he is weak , but he had better not show much selfwilled resolution before election . Very soon after he enters the White House the principle of separation of powers makes itself felt , thus restoring a delicate , though hardly definable balance . Not infrequently the second Congress of an administration contains a majority politically adverse to the President in either one or both of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into office and which looks at the President as " chief patronage-dispenser " will be most influential in all his decisions , including appointments officially left to his discretion . " The President is not only the leader of his party ; he is in a very real sense its prisoner . " ' All of which does not mean that the President can not exert a tremendous influence on public opinion , especially when he proves to have the " capacity to get along with people . " But even in foreign affairs ? a much-talked-about domain of presidential power ? it may be doubted whether an American President , even if he dared to sign a Munich Pact as the British Premier did , could have " got away with it . " Much will depend , it is true , on the President as a personality . He may take a narrow view of his prerogatives or he may take a wide view of his functions ; yet when a President 's actions and achievements are viewed in historical perspective , they seem to result much less from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the times " and the " state of the country . " 8 The American President 's leadership , colorful and personal as it Footnote  | often appears to be , does not fall into any dictatorial patterns . But American institutions can still make themselves felt sufficiently in this spacious continent of great riches . They hold the President as their representative , just as other countries define the position of their institutional leaders . PERSONAL OR DICTATORIAL LEADERSHIP In contrast to institutional leadership in its British , French , and American versions is personal leadership of the dictatorial type . In it , too , there are variations due to national traditions , historical circumstances , and personality features ; but all modern dictators are characterized by specific elements of leadership . In the first place , they are anti-institutional . As a matter of fact , their very rise is the expression of a crisis in the history of institutions : the breakdown of a fixed social order , of basic religious concepts , and of old , established agencies . When the validity of an economic system @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when religious ties are loosened , people look for new authorities , for substitutes . Dictatorships as Substitutes for Institutions . The cry for a leader is the result of the weakening or the nonexistence of political institutions , of a ruling class , and of an accepted code of values . Wherever these institutions and their governing elements are strong enough not only to preserve but also to adjust a society in its evolutionary development , the danger of personal dictatorship does not arise . Dictatorships are substitutes for institutions in times of transition . Here , if anywhere , lies the justification for this new personal rule . It may fill a gap between two social orders . This was the historical function of the absolute monarchy which helped to develop modern capitalism , yet the new dictatorships are distinguished from the earlier absolutism by their other historical element : their origin in an age of mass democracy . They are popular dictatorships . Avowedly , they exemplify the antithesis of democracy , but at bottom they are democratized . They are post-democratic dictatorships , and for this reason @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Modern Dictator . The modern dictator has to be a leader of the people who rises from the dark as an " unknown soldier . " This is supposed Footnote  | to be symbolic of the democratic nature of leadership : You yourself may become the leader ? tomorrow . In fact , you address in the leader the masses whose humble son he is and continues to be . He is " the cottage-bred man . " He lives the simple man 's life and understands it . He is proud of having been poor . He harps upon the hardships he has experienced . He never risks losing his class ties with the people . An extensive propaganda machine daily proves that he still belongs to the people . He is so genial . He plays with children . He chats with the plain man . He takes simple breakfasts in the fields with the peasant folk . Puritan simplicity , or at least the appearance of it , is the motto of the modern dictator 's standard of life . The demagogue 's way of rising to power @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ orator . The few exceptions to this rule in modern times were militant leaders like Pilsudski and Ataturk ; but even those generals could speak and kept some kind of democratic kinship . They were officers not estranged from the people . They were commanders of a people 's army defending the masses against the privileged . They were rebels themselves , living the lives of soldiers . Militant Character of Dictatorial Leadership . The militant element is paramount in modern dictatorial leadership , even if it is created by civilian party leaders . In fact , the idea of the modern totalitarian state was born in the last World War , which became a totalitarian war . In wartime all opposition and discussion must cease . Personal liberty no longer exists . In fact the best argument for this sort of repression is the country 's real or presumed danger from abroad . War is a dictatorship 's beginning , its demand , its test . Therefore modern dictatorship focuses all its energy on building up a military machine and a fighting spirit . This militaristic mind permeates demagogical leadership @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ public . It becomes his shibboleth . He who does not wear a uniform , as , for instance , the last Austrian chancellor , Schuschnigg , did not , is not a genuine one-hundred-per-cent dictator . A constant state of war is the natural climate of totalitarian dictatorship . This is just as true in internal politics . Here the claim to power is based on the necessary destruction of the arch enemy of the nation or of the classes , and after power is won the permanent revolution has to go on . This dynamic element in modern dictatorial leadership is one of the chief attractions for its followers . At the beginning of the new credo stands the formula , action instead of program . Now people join a movement not because they believe in its program but because they trust the leader who promises them heroic action . Now they cheer the leader who prides himself on having no 0program for tomorrow when he will decide the people 's fate .  | It is true that the new actors on the scene seemingly follow traditional rules by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the acts which broke the laws . But they do not restore institutions ; they only undermine them . They devaluate them in the eyes of their old supporters who do not care any longer for the revival of broken laws and institutions . Because these new leaders do not act ex officio , they are not representatives of institutions ; they are their substitute . The demagogical leader does not stand for a positive program , but only for himself . The Leadership Principle . Another element which characterizes modern demagogical rule is the leadership principle , its most dangerous element ? because " power corrupts ; absolute power corrupts absolutely , " in the words of Lord Acton . It is characteristic of the leader that he is not responsible to those below him , but only to those above him , and therefore finally responsible to a supreme Fiihrer or Duce who is responsible to no man but to " God and the nation . " The unchallenged position of the supreme leader is somewhat symbolized in his aloofness and distance from the people . In spite of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ friends , no equals . He must abstain from the comfort of intimacy . He trusts nobody . He is lost to the world . That is the price he has to pay for being a superhuman leader . He is so big , so strong , so lonely . Mussolini never misses making this point when he meets his former journalistic colleagues , especially when he can arouse the pity of American ace women publicists . The dictator is usually an unsociable individualist by nature . As the leader , he cultivates this aloofness as a weapon of defense . He knows men and he knows it is dangerous to be too close to them . This remoteness from the people strictly adhered to by all dictators leads to an important question : Is this leader the representative of his people or a stranger to them ? Almost all modern dictators and demagogues who claim to be the self-expression and exclusive representation of their nation were either born outside of the country in which they live or along its frontiers . Napoleon , Pilsudski , Ataturk , Stalin , Hitler @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they do not belong to the most representative national group of their people , and often their most receptive years are spent outside of the country which has raised them to leadership . This may account for the intense and often exaggerated nationalism of the modern demagogue . He grew up in an atmosphere of defense of something which was too obvious , too much a taken-for-granted matter for the average chizen who grows up in his fatherland . At the same time , the fact that he is  | different from his countrymen in this respect gives him a specific appeal . He is different and therefore he may even lead to new expressions of nationalism , to a new heaven . Yet , he needs the masses at least as much as the masses need him . Hitler in the early days of his rise to party leadership called himself " the drummer " of the N.S.D.A.P. , and even today he claims , " I am nothing but a flint which strikes the spark out of the German nation . " Thus the masses are the focus of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ does so by means of demagogical propaganda and the creation of new institutions . This very complex task in post-democratic dictatorships can only be fulfilled by the creation of a new machine . Here the importance of the lieutenants in modern dictatorship become obvious . Their real significance may be better realized if we contrast them with the masters of the machine in democratic nations . It is this second layer of leadership which brings out the specific problems of mass control in modern democracies and dictatorships . BOSSES VS . LIEUTENANTS The Number Two men in politics share a similar fate in democracies and dictatorships . They are overshadowed by their supreme leaders and often unknown to the uninitiated outside world . While the chief actors are always in the limelight of the political scene , there is actually not much known about the sub-leaders , their character , their function , and their achievements . Yet the bosses in democracies and the lieutenants in dictatorships reflect the daily life of the political systems . They . illustrate their structural characteristics , they do the actual work , they guarantee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ power behind the throne , the driving force of modern rule , the backbone of its institutions . Indeed , they are usually more typical of the national characteristics and traditions of government than the chief rulers are . It is this fact which makes it so difficult to attempt any generalizations on the second layer of political leadership . It is largely defined by historical circumstance , social structure , and the political tradition of the nations . Again the basic difference between democracy and dictatorship finds its expression in variant types of selection and function in leadership . Yet it is amazing to find that the two systems have many features in common . Their differences become , very often , differences only in degree . The Bureaucratic Component . These lieutenants of the dictatorships stand above all for the political organization . This bureaucratic component is typical of the development of the modern mass party in which the machine  | plays an outstanding part .9 Bureaucratization of leadership has rightly been attacked by great social critics like Georges Sorel , but it is a definite fact on which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The main strength of the American party boss lies in the fact that he commands an organization . The primary function of the political lieutenant in a dictatorship is to make the party machine run . Not only is the party machine allpowerful in the daily life of the decentralized democratic party of the American system , but it is also most influential in the development of the modern dictatorship . This is indeed one of the many contradictions of the dictatorial party . Created as an anti-party , largely founded on a well-justified anti-machine sentiment , it now develops an even larger apparatus , thus tremendously increasing the crisis elements of the modern party system . Still the development of political functionaries is certainly not exclusively the expression of postwar dictatorial governments . It seems an almost unavoidable outcome of political organization in a mass democracy . What , however , makes the position of the dictatorial functionary paramount is the totalitarian character of the dictatorial party , which integrates all human activities with its politics . This totalitarianism not only guarantees the partisans ' organization from the cradle to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a whole , but it also attempts to stabilize or normalize dictatorial rule . Modern revolutions have at least succeeded in achieving complete bureaucratization which permeates the whole of life in the dictatorship . The Feudal Component . There is a second element typical of the dictatorial organization of lieutenants ? the feudal component . The political lieutenants are vassals-in-chief of the overlord . This relationship is symbolized by the oath to the leader taken by his adherents . Sovereignty does not rest with the people , as it does in a democracy , but with the dictator alone . The political lieutenant therefore is his delegate , subject to his confidence and always acting in the name of the supreme leader . The feudal aspect of the organization of political lieutenants is made further obvious by the fact that they seek patronage from their leader just as the vassals-in-chief sought Footnote  | it from their overlords . Certainly there are elements of this kind of feudal relationship visible in democratic organization too , especially in the patronage of the American party system 10 However , " there never has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the United States . " i1 In fact , the power of the bosses is often checked , and not seldom broken , by federal investigations . The " boss rule " of present-day dictators is unchecked . Their feudal empire even produces a new type of political agent on the national scene : the personal confidant of the leader . ' 2 The daily-shifting personal relations with the supreme leader are of paramount importance for the actual power of his lieutenants . An evaluation of the policy predominant in the dictatorial system at a specific period largely depends on this very fact . Who has the leader 's ear today ? Even social charmers and mystery women may play their part in this turn to the Camarilla policy of uncontrollable court intrigues . At the same time the sway of the overlord often depends on his power to balance the competing factions of his feudal empire . The fees for services rendered are the prestige and the political power distributed among the sub-leaders . The fact that there are vassals-in-chief especially illustrates the fact that modern dictatorial rule can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as this might be for effective political propaganda . All these men with connections and experience in industry and labor , in the army , and in foreign affairs contribute in their specific way to the power of the supreme leader . They expect spoils after the final victory , but as vassals they are satellites who derive their power from the supreme leader alone . This factor illustrates the leadership principle in dictatorial party organization which , different from its democratic counterpart , is organized from above . The Democratic Element : However , a third feature of dictatorial leader-Footnote  | ship seems to introduce , as has already been mentioned , a democratic element . Modern dictatorship by its very definition is a challenge to democracy , but it nevertheless becomes permeated by the democratic spirit . It also utilizes the working machinery of democratic institutions in its " legal " seizure of power . Even after the totalitarian dictatorship is established its absolute rule is veiled with a sham democracy . The pretense of elections , the dictatorial party itself , and an extensive propaganda machine serve to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ organize an " ennobled democracy " becomes the crucial task of the demagogical experts . In spite of the pronounced social stratification in the dictator 's hierarchy , a democratic atmosphere of comradeship has to prevail . The supreme leader himself sets the tone for that and the sub-leaders sustain it . Of course , it is of the very essence of the system that there are insiders and outsiders . Dictatorship is democracy for the insiders alone . Brutal and merciless as the lieutenants usually are toward their enemies , strutting as the gods of vengeance , they had better not play the boss within the circle of their associates . In this respect the Number Two men in dictatorships , as well as the supreme leaders , have to be men of the people . The noble-born is suspect , useful as he may be for propaganda purposes before the seizure of power . Only seldom does he reach a commanding position . The leaders of the postwar revolutions spring from modest background . The Lieutenant vs. the Ambassador of the People . What makes this popular strain in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the fact that it is so obviously organized . Yet the essential difference between the dictatorial lieutenant and the sub-leader in democracies becomes manifest when the fourth element of modern dictatorship is considered , that is , the militant component , perhaps its most important factor . As modern dictatorship is belligerent , so is an essential group of its leadership , which balances ? and often over balances the bureaucratic component . The one serves as a stabilizing element , the other as a dynamic force of the system . While the bureaucrats function as dams against the second revolution , checking and purging the " perennial revolutionaries , " the militia unites the fighters who break the dams when the hour arrives . Constant state of war is the natural climate of totalitarian dictatorship . The Holy War of the creed makes every partisan a militant fighter . No compromises are possible with the political opponent , no coalitions , no barters , all of which are basic factors in the politician 's life in a democracy and yardsticks of his ability . Exemplary fighting spirit , relentless militant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ virtues of the dictator 's henchmen . ' Hie sub-leaders are above all lieutenants . In the  | Fiihrerstaat civic democracy is superseded by the militant hierarchy of the army . The citizens become political soldiers , since the nation 's life is a constant battle . Superordination and subordination are the characteristic features of such a military organization , which serves to impress countries with military traditions . It seems to be the simplest way to arrive at some kind of a democratic mass organization , but it is far from the concept of democracy of the Western World . In democracies the Number Two men are not only the bosses of the party machine , but also the " ambassadors of the people . " They serve , above all , as the human link between the individual voter and the body politic . The supreme quality of the bosses is their skill in the management of men . They are the masters of particular situations , not of principles . True , their power depends not only on this personal element ; they are the people who are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ career with bell-ringing . They are above all vote-getters and masters of the organization , but they try to produce an atmosphere of intimacy . Ostensibly , their first interest is the individual . " The rights of society as a whole are of little or no concern to the average division leader . Only an individual can cry out in pain , and only an individual can vote . " 13 Conversely , the human equation is almost completely blotted out for the political lieutenant . He has essentially no interest in the individual 's well-being , but only in the preservation of the leader 's rule . Above all , he has to be responsible to the dictator , not popular with the masses . And while the demagogical Fiihrer , rising as the substitute for institutions , stands for himself and the democratic leader always remains the representative of institutions , in this second layer of political leadership we see this situation in reverse : The political lieutenant stands for the impersonal organization ; the politician is the ambassador of the people . This reversal is not an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the masses in democracy and in dictatorship . THE FOLLOWERS The very term " the followers " seems to assign a completely passive role to the leader 's adherents . Yet the real character and function of the followers are most accurately described by the definition usually given for the masses in specific movements . The word masses is an even more elastic epithet than leader . Devoid of precise scientific connotation , it is often used with a moral undercurrent ? " the canaille , " " the great unwashed , " " the rebellious masses , " " the eager masses , " and so forth . Footnote  | Just as any other social notion , the abstract concept of the masses wins color only against a concrete historical background and thus differs in character in different historical periods . Before the French Revolution it designated the heterogeneous elements excluded from the privileges and prerequisites of the ancien regime . Post-revolutionary democracy identified the masses with " the people . " A people one and indivisible became indispensable to modern democratic nationalism and a reality in an open @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , however , soon created a new differentiation and caste-like immobility in society 14 The Phenomenon of the Mass . The great change society was undergoing in the latter part of the nineteenth century also found expression in a renewed interest of social sciences in the phenomenon of the masses . Under the impact of modern urbanization and revolutionary episodes in nineteenthcentury European capitals , Le Bon and his school emphasized the irrational behaviour of the masses . This most influential school of modern crowd psychology embarked upon a somewhat confusing tendency to identify the masses with the highly emotionalized and unstable character of the mob , thus stigmatizing mass action as devoid of individual self-control . This identification certainly simplified the much more complex interplay between rational and irrational elements of modern mass reaction . Only recently the attempt has been made to differentiate between distinct types of masses 15 Such differentiation is especially necessary in an evaluation of mass participation in modern political movements . It represents a counterpart to the contrasting types of their leaders . Variation in Types of Masses . Basic variations will be found in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ population . Rural groups will vary from urban masses . Scattered crowds react differently from congre-Footnote  | gated mobs . It will be decisive whether political action is confronted with a latent or with an aroused mass . Different social classes invite a variety of stimuli and reactions . Political movements find an uneven appeal in various social strata . The rational theory of Marxian socialism presupposed the sobering and socializing experiences of a generation trained in factory discipline and living by the concepts of a now popularized rationalism . It is this concept of the rational masses which , justified or not , led the rising trade unions and socialistic organizers . It defined their approach to the masses , the images they presented , the propaganda technique they applied . Their complete failure in reaching the suddenly rising group of salaried employees and of the unemployed ( the two crises strata of modern society ) is not due only to a lack of leadership . The irrational politics of new dynamic national movements found a first foothold in these groups , harassed by uncertainty , looking for a new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a rationalized machine age ( as they understood it ) which left no hope for future advancement and independence , which made replacements a daily routine of mechanized labor devices , which emptied work and life . And this happened to middle classes which during their own lifetime had a richer and fuller share in society . Now the dispossessed often fled at night into a dream world of movie glamour which had to repay them for what they missed in the daytime . In politics , also , it was the irrational movement which attracted them , promising a miraculous future to defeat the great trivialities of their life . Those new masses throwing their fate into politics were , above all , irrational in their reaction . Variation in Attitudes toward the Mass . The faith in a rational mass of followers swayed by reason and progressively educated in rational standards was a foundation of early democratic thinking and has remained so in spite of obvious setbacks suffered by the ideal of a rational order in world politics today . Democratic institutions stand and fall with the idea of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the masses as responsible participants in politics by necessity limits the sphere of independent leadership in a democracy , already restricted by its institutional character . On the other hand , the very opposite attitude toward their followers has been presented by dictatorial leaders . To cite Mussolini : When I feel that mass in my hands , as it yields , or when I mix with it there , it almost crushes me . Then I feel but a lump of that mass , and yet there remains Footnote  | in me something of hostility , like the distaste that the poet feels against the matter on which he is working . Does not the sculptor sometimes break the marble in ire because it does not take , under his hands , exactly the shape which it had in his first vision ? It is not accidental that some of the most powerful modern dictators have shown throughout all their life a strong leaning toward an artistic career . In the most critical days before the outbreak of the second World War Hitler remarked to the British ambassador to Germany @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Poland should be fulfilled , he would return to the dreams of his early childhood , to the life of an artist . His concept of the masses is not different from Mussolini 's . " Like a woman , " he says , whose psychic feeling is influenced less by abstract reasoning than by an undefinable sentimental longing for complementary strength , who will submit to the strong man rather than dominate the weakling , thus the masses love the ruler rather than the suppliant , and inwardly they are far more satisfied by a doctrine which tolerates no rival than by the grant of liberal freedom ; they often feel at a loss what to do with it and even easily feel themselves deserted 17 Such statements reveal the human difference between dictatorship and democracy . " They represent two different ideas of mankind . Goebbels says , " The ordinary man hates nothing more than two-sidedness , to be called upon to consider this as well as that . " Such a philosophy appeals to masses harassed by uncertainties and insecurities . Life becomes clear and simple again @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by him and people only have to follow . All disquieting criticism dies down according to the classical formula of the servant of the Prophet before the Library of Alexandria , " If those books agree with the Koran , they are unnecessary ; if they disagree , they are pernicious . " In a democracy , however , there persists an absolute unwillingness to give up the search for truth and the freedom of choice in the knowledge of good and evil . In spite of such basic difference between the two philosophies , even dictatorships can not simply accept the ancien regime 's postulate of the passive masses which have to take orders . In fact , in postdemocratic autocracies the masses play a dominant part . The different views on the mass following are not alone a philosophical concern of divergent political systems . They also find their concrete expression in the respective party organizations , in the techniques of propaganda promotion , and the creation of symbols . Footnote  | Political Parties and the Mass . Parties represent the backbone , if not the center , of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , is built upon a mass foundation . Parties run , or better , control , the government of a representative democracy . They select the democratic leaders . They connect government and the predominant trends of public opinion . " They bring order out of the chaos of a multitude of voters " ( Lord Bryce ) . They are brokers of ideas , clarifying , systematizing , and expounding the party 's doctrine . They are representatives of social interest groups bridging the distance between the individual and the great community . In the competitive scheme of at least a two-party system they maximize the voter 's education and , sharpen his free choice . The co-existence of a real competitor is essential to an effective democratic party system which presupposes that the final compromise will reflect the reasonable decision of a free electorate . From its very beginning the dictatorial party has not recognized any other party . Before the seizure of power , it represents the vanguard of the future state . It is the future state in nuce . After the successful revolution , the party @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nucleus and training school for the ruling elite . The standards of this selective process are set even in theory from above by the dictatorial leadership alone . The same is true in the case of the party 's disciplinary and educational activity , which is its second important function . The cieation of national discipline guaranteed by a military hierarchy , a close knit organization and a totalitarian control extending even to the oncoming generation , shows the position of subordination of the mass following . Yet even in a dictatorship an essential function of the party remains the maintenance of communication between state and society . This task is the more important as the " voice of the people " is stifled by dictatorial control . Propaganda and the Mass . The importance of the masses in modern dictatorship , as indicated above , reveals itself in the elaborate propaganda technique developed for winning and directing these masses . Like any other technique , it can be taught . Ministries of propaganda and enlightenment collect and sift the rules and devices for such a little Machiavellian catechism . Only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ methods are not at all new and untried . They are largely based upon general principles of advertising . Often they are taken from American commercial propaganda , revamped and systematized for use in politics . Among these are the firmly established principles of modern publicity , simplification and repetition . The intelligentsia is not important . The average man is , because he holds thc balance of power . Totalitarian political argumentation has to he brought down to thc level of thc marginal customer of political ideas .  | Dictatorships stand for " equality , " equality of the sort which the oftentold story of the Tyrant of Corinth reveals . One day he asked the Tyrant of Miletus to give him some advice concerning the art of government . The tyrant of Miletus vouchsafed no answer , but proceeded to strike off the ears of corn which had over-topped their fellows . Equality is best stabilized at the tabula rasa level , at the point of illiteracy . A stratified society can not be handled so well . Its traditions have to be destroyed . In this respect Soviet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to learn to read under the New Regime . They may begin with the right , that is , the " communistic spelling . " Besides these general principles of repetition and simplification , there are more specific techniques of demagogical propaganda , such as the personification of politics , the irrational appeal which has been systematized to almost a law of the psychological situation , the preponderance of the spoken word as compared with the printed word , and finally the exclusion of counter-propaganda . Democracies have been hesitant in accepting , and very clumsy in applying , propagandistic schemes , which have been proved so essential in modern mass organization . Partly responsible for such hesitancy is the belief in a laissez faire of free competitive ideas , leading to an almost automatic final harmony of the body politic , and partly the democracies ' adherence to the concept of a rational following which can not and shall not be directed by an organized public opinion from above . It may also be added that as long as democratic institutions were not endangered they did not need to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after its obvious success in numerous countries , awakened in democracies the necessity for a defense against it . Thus democracies have recently adopted the idea of active propaganda promotion , yet it is still too early to ascertain in which respect this democratic propaganda technique is essentially different from its dictatorial counterpart and how far it will outgrow a defense stage and develop constructive symbols of a dynamic democratic society . // Symbols again seem to be more prevalent in dictatorial systems than in democracies , at least at first glance . Yet the very existence of institutions Footnote  | symbolizes and guarantees the stability of a prevailing value pattern . ' " They may be frozen symbols . They may become meaningless from daily use and only their being challenged may awaken their dormant vitality . It is human nature to perceive above all the symbol that challenges , just as opposition to an existing order is the beginning of party organization . Therefore revolutions , with the rigid and extensive change which they initiate in the composition and vocabulary of the ruling class , seem to be laden @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aroused public which is shaken in its automatic acceptance of traditional patterns . Necessity for Symbolism in Dictatorship . To the personal leaders the creation of symbols becomes a vital necessity . They serve as a substitute for institutions on which the representative leaders can always fall back . Symbols of identification ( the party emblem , the flag , uniforms , the anthem ) represent to the early revolutionary fighter the promise that they will be turned into successful symbols of demand and that they already bear the mark of future institutions . On the other hand , when they are finally accepted as the new state 's mores , they may lose their aggressive significance ; they may even become emblems of safety , behind which the taciturn adversary hides for self-protection . And new symbols of an underground opposition may appeal to daring fighters . The renewed predominance of symbols in our day , however , is not only the storm sign of a period of transition whose revolutionary cycle is indicated by such a succession of symbols . It also reflects on specific characteristics of present-day dynamic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an almost god-like position is as much an essential of dictatorship 's existence as is the active participation of the people . These masses , as we have said above , are conceived by modern demagogues as essentially irrational . To such childlike masses symbols appealing to the emotions become , a need . Their use is highly effective when democracies , following a concept of the rational masses , fall short of an emotional appeal . Sensitivity of the Masses to Symbols . In time of stress , especially , emotional behaviour of the masses can be easily excited ; their naturally prevalent inhibitions can be broken down ; and all the fickleness , hysteria , and sadism of an unstable crowd can be brought to the fore . All-embracing modern agencies of mass communication , manipulated by a well co-ordi-Footnote  | nated propaganda machine , can weld such restless masses into a powerful weapon , and with unifying symbols before them , can send , them on the march . Bound in an active mass , every follower will be reassured by the fact that others are responding just @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ psychological effect by the simple fact of number . Thus a multitude will be psychologically prepared by a whole set of rites and specific symbols to become a unified mass . Military bands , flags , parades , and the constant repetition of such rites intensify the partisan feelings of individuals almost to the point of religious fervor . These well-staged mass meetings are not a fight over concrete issues in open discussion ; they become a matter of self-representation of the leader alone . Discussion and opposition are excluded . Only the believers or those who want to be converted are welcome . This is the totalitarian scheme of dictatorial symbols . Marching especially becomes a value in itself . These men of unrest can not rejoice in themselves , can not stand still , can not wait . They are deeply moved and fully absorbed by the mere consciousness of being on the march , and for people on the march symbols are the substitute for institutions . These symbols stand for the extreme dynamics of demagogical dictatorships . The dynamic driving force is crystallized in the quasi-religious myth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Roman Empire , the proletarian world revolution , the Third Reich 's new world order ) . This dynamic turn is even reflected in a new and violent language . Militant expressions become fashionable . Political fighting leagues take the place of political parties . Instead of a new orientation , " military cadres " are unrolled . The new militant vocabulary now prevalent , not alone in dictatorships , is the most expressive symbol of the rule of dynamic leadership . TRAINING AND SUCCESSION IN LEADERSHIP The different concepts of leaders and followers become finally manifest in the training and the process of selecting future political leaders under various systems . Again there is a basic difference apparent between democracies and dictatorships . Institutional channels are the main avenues of approach for future democratic leaders . They are selected through open competition , especially in the national parliament , and not seldom because they have had successful careers in municipal government . " Such a rise to political importance presupposes and develops specific qualities in the future leaders , qualities which , in turn , characterize their future rule . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fact , the selective function of the parliaments is one of their most important tasks . On their success or failure in accomplishing this task depends the very existence of democratic government . The severe apprenticeship the political aspirant has to undergo in the open forum of parliament tests his availability for ministerial functions . Long before he achieves his first departmental appointment , he has to prove his mettle before a most critical audience He has to show his capacity for effective statement , for framing legislation , for mastery in parliamentary debate , for teamwork , co-operation , and successful compromise . He has to be acceptable to the House and thereby to the country . A government whose leaders are not subject to such criticism may pick its members at will . " Any fool , " as Napoleon said , " can govern in a state of siege . " Great statesmen look back at a long parliamentary career before they take the driver 's seat in parliamentary government . It has been often rightly remarked that the rapid change of membership in the United States House @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been outstripped in power by the Senate . The time element is also partly responsible for the uneven chances of members of different social groups to have successful political careers . Great Britain 's young aristocrats , who grow up in a political atmosphere , train for politics ( at Eton and Harrow , Oxford and Cambridge ) and enter a political profession at a very early age are at an advantage as compared with businessmen and trade union leaders . This holds true even today when the earlier privileges of aristocratic background and schooling are not any longer prerequisite for a political career in Great Britain . " LAW AND TEACHING AS BACKGROUNDS FOR LEADERSHIP . Specific professions will serve as a better opening for a successful political career . The prevalent tradition that the man who knows the law can also make the law gives the lawyer a predominant position in the parliaments all over the world . Half Footnote  | of the members of the American House of Representatives have had legal training . The same was true of the French parliament under the Third Republic . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a preferred type in French public life . The honored position enjoyed by the advocate and notary in French society reflected at the same time the high esteem which law commands in a nation that believes in reason and justice , in institutions and codification . It is most significant that the teaching profession was second only to the law as a leadership reservoir for French politics . That her leaders represent the great cultural traditions , and that they already have , if possible , made some contribution of their own to these traditions seemed almost to be a prerequisite for statesmanship in Republican France . Herriot , Tardieu , Leon Blum , Daladier ? to mention only a few contemporaries ? have done so . In a nation where generals regarded it as their highest glory to be elected members of the Acadernie Franc aise , an education is a necessary entrance ticket to public position . The extremely democratic educational system of the Third Republic , however , hindered the rise of an exclusive class of " property and culture . " The sifting process of competitive examinations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ able underprivileged possible . In fact , one may accept the statement of a shrewd observer of the French political scene just past that To succeed in French political life , one must be borne humble , have lived studiously , entered by the door on the left ( Clemenceau , Millerand , Viviani , Pierre Laval ) , do at least one administrative job well , take quiet note of the weaknesses of one 's colleagues , but without ever speaking one 's thoughts aloud , and then wait for the tide ( J. Philip ) . POLITICAL AGENCIES AND THE CHOICE OF LEADERS . Such examples already hint at the variations in the selection of leaders due to national ideals and educational standards . Not less significant for such a selection are structural differences of the political agencies , especially of the political parties . The decentralized party system of the United States gives the local and state boss a predominant hand in making national leaders . Any attempt , such as the recent one on the part of Franklin D. Roosevelt , to purge senatorial candidates , if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Even the chairman of the party can not successfully interfere in their feudal domain . " Like the British king , he may have " the right to be consulted , the right to encourage , the right to warn " ( Bagehot ) , and if he is a shrewd politician this power may carry enough weight , especially if he can make use of Footnote  | national spoils . Yet the selection of political leaders will be primarily decided not by the responsible political officeholder , but by the irresponsible local boss . This largely accounts for the enormous waste of personnel in American politics . AMERICAN LEADERS : FROM PRESIDENT TO BOSS . There is , in fact , no career leading to the most important political position , the American Presidency , as the frequent selection of a " dark horse " significantly indicates . This does not mean , however , that the candidates finally selected do not carry specific qualities which make them " available " for the highest political office . Certain prerequisites for being elected President might be stated . Protestantism appears to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ No Southerner has been selected since the Civil War . The " Solid South " was never so doubtful for the Democratic vote as to invite such a nomination . Since 186o the successful Democratic candidates have come from the East , while the Republicans , sure of the support of Eastern conservatives , looked to the Middle West for presidential aspirants . Though no career leads to the White House , the legal profession and ? until recently ? military service seem to be the favorites . Governorship , especially of a populous and strategic state ( such as New York ) , has proved an excellent stepping stone . The combination of a successful political contest and some public administrative experience seem to offer an effective appeal to voters . So does a name long known in politics , or favorable criticism of a candidate 's conduct in a recent dramatic incident ( if possible , not outspokenly political in character ) . Though the saga of birth in a log cabin , groomed since Lincoln 's day , has in time somewhat faded , it is still convenient @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ least to have worked on one 25 as a boy , or to be " a homemade gentleman , born in a ramshackle old three-story place . . . . " The political physiognomy of a presidential candidate should not be too definite ( in order not to Intake enemies ) , but he must have a human side ( even if one has to be manufactured ) and a good personality which can be sold to the American people . Above all , he must not be highbrow . His family life should be beyond reproach . Game-hunting and trout-fishing are suitable activities for a candidate . They demonstrate his vigor and healthy outdoor life . Publicity build-up will collect these enhancing features of the " presidential timber " after the " king makers " ( a president in office not running for re-election , some editors , politicians , and so on ) have picked the candidate for the country 's highest office . Not much consideration is given to the qualifications of the Vice-Presi-Footnote  | dent . His position is usually not considered one of very great importance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He should not come from the same geographical district as the presidential candidate and , if possible , he should represent a different wing of the party . It is even harder to make generally valid statements on the training of the " American bosses . " Their rise may be called almost a process of natural selection . Politics in the United States is an open profession recruited from all ranks ; but it is a profession . Success at it demands a man 's whole life and his readiness for service at any time . That is one reason why people who have a civil profession at stake are hesitant about entering the political arena . A man may go into politics because he desires to obtain some public office or to exert some influence and power , or simply because he likes the game . The political boss is usually a self-made man , often from humble origin and recent immigrant stock , and he is not seldom a social failure . The city boss especially , somewhat different from the more respectable state boss , usually begins @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ large city as newspaper seller , in the saloons as a waiter , or in similar pursuits . In such daily contact , he acquires skill in the management of men , the supreme quality of the successful boss . He possesses a superabundance of physical energy and resourcefulness . He establishes his party position by hard work . If he gets the command of the active voters in a precinct , it gives him control to distribute spoils . He is then on his way to political power . Selection and Training of Dictatorial Leaders . Training for leadership is very different under the personal rule of modern dictators . Selection certainly depends to a large extent on the personal choice of the leader , especially in the higher brackets of the political hierarchy . Favoritism plays an important part in such selection . Even nonparty members may enter the leading council of modern autocracies . In spite of this significant personal element , it is , however , characteristic of modern dictatorships that they have an almost rationalized and quasi-institutional scheme for training their successors and their administrators in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ channel through which the selection of leaders is made is not the parliament and certainly not open competition . Selection is basically made through the party machine . Being a " charter member " of the party is equivalent to tenure in a democratic parliament . In a way this method of choosing leaders also brings out specific qualities in them . For instance , the old guard of the first hour proved to the leader to be ardent fighters and Footnote  | trustworthy confidants . However , such important qualities in members may not be sufficient after the seizure of power . Indeed it may even be necessary to purge the " comrades of early and trying conspiracies . " VARIETY IN TYPES OF LEADERSHIP . The composite structure of modern dictatorship in its all-embracing power requires varied types of leaders ? demagogical , bureaucratic , militant , and feudal . The party machine has to put forth the necessary leader material , a task seemingly simplified by the non-existence of any opposition . Some thoughtful dictators , however , have realized the very weakness of this selective process , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The attempt , such as Ataturk 's , to create artificially an official opposition is doomed to failure in a dictatorship . ) Yet , even the closed party system of modern dictatorship is not completely free from competition . In fact , it represents a hidden multiple-party system , thus defining selection through victorious factions . Here again the personal element of leadership selection enters . The faction nearest to the leader 's ear has the best chance for command of the key positions . Such a process accounts for the unpredictability of leadership career and for the waste of personnel in modern dictatorships . POLITICAL CONTROL AND THE RISING GENERATION . One important feature of modern dictatorship is its extension of monopolistic control over the body politic to the oncoming generation . The acceptance of an individual into the ruling party and the allotment to him of a share in its power and prestige are left to the whim of the party . The specific culture patterns of the ruling dictatorship will decide on the selective principles . Thus , the first maxim of the new leader schools of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ above all , militant virtues . Training of the will and the development of courage , Hitler has declared to be the ultimate aim of all education . " The land of poets and thinkers " is now taught to regard such an epithet as a sign of national decay . The training of future leaders through state-controlled youth movement and a completely co-ordinated educational system are a bid for the perpetuation of the personal rule after the leader 's death . It is certainly too early to draw any definite conclusion as to whether modern dictatorships will succeed where their classical forerunners failed . Two preconditions for successful perpetuation of the dictatorial system seem to be indispensable : the establishment of a well-functioning party machine and the destruction or absorption of traditional institutions . Success or failure will depend largely on the degree of internal consolidation of the system . If the shots aimed at Lenin in August , 1918 , had killed him , the Soviet Regime would probably have collapsed . When he died in January , 1924 , an integrated system of  | power had grown up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between Stalin and Trotsky the master of the party machine emerged as the final victor . THE DICTATORS OF TOMORROW . One may even go so far as to make a few generalizations in regard to some characteristics which the dictator 's successor is likely to have . One may venture to say that not the glamour boys of the revolution ? not Trotsky , Farinacci , or Goebbels types ? have the best chance to succeed the leader ; it is , above all , the unostentatious master of the machine who will be in line for succession . Mussolini 's Italy , somewhat different from the other dictatorships in this respect , seems to have returned to the Roman principle of adoption . That he have the reputation of being the middle-of-the-road man will probably be the second qualification for succession to dictatorship . This may mean , as it did in the case of Stalin , that an aspirant must know how to play off one wing against the other cleverly . The choice may finally fall on a man who is not too conspicuous , for a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be envied than one who is not prominent ? which disturbs the slow accumulation of power which is the technique of the dictator . And if these are possibly to be the three main characteristics of the heir to Caesar 's mantle , they may be taken to indicate what the . character of his rule will be . If the rule of his successor is ever established , it certainly will be different from that of the founder of dictatorship . Though it will be carried on in his name and with the help of the generation born under the established regime , it may liquidate the remnants of the revolutionary generation . If this new type of dictator rule carries through successfully , dynamic leadership may thus become institutionalized and merge in type with representative leadership , which event would close a revolutionary cycle or make way for the challenge of a new dynamic leadership . BIBLIOGRAPHY Footnote  | Footnote  | Parliamentary Government THE purpose of modern parliaments is aptly expressed in the statemc that " what concerns all should be approved by all . " These were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he summoned the clergy to " great parliament . " By reason of the large size of medieval as well as mock countries this consent of the governed could no longer be obtained by me of a popular assembly . At the time when the parliamentary principle v unknown 2 Aristotle had said that the size of a democratic state is bounc by the limits of a crowd which one herald can dominate with his voi If democracy was to be given a chance in states covering a large territc the principle of government based upon elective assemblies had to adopted . THE EARLY PARLIAMENTS The assemblies which were the immediate predecessors of modern par ment were , however , not constituted with a view to obtaining the cons of all the governed . The medieval princes endeavored to obtain the cons of those who had political influence . These were the highest ranking bility , the clerical hierarchy , and the elected representatives of the le , nobles , of the lower ranking clergy , and of the burgesses . Each of tl estates considered itself a separate entity rather @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , although historical circumstances sometimes brought ab combined assemblies of several estates . ' The number of groups meet separately narrowed down to four in Sweden . In France and in Spain tl developed a division into three , the nobility , the clergy , and the bourgeo In England there were only two , because the clergy refused to att parliament . ' Scotland seems to be the only country in which the est met as a unit . Footnote  | Their Tasks . The immediate task of these parliaments was to give their consent to taxation . The King was unrestricted only in the income which he derived from his own lands , from judicial fees and fines , and the incidents of feudal tenure . He could expect additional income as a matter of right only for three contingencies : an imminent war , the knighting of his eldest son , and the marriage of his eldest daughter . If taxes were to be levied for other purposes the consent of the people , expressed in parliament , was required . It was natural that parliaments tried to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taxes vested in them in order to obtain privileges for themselves . Thus they acquired a second function : They submitted to the King the " wishes and grievances of the people . " A powerful parliament could turn this privilege into an opportunity to criticize the entire government of the country . A third function was later added , namely , that parliaments must give their consent to all legislation . This function , which is now so important that we employ the term " legislative body " synonymously with the term " parliament , " was of little significance in the beginning . During the Middle Ages all laws were supposed to have existed from time immemorial , and they derived much of their authority from their alleged age . Those social and economic changes which required large-scale readjustments by way of legislation began only during the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries , and even then such changes were so slow that the amount of legislation required to cope with them was for a long time almost negligible . Their Strength and Weakness . The parliaments of the Middle Ages @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ derive their strength from their own constitutions . They were strong if and when the King was weak . The kings were weak when they needed money , and they needed money to pursue wars and to take care of the debts resulting therefrom . For these reasons English parliament was strong at the end of the thirteenth , and throughout much of the fourteenth century . Then , however , its power receded . It was very weak under Henry VIII , who through the Reformation had obtained control of the property formerly held by the church , and who also had become the head of the English clergy . Parliament revived somewhat under Elizabeth , led a vigorous war against the King under the Stuarts , and finally triumphed when in 1689 it put a new dynasty upon the throne . ' England is , however , the only large country in which the original parliament has been successful in the end . Footnote  | One reason for the failure of the estates parliaments in other countries was that they were bound to be stronger in negation than in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ demands , but it was hard to agree upon a positive policy to be substituted for that of the King . It was difficult to promote harmony among the estates because they deliberated separately and no provision for co-ordination existed . Also , they were extremely selfish ; in England , where the power of parliament was greatest , the nobility which dominated it managed to destroy the yeomanry altogether and to secure the peasants ' lands for themselves . The peasants fared best in countries like France , where the King was more powerful . It can be seen , therefore , that parliaments were not a progressive force . Furthermore , the estates often refused to act for the country as a whole ; they insisted upon their independence , and no matter how eager they were to claim rights they were reluctant to assume duties a Their influence developed into a mere disintegrating force if it became supreme , as it did in Poland and in the German Empire . England was a conspicuous exception to this rule , but this may have been largely due to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ constitution . " Their Decline . The inherent deficiencies of these parliaments had much to do with the gradual decline of their power in the course of the seventeenth century , and the substitution of so-called " absolutism " ' for a government bound to obtain parliamentary consent . Meanwhile forces of a social and economic character were at work ' which made it inevitable that in the long run one after another of the old rulerships collapsed and had to be replaced by governments based upon the consent of the governed . In the new set-up parliaments were once more called upon to play a pivotal part . It is easy to see that from a functional point of view these new parliaments were entirely different from the old ones . The old ones had been characterized by the dualism between King and parliament . Among other things , this made it unnecessary for parliaments to be capable of positive action . They submitted to the King the wishes and grievances of their constituents and decided whether or not they were willing to follow his initiative in the matters of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the King to provide for a government and Footnote  | therewith for an organ which could act for the country as a whole . The essence of the success of modern parliaments may be ascribed to the breaking down of the old dualism ; ' the Kings had to abdicate or to accept governments formed in harmony with parliamentary wishes . The inevitable consequences of this fact have not always been emphasized ; it will be useful , therefore , to draw attention to their more important aspects . First , after the old royal government had been abolished a new one had to be substituted for it . Democracy ? the word is derived from the Greek words demos , which means " the people , " and kratein , which means " to rule " ? needs a government as much as any other form of political organization . Otherwise it would degenerate into anarchy , and since anarchy is not a workable state of society dictatorship would follow . The reason why the difference between democracy and anarchy has not always been realized is , as Herman Finer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ doctrine of protest . " 10 Naturally mere protest could not suffice after the old governments , against which it was directed , had been overthrown . The positive element in the democratic movement had to separate itself from the negative element , although this process was difficult in practice ( witness the years preceding the establishment of the Federal Constitution in the United States ) , and is not even now perfected so far as theory is concerned . If the first requisite is that democracy must have a government , the second is that parliaments can not be governments themselves ; they must act as intermediate organs of government . A parliament when unorganized and therefore leaderless is nothing but a large crowd . It exhibits all the drawbacks of popular assemblies for which the democratic city-state paid so dearly both in antiquity and during the Middle Ages . Such bodies are under the influence of the " psychology of crowds ? ' As a result , they may act rashly and irresponsibly as did the parliaments of the French Revolution 12 Even the English House of Commons , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at one time deliberated in great detail about how most effectively to torture a defenseless prisoner . ' 3 In addition to acting rashly an unorganized parliament may act inconsistently , or it may act either too Footnote  | slowly or not at all . If the task of governing modern democratic countries should be left to their parliaments as such , the results might be as negative and as disastrous as they were in some of the estates parliaments mentioned above . PARLIAMENTS AND THE FORMATION OF GOVERNMENTS Provision for a government above a parliament may be made in two ways . First , the formation of a government may be left to the parliament itself , as is the case in England , the English Dominions , and all other countries which , besides the United States , may be called democratic at the present time . Second , provision for an executive may be made independently from parliament , as is the case in the United States . The functions of parliaments are fundamentally different in the two cases 14 Under the parliamentary system properly so-called the first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and delegate to that government those functions which the parliament by its very nature is not able to exercise.15 Success or failure of a parliament will depend upon the accomplishment of this task . It is obvious that an unorganized parliament would not be able to solve the problem of giving itself a master . Role of Political Parties in the Formation of Governments . However , modern parliaments are , to a greater or lesser degree , organized by political parties , and the formation of governments depends upon the action of party leaders . " There are three different circumstances under which parties may be called upon to solve the problem of the formation of governments ' : In the case of the first there exist only two large parties , one of which obtains a majority of all the seats in parliament . In this case much of the task of forming a government devolves upon the people . By giving a majority to one party , the voters decide that this party is to form a government , and usually the name of the party leader who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Under this arrangement , of course , government is no longer " parlia-Footnote  | mentary " ; parliament is subordinated to the electorate , and therefore fits organically into the general framework of democratic institutions . England and the English Dominions are cases in point . Under the second arrangement there is a system of three or more parties , ll none of which has a majority . The result is that coalitions are formed by parties which combined have ( if possible ) a majority . Such combinations may change during the lifetime of a parliament , and the people do not exercise the immediate check upon the nature of their government which a two-party system gives them 1R Governments were formed in this way in Belgium , the Netherlands , and the Scandinavian countries . The third possibility is that parties are but little organized in the country and , since the strength and cohesion of any party organization is derived from the organization of the rank and file of the votersl " parliamentary groups will have but little cohesion and consistency . This case , the classical example @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , shows parliaments at work in a way which in the past appeared as an ideal to many a theoretical observer : Power is actually vested in individual members of parliament rather than in organized groups or in the government . The result is what we might expect from an unorganized assembly ? cabinets are frequently overthrown by changing combinations , their average duration is less than nine months , and their authority is weak . Provision for Leaders . The formation of governments implies not only that the government machinery is set up , but also that the proper personnel is provided for the operation of this machinery . The essential qualifications of a political elite can be best understood if we look at their functions , which are innovation , integration , and limitation . Successful innovation can not be expected from the bureaucracy which , as it has been put , " will care more for routine than for results . " 21 Nor will the members of the civil service be able to provide for the integration of all government functions ; being Footnote  | specialists , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ own activities to the extent of almost overlooking all others . Finally , they often lose sight of the need for a limitation of government activities ; they are so convinced of the beneficial character of their actions that they would like to have them extended beyond the range within which they are serviceable . The process of selection by which a democracy obtains its political leaders is , of course , in the first place , one of popular election . Parliaments provide , however , for a very useful second test . In a popular election the mere " showman " and " orator " may be successful , but if he enters the halls of a parliament he will soon be deflated . If members of parliament are to recognize someone as their leader , he will have to show his superiority in handling matters which may be technical as well as delicate , and which must always be handled in the presence of an opposition which will exploit any sign of weakness or failure . Those who survive this test may well be expected to be the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Under a two-party system a parliament may be counted upon to discharge its selecting functions comparatively well . The English House of Commons , in particular , has been praised for its efficiency in this respect 22 Under a multi-party system some difficulties develop ; the distrust of each other among the parties which form a majority may cause them to make it hard for their best men to rise to positions of real leadership . In a parliament such as the French Chamber of Deputies was , brilliant leadership is possible because there are many opportunities for individuals to distinguish themselves . On the other hand , little chance is given to these persons to lead their colleagues in constructive work over a sufficient period of time ; also the mere orator of the type of Louis Marin and Franklin Bouillon obtains a chance to make his influence felt in a way which on the whole is not beneficial . While the Congress of the United States has no function at all in providing the mechanism for executive government , it does share in the task of developing a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Senate and the House of Representatives , and men who have been leaders in these bodies have often risen to national prominence when they might not otherwise have done so . This leadership material is , however , only rarely used for the positions in the executive government . Members of the House of Representatives have scant chance of being nominated for President ; Senators are better off , but are less " available " than are governors of " pivotal " states . Positions in the cabinet are usually not attractive to Footnote  | members of Congress . They are rarely inclined to give up their seats to become mere subordinates of the President . But former congressmen have been outstanding cabinet members ; for instance , in the administrations of F. D. Roosevelt , Mr. Cordell Hull , a former Senator , has undoubtedly been the cabinet member with the greatest authority . POLITICAL CONTROL If the first function of parliaments ? constitution of governments ? is confined to those countries which have a parliamentary system of government , the second function ? control of the executive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ control of the government and control of the administration . The Two-Party System . In the control of the government the parliaments in countries with the parliamentary system possess the legal handle of being able to put the cabinet into a minority and thereby force it to resign . Under a two-party system a government , because it possesses a majority , is safe from defeat as long as it is sure of its followers . The government is nevertheless continuously under fire from the opposition . The leaders of the opposition know that ordinarily they are not able to influence the votes of the members of the majority party ; in the last resort their arguments are calculated to influence the electorate . More specifically , the attempt is made to influence the " balancing vote " ? that is , those voters who turn from one party to the other according to the issues of the day and who , although they are a small minority , actually decide which party is to obtain a majority in the next elections . Ordinarily this balancing vote is extremely sensitive . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one party and start it drifting to the other . The government is conscious of this fact ; and if it should waver in its responsiveness to public opinion , many of the majority members in parliament would try to correct this trend . They are the deputies who have been elected by a small margin and who on their trips into their constituencies inform themselves about changes in the attitude of the electorate . If these members of the majority become restive , and if they observe that the opposition makes more impression in the country than does the government , they will bring pressure to bear upon their leaders . Their grumblings will be heard in the lobbies and in clubhouses rather than in the meeting rooms of parliament , but the government whips ? who not only transmit the orders of the government to the individual member but also take the latter 's complaints to the government ? will impress upon the cabinet the difficulty of gaining parliamentary consent for its actions . If at all possible , the ministry  | will modify its policy to meet its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a drastic manner , as Mr. Baldwin did in 1935 when he sacrificed Sir Samuel Hoare to the opposition aroused by the Hoare-Laval plan . If ordinarily such open conflicts are avoided , it is because of the rule of " anticipated reactions " " : Governments study public opinion thoroughly and try to follow it as closely as possible 24 In this process parliamentary debate proves to be an essential cog in the machine of popular control of government . Parliamentary debate provides much information which otherwise would not be forthcoming ; the government has to explain and defend its policies in great detail and the opposition will see to it that no important point is overlooked . These debates also help to crystallize public opinion . Public opinion , to be effective , needs to be clear and unequivocal . Parliamentary debate puts into the limelight a few salient points upon which the attention of the voters can be easily concentrated . The Multiple-Party System . Conditions are somewhat different under a multiple-party system and in a largely unorganized parliament . Under a multiple-party system a government may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and without the necessity of appeal to the people . However , parties have a tendency under these conditions to substitute themselves for parliament ; decisions made in their separate meetings are more important than open debate in parliament . As soon as one party whose support is essential to the government withdraws , the government resigns . Almost the opposite would happen in France when political groups were unable to determine the outcome of a vote . In this case the Chamber would make its decision , and this decision would be largely determined in the course of the debate . It is doubtful , however , whether this was an effective means of control25 The Chamber could easily punish a minister whom it disliked , but it could not thereby make sure that his successor would adopt the policy which the Chamber favored . The successor might have the best of intentions but as a rule he would not have sufficient power . The Separation of Powers . Political control of the executive by the legislature must assume indirect methods under a system of separation of powers which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States makes extensive use of the typical devices of administrative control , which will be dealt with later in this chapter , even if the criticism is directed against the policy of the President and the cabinet rather than against ad-Footnote  | ministrative organs . Control can furthermore be exercised by legislation , and may venture deeply into such fields as foreign policy , which by their nature are repulsive to legislative regulation . Lastly , there remains , of course , the weapon of impeachment . The impeachment mechanism has primarily a historical significance ; the English House of Commons used this weapon at a time when ministerial responsibility was not yet clearly established . " Since in the United States ministerial responsibility does not exist , it is not unnatural that the power of impeachment has been retained . Since accusation by a majority of the House of Representatives and condemnation by twothirds of the Senate are required , impeachment has not played any significant part in the history of the country . As Woodrow Wilson says : " Indeed , judging by our past experiences , impeachment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ menace . The House of Representatives is a tardy grand jury , and the Senate an uncertain court . " " On the other hand , it is not infrequent that a member of the House of Representatives demands impeachment of some administrative official , though usually such a demand seems to be made more for ' the sake of publicity than for the sake of serious action . ADMINISTRATIVE CONTROL Administrative control is closely related to political control , and under the parliamentary system of government every department has a minister at its head who has to assume parliamentary responsibility for the administrative officers under him . This responsibility is supposed to induce him to exercise strict supervision of his underlings . It is essential , however , that if and when this preventive control fails to work parliament be at hand with repressive measures . A bureaucracy is always tempted to use the power entrusted to it improperly ; the high standards set up by the modern civil service have improved conditions considerably but have not made them perfect and will never succeed in doing so . The vigilance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , particularly since the activities of the administration have been so greatly extended . Also , parliaments are ideally suited to the fulfillment of this task ; they see with hundreds of eyes , and these eyes are sharpened by partisan controversy and by the desire of Footnote  | individuals to gain distinction . Ordinarily , the initiative in the task of administrative control , as of political control , will be taken by the opposition . But when administrative abuses or blunders have been charged a government will rarely be inclined to make the matter a partisan issue , and even more rarely be able to do so even if it wishes . In addition , as Walter Bagehot remarked , 28 public opinion will readily respond to parliamentary action on such subjects , and the pressure on the administration will soon he so great that at least the facts will become known , and in most cases redress will be given if it is at all practical to do so . In England . Most parliaments can pride themselves on having done good work in the matter of administrative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one most frequently used in order to redress ( and thereby in the future prevent ) " those petty injustices which are so commonly associated with bureaucracies. " 2 ? A question may , however , easily lead to a thoroughgoing investigation of the practices of the administrative agency which has come under fire , 30 and such an investigation will be remembered by that agency for years to come . In France . In France the task of administrative control was , under the Third Republic , more urgent , obviously because political control was so much overdone as to be largely inefficient . Every generation seemed to have a major scandal of the Panama and Stavisky type , and some members of parliaments were themselves nearly always as much involved as the administrative departments were . Yet , much of the information which we possess on such cases would not be available were it not for the vigilance of parliamentary control . Also , the preventive effects of such control are remarkable . Let us quote Andre Siegfried , who is by no means uncritical of the shortcomings of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one of our chief administrative departments . Usually we did our share of work conscientiously in a quiet atmosphere of daily routine , but there were days when one hardly recognized the place ? the director had nerves , the letter piles seemed to pile up hectically on the tables , and the typists all had their teeth on edge . There was a question to be asked in the House by a deputy . . . and everyone jumped except the porters ! This intervention of the deputy serves thus as a spur to keep the horse panting , even when it is not in use.31 In the United States . In the United States the intensity of administrative Footnote  | control tends to make up for the absence of political control . The activities of the administration are closely scrutinized by Congressional committees , in particular during the discussion of the budget ; laws governing administration are made as detailed as possible ; and if all this is of no avail , the weapon of congressional investigation ( either by standing committees or committees appointed ad hoc32 ) is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more unanimously applauded if their procedure had been free from arbitrariness , but on the other hand almost all of them have provided valuable information . That a parliamentary committee may succeed where all other agencies have failed was shown by the investigation of the Teapot Dome scandal through the Senate Committee on Public Lands , in the course of which Senator Walsh did an amount of work which no public official would have done in order to ferret out the truth . LEGISLATION The task of legislation ranks third among the functions of a modern parliament , the formation and control of the government being the first and second functions . Not that legislation is infrequent ; new laws began to multiply in the first half of the nineteenth century and have since that time further increased to such an extent that the calendar of every parliament is now clogged with legislative projects . Parliaments Too Large for Direct Legislation . Yet , because of their structural inability to fulfill their legislative function , parliaments have lost much of the power in matters of legislation which written constitutions attribute to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two generations ago : " . .. it is equally true , though only of late and slowly beginning to be realized , that a large assembly is as little fitted for the direct business of legislation as for that of administration . " as In the first place , the innovations which a law ( properly so-called ) will introduce should be closely related to the experience gained by those who executed the law which it has been devised to replace . This can not be accomplished unless the civil servants who are charged with the execution of the old regulations are given a share in the framing of the new ones 34 In the second place , laws must be completely integrated , and they must fit into the general framework of a government 's policies . Unorganized assemblies have proved themselves either incapable of providing for such consistent Footnote  | legislation or unable to do so with dispatch 3 " In the third place , no law is good unless it is properly drafted . Since litigation will develop it is necessary that the provisions of a new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ easy to make the new law work in the sense intended by its authors . Obviously , such a task involves many technicalities that are beyond the capabilities of a large assembly . In countries with a parliamentary system of government the problem of legislation has been solved by giving the cabinet leadership in this matter as in others . Legislative Procedure in England . Conditions are simple in countries with a two-party system , such as England , where , within reasonable limits , a government is sure of its parliamentary majority . The spade work for most new laws is done by the permanent officials of the various government departments . These civil servants must , however , work in connection with the minister , who represents the political element . Laws which embody the feature of innovation to a degree greater than normal may be submitted to the scrutiny of Royal Commissions of Inquiry36 which are comprised of experts representing all sides of an issue , and which will try to find as wide a , basis for agreement as possible . In this case the government will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its bill . The drafting of the bill is left to a special agency , 37 and every legislative project has to be sponsored by the government as a whole before it can proceed on its way to parliament . In the two houses of parliament the government commands most of the time set aside for legislative purposes38 and may take all of the time if the Footnote  | situation seems to warrant it . Government control over parliament does not mean that parliament will act as a " rubber stamp . " The pressure brought to bear upon the government in the course of debate may induce it to accept amendments , or even to withdraw a bill entirely . " Also , it must be borne in mind that before a bill is introduced the government investigates carefully to determine whether it will be acceptable to its majority and to the public at large . Bearing in mind the existence of these safeguards of both preventive and repressive parliamentary control , we may say that legislative leadership of the government over parliament , as practiced in England , has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the public interest can be rather effectively defended against the activities of pressure groups . No private interest can secure the passage of an important bill without either the approval or the toleration of the government , and the government is strong enough to hold most lobbyists ( although the term is unknown in England ) at arm 's length4 ? Second , quick action is possible in case of need even if it requires changes of legislation . Since the government has a majority in the House of Commons it may even assume responsibility for the temporary suspension of an Act ; if necessary , parliament is sure to pass a bill of indemnity 41 Legislation in Multiple-Party Systems . Legislation in parliaments with a multiple-party system depends upon the efficiency of the bargaining between the majority parties , upon whom the government depends for every step it takes . If the parties constituting the majority are not too numerous , and if their opinions are not too far removed from one another , the path of legislation will be fairly clear . However , if the number of parties @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ parties too heterogeneous , or if the coalition fails to command a majority , legislation is very hard to enact and the point may be reached where the government has to resort to wholesale legislation by decree . Italy , Germany , and Austria under Proportional Representation have been cases in point ; Belgium was so later ; conditions were only a degree better in the Netherlands ; they had , in the 1930 's , been fairly good in the Scandinavian countries . Legislative Procedure in Republican France . Particularly in matters of Footnote  | legislation , France with her largely unorganized parliament ( considering again the period between 1870 and 1940 ) afforded an example of how a parliament fares if constituted in a way which to so many theorists still appears ideal . All the inconveniences of legislation by assembly develop . Robert de Jouvenel exaggerates but little when he says : Everyone proposes an amendment and votes more often than not for those of his colleagues to make sure that his own amendment be adopted in return ... . A law is no longer a law . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and three regulations of public order.42 Such laws were badly drafted ; the Conseil d'Etat might manage to make them workable by interpretation , but it might also happen that the bureaucracy had to interpret them in its own way and thus escaped proper political control . The process of legislation was ordinarily very slow , and laws were on the statute books which had been out of date for more than a generation . Occasionally a government had authority enough to make the Chamber ( and the Senate ) work , as happened under Poincare ( T.926-1928 ) and under the first cabinet of Leon Blum ( 1936-37 ) . Such reform periods were short ; they were the result of popular pressure , and for that reason laws which were badly in need of thorough parliamentary scrutiny would often be passed in a hurry . On the other hand , it happened repeatedly after the World War that the government was given the power to legislate by decree . Under these circumstances parliament abdicated in favor of the bureaucracy of the departments rather than in favor of those who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the United States . In the United States the function of legislation , apart from the negative element of the veto power , is assigned to Congress . Presidential initiative in regard to legislation is possible inasmuch as " he shall from time to time give to the Congress information of the state of the Union , and recommend to their consideration such measures as he shall judge necessary and expedient . " The President confines himself to the general outlines of a proposed legislative change , and relies upon friends of the administration in the Senate and the House of Representatives to introduce a formal bill 43 Congressmen are aided in their tasks by the legislative drafting bureau attached to the Library of Congress . Often enough , of course , ready bills have been provided for them by the various government departments , or by pressure groups , or by private persons interested in a particular subject . To what extent Congress itself determines legis-Footnote  | lation , and to what extent it follows administrative leadership , depends upon circumstances . The President has always the power of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ minor means of pressure by inviting ( or not inviting ) a Congressman ( and his wife ! ) to the White House . In their race with Congress for influence on legislation most Presidents have trailed behind , and it might be argued that in some cases legislation urged by the administration has been unduly delayed 44 Other Presidents have reversed this trend , and the record for presidential influence over legislation was established in the first administration of Franklin D. Roosevelt . The " Emergency Banking Bill " was passed in the record time of eight hours , and since only one copy was available , " The House proceeded to consider the measure , pretending that a folded newspaper was the copy which it did not possess ? ' The point has been made that some of the laws passed under presidential pressure at that time were passed without proper discussion 4s Presidential domination of Congress suffered a setback , however , with the rejection of the Supreme Court Reorganization Bill . In general , it may be asked whether it is easy , under a system of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " rubber stamp " government and " Congressional Government . " It must be remarked , on the other hand , that when Congress assumes the function of legislation as much in fact as it has in theory it is better equipped to discharge it than was the French Chamber . The party organization may not always be as strong in Congress as it is in the country , but it is nowadays effective enough to facilitate the legislative work of Congress ( in particular of the House of Representatives ) to a considerable extent . Summary Statement . In summarizing the views on parliaments and legislation we may say that whereas unorganized assemblies are not well able to discharge the task of legislation properly , all laws should , nevertheless , be submitted to their scrutiny . They all constitute , as has been said with reference to the American Congress , " a good sound jury , " 47 which is well qualified either to accept or reject a law or a certain provision of it . This is the only way in which we can make sure that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ particular , means that it be free from bureaucratic oddities ) , and at the same time reasonably democratic . Footnote  | THE STRUCTURE OF PARLIAMENTS Modern parliaments have been reviewed from the point of view of their functions , so let us now add a few remarks about their internal organization and their procedure . Parliamentary Committees . The most important element in the parliamentary structure are committees . Committees may be formed for specific purposes , in which case their function is both universal and uncontroversial , or they may be permanent bodies , specialized according to subjects . In the latter case their functions are somewhat less general , and a great deal more controversial . Those who object to the system of permanent commissions point to conditions as they exist in England . The House of Commons has no permanent committees of the type prevailing in other countries 4s The four standing committees are not specialized ; they are designated by letters , and their composition changes according to the nature of the bills assigned to them . These committees are a substitute for the House sitting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ majority in them just as it does in the whole House , although party control is a little less severe than in the House as a whole . The fact that there is government control of the committees as well as of the House is obviously the reason why committee power is so little developed in England . In a sense , the government is " the joint committee of the houses , ' and can claim that specialized parliamentary committees would duplicate its work and interfere with its functions . POWER OF COMMITTEES . In all other countries , however , government control of parliament is weaker and , as a result , the power of committees is greater . Committees are very important in countries with a multiple-party system , for it is in the committee rooms that the bargaining among the parties naturally takes place . Specialized committees were no less important in France , J ? and in the United States one observer " has seen in them the most important part of the government structure of the country . FUNCTION OF COMMITTEES . Parliamentary committees have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the chance for self-expression , which in most cases he is not likely to have in meetings of the house as a whole . In addition , they try to facilitate the work of parliaments both in the control of government and administration , and of legislation . Further-Footnote                     