@@774279

txt  | Metallurgy. ? Jobs in metallurgical engineering most likely to be open to the young graduate include the following : figure Petroleum . ? The student of petroleum engineering may begin his experience during summer vacations by manual labor in an oil field and perhaps get to be driller or production foreman . Thus he will make contacts with executives and other employees , which may facilitate obtaining a permanent connection after graduation . Such experience is likely to stimulate his interest in his school work ; it may suggest topics for special study or research ; and it will shorten the time of his apprenticeship on graduation , enabling him to enter the sooner on actual engineering problems . The following are three typical sequences of jobs : 1 . Roustabout , roughneck , tool dresser , driller , tool pusher , assistant superintendent , superintendent , manager 2 . Roustabout , gauger , lease foreman , superintendent of production , manager of production 3 . Draftsman , assistant engineer , production engineer , manager of pro-duction Ceramics . ? Subordinate positions of the young ceramic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ making routine physical and chemical control tests Assistant in research laboratory Chemist in glass or cement company Plant " trouble shooter " Assistant to foreman in various departments Inspector of equipment or product Ceramic chemist , to develop or control glazes , colors , or bodies Prospector for raw materials Drafting , design assistant for new plant construction , installation of equipment Salesman and engineering contact man for customers  | The following are among the better examples of job sequence ( excluding cases of inheritance privileges ) : 1 . General plant or laboratory experience , factory foreman of a department , plant superintendent , plant manager , executive vice-presi-dent 2 . Assistant in small laboratory of small growing factory , and finally , years later , head of large research laboratory in larger organization 3 . General practical experience , assistant professor in a university , head of department of ceramic engineering 4 . Government ceramic engineer Grade 1 , private industry , head of research laboratory , vice-president and general manager If the graduate has had plant experience , he may be put in charge of a department , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ceramic engineers have entered sales departments , and some have organized their own companies . Where the mining engineer spends his time . ? Mines are seldom found in comfortable urban areas ; and therefore the engineer must expect to go out into the " sticks " and to follow the ore and oil deposits wherever they may be found . Consequently the mining engineer attached to an operating enterprise should be prepared to travel and live in mountainous , barren , or jungle regions of the earth , in his own country and abroad . Higher officers may of necessity be stationed at metropolitan offices , but even these men ordinarily make periodic journeys of inspection to the various properties . The working conditions under which the mining engineer operates range therefore from those of the great financial capitals of the world through all grades of comfort and discomfort to the desert and the jungle . Oil fields are also generally isolated , and an engineer resident there must likewise expect to rough it somewhat . Smelters and other treatment plants employing metallurgists are frequently found near the mines , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ city laboratories . Although a strong constitution and perfect health are virtually essential for work physically so exacting as that of the mining engineer , it is quite conceivable that a man of indifferent constitution but possessed of fairly good health could specialize in secretarial , administrative , or research work , which would keep him in  | a metropolitan area throughout his career . He might in this manner eventually rise to high distinction in his profession , but he would labor under the handicap of lacking actual contact and experience with the practical conditions in those far , raw places where metals are won from the earth . The ceramics branch of the mineral industry has an advantage for some in that the manufacturing units are usually located in or near industrial and cultural centers . Furthermore , it is less often affected by exhaustion of ore bodies . Ceramics offers the same type of intellectual stimulus as metal mining and metallurgy . A few ceramists are finding work in Mexico , Canada , figure  | Alaska , South America , Australia , and China as construction engineers or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relative numbers of mining engineers in various regions of the United States are given in Table 15 . Among the states , using round numbers , Pennsylvania leads with 12 percent , followed in order by California with 8 percent , Ohio and Texas abreast with 6 percent each , and Illinois with 5 percent . Disadvantages and special hazards . ? At a mine or plant the engineer is exposed to certain disadvantages and hazards that are not shared by those engaged in research or administrative work at a city office . These hazards are no greater than , say , those run by a civil engineer on a construction project . Residence abroad may leave a man out of touch with his own country 's affairs and professional activities . Again , travel and residence in backward regions , at home or abroad , such as the tropics or mountainous country , offer a health hazard through greater exposure to disease , limited diet , extreme climatic conditions , and poor sanitation . Underground there is also liability to injury through falling rock , gases and fires , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ engineer is much less likely to suffer injury from these causes than is the ordinary lab'orer . A part of the mining engineer 's equipment should be a good knowledge of sanitary rules , safety methods , and self-protection . Metallic poisoning is a special hazard to metallurgical engineers working in plants producing lead and quicksilver . The petroleum engineer shares the occupational hazards of oil field and refinery , although he is not , as a rule , as frequently exposed to them as are many of the other workers in this field . In ceramics the only special hazard is a possible exposure to silicosis and , rarely , to lead poisoning . In recent years , physical and X-ray examinations , sanitary inspections , aluminum inhalation , and other safeguards have minimized all hazards . Remuneration . ? Salaries of mining engineers as a whole in private engineering in 1946 are represented in Table 16 . This shows , for example , in the " Lower Tenth " column , that the range between the five-year level of experience and the forty-and-moreyear level is $79 ( $339 ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ $437  | ( $767 ? $330 ) ; and in the " Upper Tenth " column , more than $544 ( more than $1,000 ? $456 ) . ( See chapter 12 for other salary tables . ) Some particulars of salaries of one of the four subfields of mining engineering are given below . figure Ceramics . ? In private industry , on entering professional work without previous experience , the holders of the degree of Bachelor of Science in ceramic engineering from the best schools receive annual salaries ranging from $3,000 to $3,300 ; the holders of a Master 's degree start at $3,600 ; of a Ph.D. , at $4,800 or more . With three to five years of ceramic industrial experience , men can be placed as follows : with a Bachelor 's degree , at $4,500 ; a Master 's , at $5,000 ; a Ph.D. , at $6,000 . These are salaries of 1947 . In the government service the initial salary for a bachelor of science in ceramic engineering now ( 1950 ) is $2,975 . Future demand for mining engineers Mining . ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ engineers , varies with general business conditions , being sharply  | decreased by deep depressions . But taking the long view there is no doubt that the demand for mining engineers , especially for highly trained men of outstanding ability , will grow . The demand for metals grows not only with population but also with the development of new uses , both of which are accelerating processes . Industry thus faces the problem of producing increasing quantities of minerals from decreasing natural stocks ; and production must go on under more and more costly conditions . Economy of recovery will therefore be at a greater premium . Metallurgy . ? The opportunities for highly trained metallurgical engineers of inventive turn of mind are unlimited . The technology of light alloys is in its infancy , and the commercial demand for them is insistent . The golden age of co-operation between metallurgical and mechanical engineers is ahead of us . Petroleum . ? There is no indication that the past rapid increase in demand for petroleum engineers will decline , except during prolonged depressions , as long as the demand for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ better means of exploitation of oil fields and utilization of petroleum products , and the inevitable expansion in demand for these products , will call for an increasing number of capable , highly trained young men . Ceramics . ? The technical development of ceramic knowledge and processing , which was accelerating in the 1920 's , was retarded in the 1930 's by the depression . However , since the beginning of World War II this development has been accelerating again and becoming increasingly important in the advancement of various phases of science and engineering , and even of culture . The clay products manufacture is being modernized with the best equipment and engineering processes . Mechanical laborsaving methods , initiated in the glass industry , are spreading to the pottery industry . The best in combustion engineering has been modified for use in ceramic firing . The synthesis of ceramic colors and the special preparation of glasses , glazes , frits , and enamels in large central manufacturing laboratories for sale over the country have started a new era in enamels and art pottery . The lowly brickyard is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ brick and tile factory with modern equipment and pleasant working conditions . Injection molding of complicated  | porcelain insulator parts has been introduced . In some instances , thermoplastics and organic plastics are replacing water as the plastic medium . Ceramics is not restricted to the raw materials of the 1920's-clay , quartz , feldspar , whiting , etc. ? but now uses a diversified list of industrial materials which formerly were too expensive and rare and for which there were no specific demands by the engineering and chemical industries . To simple mining , grinding , and screening preparation processes have been added modern metallurgical methods of beneficiation , including mineral and particle-size classifiers , froth flotation , air separation and classification , hydroseparators , continuous filtration , high-intensity magnetic separation , spray evaporation , etc . Granite is being separated into marketable quartz and feldspar by flotation . The synthesis of new nonmetallic minerals , starting with portland cement , silicon carbide , corundum , and mullite , has expanded to special refractory calcium aluminates , cordierite , forsterite , enstatite , titanites , and new silicates . A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ power , nuclear fission , and jet and rocket engines , for the high temperatures of which special ceramics will be required . In recent years the amount and importance of ceramics research in large industrial corporations and privately endowed research organizations have greatly increased . Government positions , principally research , are comparatively few and mainly with the National Bureau of Standards and the U.S. Bureau of Mines , and in a few state geological surveys . Engineers with ability to teach may find academic posts in the universities and colleges that offer ceramic engineering courses . University research in its preliminary undergraduate phases , in the more advanced doctorate thesis , and in the engineering experiment stations contributes a wealth of new information annually . An excellent opportunity will be available to the practical minded young man in the structural fields of brick , tile , and terra cotta during the next decade , as the demand for structural products will be very great in the country 's present under-built condition . The brick , tile , and pottery industry is in the midst of one of its greatest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ moving , car-tunnel  | kilns . A modern brick plant requires considerable ceramic , mechanical , and chemical skill , plus experience . Sales engineering leading to management positions after years of experience is among the most lucrative types of work . There is a shortage of ceramic engineers . This results from the rapid expansion of the industry and the small enrollments at the universities during the war . The industry is large , well diversified , grows with other industries and with population in a given district , and can be conducted as successfully on a small as on a large scale , thus offering opportunity for personal ownership in many branches of ceramics . CURRICULA IN MINING ENGINEERING The art of mining has been practiced for centuries , and many of the subjects of study that it involves were early recognized.4 Here we are concerned first with professional subjects and , second , with special subjects . Professional subjects . ? Among the professional mining subjects listed in catalogues of engineering schools are the following , grouped by subfield : figure footnote In 1556 , for example , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with a rough classification of the subjects required in the practice of the art : " For a miner must have the greatest skill in his work , that he may know first of all what mountain or hill , what valley or plain , can be prospected most profitably , or what he should leave alone ; moreover , he must understand the veins , stringers and seams in the rocks . Then he must be thoroughly familiar with the many and varied species of earths , juices solutions , gems , stones , marbles , rocks , metals , and compounds . He must also have a complete knowledge of the method of making all underground works . Lastly , there are the various systems of assaying substances and preparing them for smelting . " ( Translation by Herbert Clark Hoover and Lou Henry Hoover , London : Mining Magazine , 1912 , pp. 1-2 . ) He also stated the arts and sciences of which some knowledge is needed by the miner were philosophy , medicine , astronomy , surveying , arithmetical science , architecture , drawing , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ roughly classified as : general technology , economic geology , mathematics , mining , metallurgy , and chemical engineering . Except for the production of the mineral fuels and the development of high-grade alloys , the use of explosives , flotation , and certain chemical processes invented since his time , Agricola gave some attention to virtually all of the main branches of the mineral industry as now constituted and even discussed many of the engineering functions ? such as finance , management , staff organization , and valuation ? which we usually think of as modern developments .  | figure PETROLEUM Laws of underground movement of oil , water , and gas ( through porous sandstones , etc . ) Application of mechanics and thermodynamics to oil and gas production Oil-well water analysis Oil-field development Oil-field sediments : porosity , permeability , mineral composition , and fluid contents Production of oil Storage and transportation of petroleum Petroleum refining and utilization Oil-land valuation CERAMICS Occurrence , geology , and properties of nonmetallic minerals Prospecting for and development of nonmetallic minerals Winning and preparing ceramic minerals Chemical analysis of ceramic minerals Colloidal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Construction and operation of dryer and kilns Basic processing and equipment ( grinding , particle sizing , filtration , dewatering , extrusion , molding , draft , heat transfer , etc . ) Ceramic bodies , glazes , and colors Ceramic calculations Physical and chemical measurements of clays and other ceramic ma-terials Design of ceramic plant structures and equipment Application of the phase rule and **25;1236;TOOLONG systems and other physical chemical principles to ceramic problems Specialization in the fields of ceramic technology ( examples : structural wares , enamels , glass , cement , and refractories )  | To the foregoing should be added the following important allied subjects : Colloidal phenomena of clays and nonmetallics with and without organic plasticizers , thermoplastic and thermosetting organics ; hydrogen ion concentration of clay suspensions Studies in particle-size measurement , separation and measuring equip-ment Electrical properties of ceramics including : dielectric strength and dielectric constant , power factor and loss factor at low and high temperatures Mechanical and chemical behavior of ceramics at low and high tempera-tures Heating methods : combustion of fuels , electrical resistance , arc and induction heating Heat balance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its classification and measurement ; opacity and reflectance values Stress-strain relationships of ceramics Effect of weather on clay products Special subjects . ? Besides the subjects fundamental to engineering generally ( listed and discussed in chapter 13 ) , there are required , by way of preparation for study , research , or practice in each of the four subfields of mining engineering , one or more special subjects or special parts of general subjects , as is indicated in Table 17. figure  | TABLE 17 ( Continued ) figure ACCOMPLISHMENTS OF MINING ENGINEERING The art of mining is one of the earliest accomplishments of the human race , going back to the day when paleolithic man first excavated pits in search of flints from which tools and weapons might be worked . Metals were smelted and natural alloys of bronze were cast at least three thousand years and perhaps five thousands years before the Christian era . The use of metals has always been the mark of a high culture among the peoples of the earth , and the quest for mineral wealth has been the mainspring of much exploration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gold came from Nubia , a name derived from the Egyptian word for that metal ) to the time of Admiral Byrd ; and the first discovery and settlement of much of the New World was made by metal-hunters . Mining and metallurgy . ? Although precise dates for earlier developments can not be given , examination of certain books in which mining processes and products are described serves to set limits on the times at which these were known to exist . For example , Pliny 's Natural History , written at the beginning of the Christian era , gives a comprehensive view of the arts and crafts at that time , although many practices mentioned by him may have existed for hundreds of years previously . Another landmark is the publication of Agricola 's De Re Metallica in 1556 ; he describes a highly developed mining and metallurgical technique ; but we can not say for how many years previously many of these methods were in use . From 1500 to the present day it is possible to date advances with much greater accuracy . The following list , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and metallurgical progress , will serve to show the sequence of certain milestones of achievement : figure  | figure  | In the field of ferrous metallurgy , one of the great achievements during the recent war years was the discovery that in alloy steels the presence of small amounts of several alloys , which might be obtained from " residuals " from the scrap-steel furnace charge , could be substituted for large amounts of one or two alloys and high physical properties obtained . This achievement had much to do with meeting the shortage of alloy metals which this country faced during the war . We are now using this idea to reduce alloy cost . In the nonferrous field , one of the great accomplishments of recent years was the invention of new processes for producing magnesium metal from sea water ? an inexhaustible " ore body . " Also , new aluminum alloys have been developed which are at least 10 percent stronger than any available before the war . The mining engineer works ordinarily far from the path of travel , and his most impressive achievements are often @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has a comparatively short life ; after thirty years or so , even the most profitable mines are exhausted and the scene of busy operations may become a ghost town . It is fair to say , however , that without the contribution of the mining and metallurgical engineer in supplying the raw ore and fuel and treated metal required by his fellows in the other fields , the massive structures and machines and development projects that stand for engineering achievement in the mind of the public could never be carried out . The great accomplishment of mining and metallurgical engineering , although it is not signalized by bronze plaques and inscribed cornerstones , is none the less real . This achievement is the ever increasing annual production of mineral wealth ? ores , coal , petroleum , and metals ? without which our modern civilization would crumble . Petroleum . ? In petroleum engineering research , recent years have witnessed enormous activity . Research has led to rapid advances in the arts of finding , gaining , treating , and using petroleum and its products . Laboratory research has led @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and gas origin , accumulation , and production , and the chemical and physical properties of petroleum products . The researches are probably more often carried out in the oil field itself , with the geological  | structures and oil wells as apparatus in experiments of gigantic scale and scope . As results of this latter method , we can point to the development of : core drilling , by which samples of undisturbed rock formations may be taken from depths in excess of 17,000 feet ; geophysical logging , by means of which the character and fluid contents of the strata penetrated may be determined in many cases without recourse to core drilling ; bore-hole surveying , by which has been proved the remarkable departure from verticality and lateral drift of deep wells , and which has altered many of our preconceived notions about geological structure in certain oil fields ; the choice , beneficiation , and use of mud fluids in rotary drilling ; gas injection , whereby flush gas production from one pool is forced into partly depleted oil sands , thus effecting a storage and salvage of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the same time stimulating production and increasing ultimate recovery from the depleted pool ; and recovery of gasoline from natural gas , by which method enormous quantities of gasoline and other light products are taken out of the natural gas , which previously was wasted . Ceramics . ? The history of ceramic engineering emerges from prehistoric times , clearly indicated by specimens of the products of various centuries . The development of prehistoric man is classified in some instances by the skill shown in pottery manufacture . Artifacts , monuments , and structural ruins indicate that brick , tile , glazes , glass , and enameled metals were developed in the ancient civilizations of Egypt , Mesopotamia , and China . Later years have seen the following advances : Mechanical development of the brick-making process from hand molding by the ancients to soft mud-brick machinery , auger-extrusion machines , and power presses for building and paving brick and tile Vacuum treatment of clay Mechanization of molding , drying , glazing , and firing methods in certain phases of the pottery industry Evolution of color treatments , number of colors and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : borosilicate , pure silica , the recent boro- and other phosphate glasses ; new glasses of special coefficient of expansion , special wave-length transmission and absorption , etc.  | Mechanical development of glass products manufacture during the past 30 years , including sheet , bottle , glass wool , threads , and cloth Casting of the 200-inch glass telescope reflector by the Corning Glass Company Transformation of ancient cloisonne to modern metal enameling ; development of weather and temperature resistant enamel and its application to most metals , including aluminum , and to a variety of services in art ware , cooking ware , structures , and even in jet engines Automatic temperature- and humidity-controlled driers and electric drying Development in firing methods from the stove or temporary kiln , clamp or semipermanent kiln , and down-draft periodic kiln to the continuous fire-moving and car-tunnel kilns , both circular and straight Development of the recuperative principle for glass melting , of the application of luminous flame heating , and of the electric melting of glass and enamels Fuels ( use of wood , coal , natural and producer gas , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cements , discovery of natural and portland cement , high early-strength portland cement , quick setting high alumina cements , magnesium oxychloride and oxysulfate cements , dental cements , etc . ) Abrasive grinding wheel development Development of American terra cotta for the modern office building Discovery and development of refractories , including fireclay , magnesia , chromite , silica , alumina , diaspore , carborundum , mullite , spinel , beryllia , thoria , zircon , forsterite , graphite , kyanite , sillimanite , andalusite , and blast furnace graphite block Cohart process for electrocast mullite , followed by electrocast corundum , forsterite , and other compounds Use of electrostatic field method for spraying glazes and enamels Laboratory development of electrophoresis and electrical osmotic methods for treating and purifying clays and suspensions Ultracentrifugal and ultrafiltration of suspensions ; development of the continuous Bird centrifuge for particle sizing and dewatering nonmetallic suspensions Special porcelains for high-frequency service , electronics , varistors and thermistors , and ceramics for nuclear research and operation Use of waxes and organic plastics and binders for molding without water and the shrinkage caused by removal of water @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ molding for special complicated shapes Development of organosilicates , silicones , ethyl silicates for highertemperature service than the common organics ; of coating of optical lenses for glare and moisture resistance ; and of high dielectric films Standardization of ceramic colors with automatic spectrophotometers  | Strengthening of glass by chilling the hot surface and compressing the surface ( Prince Rupert glass droplets modernized ) The future . ? The methods of mining ore are simple , yet possibly capable of improvement . For example , most ore is still loaded into cars with a shovel . An ever pressing problem is that of conservation of mineral resources ; all minerals are " wasting assets , " and a mine or oil well is a " one-crop " venture . It becomes necessary to mine increasingly lower-grade ores on an increasingly larger scale . For example , copper ores may be successfully mined and treated for the recovery of copper under modern conditions of large-scale operation if the ore contains 1 per cent or more of copper . In the opening years of this century , ores containing less than 4 or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at a profit . Probably in the future we shall find it profitable to obtain copper from ores containing 0.5 percent of copper . Similar remarks could be made of most of our other minerals . The gradual exhaustion of the operating mines of today , which were nearly all found through observation of their exposure to the surface of the ground , has introduced new problems of finding ore bodies which do not indicate their presence on the surface . Already has come forward a new group of scientists , technologists , and engineers known broadly as geophysicists , who are becoming more and more successful in predicting the occurrence of valuable ore bodies hidden below the earth 's surface . These men , together with a group of neogeologists with a higher degree of geological skill than the other geologists , are rapidly displacing the old-time pick-and-shovel prospectors who were depended upon to find the ore bodies that were exposed to the surface . The methods of the geophysicists involve applications of physical and electrical principles that are practically unintelligible to the average mining engineer who graduated from college @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ costs of mining as to permit the economic operation of lower-grade ore bodies than have been mined in the past and to permit the working of ore bodies to greater depths than heretofore ? The solution of these problems rests upon the mechanical and electrical engineer , as well as upon the mining engineer , as we can perhaps expect that the greatest improvements will be made in the methods of handling , hauling ,  | and hoisting ore , and in the efficient ventilation of underground workings . The mining engineer , however , is the one to point out the opportunities for improved methods , to assume general direction of the mechanical or electrical engineer 's efforts at improvement , and finally to adapt those improvements to his own special purposes . In this work , the mining engineer should find the greatest interest and intellectual stimulus , because every mine is a problem in itself , not just like any other mine ; and , furthermore , the conditions in any one mine undergo a continuous change throughout the life of the enterprise . Improvements in ore dressing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possible the use of lower-grade deposits as is a decrease in the cost of mining . It is for the metallurgical engineer to discover substitutes for mineral products whose increasing scarcity or expensive metallurgy renders them too costly for continued general use . Mercury , tin , and platinum are cases in point , and much has already been done to provide substitutes for certain common uses of these metals , thus conserving the diminishing supply for purposes for which no suitable substitutes have been found . PROBLEMS FOR RESEARCH IN MINING ENGINEERING Mining Better ways of supporting underground openings Ventilation , air conditioning , and operation of mines at great depths ( some mine depths now exceed 7,000 feet ) Barodynamics ( mechanics of subsidence , of caving ore , and of fragmental masses ) Mechanics of blasting Improved methods of drilling Metallurgy Development of new and improved structural metals and alloys Cheaper methods of producing some metals , e.g. , aluminum and mag-nesium Production of light alloys that are resistant to corrosion and have high strength Production of new heat-resisting and corrosion-resisting steels and alloys Improved methods of casting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all new ores and on re-treated tail-ings  | Problems arising in metallurgy every day are very numerous and are often related to the reconversion from a war status to a time of peaceful civilian production . In the near future , some of the most important problems will have to do with the substitution of metals and other substances to take the place of metals like lead and zinc the production of which is now ( 1947 ) far below current demands , due to exhaustion of rich ore supplies in the United States and even in the world at large . Today we live in an age of high speed , not only in the matter of transportation but in other things , such as machine tools . High speed demands strong and light metal alloys . Much research is now being conducted with a view to producing stronger , heat-treatable light metal alloys of aluminum and magnesium . Jet propulsion apparatus has demanded the production of metallic substances that retain strength at high temperatures . This problem is very urgent at the present time . Petroleum Control of oil @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ underground movement of oil , gas , and water Cause and prevention of materials corrosion Treatment of natural clays to make them suitable for use as circulating fluid in rotary drilling Methods of extracting a larger proportion of oil from the natural reservoirs than is possible by existing methods The mining of oil sands and oil shales Ceramics Continued improvement in methods of manufacture and quality of product for all ceramics Classification and standardization of raw ceramic materials such as clays used with little or no refinement Treatment and utilization of submarginal domestic minerals Ceramic use of other minerals , such as pumicite , phosphates , chert , spodumene , topaz , perlite Synthesis of new materials and study of their properties for service Greater use of electrical energy in ceramic firing and new methods therefor , such as high frequency and control of the electric arc Development of additional resistors or heating elements , especially for very high temperatures Improvement in toughness in resistance to impact of hotel and restaurant tableware Further efforts toward mechanization in all ceramic product manu-facture Development of superior basic refractory for the basic open-hearth steel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ test for refractories , coefficient expansion test at the highest temperatures Insoluble cements More thermal shock-resistant ceramics Further studies of the new organosilicates Atmosphere control in ceramic firing Refractories for jet and rocket engines Continued **25;1263;TOOLONG system studies , especially relating to rate of crystallization and the melting of ternary systems Application of the present theoretical knowledge of clay minerals and their structures to manufacture and use Synthetic mineral development of strategic importance , including mica , quartz , and asbestos Rare earth ceramics High-temperature solid-state reactions High-temperature crystallization from vapors and reactions in gaseous state Ceramic chemistry of zirconium and its compounds X-ray irradiation of special glasses for unique color developments Light-weight ceramic structural products of low cost PROFESSIONAL MINING ENGINEERING SOCIETIES Mining and Metallurgy American Chemical Society American Electrochemical Society American Institute of Chemical Engineers American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers American Mining Congress American Society for Metals Canadian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy Institution of Mining and Metallurgy ( British ) Mining and Metallurgical Society of America Petroleum American Association of Petroleum Geologists American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers American Petroleum Institute Institute of Petroleum ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Electrochemical Society  | American Institute of Chemical Engineers American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers American Society for Testing Materials American Society of Economic Geologists Canadian Ceramic Society Ceramic Society ( British ) Society of Glass Technology ( British ) SELECTED BIBLIOGRAPHY The items listed below are merely representative of a multitude of publications , in each of which the seeker of a career may recognize some additional characteristics of the division of engineering with which the publication is concerned . Hammond , J. H. , The Autobiography of John Hays Hammond , New York : Farrar , 1935 Read , T. T. , Careers in the Mineral Industries , 3d ed. , New York : American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers , 1946 Wickenden , W. E. , A Professional Guide for Junior Engineers , New York : Engineers ' Council for Professional Development , 1949 Mining and Metallurgy Canadian Mining Journal Chemical and Metallurgical Engineering Engineering and Mining Journal Iron Age Metal Industry Metal Progress Metals and Alloys Mining Congress Journal Mining Magazine ( London ) Mining and Metallurgy Steel Bain , E. C. , The Alloying Elements @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1939 Hayward , C. R. , An Outline of Metallurgical Practice , New York : Van Nostrand , 1940 Heyer , R. H. , Engineering Physical Metallurgy , New York : Van Nostrand , 1942 Hoover , Th . J. , The Economics of Mining , 3d ed. , Stanford , Calif. : Stanford University Press , 1948 Lewis , R. M. , Elements of Mining , New York : Wiley , 1941 Metals Handbook , Cleveland : American Society for Metals , 1939 Mondolfo , L. F. , Metallography of Aluminum Alloys , New York : Wiley , 1943  | Peele , R. , Mining Engineers ' Handbook , 3d ed. , New York : Wiley , 1941 Rickard , T. A. , A History of American Mining , New York : McGrawHill , 1932 , Man and Metals , New York : Whittlesey , 1932 Sisco , F. T. , Modern Metallurgy for Engineers , New York : Pitman , 1941 Taggart , A. F. , Handbook of Mineral Dressing , New York : Wiley , 1945 Wulff , P. J. , Powder Metallurgy , Cleveland : American Society @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Mining , New York : McGraw-Hill , 1946 Bulletins and technical papers of the U.S. Bureau of Mines Bulletins and technical papers of the U.S. Geological Survey Transactions of the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers Transactions of the American Society for Metals Transactions of the Institution of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers ( London ) Petroleum Journal , Institute of Petroleum ( London ) Oil and Gas Journal DeGolyer , E. ( ed . ) , Elements of the Petroleum Industry , New York : American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers , 1940 Fanning , L. M. , Our Oil Resources , New York : McGraw-Hill , 1945 Gruse , W. A. , and Stevens , D. R. , The Chemical Technology of Petroleum , New York : McGraw-Hill , 1942 Herold , S. C. , Analytical Principles of the Production of Oil , Gas , and Water from Wells , Stanford , Calif. : Stanford University Press , 1928 Kalichevsky , V. A. , The Amazing Petroleum Industry , 2d printing , New York : Reinhold , 1945 Tickell , F. G. , The Examination of Fragmental @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ University Press , 1948 Uren , L. C. , Petroleum Production Engineering , 3d ed. , New York : McGraw-Hill , 1946 Ceramics Brick and Clay Record Ceramic Age Ceramic Industry Economic Geology Industrial and Engineering Chemistry Andrews , A. I. , Enamels , Champaign , Ill. : Garrard , 1941 Binns , C. F. , The Potter 's Craft , New York : Van Nostrand , 1947 Chesters , J. H. , Steel Plant Refractories , Newark , N. J. : Ceramic Age , 1946 Hadley , E. J. , The Magic Powder , New York : Putnam , 1945  | Industrial Minerals and Rocks , New York : American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers , 1949 Lovejoy , E. , Fundamentals and Economics in the Clay Industry , Indianapolis , T. A. Randall and Company , Inc. , 1935 McNamara , E. P. , Ceramics , Newark , N. J. : Ceramic Age , 1944 Morey , G. W. , Properties of Glass , New York : Reinhold , 1933 Newcomb , R. , Jr. , Ceramic Whitewares , New York : Pitman , 1947 Norton , F. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ McGraw-Hill , 1942 Philips , C. J. , Glass , the Miracle Maker , New York : Pitman , 1941 Ries , H. , Clays : Occurrence , Properties , and Uses , London : Chapman , 1927 Searle , A. B. , Chemistry and Physics of Clays and Other Ceramic Materials , London : Benn , 1933 Wilson , H. , Ceramics : Clay Technology , New York : McGraw-Hill , 1927 Witt , J. C. , Portland Cement Technology , Brooklyn , N. Y. : Chemical Publishing Company , 1947  | MECHANICAL ENGINEERING ' Man makes and uses tools , thus setting himself apart from , and perhaps above , all other creatures . It is the mechanical engineer who creates the tools and machines that characterize this age . This he does by collecting the materials for them , designing their form , fashioning the necessary contrivances for making them , and finally producing them . Briefly , mechanical engineering is concerned with the production and control of motion and of dynamic forces and the design , manufacture , installation , and operation of machines for the transformation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the employment of energies lying beyond individual muscular capacity , there will be occupation for mechanical engineers . With the inevitable multiplication of these needs , covering as they do the material side of what we term the progress of civilization and underlying the less material side as a prerequisite foundation , mechanical engineering as a field of usefulness opens out indefinitely . PREVIEWS OF THE MECHANICAL ENGINEERING FIELD To give some acquaintance with the field of mechanical engineering , there will now be presented from as many different standpoints the following five views : 1 . Mechanical engineer 's contribution toward the production of a piece of tongue-and-groove flooring 2 . Conversion of an invention into thousands of washing machines 3 . A manufacturing organization footnote 1 For co-operation in revising this chapter the authors are indebted to William F. Durand , professor emeritus of mechanical engineering , Stanford University ; Merrill S. Hugo , consulting manufacturing engineer , Mt . View , California ; Lydik S. Jacobsen , professor of mechanical engineering , Stanford University ; George C. Manning , professor of naval architecture , Massachusetts Institute of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Stanford University ; Charles H. Smith , district manager , C. F. Braun &; Co. , Alhambra , California ; Garth L. Young , vice-president , Signal Oil and Gas Co. , Los Angeles , California . 123  | 4 . Co-operation of mechanical engineering with other fields 5 . Products of mechanical engineering Mechanical engineer 's contribution toward the production of a piece of tongue-and-groove flooring . ? Here is a rapid survey of the successive contributions of mechanical engineering toward the production of so simple a product as a piece of one-by-four Douglas fir tongue-and-groove flooring . Before a foot of lumber is cut in the forests of Washington , the mechanical engineer has provided the steam shovel for the strip mines of Minnesota , cars and locomotives to haul the ore to Duluth , car unloaders to dump their contents into the dock bins , controls for the bin spouts , engines to propel the ore carrier across Lake Superior and through the Sault Ste Marie Canal , and Hulett unloaders to remove the ore from the hold . At Gary or Pittsburgh , the ore skip @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the blast furnace . Here pumps for supplying the cooling water , huge blowing tubs from Pittsburgh or turbine blowers from Schenectady for the blast , refrigerating machinery to freeze moisture from the air , and valves to control the gases are furnished by the mechanical engineer . Cast into ingots , which are stripped by his cranes and hauled by his locomotive , the iron goes to his soaking pits and rolling mill . Here he provides the power , rolling machinery , and roll lathes . From the mill , the steel may go to Philadelphia , Indianapolis , St. Louis , or San Francisco to be made into the lumberman 's tools , and the mechanical engineer furnishes forging , forming , grinding , and other equipment for the manufacture of saws , axes , and wedges . All these services precede the felling of a tree . After the tree has been cut , the mechanical engineer supplies logging donkeys , yarders , skidding rigs , loaders , cars , and the Shay locomotive . Then he furnishes the power , the head saws , resaws @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and hogs at the sawmill . After more rail transportation the lumber enters the plant planing mill with its saws , surfacers , jointers , stickers , and other machinery provided by the mechanical engineer and emerges as so many pieces of one-by-four tongue-and-groove flooring , the final product of the long list of services .  | Conversion of an invention into thousands of washing machines . ? The following is the sequence of steps likely to be taken to convert someone 's invention , of a washing machine , say , into the profitable production of thousands of washing machines . ( 1 ) Someone invents the machine , then sells to a manufacturing company the right to make and sell it . ( 2 ) The management of the company turns the invention over to the chief engineer , together with such preliminary drawings and specifications as may exist . ( 3 ) The chief engineer transmits the invention with all necessary information to the layout men , who develop the invention into practicable form . ( 4 ) The preliminary layout goes to the chief draftsman for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ checked by the checker , and approved by the chief draftsman and perhaps by the metallurgist . The parts are listed . As a final check on drafting , an assembly drawing is made to catch interferences and errors in dimensions . As a further check on the design , experimental or pilot models may be built and tested . Such modifications as are found necessary or desirable are made in the design . ( 5 ) At this stage the mechanical engineer studies each component part to determine ( a ) the proper sequence of machining operations to transform the forging , casting , or raw material into the finished part , ( b ) the machine tool best for each operation , ( c ) after what operations it is essential to gage or other wise inspect to : nsure desired quality ? dimensional as well as surface . ( 6 ) The tool engineer is given the detail drawings of the parts that are to be " tooled up . " 2 These drawings show all dimensions and limits of accuracy , what materials are to be used @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ short , all information needed by the machine shop to shape or finish the parts . The tool engineer makes a general production study and requests such spread in the limits of accuracy as he thinks necessary or desirable . ( 7 ) Jigs and fixtures are made , and the shop is tooled up . ( 8 ) Economic lot size for each part is determined . Production starts , footnotes 2 To tool up , in machine-shop language , means to design and build the necessary jigs , fixtures , special tools , tool setups , and gages which will permit the shop to machine and inspect the component parts of the device or mechanism economically , accurately , and according to engineering specifications . Gwiazdowski and Lord , Economics of Tool Engineering ( New York : McGraw-Hill , 1932 ) , p. 8.  | and inspection begins . ( 9 ) Completed machines go to warehouse for distribution or direct to agents . In the foregoing brief description of the usual sequence of steps to materialize the invention of a machine , some , but not all , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? This view is afforded by the following descriptive outline of the organization of a large company that manufactures many commodities in various plants . This organization includes3 under one general management the following departments : figure The engineering department may consist of the following mechanical engineers : chief engineer , assistant chief engineer(s) , layout men , designers , and detailers . Mechanical engineers are employed also in other departments , such as plant engineering and maintenance , safety , planning , purchasing , and sales departments , and particularly in the departments of research , standards , and tool and process . Co-operation of mechanical engineering with other fields . ? Co-operation of engineers of all fields is essential to success in any one field . Among the many cases of co-operation of the mechanical with the engineers of other fields may be cited the following : In a department of plant engineering and maintenance the civil engineer is needed to take care of the grounds , water supply , sanitation , and the design and construction of buildings ; the electrical engineer is needed to look after the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ required for heating , ventilating , heat-transfer , and air-conditioning apparatus , such as air heaters , washers , and fans . footnote 3 Gwiazdowski and Lord , op. cit. , p. 101.  | In plants that manufacture electrical equipment and appliances , electrical engineers design the electrical features of the product except for the modifications required to make economical manufacturing possible , while mechanical engineers are largely responsible for the generator design , i.e. , for bearings , frames , etc. , and for lubrication , oil cooling , and generator cooling by forced ventilation . The manufacture itself is the province of the mechanical engineer . In a steam power station all the apparatus used for converting the heat energy of the fuel to power at the turbine shaft is in the province of the mechanical engineer , while the electrical engineer is responsible for the electrical features of the generators and their auxiliaries , and for electrical switching , transformer , and electrical transmission . For the hydroelectric station , the civil engineer designs and builds the dams , canals , tunnels , and water conduits ; the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all mechanical equipment such as valves , gates , etc. ; the mechanical engineer designs and manufactures the turbines and the draft tube and has supervision of the generator operation and also of the exciters ; and the electrical engineer is responsible for essentially the same equipment as in the steam power station above . While a public water supply is as a whole the responsibility of the civil engineer , the mechanical engineer manufactures and may operate its pumping plant . In the field of aeronautics , the design of the aircraft is largely civil engineering ( specifically , structural engineering ) , while its fabrication is largely mechanical , and the design and production of the engine are wholly mechanical engineering . Civil engineers lay out and construct landing fields ; electrical engineers are responsible for their illumination , navigation , and radio equipment ; and mechanical engineers look after the maintenance of craft . In most chemical industrial plants a chemist or chemical engineer is in control of process ; but mechanical design , manufacture , installation , and maintenance of the plant equipment are all the work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Here we are to glance rapidly at some representative products of mechanical en-  | gineering . For this purpose the products are presented by classes , as follows : 1 . Tools 2 . Apparatus and machinery 3 . Handling equipment ( for handling materials and persons ) 4 . Power-generation equipment 5 . Power-transmission equipment ( mechanical ) 6 . Transportation equipment 7 . Heat-transfer equipment These classes can be subdivided almost without limit . Under each class will now be named some of its products . Tools . ? Without the machine tool , modern manufacturing , with its interchangeability of parts , its mass production , would not exist . From the tiny screws of fine watches to the enormous parts of power machinery , industry depends on the machine tool for accuracy and speed of production . At first each manufacturer built his own tools ; then some built and sold them as a side line ; and finally some made them their sole product . This class includes the tools and other devices for the manufacture of apparatus , machinery , and equipment as well as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ better ones . The family of machine tools is unique among all the engineering products in that it is the one whose only function is to produce other machines and is the only one that can perpetuate itself . Machine tools are of two kinds : standard and special . The former are built to meet the general conditions of manufacture or repair which may exist in any plant ; the special is developed to meet some particular need in a plant . The basic machine tools ' are : figure footnote ' According to the National Machine Tool Builders Association , the machine tool is " a power-operated , metal working machine , not portable by hand , having one or more tool and work holding devices used for progressively removing the metal in the form of chips . " This definition excludes machines for wood forming , for cold or hot forming of metals , for stamping or pressing , and for swaging , rolling , extruding of metal , etc.  | With these are used jigs and fixtures , devices which serve to locate and hold work , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . ? All kinds of equipment required by industry for processing are in this class . Each industry has its own long list of special items of equipment . The extremely wide variety of equipment required may be suggested by naming a few industries , as follows : figure Machines and equipment of great variety are required also for offices and laboratories , and for household use . Handling equipment . ? As examples of equipment for local handling of materials and persons , may be given the following : Cash- and bundle-carrying systems for stores ( pneumatic tubes or wheeled vehicles traveling on overhead wires ) Freight and passenger elevators and escalators Hand trucks , lift trucks , tow motors and trailers , and other wheeled vehicles for interior transportation in factories and stores Cranes and derricks of various kinds ; devices for unloading cars and ships , as the car dumper and the Hulett ship unloader Conveying systems of the apron , screw , belt , roller , and bucket types Hydraulic and pneumatic devices for the conveyance of ashes and similar solids Pipe-line and pumping equipment for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leads , low leads , yarding and loading contrivances , and tractors and bummers Earth-moving equipment , including wheelbarrows , dredges , shovels ( steam , hand , Diesel , electric ) , graders , tractors , and bulldozers Power-generation equipment. ? Every industry requires some power in its processes , and some , notably the paper pulp , cement , and nitrogen-fixation ( fertilizers ) , require enormous amounts in proportion to the amount of labor needed . Power plants range from the toy airplane motor to the more than 100,000 kilowatt units of the big central station .  | Steam power stations require , besides boilers and steam turbogenerators , many auxiliaries , such as the following : figure Smaller plants may be supplied with a producer-gas or Diesel-type internal-combustion engine . Hydraulic stations are equipped with : Water turbines Governing devices Operating gear Draft tubes Power-distribution equipment ( electric , shaft , belt , rope , or hydraulic ) Power-generating apparatus may be divided into prime movers and secondary prime movers . The prime mover converts natural energy , as the heat of fuel or the potential or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gas engines and turbines of steam , water , and gas are prime movers . An electrical generator is a secondary prime mover , because it converts mechanical power from turbine or engine into electrical power . The electric motor reconverts electrical power to mechanical power . Equipment for manufacture and distribution of artificial gas may be included in this class , for it is a mechanical engineering product although the process of manufacture of the gas belongs to chemical engineering . Power-transmission equipment ( mechanical ) . ? The mechanical transmission of power involves such devices as the following : figure  | Some common examples of equipment embracing such devices are : figure Transportation equipment . ? Equipment for the transportation of people , livestock , goods , and materials over comparatively long distances includes , besides pipe lines for oil , gas , water , steam , and air , the following : figure Aeronautic equipment. ? Aircraft are of two types : the lighterthan-air and the heavier-than-air . The manufacture and maintenance of aircraft , including all its parts and equipment , lie largely in the field of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the construction and maintenance of airports and their facilities , including tow motors , refueling devices , mooring winches for dirigibles , machine tools and other equipment for engine overhaul , and equipment for general repair and for cleaning and painting . Automotive equipment. ? The manufacture of automobiles and motor trucks is in the field of mechanical engineering . Marine equipment . ? Naval architecture and marine engineering are both specialties in the general field of mechanical engineering . The work in these two specialisms is complementary and overlaps to some extent . In general , the concern of the naval architect is wider than that of the marine engineer . The former includes the whole ship , the latter , the devices for its propulsion . Specifically , ' the hull structure , its form and arrangement of spaces , and the equipment for handling weights ( including the anchor ) , boats and cargo , as well as the equipment for steering and ventilating and  | heating the vessel are the responsibility of the naval architect . The propelling apparatus including the boilers and turbines or reciprocating engines @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ condensers , electric generators , forced draft blowers , cargo conditioning apparatus , refrigeration , etc. , are the responsibility of the marine engineer . The propeller designer may be either a naval architect or a marine engineer . Railway equipment. ? The field of mechanical engineering includes the manufacture of all railway equipment , and the design , operation , and maintenance of most of the following : figure The mechanical engineer shares with the civil engineer the designing of rails and fastenings , and with the electrical engineer the design of signaling equipment ; but the manufacture of all these is mechanical engineering . Heat-transfer equipment. ? The products of mechanical engineering in this subfield include , among others , the following : Direct-fired heaters : boilers , industrial furnaces , kilns , etc . Unfired heat transfer equipment ( heat exchangers ) : coolers , condensers , evaporators , radiators , etc . Steam engines and turbines , gas turbines , and internal combustion engines Apparatus for air-conditioning Equipment for mechanical refrigeration , ranging in capacity from the small household cabinet to the Quincy Market Cold Storage and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the streets of Boston about six million gallons of calcium chloride brine Apparatus for the preserving of meats , fish , fruits , and vegetables Equipment for heating and ventilating trains , houses , and commercial , industrial , and public buildings SUBFIELDS OF MECHANICAL ENGINEERING Within the field of mechanical engineering specialization has gone on at an increasing rate . The resulting subfields are numer-  | ous . They have never been classified to the satisfaction of all concerned ; and it is impossible to forecast the future with sufficient assurance to warrant the permanence of any given scheme of classification . For the purpose of this chapter mechanical engineering is divided into eight subfields . figure Transportation , as a subfield of mechanical engineering , embraces aeronautic , automotive , marine , and railway transportation . Marine transportation involves naval architecture and marine engineering . The eight subfields listed above will , later in the chapter , be considered in turn under each of several aspects . FUNCTIONS OF MECHANICAL ENGINEERING The two main purposes of mechanical engineering are : first , to design and make tools and equipment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , industry , and commerce , and , second , to design and manufacture , by means of said tools and equipment , the seven classes of products presented under the foregoing side-head " Products of mechanical engineering . " This field is more highly functionalized than any of the other engineering fields . Since the days of Frederick W. Taylor the efficient , functionalized organization of industrial enterprises has been considered a province of special concern of mechanical engineering . In a broad way , the work of the mechanical engineer may be functionally divided according to this list : figure The function of design is deserving of some elaboration here .  | In the previous pages of this chapter , reference has been made to figure The work of these men , who may be regarded as specialists in the province of design , will now be briefly described . Co-ordinator of design . ? An example of this specialist is the power-station designer , who plans the whole out of parts designed and manufactured by others ? parts which he merely selects and locates and adapts to one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ familiar with the possibilities and limitations of the classes of things from which he makes selections . He selects the source of power , and determines the size of main units to meet the condition of minimum cost of installation and operation compatible with the desired security of service . He selects the main generator output , the boilers , the turbine , and the auxiliary apparatus , and plans the connecting piping . He selects apparatus for handling and storing fuels and for removing ashes ( if coal or other solids are used ) ; for removing gaseous products of combustion ; for supplying water to boilers and cooling water to condensers and for handling the condensate ; for heating feed water , heating buildings , and reheating steam between turbine stages ; and for cooling lubricating oil . Other examples are the naval architect ( see under " Marine equipment , " above ) and the mechanical engineer of the railway ( see under " Railway equipment , " above ) . Thus he who is called co-ordinator of design is akin to the planner or general designer of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ railway , and municipal engineer . Designer in the engineering department . ? This specialist is fully occupied with designing a device or machine to function safely , smoothly , and efficiently , with a minimum of vibration . Ile is interested in materials from the standpoint of strength , ductility , and toughness or resistance to wear . Layout man . ? The layout man has regard solely to the shape and the relative positions and interplay of the moving parts of the  | machine . His interest in the process of manufacture is confined to its possibilities and limitations as controls to his own work . He is the co-ordinator of design of the parts of a machine or device . Machine-tool designer . ? This designer is a layout man specializing in machine tools . He must know the limitations of each of the shop processes and foresee the use to which the machine may be put . Often this practical knowledge is of greater value than mathematical formulas of design . Many designers are of foreign birth and training , because the native American lacks the patience @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chooses the material for the ways and other parts of the machine ; determines the range of speed and how many speeds are necessary ; what feeds should be used , whether the feed should be mechanical or hydraulic ; whether plain or ball bearings should be used ; whether the motor should be built in , what forces will be due to cutting or shaping action of the machine itself , and what accidental loads may be imposed on the various parts . Tool designer . ? The tool designer is a layout man specializing in cutting tools , work-holding devices , and the means of guiding the cutting tools . In other words , he is a general designer of jigs and fixtures as well as of the cutting tools themselves . Detailer . ? The detailer is the designer of machine parts for each manufacturing process and supplements the work of the layout man . He concentrates attention on shape , strength , material , and treatment to be given the material , for each of the parts of the whole of a machine or piece of apparatus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ machine-tool equipment , and sometimes has to design special machines for manufacturing the parts of a machine . He must be familiar with all the machines in the shop , know their capabilities and limitations , and be able to devise means of holding parts to be machined . He must know metal cutting and forming processes , what accuracy is demanded of the product in use , and how this accuracy can be obtained at the least cost . He wants no more accuracy titan is essential for the parts to function satisfactorily or to permit assembly without fitting or handwork . Stresses in the working of the machine to be manufactured do not worry him , but he must not add to them or cause warping by his machinery . He  | is interested in the shape of the material , in whether or not it is " free cutting , " and in the number of heat treatments he must give for the sake of machining or for strength . The tool engineer exists merely in order that the shop may manufacture parts economically . Functional distribution of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chiefly engaged in each of several engineering functions is set forth in Table 18 . The primary functions , management and design , are seen to be far in the lead ? the former , including both technical and nontechnical , being performed by 32.1 percent and the latter by 18.3 percent of the mechanical engineers reporting in the 1946 survey . The function in which an engineer specializes seems to be no small factor in his salary . Borrowing from Table 71 , we may state here that the median monthly salaries of engineers with from nine to eleven years ' experience and engaged chiefly in the first five functions listed in Table 18 , are as follows : $448 in administration , technical ; $345 in design ; $405 in development ; $428 in research , applied ; and $373 in sales . figure THE MECHANICAL ENGINEER AND HIS JOB Employers of mechanical engineers . ? In general , mechanical engineers find employment with private firms , corporations , public utilities , and departments of government . As municipalities , states , and the federal government widen the scope @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ employment to the mechanical engineer . According to Table 19 , nearly 10 percent of our mechanical engineers , excluding those in the armed forces , are on government pay . figure  | figure  | In 1946 two-thirds of the mechanical engineers , as Table 20 indicates , were with the manufacturing industries , of which machinery engaged 22.3 percent , transportation equipment 13.4 percent , and iron and steel and their products 6.9 percent . Employers in each of the subfields of mechanical engineering are typified below . TOOLS AND SHOP PROCESSES Corporations engaged in mass production Manufacturers of machine tools Job shops ( making parts for other manufacturers ) APPARATUS AND MACHINERY Refineries and producing oil fields Designers and manufacturers of refinery equipment Designers and manufacturers of oil-well drilling machinery Corporations manufacturing or using textile equipment Manufacturers of processing equipment for all industries , scientific instruments , and machines and equipment for office , laboratory , and household use HANDLING EQUIPMENT Manufacturers of elevators , conveyors , cranes , hoists , railways , and trucks ( hand , lift , electric , and automotive ) POWER GENERATIONS Public utilities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : oil and gas burners Boilers , superheaters , airheaters , breeching , draft fans , and stacks Engines : steam , hydraulic , and gas turbines Pumps , condensers , feed-water heaters , reheaters Pipe and fittings Fans , blowers , and exhausters Combustion apparatus , as stokers and burners Governing apparatus POWER TRANSMISSION ( MECHANICAL ) S Firms that build power-transmission apparatus footnote See paragraph following this list .  | TRANSPORTATION AERONAUTICS Manufacturers of airplanes Government bureaus Airline companies , on maintenance // Manufacturers of automobiles and trucks Public and private corporations operating transport fleets figure Classification societies ( American Bureau of Shipping , Lloyds , etc . ) Marine insurance companies RAILWAYS Railway companies Manufacturers of motive-power equipment ( locomotive works , car works ) Manufacturers of railway specialties HEAT TRANSFER Refineries for oils and chemicals Architects , consulting engineers , and contractors ? especially those who design and build refineries and other processing plants Designers and manufacturers of refinery and other processing equipment Food processing and cold storage companies Firms supplying equipment such as Aircraft equipment : de-icers , carburetor heaters , oil heaters and coolers , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Boilers , superheaters , air heaters Engines : steam , hydraulic , and gas turbines , and internal combustion engines Industrial furnaces : stress-relieving , heat-treating , soaking , etc. , furnaces footnote c See paragraph following this list .  | Heat exchangers : coolers , condensers , evaporators , radiators , etc . Industrial kilns for making brick , cement , pottery , etc . Materials for insulation , and special metals for uses at extreme low and high temperatures Refrigerating machinery and air-conditioning equipment INDUSTRIAL MANAGEMENT Industrial organizations Consulting management engineering Mail-order companies Department stores Power-equipment supply firms are privately owned and offer better opportunities to the mechanical engineer who looks forward to owning his business than do public utilities or municipal plants . In the operating divisions of power-generating companies there is need for highly trained technical men . In the sale of power to consumers many technical problems arise which may be solved by the power company in order to get the business . Mechanical power-transmission apparatus is built by some firms as a specialty , and by others as an adjunct to the main product , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that its product may be used for ship propulsion . The manufacturing industries employ relatively few highly trained technical men of outstanding ability . Many firms do not originate ? they copy . Most of their personnel are draftsmen , mechanics , and production superintendents . Brains and individuality , however , when properly applied bring a high salary in this sphere of work . Artisans and technicians supervised by mechanical engineers . ? The artisans and other assistants of mechanical engineers include : figure Most of these artisans are highly skilled , and are at least semitechnical . A draftsman may be a mechanical engineer or simply a good delineator with much practice in drawing up machines or  | machine parts . Draftsmen make the necessary drawings for the shop , and may be classified as designers , detailers , and tracers . Designers originate the design and turn it over to the detailers with sufficient information for them to delineate the part correctly and to supply all necessary data to the shop . Tracers trace on paper or cloth the drawings made by the detailers . The checkers go @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and to see that dimensions are complete , correct , and so placed as to be readily found by the workmen . The older method was to develop tracers into draftsmen ; but many draftsmen now come directly from technical schools . The distribution of artisans and technicians among the subfields of mechanical engineering is indicated below . figure  | to enter central station work , he may have to start as an oiler . But most mechanical engineers , including naval architects and marine engineers , get their start in the drafting room , since this is the one place for which their training has given them an immediately applicable technique . According to one engineering graduate who has become vicepresident in charge of engineering of a large manufacturing company , the drafting room is the readiest door to the engineering department ; entrants who show engineering or executive ability in handling individual jobs as squad foremen are conspicuous candidates for advanced positions in the engineering department and in other departments as well ; and although young men seem reluctant to enter the drafting room , there are few chief @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ experience . The sequence of jobs , depending as it does on many factors , varies greatly with different men , as shown in the following actual successful records , selected as illustrative ( the number following the name of each position indicates the number of years in the position ) : Case 1 : Office boy , draftsman ( 6 ) with A Company ; student in engineering school ( 4 ) , graduated ; draftsman , construction engineer ( 1 ) with B Company ; designer ( 2 ) with C Company ; designer , assistant chief draftsman ( 1 ) , chief draftsman ( 4 ) , assistant engineer ( 1 ) , chief engineer ( 10 ) , and vice-president in charge of engineering with D Company . Case 2 : Student in engineering school , graduated ; draftsman , engineer , station operator , assistant superintendent , and superintendent ( total 10 ) with sugar refinery ; refinery manager . Case 3 : Some years of practical experience including position of master mechanic of a mine ; student in engineering school , graduate ; superintendent of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; sales engineer ( 1 ) with a mine and smelter supply company ; chief engineer of power department ( 3 ) with copper mining company ; chief engineer of power department ( 10 ) with large copper mining company ; consulting engineer on design and construction of central power stations for a copper mining company . Case 4 : Graduated from engineering school ; machine designer ( 1 ) with manufacturing company ; drafting and engineering ( 1 ) with an Edison company ; engineer and factory manager ( 8 ) with gas company ; president of his own successful company . Case 5 : Graduated from engineering school , and remained 1 year as graduate student ; construction engineer ( 1 ) with E Company ; gas engi-  | neer with F Company ; construction engineer ( 1 ) with oil company ; construction engineer ( 1 ) with G Company ; superintendent of construction and operation ( 1 ) with gasoline company ; important position with large consolidated company . The more common pathways to professional employment in each of the subfields are listed below . figure Automotive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the chassis division . The young mechanical engineer with artistic temperament combined with some skill may find expression for both in body design . Where the mechanical engineer spends his time . ? In general the mechanical engineer spends his working hours in the plant , the factory , the drafting room , or the research room . Only if he installs machinery for the customers of his company or tests it after installation , or if he is a salesman , will he often have occasion to work outside . To take part in manufacturing on a large scale the engineer must live in cities or other congested districts , indoors most of the time , in an atmosphere where results are demanded regardless of conditions , including compensation . The geographic distribution of mechanical engineers in this country in 1946 is shown in Table 21 . This table indicates for example that the four top-ranking states , on the basis of number of mechanical engineers reporting , are New York , Pennsylvania , Ohio , and California , with their respective 19.3 , 11.1 , 9.7 , and 7.9 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in each of the subfields are likely to live or do their work are given below . Tools and shop processes . ? In machine-tool centers , such as Chicago , Cincinnati , Cleveland , Detroit , Philadelphia , and the New England states . Apparatus. ? In refineries : in a refinery town , usually near a center of population . In textiles : in a factory town . In instruments : New York and Rochester . Handling equipment . ? In a factory town , at seaport , at cement mill , at mine , in cities with high buildings , department stores , etc . Power generation. ? Fuel engineering : factory town , city power plant . Gas engineering : city office , natural-gas field . Power transmission . ? In manufacturing centers , with machinetool companies , and with gear manufacturers . Transportation . ? ( a ) Aeronautic : in city office or factory town . ( b ) Automotive : in factory town . Designers and research men must live in one of the larger automobile centers , as Detroit . Engineers engaged in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will travel considerably within the limits of their territory . ( c ) Marine : in laboratory , design office or ship-building or repair yard ; occasional trial trips at sea . ( d ) Railway : in railway center , junction town , factory town . Designers , in a large city ; maintenance engineers , almost anywhere . Heat transfer . ? In city office , or in factory or refinery or similar  | plant in large or small town . Sales or erecting engineer may travel extensively . Industrial management. ? In industrial and metropolitan communities . Disadvantages . ? The disadvantages encountered in mechanical engineering are here grouped according to subfield . Tools and shop processes . ? Seasonal employment ; close confinement . Apparatus and machinery. ? Factory town is apt to be of tenement type . Handling equipment . ? Excessive dust ( from materials handling ) ; falling material ; breaking chains . Power generation. ? Work near high-pressure boilers and hot furnaces . Power transmission ( mechanical ) . ? No special hazards . Transportation . ? ( a ) Aeronautic : no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , such as that of engineering draftsman and tool engineer . ( c ) Marine : no special hazards . ( d ) Railway : poor chance for advancement of mechanical engineer outside of mechanical engineering department ; seniority system of promotion ; individual is buried in the corps ; no permanent location ; hazard of accident in testing moving equipment ; uncertainties due to competition with other modes of transportation . Heat transfer. ? Work in this subfield may be subject to seasonal fluctuations in some industries . Considerable work is done under strain , as time is frequently a controlling factor . Industrial management . ? No particular hazards . Remuneration . ? The range of salaries of mechanical engineers in private engineering , as reported in the 1946 survey , is given in Table 22 . This shows , for example , that , in general , of the three salary rates opposite an experience level , the difference between median and upper tenth is greater than the difference between median and lower tenth ; and that , while both differences increase from beginning to end of table @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ faster . To cite from two experience levels : at the five-years level the median exceeds lower tenth by $74 and is less than the upper tenth by $102 ; while at the twenty-  | figure **25;1290;TOOLONG level the corresponding differences are $213 and more than $433 . ( See chapter 12 for other salary tables . ) Future demand for mechanical engineers . ? There is an increasing tendency for equipment manufacturers and distributors to use mechanical engineers in sales work , and to provide the best available for making direct contact whenever an order of some importance is under consideration . Factory sales engineers are doing more real engineering for most customers in some lines than the customers ' own engineering departments . The customer expects and sometimes demands such expert service before placing orders or accepting bids . The day of the ordinary salesman in the equipment field has passed . Today such salesmen must be engineers , and good ones . Sales engineering , therefore , offers professional careers to an increasingly large number of mechanical engineers . The federal government is sponsoring research in many fields @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Navy and Air Corps need mechanical engineers to improve their equipment and facilities ? fortifications , mine fields , docks , ships , railroads , and automotive equipment .  | Estimates of future demand in the subfields are given below . Tools and shop processes. ? Demand should increase with the demand for cheaper and better manufactured articles . Apparatus and machinery . ? In refineries : the demand should increase , but only for thoroughly competent men , because the problems are complex and require technically trained men . Handling equipment . ? There is no indication that the demand will increase . Power generation . ? A decrease in demand may be expected , as fuel-burning plants will lag because of large hydroelectric projects being undertaken by the federal government . In gas manufacture : any increase in demand due to the exhaustion of natural gas will be offset by consolidations . Power transmission ( mechanical ) . ? No reason appears for expecting an increase in demand in this subfield . Transportation. ? ( a ) Aeronautic : In aeronautics , in contrast with many other subfields , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in design . There may be an increase in demand for thoroughly competent engineers because of expansion of commercial and military aviation , and until airplanes , engines , and propellers shall have reached standardized designs of great refinement . ( b ) Automotive transport : An increase in demand is to be expected , as the present fleets are mostly in charge of men who have grown up in the work , and vacancies will be filled mostly with trained engineers . Design and manufacture : There is a large new field for mechanical engineers in automotive design to bring out radically new engines and transmissions for more economical operation . This program is now under way in many large automotive concerns . ( c ) Marine : The nation is deficient in the following types of commercial ships : large tankers , ore carriers , and passenger vessels of all sizes . At the present time the building of large tankers is active , but little is being done to supply the deficiency in passenger vessels . Future building to a substantial degree is probable if government assistance is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ d ) Railways : The accelerating change from steam to Diesel-electric locomotives and the pressing need for further development of fast , light-weight ,  | and air-conditioned equipment should increase the demand for mechanical engineers . Heat transfer. ? This subfield covers a wide range of activity . It is usually abundantly supplied with fairly well-trained men but offers good opportunities for outstanding men with thorough advanced training in thermodynamics . Industrial management. ? The demand for mechanical engineers in this field may be expected to increase as the resort to hunches and guesses becomes less prevalent , as it must because of increased size and complexity of enterprises and livelier competition . The analytical and factual approach to engineering problems is identical with that to business problems . There is no more fundamental training or mental discipline for business than engineering , particularly mechanical engineering . The field is not confined to manufacturing , but the straight-thinking engineer finds his opportunity in commercial and financial fields as well . Sales engineering is one of the most likely possibilities for the mechanical engineer . It may be possible that we have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has really begun . If so , there should be more openings for trained men in small business if small businesses are to survive . CURRICULA IN MECHANICAL ENGINEERING The subjects fundamental to the domain of engineering are indicated in chapter 13 ( " Education of the Engineer " ) . Here we are concerned first with the professional subjects of each of the subfields of mechanical engineering and , second , with the special subjects ? over and above the aforesaid fundamental subjects ? required as preparation for the professional subjects of the subfield . The professional subjects and special subjects , respectively , pertaining to each subfield are presented in Tables 23 and 24 . ACCOMPLISHMENTS OF MECHANICAL ENGINEERING Almost innumerable are the contributions of this field of engineering to the community . The rate of advance of material civilization and its dependence upon the mechanical engineer may be vividly realized by considering in chronological order a few samples of his contributions . Some twenty-two thousand years  | // SOME PROFESSIONAL SUBJECTS IN SUBFIELDS OF MECHANICAL ENGINEERING Subfelds of Mechanical Engineering figure ago , he had discovered the chipping @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bone ( and later , stone ) to serve as tools and weapons . At that time also he had contrived Transportation  | // SPECIAL SUBJECTS AND SPECIAL PARTS OF GENERAL SUBJECTS INVOLVED IN EACH OF THE EIGHT SUBFIELDS OF MECHANICAL ENGINEERING Subfields of Mechanical Engineering figure the bow and arrow ? the bow to store the energy to speed the arrow . Only a hundred centuries later he had invented the wheel . ( Imagine our world without a wheel ! ) In another five thousand years he had contrived the bow drill and the saw ( for stone ) and had discovered the metal-casting process . At the end of the first century of the present calendar , he had invented the plow ( a sort of hoe ) and the harrow ( both drawn by oxen ) . By the year A.D. , 100 , his inventions had included pumps , hoists , blowers , and blast Transportation  | furnaces , all of which were in use at that time in mining and other industries . This skeleton chronological record of the contributions of the mechanical engineer is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ steam engine , by Newcomen 1763 Condensing , low-pressure steam engine , by Watt 1790 Steamboat , by Fitch 1800 High-pressure steam engine , by Evans 1807 Steamboat , made a commercial success by Fulton 1802 Gas illumination , by Murdoch 1804 Steam locomotive , by Trevithick 1816 Knitting machine , by Brunnel 1846 Sewing machine , by Howe 1876 Four-cycle gas engine , by Otto 1883 Automobile , by Daimler 1892 Diesel engine , by Rudolph Diesel 1903 Airplane , by Wright brothers 1945 Jet engine for aircraft As the toolmaker of civilization the mechanical engineer can trace his lineage through the artisan at least back to the time of King Solomon , when the blacksmith boldly occupied the seat of honor as the best craftsman on the Temple and was sustained by the king on the ground that the others could do nothing without the tools furnished by the smith . Many of the present machine tools were invented or developed during the period 1795-1840 . In particular : 1775 Lathe improvements started 1795 Slide rest ( Maudslay ) ? the beginning of machine tools 1798 Gaging started 1820 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ figure TRANSPORTATION AERONAUTIC Development of aeronautic industry Recent war aircraft with high speed , maneuverability , and weightcarrying capacity ? bombers Airplanes with pressurized cabins for high-altitude flight Recent air transport planes making trip across United States in less than seven hours Pacific and Atlantic clipper ships Flying freight lines Development of gas-turbine power plant and rocket jets Automatic controls for long-distance flying AUTOMOTIVE figure MARINE The design and construction of ships of upwards of 1,000 feet in length and 100,000 long tons in weight , with propelling machinery developing 200,000 horsepower , giving speeds of over 30 knots . The design and construction of a large ship such as the Queen Elizabeth or the Missouri or the Midway involves engineering and costs comparable to those required in building the San Francisco Bay Bridge or the Holland Tunnel . Ships have the greatest carrying capacity of all carriers , commercial and military , both absolutely and as a ratio of their total weight . Some recent spectacular examples of ship-building are the construction of tankers capable of carrying 30,000 long tons of oil at 163A knots on a ship weight ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the con-  | struction of ice breakers capable of breaking solid artic ice up to 5 feet in thickness . RAILWAY figure HEAT TRANSFER Preserving of foods by canning , quick freezing , etc . Discovery that certain vapors can be liquefied by compressing and cooling Research in heating and ventilating at University of Illinois Forced air circulation in buildings , tunnels , and mines Air conditioning Refrigeration of concrete in many large dams Ice dam to hold mud at Grand Coulee Dam IIeat exchangers for use at pressures up to 5,000 pounds per square inch and temperatures up to 1,600 ? F. Internal-combustion engines Development of gas turbine and rocket jet INDUSTRIAL MANAGEMENT Development of scientific management , by Frederick W. Taylor Researches on the art of cutting metal , by Frederick W. Taylor Special slide rules , by Carl Barth Control charts , by Gantt Motion study , by Gilbreth Production methods of A. O. Smith , Ford Motor Company , and Eastman Kodak Company Control procedures of Remington Typewriter Company , Walworth Manufacturing Company , Kendall Mills , Inc. , and Caterpillar Tractor Company Personnel programs of Procter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and Hormel Packing Com-pany . lob-evaluation program of United States Steel Corporation , Atlantic Refining Corporation , Kimberly &; Clark Paper Company , Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Company , and General Electric Company Safety of worker Waage-incentive systems Research in micromotion  | Manufacturing research ( not production research ) of International Harvester Company and Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Company Organization research and planning Quality control Material handling research PROBLEMS FOR RESEARCH IN MECHANICAL ENGINEERING Among the problems under or awaiting research in the field of mechanical engineering are the following , arranged by subfields : Tools and Shop Processes Cutting of metal Simple quantitative method of determining quality of a machined sur-face Reduction of vibration during cutting Action of liquid coolants during cutting Development of new cutting coolants Plastic forming of metals ( untouched research field with enormous possi-bilities ) Nitriding process Welding , electric and oxyacetylene , with automatic equipment Founding process Forging process Plastic molding process ( Bakelite , Durez , Plaskon , etc . ) Apparatus and Machinery Textiles : new textiles and new methods Metals for very low temperatures ( ? 200 ? F. ) Handling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and air shipments Easy method of changing load from motor truck to railroad car Mechanical handling devices and machines Power Generation Combustion of various fuels in boiler furnaces Flow of steam in turbine blades and nozzles Flow of fluids in pipes Steam cycles for plant operation Internal-combustion engine cycles Draft-tube improvements for hydraulic turbines  | Governing of water turbines Surges in pipe lines and their control Generation of electricity from fuel , direct Improvement in appliances for the use of gas Criteria and models of reasoning to determine essential characteristics of petroleum products required to supply consumers ' needs Applications of gas turbine , atomic energy , and rockets Power Transmission ( Mechanical ) Power transmission in shop Reduction of noise Automatic control Study of gears to improve wear resistance Transportation Aeronautic Improvement in factors that contribute to safety and economy of opera-tion Research on strength of light structures of thin metal in compression , bending , and torsion Determination of lightest such structure to carry a given load Low-speed landing devices for high-speed craft Elimination of fire hazards Elimination of icing in carburetor and on wings and propeller Cooling of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cowling to reduce frictional drag Air conditioning of planes Air traffic control at airports to speed up landings and take-offs at increased safety Development of metals for high-temperature use Satisfactory type of large horsepower airplane engine Conditions affecting transsonic and supersonic speeds Engines for 100 octane gasolene Blind flying ? landing and take-off Automotive Altitude tests of engines and development of superchargers Injection sprays for Diesel engines Development of solid fuel injection systems Mounting of engines to prevent vibration Study of springs and other devices for riding comfort Proper combustion of fuel Noise elimination in bearings and gears M otor coach transportation  | Highway freight transportation Military transport facilities Determination of the theory of combustion as applied to the internalcombustion engine Redesigning of the shape and springing of the auto body Marine Improvements in hull form for easy propulsion Improvement in propulsion mechanisms Methods of slowing ship and propelling astern Use of aluminum and other light alloys Reduction of hull corrosion , particularly tankers Warships : improvement in resistance to underwater attack Submarines : propulsion submerged ; increase in submerged speed Air conditioning for cargo spaces Use of high temperatures and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Disposition of contaminated bilge water Hull vibration Ship stabilization Railway Development of automotive equipment for railway use Improvement of coupling apparatus for long trains Reduction of weight of passenger equipment Improved means of loading and unloading containers Improvement of the locomotive Mechanical cooling for refrigerator cars Economic and fast handling of freight in competition with truck hauling Heat Transfer Development in air conditioning : simple , cheap , and effective system ; small units for houses ; application of refrigeration New insulating materials and metals for high temperatures and for very low temperatures ( ? 200 to - 300 ? F. ) Proper combustion of fuel ; determination of theory of combustion as applied to internal combustion engine Cooling of airplane engines ; elimination of icing in carbureter and on propeller and wings Heat-transfer rates , particularly in streamline flow and in condensers for streams that are mixtures of several components ; heat-transfer coefficients for ducts Determination of thermal properties of fluids Development of new refrigerating fluids , completely stable and nonpoisonous ; determination of properties of refrigerants  | Tests on warm-air heating systems ; development of radiant heating systems ( pipes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reverse as heating unit Production , maintenance , and control of correct relative humidity in cold storage rooms ; preservation of manufactured products during storage Corrosion Improvement of locomotives ; mechanical cooling of refrigerator cars Applications of gas turbine , atomic energy , and rockets Industrial Management Administrative Junior executive training Technique of executive control Function , conduct , services of board of directors Industrial decentralization and branch plant management Executive salary determination Organization planning Operating Selective employment More effective internal control Simplification of systems and procedures Improvement of production methods and practices Method of determining merit rating of employees Control of quality Improvement of working conditions Social Effect on workers of fatigue , improper illumination , improper ventilation , length of hours of work Social protection against unemployment ( seasonal and cyclic ) Disability , old age , etc . Re-employment of men replaced by equipment Profit sharing , annual wage , guaranteed employment PROFESSIONAL MECHANICAL ENGINEERING SOCIETIES The American Society of Mechanical Engineers includes members from all parts of the field of mechanical engineering ; and the same may be said of the American Society for Testing Materials . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are given below . Tools and Shop Processes American Society for Metals American Society of Tool Engineers  | American Welding Society Society of Automotive Engineers Apparatus and Machinery American Chemical Society American Institute of Chemical Engineers American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers American Petroleum Institute American Society of Civil Engineers American Society of Lubricating Engineers National Association of Corrosion Engineers Handling Equipment ( none ) Power Generation American Gas Association Power Transmission , Mechanical ( none ) Transportation Aeronautic Institute of Aeronautical Sciences Society of Automotive Engineers Automotive American Institute of Electrical Engineers American Society of Civil Engineers Society of Automotive Engineers Marine American Society of Naval Architects and Marine Engineers American Society of Naval Engineers Railways American Railway Engineering Association Heat Transfer American Institute of Chemical Engineers American Society of Heating and Ventilating Engineers American Society of Refrigeration Engineers National Association of Corrosion Engineers National Association of Practical Refrigerating Engineers Industrial Management American Management Association Society for the Advancement of Management  | SELECTED BIBLIOGRAPHY The items listed below are merely representative of a multitude of publications , in each of which the seeker of a career may recognize some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ publication is concerned . General Brashear , J. A. , Autobiography , New York : American Society of Mechanical Engineers , 1924 Colvin , F. H. , Sixty Years with Men and Machines , New York : McGrawHill , 1947 Cressy , E. , A Hundred Years of Mechanical Engineering , New York : Macmillan , 1937 Durand , W. F. , Biography of Robert Henry Thurston , New York : American Society of Mechanical Engineers , 1929 Marks , L. S. , ( ed . ) , Mechanical Engineers ' Handbook , 4th ed. , New York : McGraw-Hill , 1941 Prout , H. G. , A Life of George Westinghouse , New York : American Society of Mechanical Engineers , 1927 Smith , A. W. , John Edson Sweet , New York : American Society of Mechanical Engineers , 1925 Teague , W. D. , Design This Day . The Technique of Order in the Machine Age , New York : Harcourt , 1940 Usher , A. P. , A History of Mechanical Inventions , New York : McGrawHill , 1929 Wickenden , W. E. , A Professional Guide @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for Professional Development , 1949 Tools and Shop Processes figure Bloom , R. It. , Principles of Tool Engineering , New York : McGraw-Hill , 1946 Cole , C. B. , Tool Design , Chicago : American Technical Society , 1942 Colvin , F. H. , and Haas , L. L. , Jigs and Fixtures , 4th ed. , New York : McGraw-Hill , 1943 Colvin , F. H. , and Stanley , F. A. , American Machinists ' Handbook , 8th ed. , New York : McGraw-Hill , 1945 Dodge , H. F. , and Romig , H. G. , Sampling Inspection Tables . Single and Double Sampling , New York : Wiley , 1944 Dowd , A. A. , and Curtis , F. W. , Tool Engineering : Vol . I , Jigs and Fixtures , 1922 ; Vol . II , Turning , Boring and Grinding , 1923 ; Vol . III , Punches , Dies , and Gages , 1925 ; New York : McGraw-Hill  | Grant , E. L. , Statistical Quality Control , New York : McGraw-Hill , 1946 Roe , J. W. , English @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : McGraw-Hill , 1926 Rolt , F. H. , Gages and Fine Measurements , London : Macmillan &; Co. , 1929 Shewhart , W. A. , Economic Control of Quality of Manufactured Products , New York : Van Nostrand , 1931 Stanley , F. A. , Punches and Dies , 3d ed. , New York : McGraw-Hill , 1943 Taylor , F. W. , On the Art of Cutting Metals , New York : American Society of Mechanical Engineers , 1907 Wilson , F. W. ( ed . ) , Tool Engineers Handbook , Detroit : American Society of Tool Engineers , 1948 Apparatus and Machinery Machine Design Machinery Bradford , L. J. , and Guillet , G. L. , Kinematics and Machine Design , New York : Wiley , 1943 Clark , W. M. , A Manual of Mechanical Movements , Garden City , L. I. : Garden City Publishing Company , Inc. , 1943 Maleev , V. L. , Machine Design , Scranton , Pa. : International Text Book , 1946 Norman , C. A. , Ault , E. S. , and Zarobsky , I. F. , Fundamentals of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , T. J. , Industrial Instruments for Measurement and Control , New York : McGraw-Hill , 1941 Handling Equipment Factory Management and Maintenance Atherton , W. H. , Conveyors and Cranes , New York : Pitman , 1947 Hetzel , F. V. , and Albright , R. K. , Belt Conveyors and Belt Elevators , 3d ed. , New York : Wiley , 1941 Hudson , W. G. , Conveyors and Related Equipment , New York : Wiley , 1944 Koshkin , S. J. , Modern Materials Handling , New York : Wiley , 1932 Power Generation STEAM Mechanical Engineering Power Plant Engineering Dickinson , H. W. , James Watt , Cambridge , England : Cambridge University Press , 1936 Gaffery , G. A. , Steam Power Stations , 3d ed. , New York : McGraw-Hill , 1946 Bulletins of the Edison Electric Institute  | American Gas Journal Natural Gas Western Gas Boyer , G. C. , Diesel and Gas-Engine Power Plants , New York : McGrawHill , 1943 Power Transmission ( Mechanical ) Machine Design Machinery Bradford , L. J. , and Guillet , G. L. , Kinematics and Machine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ W. M. , A Manual of Mechanical Movements , Garden City , L. I. : Garden City Publishing Company , Inc. , 1943 Maleev , V. L. , Machine Design , Scranton , Pa. : International Text Book , 1946 Norman , C. A. , Ault , E. S. , and Zarobsky , I. F. , Fundamentals of Machine Design , New York : Macmillan , 1938 Transportation AERONAUTIC Aero Digest Aircraft Engineering ( London ) Aviation Flight ( London ) Journal of Aeronautical Sciences Chatfield , C. H. , Taylor , C. F. , and Ober , S. , The Airplane and Its Engine , 4th ed. , New York : McGraw-Hill , 1940 Fraas , A. P. , Aircraft Power Plants , New York : McGraw-Hill , 1943 Liepmann , H. W. , and Puckett , A. E. , Introduction to the Aerodynamics of a Compressible Fluid , New York : Wiley , 1947 Magoun , F. A. , and Hodgins , E. , A History of Aircraft , New York : McGraw-Hill , 1931 Millikan , C. B. , Aerodynamics of the Airplane , New York : Wiley @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , New York : Wiley , 1944 Niles , A. S. , and Newell , J. S. , Airplane Structures , 3d ed. , New York : Wiley , 1943 Zucrow , M. J. , Jet Propulsion and Gas Turbines , New York : Wiley , 1948 Technical Reports , technical notes , and technical memoranda of the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics AUTOMOTIVE Automotive Industries Automotive Engineer ( London ) Commercial Car Journal  | Elliott , B. G. , and Consoliver , E. L. , The Gasoline Automobile , 5th ed. , New York : McGraw-Hill , 1939 Handbook , New York : Society of Automotive Engineers , 1946 Maleev , V. L. , Internal Combustion Engines , 2d ed. , New York : McGrawHill , 1945 Poison , J. A. , Internal Combustion Engines , 2d ed. , New York : Wiley , 1942 Transactions of the Institute of Automotive Engineers MARINE Journal of the American Society of Naval Engineers Marine Engineer ( London ) Marine Engineering Marine Engineering and Shipping Review Marine Journal Motor Ship Pacific Marine Review The Marine Engineer Chapman , L. B. , The Marine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 1942 Comstock , J. P. , Introduction to Naval Architecture , 2d ed. , New York : Simmons-Boardman , 1944 Fassett , F. G. , The Shipbuilding Business in the United States of America , New York : Society of Naval Architects and Marine Engineers , 1948 Hovgaard , Wm. , Structural Design of Warships , 2d ed. , Annapolis , Md. : U.S. Naval Institute , 1940 Manning , G. C. , Basic Design of Ships , New York : Van Nostrand , 1946 , Manual of Ship Construction , New York : Van Nostrand , 1943 , Fundamentals of Naval Architecture , Cambridge , Mass. : Technology Press , 1949 Rossell , H. E. , and Chapman , L. B. ( ed . ) , Principles of Naval Architecture , New York : Society of Naval Architects and Marine Engineers , 1941 Seward , H. L. ( ed . ) , Marine Engineering , New York : Society of Naval Architects and Marine Engineers , 1942 Taylor , D. W. , Speed and Power of Ships , 3d ed. , U.S. Maritime Commission , Washington , D. C. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American Bureau of Shipping Rules for Building and Classifying Steel Vessels , issued annually by the American Bureau of Shipping RAILWAYS Engineering ( London ) Railway Age  | Railway Gazette ( London ) Railway Mechanical Engineer Johnson , R. P. , The Steam Locomotive : Its Theory , Operation , and Economics , 2d ed. , New York : Simmons-Boardman , 1944 Wright , R. V. , and Augur , R. C. , Car Builders ' Cyclopedia , 17th ed. , New York : Simmons-Boardman , 1946 Wright , R. V. , and Augur , R. C. , Locomotive Cyclopedia , 13th ed. , New York : Simmons-Boardman , 1947 Bulletins of Purdue University Bulletins of the University of Illinois Heat Transfer Ice and Refrigeration Industrial and Engineering Chemistry Mechanical Engineering Power Allen , J. R. , and Bursley , J. A. , Heat Engines , 5th ed. , New York : McGraw-Hill , 1941 Allen , J. R. , Walker , J. H. , and James , J. W. , Heating and Air Conditioning , 6th ed. , New York : McGraw-Hill , 1946 Boyer , G. C. , Diesel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1943 Cork , J. M. , Heat , 2d ed. , New York : Wiley , 1942 Croft , H. O. , Thermodynamics , Fluid Flow , and Heat Transmission , New York : McGraw-Hill , 1938 Jakob , M. , and Hawkins , G. A. , Elements of Heat Transfer and Insulation , New York : Wiley , 1942 McAdams , W. H. , Heat Transmission , 2d ed. , New York : McGraw-Hill , 1942 " Ninety-nine Years of Progress , " Refrigerating Engineering , XXV ( June 1933 ) , 296 Raber , B. F. , and Hutchinson , F. W. , Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Engineering , New York : Wiley , 1945 Sporn , P. , Ambrose , E. R. , and Baumeister , T. , Heat Pumps , New York : Wiley , 1947 Industrial Management Alford , L. P. , and Bangs , M. E. , Production Handbook , New York : Ronald , 1944 Anderson , A. G. , and others , Industrial Management , New York : Ronald , 1942 Barnes , R. M. , Motion and Time Study , 2d ed. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , The Gantt Chart , New York : Putman , 1938 Davis , R. C. , Industrial Organization and Management , New York : Harper , 1940  | Filipetti , G. , Industrial Management in Transition , Chicago : Irwin , 1946 Holden , P. E. , Fish , L. S. , and Smith , H. L. , Top-Management Organization and Control , Stanford , Calif. : Stanford University Press , 1941 Kimball , D. S. , and Kimball , D. S. , Jr. , Principles of Industrial Organization , 6th ed. , New York : McGraw-Hill , 1947 Koepke , C. A. , Plant Production Control , New York : Wiley , 1942 Lansburgh , R. H. , and Spriegel , W. R. , Industrial Management , 3d ed. , New York : Wiley , 1940 Lewis , H. T. , Industrial Purchasing , New York : Business Publications , 1940 Lincoln , J. F. , Lincoln 's Incentive System , New York : McGraw-Hill , 1946 Louden , J. K. , Wage Incentives , New York : Wiley , 1944 Person , H. S. , Scientific Management in American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ F. W. , Principles of Scientific Management , New York : Harper , 1911 Yoder , D. , Personnel Management and Industrial Relations , New York : Prentice-Hall , 1942  | ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING ' This is the age of electrical power and control . A form of electricity was known to the ancient Greeks , but it is only within the past century that the industrial possibilities of electricity have been explored . The electrical industry by 1940 had become one of the most important in the United States ? electric power with its tremendous network of distribution forming the major part . During World War II the electronics industry developed enormously , so that in 1947 it had become comparable in magnitude to the electric power industry and perhaps larger . Although electrical engineering is a newcomer among the major fields of the profession , its development has been rapid and spectacular , its greatest achievements having been made within the memory of living men . At present many of its possibilities are just beginning to be surmised . It is , then , a field that should be particularly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and unknown realms of experiment , who are willing to master the physical and mathematical background necessary for such endeavors , and who are stirred by the magical possibilities of electrical force for the use of mankind . There are multitudes of applications of electrical engineering . The electrical engineer on any project is concerned with the need or demand for a system or device , the methods of approach necessary to satisfy the need , and the practical and economic aspects involved in the production and use of the planned system or the evolved device . His principal care is to solve such problems in a manner consistent with existing economic conditions . Some of the special problems of the electrical engineer are : research on materials and electronic devices ; investigation of the laws of elec- footnote For co-operation in revising this chapter the authors are indebted to Frederick E. ' I'erman , ( lean of engineering , Stanford University , and Hugh H. Skilling , professor of electrical engineering , Stanford University . 1.69  | tric and magnetic action ; design , construction , control , application , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , lighting , and electronic systems , devices , and equipment . This partial statement indicates a wide range of activities . It would be impossible for one man to become an authority in all the subfields of electrical engineering . Consequently , after the young engineer obtains his training in fundamentals he develops a special interest in some subfield and may specialize in it , calling himself a radio engineer , a power-transformer engineer , a transmission-line engineer , etc. , as the case may be . SUBFIELDS OF ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING Although little more than a half-century old , electrical engineering has a far greater number of subfields than any other engineering field . The titles given by the members of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers in their 1931 directory2 indicate more than 180 subfields of electrical engineering . The greater number of these , however , are specialties within specialties and are embraced by power engineering and electronic engineering . For the purposes of this chapter , therefore , electrical engineering is regarded as comprising two subfields . SUBFIELDS OF ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING Power Electronics Each may roughly be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the following paragraphs . Power . ? The chief divisions of power engineering are 1 . Generation , transmission , and distribution 2 . Machinery , apparatus , and supplies 3 . Utilization Generation , transmission , and distribution . ? Generation involves power plants or central stations , either hydroelectric or fuel . Transmission deals with the transfer of energy from remote generating stations to places of utilization ? as from Hoover Dam to footnote 2 Theodore J. Hoover , " The Structure of the Electrical Engineering Profession , " Eleotrical Engineering , LIV ( July 1935 ) , 695-99.  | Los Angeles , over a 268-mile power line . Distribution is concerned with substations and overhead and underground lines . Machinery , apparatus , and supplies. ? These may be typified by the following items of the better-known products of electrical manufacture : figure This minor subfield includes many narrower ones , each more or less intimately associated with one or another of the other subfields , major or minor , of electrical engineering . Electrical control apparatus as applied to power machinery , ships , aircraft , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ applying largely the apparatus and technique of the electronic engineer to the machinery of the power engineer and requiring therefore a knowledge of both these major subfields . Utilization . ? This division of power engineering comprises ( a ) illumination , and ( b ) industrial utilization ( other than illumination ) . ( a ) Illumination may be divided into four parts : domestic ; industrial , including the motion-picture industry ; public , including the lighting of streets , parks , and public buildings ; and flood lighting , including that for sports and for expositions . ( b ) Industrial utilization ( other than illumination ) is exemplified by utilization for electric elevators , drives , and furnaces , for electrochemical processes , and for street and interurban railways and electrified railroads . Electronics . ? Among the divisions of electronic engineering are 1 . Radio , telephone , telegraph , and television 2 . Recording of sound and other intelligence 3 . Apparatus and supplies 4 . Electronic aids to navigation 5 . Industrial electronics Conclusion . ? In such a rapidly growing field as electrical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ given  | time , may require frequent rearrangement to keep it approximately in harmony with actualities . FUNCTIONS OF ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING The 1946 survey of the engineering profession shows the electrical engineers distributed among the engineering functions as indicated in Table 25 . Administration , technical , accounts for 27.6 percent of them ; design , 17.6 percent ; development , 9.1 percent ; sales , 6.3 percent ; and consulting , employee , 5.4 percent . figure * Data from Andrew Fraser , The Engineering Profession in Transition . A Report of the EJC Committee on the 1946 Survey of the Engineering Profession ( New York : American Society of Mechanical Engineers , 1947 ) , Table 1.86 , p. 24.  | In Table 71 ( chapter 12 ) , which shows relations between functions , years of experience , and median monthly salaries , the reader may find that at , say , the nine-to-eleven-year experience level , the median monthly salary is $448 for administration , technical ; $345 for design ; $405 for development ; $373 for sales ; and $389 for consulting , employee . THE @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? The principal employers of electrical engineers in several subfields are ( here named in parentheses ) as follows : Power : ( a ) generation , transmission , and distribution ( utility companies ) ; ( b ) machinery , apparatus , and supplies ( manufacturing companies ) ; ( c ) utilization ( utility and manufacturing companies use electrical engineers for the consulting service commonly supplied by the companies to consumers ) . Electronics : ( a ) radio , telephone , telegraph , and television ( operating companies ) ; ( b ) recording of sound and other intelligence ( motion picture , phonograph , and geophysical companies ) ; ( c ) apparatus and supplies ( manufacturing companies ) ; ( d ) electronic aids to navigation ( airplane operating companies , government , manufacturers , research organizations , and military services ) ; ( e ) industrial electronics ( manufacturers of electronic equipment , and manufacturing and processing companies using electronic equipment ) . Electrical engineers are also employed by fire-insurance underwriters , engineering schools , electrical engineering publishers , and electrical research laboratories ? university @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ important in connection with electronic aids to navigation ) . Goverment employs , exclusive of the armed forces , 13.3 percent of the electrical engineers , according to Table 26 . The three industries employing the greater number of electrical engineers , according to Table 27 , are manufacturing , with its 41.9 percent ( including electrical machinery and equipment , 30.1 percent ) ; electric light and power , 25.6 percent ; and electronics , 13.7 percent . Artisans and technicians supervised by electrical engineers . ? An electrical engineer in the course of his work may have  | figure contact with almost every type of trades worker . Large organizations employing such engineers also employ many types of nonprofessional workers . For example , the Bureau of Power and Light of the City of Los Angeles maintains a list of more than 250 employment classifications under civil service , consisting mostly of technicians , clerks , and trades workers . Accordingly it is possible to mention here only a few of the more prominent types of artisan with whom the engineer in the various subfields of electrical engineering has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ services of all the construction trades , as well as linemen and maintenance men for power transmission . Power-plant engineering requires many of these , and also boilermakers , firemen , machine operators , meter readers , pipe fitters , etc . Electric railway engineers work with surveyors , linemen , steelworkers , concrete workers , carpenters , bonders , and maintenance men . In manufacturing , aside from shopworkers , the electrical engineer may have under his supervision such technicians as calculators , testers , designing detailers , and electricians.  | figure Electronics. ? In electronic engineering , all types of trades are represented , particularly shop and factory men , electricians , laboratory assistants , linemen , construction workers , and salesmen . The acoustical engineer has contact with mechanics , electricians , designing draftsmen , and workers in the building trades . Pathways to professional work in electrical engineering . ? ' There are numerous positions in which a fledgling engineer may serve his apprenticeship to the profession of electrical engineering . 11ost young engineers in this field will serve their first year or two in a minor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or government service . The young man may be shifted about through several minor posts in the organization , so that he will gain a view of different types of work or different departments ; and some organizations even enroll the young man in a training course which enables him to get a comprehensive view of the scope of the company 's work . Typical entering positions in the profession are those of junior engineer in design , laboratory , research , and testing . The young engineer may serve in a manufacturing plant as efficiency engineer , inspector , or junior engineer ; or he may be a salesman for the company 's product . In a public utility , he may be a substation operator , a field assistant on surveys , construction , and inspection , a special electrician , or a towerman . In electronics , he may be a laboratory assistant , an installation engineer , an expert in switchboard wiring , or an assistant operating engineer . A young man trained as an electrochemical engineer would serve , perhaps , as a laboratory chemist or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of some special unit-production process . Where the electrical engineer spends his time . ? An examination of the geographical distribution of members of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers reveals that American electrical engineers are to be found in virtually every country in the world . As would be expected , the practicing electrical engineer spends his time in a city office , a factory , or a research laboratory , although some men , particularly those engaged in power engineering , may make trips to mountainous or rural regions where developments are in progress , and some may even reside in these regions to supervise the work of development and distribution of electrical power . The great majority of electrical research and design engineers for electrical manufacturing companies , particularly in the power division , are located in the Middle Atlantic and East North Central States ( Table 28 ) ? chiefly in the former ? whereas operating and sales engineers work in centers of population everywhere . The geographic distribution of electrical engineers within the United States is recorded in Table 28 , which shows among other details @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  | figure located in five states ? New York leading with 20.8 percent , followed by Pennsylvania with 10.3 percent , California , 7.4 percent , Ohio , 7.0 percent , and Massachusetts with 6.2 percent . Disadvantages and special hazards . ? There are no serious hazards to life and limb in the ordinary work of electrical engineering . It is true , however , that an engineer engaged in a manufacturing plant or generating station is liable to the ordinary risks of working about machinery . Young engineers in certain fields are slightly more open to hazard than in others ; an engineering apprentice working on a power line should consider it a part of  | his duty to protect himself against the chance of shock , and should know the first-aid treatment for electrical shock . Special disadvantages in regard to employment are to be found in a number of the branches of electrical engineering . In the subfield of electrical power , good engineering positions are ordinarily fewer than the available engineers , and these positions are reduced as a result of mergers and standardization of methods @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the engineer must be content to remain an employee , because he can not expect to acquire any considerable ownership . In manufacturing , the electrical engineer is considered to be merely an auxiliary in production and receives little real recognition for his work . In other subfields where rapid changes in organization are being made , continuous employment is uncertain and frequent breaks make advancement difficult . In some types of public-utility work the engineer is called upon to spend some time in remote field locations , although this training is often of value and can scarcely be considered a disadvantage to one who needs such experience . In telephone engineering there is a difficulty created by the fact that the work is highly specialized and experience can not be broadly applied in other fields . Also this entire branch of engineering is operated almost entirely in the United States by a single group of affiliated companies ; but this is offset by the fact that the group offers every inducement to an able employee to make his career within the organization . Much of electronics and broadcasting , however @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ companies . Remuneration . ? The salaries in electrical engineering are comparable to the average for similar ranks in other fields of engineering . There is little real variation in the remuneration for comparable work in the various subfields , so that choice of subfield should depend on interest and opportunities and other considerations rather than on the expectation that greater rewards are to be made in some particular one . Data on salaries of electrical engineers not in government employ are given in Table 29 . This table affords interesting comparisons . For instance , in the " Lower Tenth " column the salary  | rate rises from $198 at the two-year experience level to $376 at the **26;1317;TOOLONG level and then falls ; in the " Median " column the rise is from $251 at the two-year level to $615 at the forty-and-more-year level ; and in the " Upper Tenth " column the rise is from $339 at the two-year level to more than $1,000 at the **26;1345;TOOLONG level . ( See chapter 12 for other salary tables. ) figure Future demand for electrical engineers . ? This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ slack times in some of the subfields of electrical engineering where much of the pioneering development is over , an increasing demand for electrical engineers is to be expected . Power. ? The use of electrical power is increasing , and no limit can be set on its possibilities of development and expansion . With greater interconnection of power networks new engineering problems are encountered and new engineers are needed . It is to be expected that , throughout the world , power-transmission volt ages will increase , or at least that new high-voltage lines will be built .  | The government has shown a strong tendency to take the lead in the immense power-development projects required to fill presentday needs , and anyone wishing to specialize in power engineering would do well to consider the advisability of seeking a career as a government employee . These government programs , of course , will restrict the employment opportunities in private supply companies , and openings in these companies are mainly for replacement of present staff members . Few new jobs are being created . However , there may be a slight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when heavier utilization of industrial power requires further extension of plant for supply and distribution . Two important points should be borne in mind in connection with probable future demand for electrical engineers in the subfield of power . First , older engineers are not trained to handle the newer problems , and many present organizations have fallen noticeably behind current knowledge . Second , few new engineers were employed by most power companies between 1940 and 1945 ; and the result will be unusually rapid advancement for some of the young engineers now entering the organizations . In power-plant and public-utility engineering no great increase in demand for electrical engineers can be expected . The rate of expansion has slackened somewhat , although in any period of heavy utilization of power resources it is still to be anticipated that there will be need for many engineers to operate power systems . Opportunities for improvement in power technology are still great , and there will be more exacting requirements in the future for efficient design and operation of plants . It is likely that the more highly paid positions in power @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that only the most energetic and the best-trained men will be able to advance beyond the minor executive grades . A decrease in demand for engineers in power transmission is likely . This will be due mainly to the fact that transmission voltages will probably not advance as rapidly as they have in the past , because only where very large blocks of power are generated will it be necessary to operate above 220 kilovolts . Much of the pioneering work in this specialty has been done . Also , consolidation of companies tends to release men of experience , as in other fields .  | In the transportation subfield the demand for electric railway engineers will probably be fairly stable . The expansion of this form of transportation is an economic problem , and consists for the most part in replacing existing steam railways already providing the necessary service . Demand for young engineers in this type of work will therefore not be large or sudden . The application of electrical machinery and methods to the manufacturing industries is a subfield still in its infancy , and there is good @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of engineers in the future when the possibilities are realized more fully by manufacturing companies . The recent rapid development of aircraft electrical systems may be expected to continue . Illumination engineering , while one of the first divisions of electrical engineering , was until recently handicapped by lack of suitable measuring equipment . However , the development of photoelectric light meters has given the electrical engineer the tools he needed , with the result that illumination engineering is developing rapidly . The lamp sales of the electrical manufacturing companies during the depression of the 1930 's actually increased in the United States , while over the same period the food consumption decreased ; consequently illumination engineers were able to find employment throughout the depression . The increased demand for higher levels of illumination and the change in lighting technique , from the use of pendant lighting fixtures to the incorporation of the lighting fixture in a luminous panel or other architectural feature of the building , necessitates special engineering for each case ; and hence the demand for trained illumination engineers is steadily increasing . Electronics . ? A retardation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in some branches of electronics and a corresponding contraction of employment comparable to that in the power companies during the decade ending in 1935 . However , many phases of electronics are now expanding enormously as a result of the impetus given by war research in this subfield . The techniques required in electronic engineering are applicable to many other subfields and , although the staff requirements of radio companies are becoming stabilized , the industrial and research applications of electronic theories are only begun . Thus  | men trained in this specialty may find opportunities in such allied work as sound recording , acoustical engineering , geophysical examinations , talking pictures , welding control , and television . Acoustical engineering is rather new , and its applications to industry are still to be increasingly developed . The advancement of a machine civilization produces more complex sound problems , which require a larger corps of experts to deal with them . The telephone division of electronics is almost unique in engineering , in that enlargement of the system does not diminish the number of engineers required in proportion to other employees @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ faster than the number of telephones in the system . Enlargement of national and international telephone networks will call for an increasing number of telephone engineers . Likewise , there is still room for a large expansion in the number of telephone subscribers ; it is to be noted that in the United States there are fewer telephones than there are automobiles . An interesting fact is that for some years the Bell System has supported more than 5,000 research workers , whose discoveries are opening up a number of applications of electrical engineering in specialties not directly related to telephone service , such as television , sound recording , and the like ; and many of these discoveries , fathered by the telephone organization , may in turn develop into new fields of effort which will require the employment of many engineers trained in such work . CURRICULA IN ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING Besides subjects fundamental to all fields of engineering ( discussed in chapter 13 ) , an electrical engineering curriculum includes professional subjects , and special preparation subjects , that is , subjects that are required as preparation for entering @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fundamentals . Professional subjects . ? The number of possible professional subjects in this , as in the other engineering fields , is great . Among those more frequently included in the catalogues of engineering schools are the following grouped under subfields . figure  | figure All the subjects of this list , except mathematics and modern physics , are subdivisions of the more general subject often termed " principles of electrical engineering . " ACCOMPLISHMENTS OF ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING As early as 600 B.c. , it is believed , Thales of Miletus knew that amber , when rubbed , assumed the property of attracting light bodies . Later it was found that other substances besides amber possessed this property , and these were said to be " electric , " from t he Greek word for amber , electra . About the tenth century A. D. it . was discovered that an ore called magnetite had the property , when suspended , of aligning itself in a north-and-south direction ;  | and this idea was developed into the magnetic compass , the starting point for later study of the magnetic properties @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , however , that men turned their attention to studying more completely the phenomena of electrostatics . In June 1752 , Benjamin Franklin , during his famous kite experiment to identify lightning with static electricity , was luckily saved for a future career as a statesman . At the beginning of the nineteenth century , electrical science had been fairly launched by the work of such men as William Gilbert , Gray , Coulomb , Bennett , Galvani , and Cavendish . In 1800 , Volta devised the voltaic cell . In 1820 , Oersted , Ampere , Biot , and Savart found that a flow of current produced a magnetic field . The exact relations between the flow of current in metallic paths and its resistance was established by Ohm ( Ohm 's Law ) in 1821 . The counterpart of Oersted 's work was the discovery by Faraday in 1831 that a moving magnetic field caused an induced voltage and a flow of current in conductors located in the field . Later Clerk Maxwell presented his famous equations and theories , still valid , on magnetic and electric fields @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ began in the fields of communication and lighting . The telegraph was invented by Joseph Henry and promoted by Samuel F. B. Morse . The first commercial line for the transmission of messages between Washington and Baltimore , 40 miles , was planned and directed in 1844 by Ezra Cornell , who therefore must be honored as the first American electrical engineer . The first great electrical engineering triumph was the laying and subsequent operation of the Atlantic Ocean telegraph cable in 1865 . Sir William Thomson , later known as Lord Kelvin , with his analytical electroscience , and Cyrus W. Field , with his engineering , promotional , and executive abilities , were responsible for the success of this project . The modern dynamo was invented by Gramme , a native of France , in 1872 . It was studied by William A. Anthony , professor of physics at Cornell University , in 1874 while visiting Paris . He built a duplicate of the Gramme dynamo immediately after his return home . Cornell University exhibited Professor Anthony 's dynamo at the Centennial in Philadelphia in 1876 , where it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ generator of electric current . At the same exposition the telephone , invented in 1875 by Alexander Graham Bell , was also exhibited . The dynamo and the telephone thus became known promptly to many energetic and imaginative young men throughout the country . As a result , a great wave of electrical research and invention was started by such men as Edison , Brush , Weston , Elihu Thompson , Sprague , and many others . Out of their need for co-operation , the first group of American electrical engineers , in May 1884 , organized a national society that has ever since been known as the American Institute of Electrical Engineers . Beginning with a membership of a few hundred , the institute now ( 1947 ) numbers some 29,500 electrical engineers and 6,500 enrolled students . Electrical engineering may rightly be said , therefore , to have been established in America since 1884 . The most flourishing offshoot of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers is the Institute of Radio Engineers , which was founded in 1912 , now ( 1947 ) has some 16,000 members and more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meeting an attendance of some 12,000 radio engineers . ' The outstanding developments in the field of electrical engineering since the third quarter of the nineteenth century may be stated in chronological outline as follows:4 1876 Patent granted to Alexander Graham Bell for the invention of the telephone 1879 First central-station arc-light system ( Brush ) installed in San Francisco 1879 October 21 , Edison 's first successful experimental incandescent lamp 1880 Patent granted to Thomas A. Edison for the carbon-filament incandescent lamp 1880 Direct-current incandescent lighting system developed by Edison 1882 First incandescent lamp central-station lighting system placed in operation by Edison ( Pearl Street Station , New York City ) 1883 Direct-current three-wire distribution system developed by Edison 1884 First alternating-current central stations footnote Engineers Joint Council , The Engineering Societies Yearbook ( New York : American society of Mechanical Engineers , 1948 ) . 4 Based in part on list appearing in Electrical Engineering , LIII ( May 1934 ) , 840.  | 1888 Induction motor patented by Tesla 1888 First electric street-railway ( Richmond , Virginia ) 1888 Alternating-current transformer invented 1890 Alternating-current power transmission at 3,000 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Colorado ) 1891 Power transmission of 10,000 volts ( Pomona , California ) Sixty cycles adopted as standard frequency 1892 Direct New York ? Chicago telephone line ( 900 miles ) 1892 Polyphase power circuits developed for commercial use 1894 Niagara power development ? introduction of revolving-field , 25-cycle , 4,500-kilovolt-ampere alternator 1896 Marconi application for patents on wireless telegraphy system 1898 Power transmission at 40,000 volts , from Provo , to Mercur , Utah - 35 miles 1901 First turbine generator in American central station 1901 Use of 80,000-volt transformers and 13,200-volt generators 1902 First single-phase railway system 1902 First transatlantic radio message 1903 Use of 6,250-kilovolt-ampere turbine generators and 9,250-kilovolt-ampere waterwheel generators ( Niagara Falls ) 1906 De Forest patents on vacuum tube with grid 1906 First radio telephone , by Fessenden in Brant Rock experiments 1906 Power transmission of 60,000 volts over a 110-mile line from the Colgate plant on Yuba River , to Oakland , California 1907 Interurban railway 1,200-volt direct-current equipment 1908 Marine turbo-electric drive 1909 Power transmission of 100,000 volts 1911 Drawn tungsten incandescent lamp filaments first put on the market 1912 Invention of vacuum @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1913 Gas-filled incadescent lamp 1914 Panama Canal electrification 1915 First transcontinental telephone ( Boston to San Francisco ) 1915 First transoceanic radio telephone communication 1920 Radio broadcasting ( KDKA on November 2 ) 1920 Development of 1,000,000 volts in laboratory experiment 1922 Transmission line of 220,000 volts . Big Creek to Los Angeles , 240 miles 1922 Use of 65,000-kilovolt-ampere waterwheel generators 1922 " Pallophotophone " for talking movies 1922 Development of short-wave long-distance radio communication 1924 Nationwide network for nationwide broadcast ( Coolidge inaugu-ration ) 1925 Electrical transmission of pictures  | 1926 Development of two million volts in laboratory transformers ( Ryan Laboratory , Stanford University ) 1927 Demonstration of television by wire and radio 1928 First 132,000-volt oil-filled cable 1930 Use of 200,000-kilovolt-ampere single-unit turbine generator 1931 Automatic steering of airplanes 1932 Use of 77,500-kilovolt-ampere waterwheel generators ( Dniepros-troy ) 1932 Introduction of first commercial pentode tube 1933 Sodium vapor lamp 1934 Power transmission of 287,000 volts ( Hoover Dam to Los An-geles ) 1935 165,000-kilowatt turbine generator 1935 Demonstration of frequency modulation , by Armstrong 1938 Bonneville hydroelectric power plant put in partial operation 1940 Fluorescent lamps 1940-45 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ servomechanisms for sea- and aircraft and for industry Organization of great regional " power pools , " as in Pacific Northwest and elsewhere , to supply wartime demand 1946 Experimental development of electric generation from atomic energy 1946 Early growth of television broadcasting PROBLEMS FOR RESEARCH IN ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING The unsolved or partially solved problems that offer opportunity for fruitful research in electrical engineering are manifold . A few of the outstanding problems in each subfield are given below to suggest the possibilities for immense achievement in the future . Power 1 I igh-voltage switching I in proved insulation Better power transmission by both alternating and continuous currents Protection of electrical systems from lightning 1'idcr application of electronic tubes Economic studies for reducing power costs and increasing efficiencies , for cheaper methods of transforming direct to alternating current and vice versa , and for development of more reliable , flexible , and ample distribution networks III ( lnstrial or other uses for electric power that will enable higher load fact ors to be maintained or , alternately , some feasible means of storing off-peak energy for use at peak periods  | @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Prevention of corrosion Development of means of obtaining high-voltage direct current and reconverting it to usable voltages so that direct-current transmission may be possible Further study of mechanism of electric breakdown in all types of insula-tion Development of practicable formulas for circuits acting for lightning paths , dealing with such things as lightning streamers , aerial conductors , and buried wires Development of underground power cables of high voltages and free from high-capacitance effects and sheath losses Improvements in iron for transformers to further reduce exciting currents and iron losses Study of load limits on power lines and systems Public-utility operation , which makes wide use of the principles of power , power-plant , and electrical transmission engineering , also presents problems for the future , such as improvement of public relations and rate-making for distribution systems . Machinery , Apparatus , and Supplies Improvement of circuit-interrupting devices Properties and uses of insulating materials Simplification of high-tension switches to reduce size and cost Illumination Development of more efficient artificial light , including luminescent , fluorescent , and phosphorescent sources Improvement in lighting units Better use of daylight and also the production @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effect of light on human beings Improvement in highway lighting and automotive lighting Photoelectric cells and their application , especially for the maintenance of constant levels of illumination Electronics Problems are too many to enumerate in this subfield , for it involves a disproportionate amount of research , the categories of which include communication systems , tubes , circuits , applications of electronic devices , propagation of waves , and electric instrumentation .  | PROFESSIONAL ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING SOCIETIES Acoustical Society of America American Electrochemical Society American Institute of Electrical Engineers American Society for Testing Materials Illuminating Engineering Society Institute of Radio Engineers SELECTED BIBLIOGRAPHY The items listed below are merely representative of a multitude of publications , in each of which the seeker of a career may recognize some additional characteristics of the division of engineering with which the publication is concerned . General figure Dyer , F. L. , and Martin , T. C. , Edison . His Life and Inventions , New York : Harper , 1929 The Electrical Engineer : Some Facts Concerning Electrical Engineering as a Career , New York:American Institute of Electrical Engineers , 1948 " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ May 1934 ) " Fifty Years of Electrical Progress , " Electrical World , CX ( October 11 , 1938 ) Fitzgerald , A. E. , Basic Electrical Engineering , New York : McGrawHill , 1945 Knowlton , A. E. ( ed . ) , Standard Handbook for Electrical Engineers , 7th ed. , New York : McGraw-Hill , 1941 Lamme , B. G. Electrical Engineer : an Autobiography , New York : Putnam , 1926 Leonard , J. N. , Loki . The Life of Charles Proteus Steinmetz , New York : Doubleday , 1929 Manual of Recommended Practice , 7th ed. , Chicago : American Railway Engineering Association , 1936 ( also yearly supplements ) ( ' ender , H. ( ed . ) , Electrical Engineers ' Handbook , 3d ed. , New York : Wiley , 1936 Wickenden , W. E. , A Professional Guide for Junior Engineers , New York : Engineers ' Council for Professional Development , 1949 Itulle ' ins of the U.S. Bureau of Standards Bullet ins of the Edison Electric Institute  | Reports of the World Power Conference Transactions of the American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of universities and institutes and departments of government Publications of the professional societies listed in the preceding section Publications ( occasional ) of such equipment manufacturers as General Electric Company , Westinghouse Company , Western Electric Company , and Allis-Chalmers Company Power Barrows , H. K. , Water Power Engineering , 3d ed. , New York : McGrawHill , 1943 Boast , W. B. , Illuminating Engineering , New York : McGraw-Hill , 1942 Creager , W. P. , and Justin , J. D. , Hydroelectric Handbook , 2d ed. , New York : Wiley , 1947 DeWeese , F. C. , Transmission Lines , New York : McGraw-Hill , 1945 Lovell , A. H. , Generating Stations , 3d ed. , New York : McGraw-Hill , 1941 Skilling , H. H. , Transient Electrical Currents , 2d ed. , New York : McGrawHill , 1947 Tarboux , J. G. , Electric Power Equipment , 3d ed. , New York : McGrawHill , 1946 Weinbach , M. P. , Electrical Power Transmission , New York : Macmillan , 1947 Electronics Chute , G. M. , Electronics in Industry , New York @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Radio 's 100 Men of Science , New York : Harper , 1944 Fink , D. G. , Radar Engineering , New York : McGraw-Hill , 1947 Hudson , R. G. , An Introduction to Electronics , New York : Macmillan , 1945 Morse , P. M. , Vibration and Sound , New York : McGraw-Hill , 1936 Stokely , J. , Electronics in Action , New York : McGraw-Hill , 1945 Terman , F. E. , Radio Engineering , 3d ed. , New York : McGraw-Hill , 1947 , Radio Engineers ' Handbook , New York : McGraw-Hill , 1943  | CHEMICAL ENGINEERING AND OTHER FIELDS CHEMICAL ENGINEERING ' Chemical engineering comprises the design , construction , and operation of plants and works in which matter is caused to undergo changes of state or composition . The chemical engineer is the primary or directing engineer of the chemical industries . Some picture of his work , then , may be gained by letting the mind dwell for a moment on each of the following names of groups representative of such industries : figure A more vivid , though perhaps @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gained from visualizing in succession the various kinds of equipment used in the processes of chemical industry . The fundamental processes in this broad field may be classified under five heads , namely : 1 . Transporting footnote ' For co-operation in revising the matter on chemical engineering the authors are indebted to R. Lindley Murray , vice-president , head of production , Hooker Electrochemical Co. , Niagara Falls , N. Y. , and Robert E. Swain , professor emeritus of chemistry , Stanford University . 191  | 2 . Energizing 3 . Reacting 4 . Separating 5 . Conditioning2 Transporting . ? The transporting processes involve such equipment as : figure  | Subfields of chemical engineering . ? Chemical engineering has been generally recognized as an independent field only during the past forty years or so , but it has developed so rapidly and in so many directions as to bring about a high degree of specialization . However , relatively few of the numerous specialties are well-established subfields ; these few are listed below . SUBFIELDS OF CHEMICAL ENGINEERING Ceramic engineering Gas engineering Combustion engineering Metallurgical engineering Electrochemical engineering @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well established before chemical engineering was recognized as an independent field . The metallurgical , ceramic , and petroleum divisions arose as subfields of mining engineering and have been treated as such in chapter 5 ; gas engineering and combustion engineering came into notice as minor subfields of mechanical engineering ; and electrochemical engineering discovered itself as a minor subfield of electrical engineering . Functions of chemical engineering . ? The general engineering functions , discussed in chapter 3 , apply to this as to all other engineering fields . Particularly prominent in chemical engineering are the following : 1 . Research to discover in the laboratory new or improved proc-esses 2 . Development of new or improved processes from laboratory to commercial scale by means of a small-scale experimental plant 3 . Invention and development of new products 4 . Establishing the operating conditions for maximum economic efficiency through practical and theoretical research based on judicious application of the laws of physical chemistry , and conducting industrial processes according to these con-ditions In Table 30 is a list of functions , opposite each of which is given th he percentage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ indicated by the 1946 survey of the engineering profession . I.t appears that administration , technical , engages 31.8  | percent of chemical engineers ; development , 16.8 percent ; research , applied , 13.6 percent ; design , 10.5 percent ; production , 5.1 percent ; and so on . That salary is not the sole criterion of the engineer in choosing a function in which to specialize may be inferred from Table 71 ( chapter 12 ) , which gives median monthly salary for each of a list of functions at each of six experience levels . For example , at nine to eleven years of experience , the median monthly salary for each of the five functions named above is as follows : $448 for figure  | administration , technical ; $405 for development ; $428 for research , applied ; $345 for design ; and $395 for production . Employers of chemical engineers . ? Chemical engineers are employed by such industries as those listed at the opening of this chapter and by various divisions of government including the following federal divisions : Department of Agriculture Sewage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ordnance Department United States Food and Drugs Division Army Bureau of Standards Bureau of Ordnance , United States Sanitation Division Navy The proportion of chemical engineers employed by government is 6.7 percent , as shown in Table 31. figure  | division of chemicals and allied products , including rayon and allied products and 16.9 percent in the division of petroleum and coal products . figure  | Cost accounting Analytical laboratory assistant Assistant construction engineer or Assistant safety engineer inspector Other positions not quite so direct Where the chemical engineer spends his time . ? The great majority of chemical engineers are located in plants , laboratories , and offices in cities having a population of 25,000 or more . The distribution of chemical engineers over the United States is pictured in Table 33 . In the three leading states ? New York with 14.6 percent , New Jersey with 9.9 percent , and Pennsylvania with 9.6 percent ? are located more than one-third of the chemical engineers who reported in the 1946 survey of the engineering profession . figure  | Disadvantages and special hazards . ? Some of the adverse conditions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ engineering are as follows : Living in remote and/or unattractive places with poor climates Smelly , dirty work High-temperature conditions Gassy atmospheres , with irritating and sometimes poisonous conditions Dangerous reactions involving risk of explosions or boilovers or burns High-pressure reactions Necessity for handling corrosive liquids with danger to skin , eyes , and teeth The chemical engineer , like the engineers in other fields , may have to work under executives who do not understand his specialty and may therefore lack appreciation of his work . Remuneration . ? The salary data in Table 34 represent monthly salary rates reported in 1946 by chemical engineers not in government employ . Comparing , for example , the three rates at the three-year experience level with the three rates at the **26;1373;TOOLONG level , it is seen that the rise in the figure  | " Lower Tenth " column is only $157 , while it is $388 in the " Median " column , and more than $640 in the " Upper Tenth " column . ( See chapter 12 for other salary tables . ) Future demand for chemical engineers . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ materials in large quantities that has not begun to apply chemical discoveries ; and the technical direction of this application is the province of the chemical engineer . The chemical industry has grown enormously during the past thirty years , owing largely to active research programs . Research in this field has but fairly begun ; and there is no limit to the number of things still to be discovered or uncovered . The earlier successes attained by the co-operation of chemistry and engineering in bettering old products or producing them more cheaply and in devising new materials have steadily advanced industry 's appreciation of the chemical engineer . The demand for services of chemical engineers was sharply increased by World War I and even more by World War II . This sudden jump in demand is due partly to the needs of chemical warfare and partly to the pressure on the nations involved to discover and manufacture substitutes for necessary materials that in peacetime have been imported for various purposes . The de'nand is much influenced by general business conditions ; nevertheless , it continued to climb steadily upward during @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no reason for expecting a flattening out of the curve of demand . As a field of promising opportunities chemical engineering is believed to be second to none . Curricula in chemical engineering. ? Probably more than half the members of the American Institute of Chemical Engineers in its first years had graduated as chemists and had become chemical engineers through additional training undergone by force of circumstances in that most selective institution , the University of I and Knocks . And today not a few chemists , on entering practice even with the most advanced degrees , find themselves impelled by inclination or drafted by employers into operation rather than pure research and so by force of circumstances pass through a most . exacting apprenticeship in chemical engineering . ' 1'lie earlier four-year curriculum in chemical engineering ap-  | pears to have been made by the simple process of selecting courses from the mechanical engineering curriculum and the chemistry curriculum and including descriptions of a smaller or larger number of chemical industries according to the available time . But on analyzing the specific start-to-finish process employed in each chemical industry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them all . The gradual recognition of this fact is reflected in the change in the character of the curriculum . Now the standard four-year curriculum in chemical engineering is characterized , not alone by descriptions of chemical industries but also by systematic methods for the quantitative solution of the problems presented by each of the basic operations . These methods involve the application of the laws of chemistry and of physical chemistry . The change in the four-year curriculum was facilitated by the appearance in 1923 of Principles of Chemical Engineering , by Walker , Lewis , and McAdams . This book was instrumental in focusing attention on the problems of basic operations . Frequent revisions of this text and the appearance of excellent texts under other authorship have helped to keep teaching abreast with the many changes in teaching material and method in the field of instruction . As in other engineering fields , the curriculum of chemical engineering consists of three parts : ( a ) professional subjects , ( b ) subjects fundamental to all engineering , and ( c ) special preparatory subjects ? subjects that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the field of chemical engineering but not included in ( b ) . Professional subjects. ? Of the multitudinous possible professional chemical engineering subjects , those included in the chemical engineering curricula of six or more schools of this country appear in the following list:3 Chemical engineering ( 47 ) Unit operations ( unit processes ) of chemical engineering ( 39 ) Industrial chemistry ( engineering chemistry ) ( 36 ) Chemical engineering calculations ( industrial chemistry calculations ) ? usually including industrial stoichiometry ( 22 ) 3 The number in parentheses following each subject indicates the number , out of the 74 engineering schools whose catalogues were examined , offering the subject .  | Electrochemical engineering ( 22 ) Chemical plant design ( 20 ) Chemical engineering design ( 15 ) Chemical technology ( 14 ) Inorganic chemical technology ( 9 ) Physical metallurgy ( 9 ) Organic chemical technology ( 8 ) Fuels and combustion ( 7 ) Gas and fuel analysis ( 7 ) Petroleum technology ( 7 ) Chemistry of materials ( 6 ) Chemical metallurgy Economics of chemical engineering Subjects fundamental to all engineering. ? These @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Engineer . " Special preparatory subjects. ? Subjects required as preparation for professional subjects in chemical engineering but not so required in all the other engineering fields are as follows : Qualitative analysis Quantitative analysis ( may include gas analysis ) Organic chemistry Physical chemistry Colloids Catalysis Applied mathematics ( including advanced calculus , etc. ) for chemical engineering Accomplishments of chemical engineering . ? Not until more than five hundred years after the first use of black powder in A.D. 1295 did there come any further development in explosives , that is , not before the invention of nitroglycerin , smokeless powder , and dynamite . This furnishes a striking contrast to the rate of development of the chemical engineering field during the past hundred years . As examples of the innumerable later achievements of chemical engineering may be cited the following : Development of the proper steel and the design of the equipment into which it enters , for high-pressure synthesis , high-temperature cracking , and catalytic reactions Development of the ammonia soda process for making soda ash to its present state of perfection and knowledge ; the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lake brines and bromine and magnesium from sea water  | Development of the electrolytic cell for the manufacture of caustic and chlorine to its present state of perfection Development of equipment for fractionating hydrocarbon gases into relatively pure individuals Development of processes and equipment for making artificial textile fibers , such as rayon , nylon , and spun glass Development of air conditioning and , along with it , improvements in refrigeration and its application Development of the plastics industry Development of synthetic phosphoric acid production Development of synthetic organic chemistry with the production of hundreds of compounds of wide industrial application Development of motor fuels by high-pressure hydrogenation of coal Fixation of nitrogen from the air and its synthesis into ammonia and nitric acid New electroplating processes ( chromium , tungsten ) New metallurgical processes , such as the extraction of zinc from the oxide by means of carbon monoxide Development of production of high-octane aviation fuel The large scale production of a number of synthetic rubber compounds and of many of the naturally occurring vitamins and hormones by synthetic processes ; the remarkable developments in chemotherapy which have led @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ powerful agents against infections , such as penicillin , streptomycin , sulfadiazene , and sulfapyridene ; and the near approach to the release and the peaceful utilization of atomic energy ? all give testimony to the amazing progress being made in the application of chemistry and engineering to human comfort and health . AGRICULTURAL ENGINEERING ' Agricultural engineering consists in the application of engineering science and art to the improvement of land , to the design , construction , and operation of farm buildings and facilities , and to the design , development , selection , installation , and operation of farm production and processing equipment . The agricultural engineer draws on such principles and practices of civil , mechanical , electrical , and chemical engineering as are applicable to agri4 For co-operation in revising the matter on agricultural engineering the authors are indebted to Harry B. Walker , professor of agricultural engineering , I Jniversity of California .  | culture . To apply them intelligently and successfully he must understand also the basic principles and practices of agriculture and must have an impelling interest in the way of life and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Agricultural Engineers was organized in 1907 . Its early members were men who , for the most part , were trained in one or another of the older fields of engineering and had become interested in serving the engineering needs of agriculture . In the United States the first degree of Bachelor of Science in Agriculture was granted in 1910 . The development of special training in this newer field is roughly indicated by the fact that the number of land-grant institutions offering this professional training was 7 in 1922 , 10 in 1925 , 17 in 1929 , 20 in 1931 , and 22 in 1946 . Further evidence of the increasing recognition of this field came in 1931 when the Bureau of Agricultural Engineering5 was established in the U.S. Department of Agriculture . Subfields of agricultural engineering . ? Agricultural engineering may be regarded as embracing four major subfields . SUBFIELDS OF AGRICULTURAL ENGINEERING Farm power6 and machinery Rural electrification Farm structures , 6 water supply , and sanitation Land conservation and reclamation The first subfield listed above involves mechanical and electrical engineering ; the second , electrical and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , civil , mechanical , electrical , and chemical engineering . The first two subfields are intimately related . Subdivisions of the subfields are indicated later under " Curriculum . " The foregoing list of subfields closely corresponds to the " divisions " in the American Society of Agricultural Engineers , which divisions , with ' their birth years , are as follows : College , 1920 ; Soil and This bureau was consolidated with the Bureau of Chemistry and Soils in 1939 ( July 1 ) to form the Bureau of Agricultural Chemistry and Engineering , and in 1943 , Agricultural Engineering was assigned to the Bureau of Plant Industry to form the Bureau of Plant Industry , Soils , and Agricultural Engineering , U.S. Department of Agriculture . In this country , farming leads the manufacturing industry in consumption of primary power ; and about two-fifths of the building industry is on farms .  | Water , 1921 ; Power and Machinery , 1921 ; Structures , 1921 ; and Rural Electrification , 1925 . Functions of agricultural engineering . ? The general functions of this field are the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the special functions of agricultural engineering are the following : Development of new machines and equipment for agricultural production and processing Sale , servicing , and distribution of agricultural machinery and equipment Management and development of reclamation and soil conservation projects Advertising and promotion of agricultural equipment for both production and processing Research , teaching , and extension activities Appraisal of agricultural lands Rural electrification Employers of agricultural engineers . ? Among the chief employers of agricultural engineers are the following : U.S. Department of Agriculture , for research and extension work , in its Soil Conservation Service , in its Bureau of Plant Industry , Soils , and Agricultural Engineering , and in others of its bureaus Bureau of Reclamation , U.S. Department of the Interior State agricultural experiment stations State colleges and universities , for research and for resident and extension instruction Manufacturers of farm building materials Farm implement manufacturers , for development , sales , and service Farm production , processing , and land development companies Electric light and power companies , for application to farm needs for light , heat , and power Irrigation projects Banking , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , rehabilitate , and supervise operation of farms that come under their control Farm and trade journals , for editorial work Advertising agencies Retail sales companies Mail-order houses , in their purchasing , development , and testing departments A few agricultural engineers are in private practice .  | Artisans and technicians supervised by agricultural engineers . ? Among the artisans and technicians with whom the agricultural engineer may have to do are figure Pathways to professional work in agricultural engineering . ? The first position obtained by the recent graduate in agricultural engineering is likely to be that of field or office or laboratory assistant to an agricultural engineer in a responsible position in research or other work . A number of industries take on recent graduates in this field as training students or special student apprentices . Where the agricultural engineer spends his time . ? The agricultural engineer 's work may be confined to the land or to centers of industries relating to agriculture , such as farm implement manufacturing , public utilities , and food processing . His work may be outdoor or indoor , in office , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this country or abroad . It may or may not involve much travel . ( See under " Distribution of engineers " in chapter 12 . ) Disadvantages and special hazards . ? The agricultural engineer shares the physical and economic hazards of the farmer and t hose who serve the farmer . While it appears that opportunities for exceptional technical achievement are fewer in this than in o t her engineering fields , it does provide opportunities for unusual personal satisfaction in technical service . Remuneration . ? The salaries received by agricultural engineer are similar to those received by engineers in other fields . The great attraction of the career in this field is the opportunity to take a Ieading part in the development of economical and efficient methods of production and the improvement of rural living conditions . This tends to make agricultural engineering an exhilarating same instead of a dull routine . Annual salaries of 1946 in this field may be indicated as follows : training student , $1,200-$2,400 ; junior agricultural engineer , $2,400-$3,600 ; assistant agricultural  | engineer , $3,600-$4,800 ; associate agricultural engineer , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . ( See also under " Remuneration of engineers " in chapter 12 . ) Future demand for agricultural engineers . ? Tillers of the soil have as a group been far more conservative than manufacturers in taking advantage of advances of science and applied science ; and there is a vast potential field for the agricultural engineer , upon whom falls the task of effectively interesting the farmers in the efficiencies of production as they relate to the utilization of power and labor and in higher standards of sanitation , comfort , and convenience . Demand will increase as the contributions of engineering to agriculture become more widely appreciated . Curriculum in agricultural engineering . ? Among the names of the professional or applied agricultural engineering subjects more frequently listed in the announcements of agricultural engineering departments of colleges and universities are the fol-lowing : Rural electrification Farm power ( gas engines and Farm machinery tractors ) Farm equipment Irrigation methods , pumps , and Farm drainage and irrigation equipment Farm structures Land development , including Farm water supply and sanitation control and prevention of erosion The foregoing are indicative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ names of subjects indicate greater specialization . For example , one school has a class in " cotton machinery , " another a class in " dairy machinery , " and still another a class in " orchard machinery . " A curriculum of agricultural engineering includes also such of the subjects fundamental to all engineering fields ( see chapter 13 ) and such basic agricultural subjects ( soils , agronomy , etc. ) as are deemed indispensable preparation for the included professional subjects . Accomplishments of engineering applied to agriculture . Many of the inventions and advancements recorded in the chapters on civil , mechanical , and electrical engineering have been applied to the furtherance of agriculture . Some of the more  | notable developments in machinery and implements devoted solely or primarily to agriculture or to processing agricultural products have been presented in chapter 6 , " Mechanical Engineering , " and to those we may add the following : ' 1763 Spinning jenny , by Hargreaves 1784 Cast iron plow , by Small 1793 Cotton gin , by Eli Whitney 1831 Mowing machine , by Manny 1831 ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hussey and McCormick 1834 Endless-apron thresher , by Pitts Brothers 1837 Steel plow , first made commercially successful by Andrus and Deere at Grand Detour in Illinois 1851 Forced-feed grain drill 1858 Harvester , by Marsh 1865 Wagon-type manure spreader 1868 Sulky plow , by Slusser 1870 Twine binder 1870 Portable steam engine for belt-power use 1879 Automatic grain binder , by Appleby 1886 Combine harvester , by Matteson 1003 Tractor commercially successful 1025 General-purpose tractor 1943 Practical mechanical sugar beet harvester 19.14 Practical mechanical cotton harvester Some of the most recent engineering achievements in agriculture have livens the drying and freezing of fruits and vegetables and the use of airplanes for seeding , fertilizing , and pest control operations on the farm . ARCHITECTURAL ENGINEERING , Architectural engineering involves mechanical , electrical , structural , sanitary , and acoustical engineering ; and it requires an appreciative understanding of the ideals of architecture and an expert knowledge of building materials , codes , customs , and faeilit ies .. State laws governing professional registration treat architect oral engineering as a division of architecture . The work of footnote ' F. A. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Agricultural Engineering , XII ( June 1931 ) , 201 . For co-operation in revising the matter on architectural engineering the authors are Indebted to Eugene V. Ward , lecturer emeritus in architectural engineering , Stanford ( ' oivrrnity.  | the architectural engineer ranges from designing steel frames and foundations to superintending construction . It includes planning or overseeing of lighting , power , heating , plumbing , and elevator systems of buildings , and construction details and materials therefor ; estimating costs and writing specifications ; and selecting the hardware and similar specialties . The complexity of the work and his intimate co-operation with others working along so many different lines requires for success on the part of the architectural engineer a high degree of resourcefulness and mental flexibility . The field lies in larger cities rather than in small towns . Subfields and functions of architectural engineering . ? Architectural engineering embraces the subfields of architectural construction , structural engineering and mechanical , electrical , sanitary , and other equipment . The principal functions are design , construction , supervision , and inspection . The architectural engineer and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; construction companies ; manifacturers and distributors of building materials , equipment , and specialties ; and architectural offices of federal , state , and municipal governments . The artisans and technicians with whom the architectural engineer has to do include draftsmen , inspectors , and all kinds of building craftsmen . The young graduate is likely to be employed first in one or another of the following positions : inspector , timekeeper , or materials clerk on construction ; assistant to architect or architectural engineer , or to mechanical , electrical , or structural engineer working under the direction of an architect . The architectural engineer spends his time in or out of a city office according to the nature of duties he is performing at the time . The principal disadvantage of a career in this field lies iii the instability of demand , which falls rapidly during a depression . ( See under " Distribution of engineers " and under " Remuneration of engineers " in chapter 12 . ) Demand for architectural engineers is closely related to general business conditions . An upsurge in general business usually @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ likely to begin with alterations and modernizations of existing business buildings and the construction of new houses of the more elaborate type .  | Curriculum in architectural engineering . ? In addition to subjects fundamental to all fields of engineering ( see chapter 13 ) , the curriculum of architectural engineering includes a number of professional subjects and also certain special-preparation subjects . The professional subjects usually include : some architectural design ; architectural construction ; structural engineering ; materials of architectural construction , building equipment ; and working drawings , specifications , and estimates . In almost every curriculum there are a few courses each devoted to a subdivision of one of the foregoing subjects , as for example , fire protection , air conditioning , sanitation . The special preparation includes history of architecture and extended training in freehand drawing . In some universities the curriculum in architectural engineering is directed by the department of civil engineering , in others by the department of mechanical engineering ; but it is more commonly directed by the department of architecture . Accomplishments of architectural engineering . ? Among the notable advances @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : 11 ) 00 ? Steel-skeleton buildings and fireproofing came into general use after twenty years of isolated pioneering , and skyscrapers became common . The Tacoma Building in Chicago , 1889 , was the first to have a complete metal frame , which included castiron columns , wrought-iron beams , and hollow-tile floor arches . 11110 ? Reinforced concrete buildings came into general use . In 1875 a reinforced concrete residence was built at Port Chester , New York . 11 ) 10 Setback architecture was initiated by the New York setback law . Extensive development of this style followed almost immediately . 11 ) 22 " Modern " architecture , with emphasis on making architectural design truly represent the facts of construction . 1940 In the current mode the older architectural forms are eliminated . Ingenuity in the use of mass , material , and color has taken their place . The floor plan has become logical rather than conventional . In recent years the importance of the laboratory has greatly hemmed . Ingenious employment of materials and color has red meaningless decoration . Vastly improved mechanical , elec- @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been developed , and the architectural engineer must dependably apply all of them in their most recent forms . // Acoustical engineering is concerned with applications of the principles of sound control . The field is still in its infancy . Four subfields , however , have already emerged . SUBFIELDS OF ACOUSTICAL ENGINEERING Architectural design for good acoustics Elimination or reduction of objectionable sounds Through reduction at the sources ( mechanical ) Through interception , or Through absorption ( deadening materials ) Production , recording , reproduction , and distribution of sound ( radio , telephone , and motion-picture engineering ) Military and naval applications , such as Reduction of sound in all types of military machinery , but especially in aircraft and submarines Development of methods of detecting and locating enemy machines , especially submarines The acoustical engineer and his job . ? The principal employers of acoustical engineers are such large commercial organizations as Johns-Manville , Celotex Company , United States Gypsum Company ; architects ; moving-picture companies ; radio companies ; and acoustical laboratories . The artisans and technicians with whom the acoustical engineer works are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The pathways to professional work in acoustical engineering include the positions of radio worker , acoustical laboratory worker , sales engineer of acoustical devices and treatments , and assistant to moving-picture sound engineer . The working time of the acoustical engineer will be passed in a city office or factory or in a research laboratory . This is a new field and therefore presents many opportunities for future development . Remuneration in this field is probably somewhat lower than in footnote s For co-operation in revising the matter on acoustical engineering the authors are indebted to Skipwith W. Athey , assistant professor of electrical engineering , Stanford University .  | the more established fields of engineering at present but should advance as the field develops . The demand for acoustical engineers should increase because the field is gaining in public appreciation and because the advance of mechanical civilization is constantly producing more complex sound problems . ( See under " Distribution of engineers " and under " Remuneration of engineers " in chapter 12 . ) Curriculum in acoustical engineering . ? The rise of this field of engineering is so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The present acoustical engineers were trained for one or another of the older fields of engineering , and have established this new field as a result of interest and practice in the solution of the problems of sound which arise in connection with architecture and the various fields of engineering ( see under " Acoustical Engineering " in the chapter on " Electrical Engineering " ) . Accomplishments of acoustical engineering . ? The first major accomplishment of acoustical engineering was a systematic method of predetermining the acoustics of auditoriums , so that the spending of a large sum of money for a music hall , for instance , was not accompanied by the hazard that when it was built people could not hear in it . Acoustics can now be predicted with the same general accuracy as lighting or heating . The improvement of the talking pictures , from the first crude attempt to the present fairly satisfactory performance , is probably the next most important development . The application of architectural acoustics for the improvement of working and living conditions in offices and apartments by the use of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ value and will undoubtedly increase . PROBLEMS FOR RESEARCH Chemical Engineering Among the more important problems of chemical engineering now under or awaiting research are the following : Production of chlorine without the production of accompanying alkali hydroxides or metals as is the case in the electrolytic decomposition of alkali chlorides  | Chemical engineering problems in connection with the production of nylon ( artificial silk ) and its raw materials Splitting of pyrite into sulfur and very pure iron oxide by high-temperature cyclic chloridizing ( Wescott process ) Production of sponge metals from their oxides Economic production of chlorine from HC1 produced as a by-product of organic substitution chlorinations Utilization of by-product calcium chloride produced in the ammonia soda process of making soda ash A more efficient method of eliminating all water from caustic soda than the conventional direct-fired fusion pots A lower-cost method of purifying electrolytic caustic soda for use in viscose rayon industry Development of processes for the production of very cheap oxygen Agricultural Engineering The numerous problems under or awaiting research in this field have to do with 1 . Farm structures 2 . Equipment 3 . Products @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for ( a ) housing for dairy and other stock , and for curing , processing , and packing ; and for ( b ) storage for farm products , machinery , and equipment . They present for research , problems pertaining to the following features : figure Equipment. ? Further researches are needed in connection with the following types of equipment : Equipment for dairy and other livestock production , for control of weeds , insects , and plant diseases , and for production , harvesting , and processing of farm crops Mobile equipment , with special reference to environmental factors such as dust , bearing wear , lubrication , traction , and surface bearing on soils New machines and applications of old machines Water systems and pumps Products. ? Besides problems of direct farm products , there are the problems of converting such products , the by-products , and the wastes to  | industrial uses , largely by chemical processes , e.g. , synthetic building and insulation materials from sugar-cane bagasse , corn stalks , and wood pulp . Methods. ? Typical of the problems of method requiring further @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ figure All problems under research are of course undertaken with economic advancement as the ultimate objective . The need of thorough application of engineering economics is no less essential in agricultural than in the other fields of engineering . Architectural Engineering Among the problems of architectural engineering that are undergoing or awaiting research are the following : Decrease in weight without sacrifice of desirable qualities Improvement in wall construction toward making it thin , flexible , and light in weight and toward tying it more firmly to the structural frame Earthquake-resistant design and construction Shop-fabricated buildings , composed of stock units so designed as to be attractive , inexpensive , and individual Construction to increase proportion of shopwork and to decrease field work with net saving of cost and time of construction Methods of assembly that will facilitate alterations or increase salvage value Building laws and vested interests tend to thwart or delay changes that in themselves are desirable . Any radical advance usually meets strong opposition from those who fear to be adversely affected by it . Acoustical Engineering Development of radio receiving sets that can reproduce the entire frequency @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ distortion comparable to that introduced by the stations Supersonics as applied to military detection and measurement , particularly under water Construction of quiet aircraft Improvement of radio , recording , and motion picture studio acoustics to provide more natural sound pickup by the exact control of the nature and direction as well as the amount of sound absorption and reflection PROFESSIONAL SOCIETIES Chemical Engineering The engineers in this field formed their own national society , the  | American Institute of Chemical Engineers , in 1908 . Many chemical engineers are members also of other national societies , such as American Chemical Society American Electrochemical Society American Institute of Electrical Engineers American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers American Management Association American Petroleum Institute American Society of Civil Engineers American Society of Mechanical Engineers American Society for Testing Materials Technical Association , Pulp and Paper Institute Agricultural Engineering Agricultural engineers have their own national society : the American Society of Agricultural Engineers . They may also be eligible to membership in one or another of the other national engineering societies according to their individual training , practice , and interests . For @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ specialty of farm machinery may make him eligible to membership in the American Society of Mechanical Engineers . Architectural Engineering The societies to which the architectural engineer becomes eligible after more or less experience include American Institute of Architects American Society of Civil Engineers American Society of Mechanical Engineers American Society for Testing Materials Acoustical Engineering The Acoustical Society of America is the society formed to advance the field of acoustical engineering . An acoustical engineer , after specified amounts of practice , is eligible also to membership in one or another of the older professional engineering societies , according to the field in which he gained his engineering training and earlier experience . SELECTED BIBLIOGRAPHY The items listed below are merely representative of a multitude of publications , in each of which the seeker of a career may recognize some additional characteristics of the division of engineering with which the publication is concerned . General Wickenden , W. E , A Professional Guide for Junior Engineers , New York : Engineers ' Council for Professional Development , 1949  | Chemical Engineering Chemical Abstracts ( for patents and abstracts of technical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Journal of Chemical Education ( containing elementary introduction to many aspects of chemical engineering and much information concerning the lives of famous chemical engineers ) There are also many periodicals , each devoted to one chemical industry . Eckman , D. P. , Principles of Industrial Process Control , New York : Wiley , 1945 Groggins , P. H. , Unit Processes in Organic Synthesis , 3d ed. , New York : McGraw-Hill , 1946 Hougen , O. A. , and Watson , K. M. , Industrial Chemical Calculations , 2d ed. , New York : Wiley , 1936 Hougen , O. A. , and Watson , K. M. , Chemical Process Principles , New York : Wiley , Vol . I , Material and Energy Balances , 1943 , Vol . II , // Lewis , W. K. , and Radasch , A. H. , Industrial Stoichiometry , New York : McGraw-Hill , 1926 Lewis , W. K. , Squires , L. , and Broughton , G. , Industrial Chemistry of Colloidal and Amorphous Materials , New York : Macmillan , 1942 Perry , J. H. ( ed . ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ York : McGraw-Hill , 1941 Sherwood , T. K. , and Reed , C. E. , Applied Mathematics in Chemical Engineering , New York : McGraw-Hill , 1939 Shreve , R. N. , The Chemical Process Industries , New York : McGrawHill , 1945 Tyler , C. , Chemical Engineering Economics , 3d ed. , New York : McGrawHill , 1948 Vilbrandt , F. C. , Chemical Engineering Plant Design , 3d ed. , New York : McGraw-Hill , 1949 Walker , W. H. , Lewis , W. K. , McAdams , W. H. , and Gilliland , E. R. , Principles of Chemical Engineering , 3d ed. , New York : McGraw-Hill , 1937 The following titles are typical of the many monographs on special subjects issued in the American Chemical Society Monograph Series , published by the Chemical Catalog Company : figure  | figure Agricultural Engineering Agricultural Engineering ( especially the issue of June 1931 ) Agricultural Engineering : A Career for Capable Young Men , St. Joseph , Mich. : American Society of Agricultural Engineers , ( n.d . ) . Davidson , J. B. , " Agricultural @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " Research in Farm Structures , " U.S. Department of Agriculture , Miscellaneous Publication No. 133 , Washington , D.C. : U.S. Government Printing Office , 1932 Walker , H. B. , " Engineering as Applied to Agriculture , " Proceedings of the World Engineering Congress , Tokyo , 1929 , XXV ( Mechanical Engineering ) , 129 ? 45 , " Research in Mechanical Farm Equipment , " U.S. Department of Agriculture , Miscellaneous Publication No. 38 , Washington , D.C. : U.S. Government Printing Office , " Whither Agricultural Engineering Education , " Agricultural // Bulletins of the U.S. Department of Agriculture and of the various states Transactions of the American Society of Agricultural Engineers Architectural Engineering Architect and Engineer of California Architectural Forum Engineering News-Record Handbook of Architectural Practice , Washington , D.C. : American Institute of Architects , 1943 Huntington , W. C. , Building Construction , 2d ed. , New York : Wiley , 1941 Ramsay , C. G. , and Sleeper , H. R. , Architectural Graphic Standards , 3d ed. , New York : Wiley , 1941 Time-Saver Standards , New York : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Society of America Olson , H. F. , Elements of Acoustical Engineering , 2d ed. , New York : Van Nostrand , 1947 Watson , F. R. , Acoustics of Buildings , 3d ed. , New York : Wiley , 1941  | THE METHOD OF ENGINEERING Indeed , the most important part of engineering work ? and also of other scientific work ? is the determination of the method of attacking the problem , whatever it may be. ? CHARLES PROTEUS STEINMETZ Mention was made in chapter 1 of the fact that the engineer uses in the pursuit of his profession a systematic method of thinking which has come to be termed the " engineering method " and that this differs from the " scientific method " only in the purposes to which the conclusions are put . It is the chief purpose of this present chapter , as its title suggests , to inquire into and , as far as may be , to formulate the engineering method . The following section , " Logic and Engineering Reasoning , " was contributed by Mr. A. Grove Day . LOGIC AND @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ engineering method , it is fitting to review briefly the two kinds of reasoning that are fundamental to all engineering thinking ? or , in fact , to thinking on any subject . These two tools of thought , used by both scientist and engineer as occasion demands , are termed " deduction " and " induction , " and correspond to the two main branches of formal logic . Deduction . ? Aristotle completely stated the laws of reasoning by deduction and demonstrated under what conditions the application of a general truth to a particular case will be valid or false . ' l'liis he did by putting a statement in the form of a syllogism ? three sentences with related terms . The first sentence ( major premise ) states a general law ; the second ( minor premise ) assigns a particular case to the general law ; and the final sentence ( conclusion ) applies the general law to the specific case . An example of reasoning by syllogism is : " All unsupported objects will immediately fall " ( major premise ) ; " This book @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ premise ) ; therefore , " This book will immediately fall " ( conclusion ) . If all the rules of syllogistic reasoning laid down by Aristotle are observed , the conclusion will presumably be a true consequence of the premises . But it is obvious that if either of the premises is false , then no manipulation of the syllogism can bring a true result , except by chance . The machinery of deduction works just as smoothly with a basic error as with a basic truth ; in short , the conclusions can be no better than the premises . No new truths can ever be discovered by the use of the deductive method , but merely new applications of old truths . Ancient and medieval science sometimes developed remarkable facility in deduction , but since a false general premise will invariably give a false conclusion , no matter how scrupulously the deductive process is followed , the major premises that were useful in those times were chiefly those based on " self-evident " axioms , such as those of Euclid . During the Middle Ages the tendency grew @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , or intuition ; and this largely accounts for the barrenness of science and engineering art during those centuries and for the ridiculous discussions of pedants who unquestioningly set up as general laws a multitude of statements that had not been proved or that could never be known . The natural response to this difficulty is to say : " The thing to do is not to use any premises that you can not prove without doubt to be true . Go out and test your premises under all possible conditions , until you know that they hold good in all cases . " That is accepted as common sense today ? so widely has the idea of the experimental method spread . But actually it was centuries after Aristotle before philosophers dared to question the hoary " laws " of authority and to subject their premises to methodical tests under varying conditions according to the canons of inductive logic . The great triumph of the deductive reasoning process is mathematics , a flexible technique of reasoning , having as its foundation a set of " self-evident " axioms upon which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ parts of which are linked together by deductive logic . Induction . ? The inductive process is the only process of rea-  | Boning by which new truths may be established , and is recognized to be the basis of scientific discovery . It is the form of reasoning by which we conclude , by analogy , that what is true of certain individuals of a class is true of the whole class , or that what is true at certain times will be true in similar circumstances at all times . This is a somewhat fearsome description of a reasoning process that is employed by the average person a hundred times a day , with more or less validity , often without realizing that he is making a generalization based on a larger or smaller series of observed parallel instances . The child discovers that whenever he relaxes his hold on an object held in his hand the object falls . Through repeating a number of such experiences he comes to the conclusion that this will invariably be true . The establishment of the law of gravitation by the scientist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ child , not in the mental processes employed , but in the thoroughness with which the examples are obtained , recorded , and classified , in the exactness of the observations , in the measurement of the relationships , and in the intentional subjection of the hypothesis to experimental verification until the generalization arrived at appeals to him as a universal truth which will serve as a useful basis for future thought and action . In this way , and only in this way , is it possible to establish general laws , that is , to build up statements that may be reliably used as major premises for deduction . Although the method of induction has been practiced in a casual way ever since the human race first began to think , it was not until t lie thirteenth century that a revolt against the meek submission to Aristotelian authority was set afoot . By coincidence , this moveitAent of insistence upon discovering useful truths by the method of experiment is associated with the names of two men both bearing the name of Bacon . Roger Bacon ( 1214 ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ile was the first boldly to challenge deduction from unverified premises , and he spoke of experiment as " the lord of all the sciences . " He adapted the lens for use in the microscope and foretold the coming of such inventions as the airplane , the steamship , and the automobile . His presumption and heresy were punished : Ile spent the latter years of his life in prison , without books ,  | instruments , or writing materials , on a charge of practicing black magic . The father of modern science and engineering , he was also its first martyr . He suffered the penalties of being born centuries before his time . Francis Bacon , Lord Verulam ( 1561 ? 1626 ) , coming three and a half centuries later , revived ' and stated in explicit terms this philosophy of progress through experiment . Use of the two processes . ? The two types of reasoning , induction and deduction , are complementary . A multitude of comparable instances are collected and , through the inductive process , a general law is stated ; this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ instances . Each process must be used , then , according to the purpose for which the reasoning is carried on . It may be broadly said that the scientist is likely to make greater use of the inductive process and the engineer to make greater use of the deductive process . The purpose of the scientist is to add to the world 's store of systematic knowledge and to discover laws of behavior in nature ; the purpose of the engineer is to apply this knowledge to particular situations by deducing specific behavior from the scientists ' general principles . Induction is the path to knowing ( science ) ; deduction is the path to applying ( engineering ) . Induction must be the chief guide in experiment , and its canons must be rigidly observed under the test conditions . Deduction , on the other hand , is especially valuable for applying the knowledge of science ; the engineer spends much time in putting to work , under various circumstances , the principles and rules and formulas that were presented to him in his student days . Seldom does @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at a given moment . Engineers in practice do not figure 3 " Bacon was not . . . . the inventor of the inductive method . He was not even the person who first analysed the inductive method correctly , though he undoubtedly analysed it more minutely than any who preceded him . He was not the person who first showed that by the inductive method alone new truth could be discovered . But he was the person who first turned the minds of speculative men , long occupied in verbal disputes , to the discovery of new and useful truth ; and , by doing so , he at once gave to the inductive method an importance and dignity which had never before belonged to it Bacon stirred up men to pursue an object which could be attained only by induction , and by induction carefully performed ; and consequently induction was more carefully performed . " T. B. Macaulay , " Francis Bacon , " Critical and Historical Essays ( New York : Dutton &; Co. , Inc. , 1937 ) .  | often resort to the rules @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , any more than a person engaged in writing an essay has before him a picture of the rules of syntax and composition ; both thinking and writing are creative processes , whereas logic and rhetoric are critical processes . The value of induction and deduction is mainly evident in furnishing a ready check on the accuracy of statements that have been made or problems that presumably have been answered in a reasonable way . The engineer trained in logic will be able , after a statement has been made , to spot a fallacy in deduction or to show where the rules of sound experiment have been violated ; but when he is confronted with the responsibility of finding an answer to an involved question he is likely to use that creative plan of attack which the profession has found particularly effective and that has come to be known as the engineering method . SOME PRELIMINARY DEFINITIONS With the aim of rendering the description of the engineering method more definite and concise , certain terms will be used each with a specific single meaning ; and these will now be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ words problem and question are used with the same meaning and are , therefore , interchangeable . Factors . ? A factor of a question is anything on which the answer depends , that is , anything which directly or indirectly has an influence on the answer . Orders of factors. ? The factors of a question may be classified as first order , second order , etc. , according to the relative directness of their influence on the answer . Thus a first-order factor influences the answer directly ; a second-order factor influences the answer only indirectly through its direct effect on a firstorder factor ; and so on ( see Fig. 3 ) . For example , in Figure 6 ( p.232 ) , cubic feet in pile is one of the first-order factors and height is one of the second-order factors of the question , " How many truck loads in the pile of gravel ? " The first-order factors will usually be referred to as immediate factors , except where the context makes superfluous the use of the adjective . The immediate factors of a question are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , however much they may differ in value , or in influence on the answer . In the diagram each factor is an immediate factor of the item just above it . Any factor , say X , becomes of concern only when there has arisen the new question , " What is the value of the factor just above X ? ? and the new question can not be evaluated directly . It follows that in a discussion of the process of indirect evaluation there is seldom occasion to mention other than immediate factors . Analysis . ? To analyze a question is to recognize or discover its factors and their relations to one another and to the question , and to classify the factors on the basis of their general relationships . ( In this and the succeeding chapter the Greek letter delta A is used on flow sheets as a symbol to signify the process of analyzing . See under Example 2 , p. 229 ) . As factors are differentiated from other knowledge in the storeroom of the mind , they are brought forward and grouped about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pattern of the general relationships between the question and its factors and between each factor and its subfactors . ( Fig. 3 , above , is one of several conventional patterns used to express these general relationships on paper . ) The analysis can not be regarded as completed until the factors are sorted according to relationships , and  | the resulting groups are at least mentally arranged to form a pattern which reflects them . To express the results of analysis on paper for the use of another person , it is necessary to use a pattern which that person can interpret correctly or to describe the results at such length that he can form a correct pattern for himself . Because of this , the results of analyzing are presented in this book by means of conventional patterns . This arranging of factors about the question in some pattern to indicate general relationships is a classifying2 process . These considerations appear to warrant the inclusion of classifying as a step in analyzing , as is done in the foregoing definition of analysis . Stages of analysis. ? The entire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first-order factors of a question , that is , in the first stage of analysis of a question . If it becomes necessary to analyze an immediate factor , the analyzing process is merely repeated . The second stage of analysis of a question comprises all the work that may be done to determine its second-order factors ; the third stage , to determine its third-order factors ; and so on . In short , all nth-order factors are the result of the nth stage of analysis . The number of stages required to find the answer to a question depends on the circumstances of the case . footnote 2 " By the classification of any series of objects is meant the actual or ideal arrangement together of those which are like and the separation of those which are unlike , the purpose of this arrangement being , primarily , to disclose the correlations or laws of union of properties and circumstances , and , secondarily , to facilitate the operations of the mind in clearly conceiving and in retaining in memory the characters of the objects in question . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ed . ( New York : Macmillan , 1905 ) , p. 677 . Classification and its importance may be illustrated by the following homely example . Upon a table is a chaotic array of formed bits of metal . On recognizing among the pieces the dial face and the hands of a watch and some tiny screws , some cogged wheels , and a coiled spring or two , you immediately infer that the pieces are parts of a watch . But for the life of you , you can not determine merely by repeating the process of running your eye over the aggregation whether there are present just enough parts to make a complete watch or too few or too many . And even a watchmaker could not readily make the determination by merely looking at the disarray . He would not even attempt to do so . His first move would be to classify the parts , that is , sort them into groups according to some pattern or scheme based on his knowledge of relationships of the groups of parts and of the parts in each group @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ move he would make quickly and with full confidence that , when thus sorted , the absence of a group from the pattern , or the lack or excess of parts in any group , would become conspicuous . Setting up a scheme of classification for the factors of a question allows attention to be focused exclusively on one division at a time , whereas without the scheme the attention is spread out thinly , so to speak , over the whole .  | But all this does not mean that in the process of analyzing a question first-order factors always come to mind first , followed in turn by second-order factors , third-order factors , and so on . The truth is , no one can foretell in what sequence factors will come to mind ( see under " The Practice of Analyzing , " below in this chapter ) . Evaluation . ? To evaluate a question is to find its answer . To evaluate a factor is to find the answer to the question , " What is the value of this factor ? " Evaluation is direct @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ explained later . In this chapter and the next the letter V is used on flow sheets as a symbol to signify the process of direct evaluation ( see under Example 2 , below ) . Integration . ? To integrate means to combine ( parts ) into a whole . Integration in this book means the process of combining the values of the immediate factors of a question or subquestion , according to the relations shown by analysis . The result of the integration is the answer to the question . When the relations between the immediate factors and the answer are mathematical , integration is a computing process ; when these relations are nonmathematical , integration is a process of judgment . The Greek letter sigma ( E ) is used on flow sheets in this chapter and the next to signify the process of integration ( see under Example 2 ) . Computable questions and questions of judgment . ? Before the time of mathematics , the answer to any question must have been reached without the aid of computation ? the answer must have been arrived at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and adding made it possible to compute the answers to some questions . The gradual development of the processes of mathematics and measurement has increased the range and number of questions to which answers can be computed . However , many a mathematical formula devised to express the answer to a question in terms of the factors often fails to yield a value that is acceptable as the answer . In such cases it turns out that the computed value , sometimes referred to as the " theoretical " answer , is but one of the immediate factors of the question for which the formula was devised and that an acceptable answer must be derived by judgment . Furthermore , the engineer frequently , and with good reason , reaches the answer  | to a question by combining the values of the immediate factors by judgment , even when he has at hand a mathematical formula by which the answer might be computed . Again , there is a large group of questions ? probably a majority of all questions ? whose answers can never be computed , however much aid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there can be no mathematical relation between the answer and the factors even when all the factors are known numerical quantities . The answer to any such question must always continue , therefore , to be the result of intuition or of deliberate judgment . In other fields , such as law , medicine , politics , theology , and the aesthetic arts , almost all questions , it may safely be said , are incomputable questions . In science and in engineering the proportion of computable questions is much higher ; but , at least in engineering , the answers to a majority of questions are the result of combining the immediate factors by intuition or by deliberate judgment . These incomputable questions are questions of comparison . Readily recognized as questions of judgment are most questions involving " yes or no , " " which , " " what , " " when , " " where , " " who , " and " how . " Each of these involves selection or choice . " Yes or no " implies comparison of alternative situations ? that which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ result from " no . " " What " implies that of all possible alternatives one is to be selected . " Which " implies that of two or more specified alternatives one is to be selected . " When " implies that of all possible times one is to be chosen . " Where " implies that of all possible places one is to be chosen . " How " implies that of all possible means , methods , or processes one is to be chosen . " Who " implies that one or more persons are to be selected from a group , large or small . A computable question is one in which the integration of the values of the immediate factors can be performed by computing . An incomputable question is one in which the values of the immediate factors can be integrated only by judgment or intuition . The answers to the subquestions of a question , computable or incomputable , may , any or all of them , be the result of computation or of judgment or of intuition . All larger engineering questions are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their subquestions ? the questions as to the values of their factors ? that the computable questions are encountered . Significant factors and insignificant factors . ? The factors of a question may be divided , on the basis of degrees of influence on the answer , into two classes : significant and insignificant . In any given question the insignificant factors are those whose influence on the answer is judged to be of no moment under the circumstances of the case . The line is not fixed between these two classes but will vary according to circumstances , with the result that a factor reasonably regarded as negligible under one set of circumstances may be as reasonably regarded as important under another set . In questions of computation , wherein the factors and their relations to the answer are all capable of being mathematically expressed , there is theoretically no insignificant factor ; but even in such cases a factor , however large , may be practically insignificant because its effect on the answer is negligible under the circumstances . For example , if a line AB has been measured @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be 500 feet long , and the tape is later found to be only 99 feet long , thus introducing the error of one foot , then the correct length of the line is 5 X 99 = 495 feet . Suppose , now , that for some particular purpose the length is desired only to the nearest ten feet : in this case the uncorrected length , 500 feet , is as serviceable as the correct length , and the error of one foot in each tape length , although a factor of the question , " What is the length of the line AB ? " is negligible . At one extreme of significant factors is the controlling or predominating factor , the factor that dictates the answer because its influence on the answer is realized to be greater than the combined influences of all the opposing factors . At the other extreme is the factor whose influence on the answer barely escapes being rated as negligible . Relatively few questions have a controlling factor . On the basis of degree of significance , significant factors are often classified @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ factors is like carrying along nonsignificant figures in computing : it wastes time and , worse yet , tends to obscure the signifi-  | cant factors and relationships . In these pages the lone word " factor " means " significant factor . " Not all significant factors need be dealt with individually . In some questions of judgment a person may be quick to recognize from long experience that the less significant factors are too numerous to mention or even mentally to review ; and there is no doubt that the values of many such factors are unconsciously included in the integration of values of those factors which have been individually evaluated . It is often observed in the discussion of a question that a factor that is regarded by one person as insignificant is held by another to be one of the more important of the significant factors . The reliability of an answer will hence depend somewhat on the skill of the solver in selecting significant factors . INTRODUCTION TO THE STEPS OF THE ENGINEERING METHOD The method of reasoning used by scientists and engineers is successful , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of mystical machine which takes a grist of observations into a hopper at one end and , simply by the turning of a crank , produces a new scientific truth or formula from a slot at the other end ? but because it is , in Huxley 's phrase , " trained and organized common sense " applied in a systematic manner . The engineering method could be presented in brief space in the form of rules ; and this would suffice here , were the purpose to have it learned by rote and applied automatically . Here , however , the method is discussed in its many aspects with the hope that the engineering student , by attentively reading this and the following chapter , may become so imbued with the essence of the method that he can begin understandingly at once applying it with discrimination , whatever may be the conditions and circumstances of the problem in hand . Confusion rather than advantage would result from setting out to apply the method mechanically , except under close direction and supervision . If further justification is needed for discussing the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ case as follows : In a bridge designer 's office , high-school graduates are taught in a short time  | to make calculations under an engineer 's close supervision according to given formulas . But the engineering student is given a long training in calculus and theoretical and applied mechanics to inculcate in him a few fundamental ideas so firmly that he may never confuse them with the thousands of details involved in their application . The fact that the engineering method is applicable to questions in general ? the simpler as well as the most complex ? suggests that we set out by describing the work of finding the answer to some questions so simple and familiar that the attention will be largely free to center on the mental processes used ? as in the following numbered examples . // A QUESTION TREATED AS INCOMPUTABLE , THE ANSWER BEING THE DIRECT RESULT OF DELIBERATE JUDGMENT I have hired a truckman to move a large pile of gravel , and as I am to pay him by the truck load I turn a questioning look at the pile : How many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the truck dumping its load and have no difficulty in visualizing the pile the dumped load makes . I hold this mental image as vividly as I can alongside the pile of gravel before  | me , and compare the two piles ? the actual pile with the recalled one-load pile ? and judge that there are about 30 truck loads of gravel . Thirty truck loads is an answer to the question . This example is so simple that it may appear that the less said about it the better . However , the steps in the process of finding the answer , being characteristic , may be scrutinized to discover our pattern . These steps are : ( a ) stating the question , ( b ) evaluating the question ( the work of finding the answer ) , and ( c ) reporting the result . A fourth step , checking the work , is deferred , to be discussed along with the same step of Example 2 below . In the present example the answer has been reached by direct evaluation ? by the imaginary measuring of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ imagined truck load . Thus , there has been no need to analyze the question consciously . // THE QUESTION OF EXAMPLE 1 TREATED AS COMPUTABLE , THE ANSWER BEING THE DIRECT RESULT OF COMPUTATION At my request you visit the pile of gravel referred to in Example 1 , above , and form an opinion as to the number of truck loads it will make . You happen to know that the capacity of the truck that is to be used for moving the gravel is 2 cubic yards , or 54 cubic feet . The pile happens to be roughly symmetrical in form ? like an inverted wedge with half-cones at the ends . In your imagination you reshape the pile to make it rectangular without changing its volume , and judge the imagined rectangular equivalent to be about 5 feet high , 6 feet wide , and 50 feet long . So you compute the answer to the question , thus : Cubic feet in the pile = 5 X 6 X 50 = 1,500 Truck loads in the pile = 1,500/54 = 27.8 , or , say @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a scant 28 truck loads of t lie pile of gravel , and you tell me how you did it . I tell you that I made it 30 truck loads by just looking at it ; and we agree that the two results check very well . Step-by-step description in formal terms . ? What characteristic steps of the process of finding answer to question may be regarded as illustrated in this example ? Some of the mental  | steps involved are included in the stated description of the work only by implication ; and , since the chief interest here is in the mental steps as such , it will be well to redescribe the work of the example in such a way as to make specific mention of all the steps ,  | leaving none to be implied . Such a description is presented in graphic form in the flow sheet shown in Figure 5 . The meanings of the symbols on the flow sheet are as follows : V indicates direct evaluation ; 3g indicates that direct evaluation ( if tried ) did not give a satisfactory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the subscripts borne by these symbols indicate the sequence of operations . The flow sheet is therefore to be interpreted thus : figure The flow sheet shows the factors disclosed by the analysis and their general relationships , but does not show their mathematical relationships . In routine work , where interest centers on the fact ors revealed by analyzing rather than on the process of analyzing , the analytic diagram is as serviceable as the flow sheet and far more readily made , as may be seen by comparing the flow sheet ( Fig. 5 ) with the analytic diagram ( Fig. 6 ) . The mathematical relationships involved can be readily shown on either flow sheet or analytic diagram by means of formulas .  | figure A casual reading of the discussion of Example 2 up to this point may not disclose that you did not compute the number of truck loads in the pile of gravel . You computed instead the volume of a right prism . To make the wording of the flow sheet strictly logical , the question at the top should be changed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " and corresponding changes in wording should be made throughout the sheet . Here is an example of substituting one question for another , discussed under " Rectification of the statement of the question " in succeeding pages . Conclusion . ? The steps of particular interest in this example at this time are the following : the treatment of the statement of the question , direct and indirect evaluation , analysis , integration , checking , and reporting . // A PROBLEM OF CHOICE BETWEEN Two ALTERNATIVES A driver has the option of two routes , A and A ' , to his destination . Route A ' has the smoother road surface and by far the more attractive scenery , but its length is 100 miles , while the length of route A is only 80 miles . In all other respects or points he regards the two routes as equally acceptable . The question before him is : " Which route shall I take , A or A ' ? " To the driver the situation appears thus : Difference in point of smoothness favors A ' ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in point of scenery favors A ' . He sets himself to sensing the relative influences of these three point-differences on choice , mentally balances one influence against another , and finally arrives at a judgment as to the amount and direction of the resultant of the three influences , that is , finally senses the difference between  | the one influence favorable to A and the sum of the two influences favorable to A ' and notes the alternative favored by this difference . The alternative thus favored is the logical choice , the answer to the question . It is plain that the driver 's choice depends not only on the amount ( sensed or computed ) of each of the three point-differences , but also on the purpose and conditions of the trip and on some of his likes and dislikes . Because of this , route A can be the logical choice of one person , while at the same time and for the same purpose route A ' is the logical choice of another person ; and , furthermore , route A can be the logical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' his logical choice at another time . Herein , by the way , lies a warning to the engineering student and the young engineer , to be alert to the possibility that an answer given in times past by even the wisest of men may have become invalid through change of circumstances ? purpose , weather , mood , time , and so forth , or even available alternatives . The mental operations of the driver in reaching a choice ? in evaluating the question ? may be briefly set forth in the following more formal terms : ( a ) The driver analyzes the situation , recognizing three criteria of choice ? three bases or points of comparison , namely : point 1 , smoothness of pavement ; point 2 , length of route ; point 3 , scenic attractiveness of route . ( b ) He compares the alternatives in regard to each point in turn , and senses or computes the difference ; in other words , he evaluates the point-differences , and , from anticipated circumstances of use , judges which alternative is favored by each @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on point-differences and circumstances , as to the relative values of the three point-influences. ( d ) He integrates the point-influences ? that is , he senses the difference between the one influence favoring A and the sum of the two influences favorlug , A ' ? and notes which alternative is favored by his final difference . The alternative so favored is the logical choice . The driver 's mental operations leading from the question to the answer are more sharply reflected in the form of flow sheet in Figure 7 . The results of the different stages of analysis are also shown separately in Figure 8 , and again in tabular form in Table : 35.  | In Table 35 , column 2 contains the selected criteria of choice , the points of comparison . In column 1 are found the numbers assigned to designate the points . In column 3 are expressions of value of the three points of route A : the length is given as 80 miles ; smoothness of surface is represented by the symbol vI ; and scenic attractiveness , by v3 . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A ' . As to columns 5 and 6 , di represents the difference between vl and v ' 1 , and its position under A ' indicates that it favors route A ' . Similarly , d3i the difference between v3 and favors route A ' . Point 2 ( length ) having been numerically evaluated for each route , the difference in length is actually computed : 100 ? 80 = 20 . The entry of this 20 under A indicates that this point-difference favors route A.  | Next , as to columns 7 and 8 , each point-difference has an influence on the choice , and it goes without saying that the pointdifference and its influence favor the same alternative . The influences of di and d3 are represented by ii and i3 respectively ; and the positions of ii and i3 under A ' indicate that they favor route A ' . In the case of point 2 , although the point-difference itself is numerically expressed , its influence can be expressed only by a symbol , because there is no mathematical relation between a point-difference ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the influence of the 20 miles of difference in length must be represented by a symbol , i2 , whose position under A indicates that it favors route A. The last step in the operations is to ascertain the difference between the respective sums of the two opposing columns of influences and note which alternative is favored by this difference . The route thus favored is the logical choice . To sum up : The routine steps taken consciously or unconsciously , as the case may be , to choose between two alternatives , appear to be : ( a ) selecting points of comparison , ( b ) evaluating the points , ( c ) evaluating the point-differences , ( d ) evaluating the point-influences , and ( e ) balancing the two opposing groups of point-influences against each other and noting which alternative is favored by the preponderant group . This routine holds whether the two alternatives are as simple as eight-penny nail and tenpenny nail or as complex as two proposed projects for supplying water to a metropolitan district . // A PROBLEM OF CHOICE FROM A MULTITUDE @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from 1 inch to 8 inches in greatest diameter , lay scattered over the ground so that all might be seen at a glance . Doe undertook to pick out the heaviest one of these stones . With a sweep of the eye over all the stones , he picked out ten which he was certain included among them the heaviest stone . He brought the ten stones close together , scrutinized them , and eliminated one of them as being certainly not the heaviest . Next  | he hefted each of the remaining nine , and eliminated five of them with the same sureness . The four stones then remaining he weighed with a spring balance reading to single pounds . This weighing clearly indicated that two of the stones were not the heaviest , and these he eliminated ; but the remaining two were so nearly equal in weight that the spring balance did not clearly distinguish between them . So finally , he weighed each of the two on scales reading to single ounces and found definite indication as to which was the heavier . This heavier one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with which he began . " With a sweep of the eye . . . . " The interesting thing is that Doe eliminated ninety of the hundred stones on the basis of weight by mere visual inspection without weighing or calculating . Of course he could not see weight ; therefore he did not directly use weight as a basis of comparison ; and , since the ninety stones were not eliminated at random , he must have used some vicarious criterion , that is , some substitute point of comparison not only recognizable at sight but also so closely and directly related to weight as to vary approximately with it and hence capable of serving as a crude index of weight . The only attribute of a stone that is closely related to its weight Inust be an element or factor of weight , something that influences weight . The immediate factors of weight are volume and density , as shown in Figure 9. figure Volume is not visible : a glance takes in only a part of the enveloping surface . Volume can not therefore be directly used @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ requires a substitute . Ordinarily we think of volume as a function of linear dimensions , f-ut in the present case , involving water-worn stones , resort to individual dimensions would be out of the question . Actually , Doe saw not individual dimensions but the general extent and shape of the surfaces exposed to his view . Since the weight of a stone  | depends partly on volume , and volume depends on extent and shape , weight must be partly dependent on extent and shape . Extent and shape , therefore , each satisfy the specification for a vicarious criterion or subpoint of comparison . Density , the other of the two immediate factors , would not be a satisfactory vicarious criterion for these stones , even if it could be seen , because the stones , being all of granite , varied little in density . Doe virtually if not actually formulated from the two subpoints of comparison these guiding ideas : " The greater its extent , the heavier the stone , " and " The more rounded its shape , the heavier the stone . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hundred stones , the heaviest of which he sought ; and this he did probably in less time than he devoted to " hefting " the remaining ten stones . In this example there are a hundred alternatives , and the elimination of the ninety by mere visual inspection may appear to have involved but one mental act ; but in reality it must have involved ninety mental acts , ninety repetitions of the process of comparing one stone with another ( see further under " Pairing alternatives for comparison , " below ) . The lines of Doe 's analysis ( undoubtedly carried on unconsciously ) of his undertaking are indicated in Figure 10. figure The flow sheet ( Fig. 11 ) shows the sequence of the mental operations ( analysis , evaluation , and integration ) involved in comparing one stone with another . The table of comparison ( Table 36 ) shows of analysis only the results , but shows also the subsequent stages of the process of reaching a choice . Picking out the heaviest stone was a matter involving comparison . Doe began by using for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ QUESTION , " WHICH STONE ? " figure  | ( and in this case the crudest or least sensitive ) of means , namely , sight ; and he continued with it until difference in weight between the individual uneliminated stones could not be detected with certainty . Then he used in succession other means of comparison , each more sensitive and less expeditious than the one preceding it . figure The steps listed . ? The steps in finding the answer to any question by the engineering method are as follows : I. Rectification of the statement of the question II . Evaluation of the question A. Direct evaluation 1 . Measuring 2 . Estimating B. Indirect evaluation 1 . Analysis a ) Analysis of computable questions b ) Analysis of questions of choice c ) The practice of analyzing  | 2 . Evaluation of the immediate factors 3 . Integration a ) Integration by computation b ) Integration by judgment III . Checking IV . Reporting I. RECTIFICATION OF STATEMENT OF QUESTION To rectify a statement is to put it right . How this is to be done ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or substituting , or other process ? will be indicated by the statement itself in conjunction with the attendant circumstances . A question as first stated may be defective by reason of obscurity or of inadequacy of statement or both . If the statement is at fault in either or both these respects , the first step must be to rectify it , because of course it is futile to seek an answer to an indefinite question . Test of clarity of statement. ? The first step to be taken is to test the statement for clarity . No better means of doing this suggests itself than that of attempting to predetermine the character or form of the answer . From a clear statement of a question , one should be able to say in advance whether the answer is to be a mere " yes " or " no " ; a fact , such as a magnitude or quantity ( a number of units of measurement ) , or even a mere quality such as color ; or an opinion or recommendation as to what to do , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a definite and detailed scheme , plan , method , or design for a particular project , process , or structure . 1 f the worker finds he can not predetermine the form that the answer must take , the fault lies with the form of the statement or with the ability of the worker or with both . Of course vagueness of statement may indicate that the person making it had no definite problem to state . If the statement will not meet this test , the first task is to clarify the statement , even if to do so involves a cross-examination of the person who put the question . Test of adequacy of statement. ? A statement may be inadequate for one person and entirely adequate for another . The person who is made responsible for the answer is the only one who can deterrniine whether or not the statement as given to him is adequate .  | And how is he to determine ? By starting out to find the answer and continuing till he has found it , in which case he will have proved the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ balked by a deficiency in the statement which his own knowledge can not make good . If the question is complex , it may be possible ? by reading the statement with mind alert to see a practicable road to the answer ? to determine either that the statement is practically an adequate basis for planning the grand divisions of the process of finding the answer or that it is inadequate in regard to one or more specific major points . Deficiencies as to minor points may not be , and usually are not , discovered till it becomes necessary to plan the subdivisions of the process of finding the answer . Finding the answer to a question of choice involves always a comparison of alternatives . But the statement of the question is not necessarily inadequate because it does not specify the alternatives , as it does not in questions typified by , " Where should the specified structure be located ? " In dealing with such questions a preliminary part of the work of finding the answer is to discover the practicable alternatives ? in the question above , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so accustomed to finding all pertinent data incorporated in the statement of a problem assigned to him that if he should find some needful data missing from a particular statement he would at first be inclined to doubt his interpretation of the statement and finally perhaps to charge his teacher or his textbook with an oversight . A material part of the engineering course should be devoted to analyzing , evaluating factors , and integrating their values , in other words , to solving problems in the statements of which a minimum of data appear ? as in the following : " The engineering laboratory needs a new roof covering . What covering shall be selected ? " Practice with such problems will not only impress on the student the important fact that such problems are the rule rather than the exception in practice but will also give skill sufficient to make him feel at home in his first professional engagements . It is not to be assumed that the statement of a question is inadequate because it includes few if any numerical or other factors ,  | even if scores @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the process of finding the answer . Substitute question . ? Occasionally it is discovered in an attempt to answer a question that under existing circumstances it will be impossible or impracticable to find a satisfactory answer . It is sometimes practicable or convenient to alter the question in one or more particulars , turning it into a new question whose answer will be attainable under the circumstances , and will at the same time be a serviceable or satisfactory substitute for the answer to the original question . For example , you say on the way to the hat shop , " What is the maximum price I should pay for a hat ? " In most such cases , however long the journey , you will arrive without having found an answer that you would venture to announce even to yourself . But you do not hesitate to enter the hat shop for lack of an answer . You enter ; you see a variety of hats , each hat with its price tag ; and unconsciously the original question which resisted being answered has been replaced by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I buy ? " ? an entirely different question but one whose answer , readily reached , is a satisfactory substitute for the answer to the original question . By accepting an assignment to find the answer to a question , the engineer assumes all responsibility first for testing the statement of the question as received by him , for both clarity and adequacy , and , second , for planning and executing any steps necessary to make the statement clear and adequate for him . Indeed it is often left to the engineer by his chief or client to determine from a few words what the question should be , and to formulate it in detail , as when the chief or client has only a vague idea of what he wants ( however certain he may be that he wants it ) and does not wish to take time or trouble to clarify his ideas in regard o the matter . In some engineering reports the statement of the gnetion is accompanied by a paragraph explaining why the question has been stated in a certain way . II . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been proved or made satisfactory by the process of rectification described above , the question is ready for evaluation .  | To evaluate a thing is to determine or find out its value . Value is so frequently expressed in terms of the dollar or other money unit that the word " evaluation " is likely to suggest money value ; but , more often than not , other than money value enters into a question . Among dictionary definitions of " value " we find : " worth ; the property or properties of a thing in virtue of which it is useful or estimable , or the degree in which such a character is possessed ; utility ; importance . . . . import . " One of the meanings of evaluate is " to appraise carefully . " But in this chapter and the next , for the sake of conciseness and uniformity , the expression " to evaluate a question " will be used with the meaning " to find the answer to the question " ; " to evaluate a factor " will mean " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the factor ? ' " as has been stated under " Some Preliminary Definitions . " Evaluation of point-differences and point-influences. ? The work of finding the answer to a question of choice involves pointdifferences and point-influences , as shown in Example 3 ( p. 232 ) . However , for reasons which will become apparent , discussion of the evaluation of these factors is deferred , to be presented along with integration of point-influences under the heading " Integration by Judgment . " Direct versus indirect evaluation . ? A thing may be evaluated directly or indirectly . Indirect evaluation is to direct evaluation as detour is to direct road . The process of direct evaluation involves no formal analyzing or integrating . The process of indirect evaluation , as shown in the preceding examples , involves three deliberate processes in turn : ( a ) analyzing , ( b ) evaluating each of the immediate factors discovered by analyzing , and ( c ) integrating the values of the immediate factors as dictated by the relationships disclosed by analyzing . To him who has accepted responsibility for finding the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The question itself and a multitude of fortuitous circumstances , including facilities and time available , as well as his experience with similar questions , will determine whether he is to have the good fortune to find the answer by a direct process or must resort to an indirect process more or less complicated . It is of course essential in the latter  | case not to permit attention to the steps in the roundabout process to cloud his vision of the goal ; just as , in making a journey to a predetermined locality , it is essential to keep the objective point clearly in mind , however attractive may be the scenery or however rough may be the road surface along any necessary detours . It is only natural to prefer the direct road to the detour when the direct road is open . In our personal problems we naturally first try direct evaluation and never or seldom resort to indirect evaluation , except when the direct attack has failed to give a satisfactory answer . In school , however , problems and more problems are assigned for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of indirect evaluation ; and it is the rare teacher who is interested in a direct evaluation by the student . Thus , it is only the exceptional engineering student who yields to the impulse and habitually evaluates class problems directly , before beginning the indirect evaluation which the teacher requires . A. DIRECT EVALUATION Direct evaluation may be accomplished in several ways . The answer to a question may be 1 . Known from memory by the evaluator 2 . Learned from another person who knows it from memory 3 . Found in print 4 . Found in office records 5 . Determined by actual measurement ( i . Determined by estimating Methods 1 and 2 call for no comment . As to method 3 it may be remarked that there are numerous reference books prepared for the special purpose of providing values that engineers frequently use . For each of the chief fields of engineering such handbooks have been compiled . As might be expected , such compendiums aim to include the more frequently used chemical and physical laws and constants , the results of tests to determine behavior @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ t cclinological methods , a concise digest of good practice , and tables to facilitate various calculations . I n regard to method 4 it may be said that good practice requires that the general and partial results of studies , estimates ,                     