@@774120

txt  | been prostitutes , the fact is likely to be ascribed to a " hereditary taint , " though it would seem much easier and less mystical to recall that mothers can teach their daughters to be prostitutes . In fact , occupations are frequently transmitted from parent to child , but never through the genes . The family history fallacy arises from the fact that genetic transmission occurs only through the parent-child channel and that corn- ; municative transmission occurs very largely through this channel . For this reason one must always ask if the trait in question is the sort which could be physically inherited . If it is primarily symbolic , like language , one may infer that the sufficient cause lies in the social sphere . The fact that successive generations of a given family all speak English need not lead one to infer that this is a biological trait . If the trait is primarily physical , like the shape of the head , one may form the hypothesis that it is genetically caused ( provided this does not blind one to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ however , is the necessity of asking whether or not the trait conforms to the known rules of genetic or cultural transmission . Does it appear for example in successive generations in such a manner as to conform to Mendelian principles ? Or does it appear in such a manner as to indicate social transmission ( e.g. in connection with social position and social norms ) ? From a research point of view a great aid in overcoming the family history fallacy is the fact that social transmission is not limited to the parent-child relation . This makes it possible to separate the two kinds of transmission . Adopted children can be investigated to see in what ways they resemble their foster parents more than their biological parents ; and identical twins can be studied to see in what ways they resemble each other more when reared together than when reared apart . Another great aid lies in cultural relativity . Since human beings are all of one species , any trait which varies from one culture to another is not likely to be adequately explained in biological terms . ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one kind of factor constant while allowing the other kind to vary . This simply amounts to applying experimentally or statistically the abstraction practiced in theory .  | The Unsocialized Organism A human being 's dependence on the social environment begins long before he is born ? with the folkways and mores governing his parents ' courtship and marital selection , with the customs concerning pregnancy , with the whole system of cultural practices surrounding the family . His parents , socialized creatures when they conceived him , previously had to learn the sexual act . Conception took place in a socially defined situation important for the child 's subsequent status . Techniques of prenatal care current in the community affected his chances of being born and of being healthy . In sum , the social circumstances preceding his birth not only made his life possible but also laid down to a great extent the kind of life he was to lead . But it is not until birth that direct socialization begins . Hence it is worthwhile to inquire what the individual , as an organism , has at birth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ things he has may be divided into four admittedly overlapping categories : capacities , reflexes , " instincts , " and urges . 1 . Reflexes . Plainly , the severest limitation upon socialization is supplied by the automatic and rigid responses of the organism . Such responses , or reflexes , are attached to a given stimulus and , if learned at all , are acquired by a minimum of organic experience in relation to the physical environment . The pupil of the eye automatically contracts in strong light , the glands of the mouth salivate at the taste of sugar , the muscles of the arm contract at the prick of a pin , urination occurs with fullness of the bladder , etc . A catalogue of all the reflexes is impossible to make . The whole autonomic nervous system is reflex in character , including breathing , heartbeat , peristalsis , and digestion . Without its reflexes the organism could not live . Yet since the reflexes are automatic and rigid , they are unlearned and in many cases unmodifiable . They set limits on what the organism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bases out of which socialization arises . 2 . Instincts . Much debate has always attended the use of the term " instinct , " especially as applied to human behavior . Biologists define as instinctive any behavior that originates in an urge or appetite , involves some sort of perception of the external world , is  | peculiarly fixed and mechanical , is dependent on inherited structure and therefore characteristic of the species , and , though compulsory or necessary , is at the same time highly adaptive or functional ( without the organism being aware of its ultimate significance ) . It is plain why so much debate has surrounded the concept , for it is practically synonymous with the life process itself . Broad and complex , it embraces elements which need not occur together or which seem incompatible . The human being at birth probably has no complete instinct but only certain elements of them , such as reflexes and urges . Given these plus his capacities , all of his subsequent behavior is partly learned and is hence not instinctive . Consequently the explanation of human @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time almost any form of behavior was ascribed to some instinct . If a boy and girl fell in love it was due to the " instinct to reproduce the race . " If they quarreled it was due to the instinct of pugnacity . If the quarrel resulted in a reconciliation it was due to the gregarious instinct ; or if the boy fled , it was due to the selfpreservation instinct . It was , in short , a type of explanation that explained everything ( too much too easily ) . It was purely post hoc ; it could seemingly " explain " why a thing had happened but could give no basis for predicting what had not yet happened . At its worst it was a redundant explanation , similar to the brilliant conclusion that opium causes sleep because of its dormitive powers or that sap goes up in trees because that is the nature of sap . At its best it was an explanation obscurum per obscurius ( explaining an unknown by something still more unknown ) . To explain war , for example , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ makes the problem harder . We know little enough about all the forms that human warfare has taken , but we know still less about this mysterious instinct . We have a rough idea in social and historical terms why war came to the United States in 1917 and 1941 rather than other years , but we have no idea why an instinct should suddenly have erupted at those times . Such an explanation , therefore , may be emotionally satisfying because the unknown is mysterious and hence magically superior , but it is not scientifically acceptable . 3 . Urges . What is variously referred to as impulse , drive , tension ,  | urge , or appetite provides firmer ground for analysis of human behavior . As previously noted , the organism has certain needs that must be met . Unless they are met it develops increasing tension and restlessness until it encounters a stimulus capable of relieving the tension . Thus the urges represent a dynamic force behind behavior. " - " Whereas in the instinctive behavior of animals the satisfaction of the appetite is tied to only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be ( except on the reflexive level ) rigidly tied to none . A very wide , range of stimuli can satisfy the various urges . Which stimuli do satisfy them becomes a matter of learning . The urges , not the reflexes , provide an organic bridgehead , a starting point , for the process of socialization. 4 . Capacities . Intelligence is regarded as man 's most important attribute because it enables him to compensate for the limitations of his body . He can run only so fast , lift only so much , fight only so well . He must therefore rely upon techniques that enlarge or extend what capacities he has . Though his learning capacity exceeds that of any other animal , it is nevertheless limited . Curiously enough , however , even this limitation can be overcome by the development of culture . Presumably his innate intellectual capacity could be increased by a eugenic program ( itself a cultural phenomenon ) , but barring this the use of his capacity , in the sense of learning more and more , could still be increased @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Human mentality is like a box ? the way to get more into it is to pack things systematically . No limit can be foreseen to the possible increase of man 's intellectual efficiency through new techniques of socialization . At present no human being learns as much as he could under more favorable circumstances , for his learning ability is never used to maximum capacity . Every society uses defective instructional techniques , appeals occasionally to wrong motives , taboos certain kinds of knowledge , and has a limited culture . The last factor ? limited culture ? may seem the most important cause for the failure to teach individuals all they can absorb , until it is recalled that no society ever transmits its whole culture to any one person . The amount that given individuals absorb is more a function of the techniques and incentives utilized than of the size of the culture . Actually the main societal consideration is not the maximum use of the individual 's capacity in the sense of mere learning but the maximum  | incorporation of his productive effort with that of others @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ small but specialized contribution from each person will have more effect than a much greater individual contribution in a poorly integrated system . For this reason a lot depends on how much use is made of individual differences in amount and kind of capacity . All told , societies vary enormously in their waste of human learning ability , but they all waste it . Since modern scientists have such difficulty in perfecting teaching techniques , in measuring capacities and talents , and in motivating people to learn , there is little wonder that societies have also bungled the job . Isolated Children : What They Show One line of evidence showing the role of socialization in human mentality and human behavior and demonstrating how utterly limited are the resources of the organism alone , is afforded by extremely isolated children . Since with these individuals physical development has proceeded to an advanced point with practically no concomitant social influence , they reveal to what degree the stages of socialization are necessarily correlated with the stages of organic growth . They enable us to see what an unsocialized mind ( and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which normal minds have been socially molded . Two such cases have been seen by the writer . The first was the case of an illegitimate child called Anna , whose grandfather strongly disapproved of the mother 's indiscretion and who therefore caused the child to be kept in an upstairs room . As a result the infant received only enough care to keep her barely alive . She was seldom moved from one position to another . Her clothing and bedding were filthy . She apparently had no instruction , no friendly attention . When finally found and removed from the room at the age of nearly six years , Anna could not talk , walk , or do anything that  | showed intelligence . She was in an extremely emaciated and undernourished condition , with skeleton-like legs and a bloated abdomen . She was completely apathetic , lying in a limp , supine position and remaining immobile , expressionless , and indifferent to everything . She was believed to be deaf and possibly blind . She of course could not feed herself or make any move in her own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which had missed nearly six years of socialization . Her condition shows how little her purely biological resources , when acting alone , could contribute to making her a complete . person . By the time Anna died of hemorrhagic jaundice approximately four and a half years later , she had made considerable progress as compared with her condition when found . She could follow directions , string beads , identify a few colors , build with blocks , and differentiate between attractive and unattractive pictures . She had a good sense of rhythm and loved a doll . She talked mainly in phrases but would repeat words and try to carry on a conversation . She was clean about clothing . She habitually washed her hands and brushed her teeth . She would try to help other children . She walked well and could run fairly well , though clumsily . Although easily excited , she had a pleasant disposition . Her improvement showed that socialization , even when started at the late age of six , could still do a great deal toward making her a person . Even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ normal child of two to three years , she had made noteworthy progress . A correct interpretation of this case is handicapped by Anna 's early death . We do not know how far the belated process of socialization might ultimately have carried her . Inevitably the hypothesis arises that she was feebleminded from the start . But whatever one thinks in this regard , the truth is that she did make considerable progress and that she would never have made this progress if she had remained isolated . Of course , she was not completely isolated . ! lad she been , she would have died in infancy . But her contact with others was almost purely of a physical type which did not allow of communicative interaction . The case illustrates that communicative contact is the core of socialization . It is worth noting that the girl never had , even after her discovery , the best of skilled attention . It took her a long time to learn to talk , and it is possible that once she had learned to talk well the process of socialization would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is known that the mastery of speech is the key to learning . The other case of extreme isolation , that of Isabelle , helps in the interpretation of Anna . This girl was found at about the same time as Anna under strikingly similar circumstances when approximately six and a half years old . Like Anna , she was an illegitimate child and had been kept in seclusion for that reason . Her mother was a deafmute and it appears that she and Isabelle spent most of their time together in a dark room . As a result Isabelle had no chance to develop speech ; when she communicated with her mother it was by means of gestures . Lack of sunshine and inadequacy of diet had caused her to become rachitic . Her legs in particular were affected ; they " were so bowed that as she stood erect the soles of her shoes came nearly flat together , and she got about with a skittering gait . " Her behavior toward strangers , especially men , was almost that of a wild animal , manifesting much fear and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strange croaking sound . In many ways she acted like an infant . " She was apparently utterly unaware of relationships of any kind . When presented with a ball for the first time , she held it in the palm of her hand , then reached out and stroked my face with it . Such behavior is comparable to that of a child of six months . " ; At first it was even hard to tell whether or not she could hear , so unused were her senses . Many of her actions resembled those of deaf children . Once it was established that she could hear , specialists who worked with her pronounced her feebleminded . Even on nonverbal tests her performance was so low as to promise little for the future . " The general impression was that she was wholly uneducable and that any attempt to teach her to speak , after so long a period of silence , would meet with failure . " 6 Yet the individuals in charge of her launched a systematic and skillful program of training . The task seemed hopeless @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the first few hurdles had at last been overcome , a curious thing happened . She went through the usual stages of learning characteristic of the years from one to six not only in proper succession but far  | more rapidly than normal . In a little over two months after her first vocalization she was putting sentences together . Nine months after that she could identify words and sentences on the printed page , could write well , could add to ten , and could retell a story after hearing it . Seven months beyond this point she had a vocabulary of 1,500-2,000 words and was asking complicated questions . Starting from an educational level of between one and three years ( depending on what aspect one considers ) , she had reached a normal level by the time she was eight and a half years old . In short , she covered in two years the stages of learning that ordinarily require six . Or , to put it another way , her I.Q. trebled in a year and a half.8 The speed with which she reached the normal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of body weight in a growing child after an illness , the recovery being achieved by extra fast growth until restoration of normal weight for the given age . She eventually entered school where she participated in all school activities as normally as other children . Clearly the history of Isabelle 's development is different from that of Anna 's . In both cases there was an exceedingly low , or rather blank , intellectual level to begin with . In both cases it seemed that the girl might be congenitally feebleminded . In both a considerably higher level was reached later . But Isabelle achieved a normal mentality within two years , whereas Anna was still markedly inadequate at the end of four and a half years . What accounts for the difference ? Perhaps Anna had less innate capacity . But Isabelle probably had more friendly contact with her mother early in life , and also she had more skillful and persistent training after she was found . The result of such attention was to give Isabelle speech at an early stage , and her subsequent rapid development seems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , who closely resembled this girl at the start , been given intensive training and hence mastery of speech at an earlier point , her subsequent development might have been much more rapid . Isabelle 's case serves to show , as Anna 's does not clearly show , that isolation up to the age of six , with failure to acquire any form of speech and hence missing the whole world of cultural meaning , does not preclude the subsequent acquisition of these . Indeed , there  | seems to be a process of accelerated recovery . Just what would be the maximum age at which a person could remain isolated and still retain the capacity for full cultural acquisition is hard to say . Almost certainly it would not be as high as age fifteen ; it might possibly be as low as age ten . Undoubtedly various individuals would differ considerably as to the exact age . Both cases , and others like them , reveal in a unique way the role of socialization in personality development . Most of the human behavior we regard as somehow given @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ example by others . Most of the mental traits we think of as constituting the human mind are not present unless put there by communicative contact with others . No other type of evidence brings out this fact quite so clearly as do these rare cases of extreme isolation . Through them it is possible " to observe concretely separated two factors in the development of human personality which are always otherwise only analytically separated , the biogenic and the sociogenic factors . " ? The Development of the Self The heart of socialization is the emergence and gradual development of the self or ego . It is in terms of the self that personality takes shape and the mind comes to function . The self develops out of the child 's communicative contact with others . Contact is at first on a physical level , and in this phase the infant 's stability and continuity seemingly come from several sources : his body , which furnishes a constant flow of internal stimuli and has regularly recurring needs ; his external surroundings , which constantly bombard his awakening senses and have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ certain regularity in ministering to him . Consequently the possibility for forming habits is there from the beginning . Such activities as sucking the thumb and swinging suspended toys tend to be done repeatedly in the same way , and later the child shows a strong tendency toward " ritualistic " conformity to behavior patterns already established , as every parent knows . Thus the element of persistence , of conservation , so essential for the notion of the self , is present from the start .  | The self , however , has a character different and apart from that of the physiological organism proper , a development and a structure of its own . It is not there at birth but arises in the interplay of social experience . Parts of the body ? toes , teeth , tonsils ? can be lost without any corresponding loss to the self . Only when the loss has a real social meaning ( as when a young girl loses a leg or becomes facially disfigured , or when it involves the organism 's capacity for thought and feeling ? as when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) does the change make a difference for the self . In these cases the effect of the bodily change clearly illustrates the separate character of the self . The latter is a psychic , not a physical entity . George H. Mead has pointed out that an essential characteristic of the self is its reflexive character.11 By this he means that the self can be both subject and object to itself ; it can reflect upon itself or , as we often put it , can be self-conscious . Mead then says that the essential problem of selfhood or self-consciousness is " How can an individual get outside himself in such a way as to become an object to himself ? " He can do it only through others , by temporarily assuming the role of other persons and looking at himself , so to speak , through their eyes . He learns to imagine how he appears to others , to imagine how others judge this appearance , and then to react himself to this judgment as he imagines it . Unless the attitudes are in his mind they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attributable to others , they can not be acquired . Thus by adopting toward himself the attitudes that others take toward him , he comes to treat himself as an object as well as a subject . In acquiring the attitudes of others toward himself , the individual is not merely passive . He explores and finds out because the satisfaction of his wants greatly depends on others ' attitudes toward him . In fact , the expression of attitudes by his fellows soon becomes so important to him that he wants and demands attention . He has a powerful incentive to understand their attitudes , because otherwise he could not predict or control what happens to him . The child early learns that one of the most important ways of controlling his destiny is by influencing the feelings of others toward himself . Since attitudes are matters of meaning , they can be known only through the mechanism of symbolic communication . Hence the child must learn  | to utilize the symbols by which attitudes are communicated , so that he can conjure up the attitudes of others in his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ others in the light of what he imagines their judgments to be . In order to communicate with others he must himself be able to respond to what he communicates , else he would have no notion of the meaning of what he says and does . Once he has acquired the attitudes of others as part of himself , he can judge how another person will respond by how he himself responds to the words he utters . He not only hears himself but responds to himself ; he talks and replies to himself as truly as the other person talks and replies to him . " The self , as that which can be object to itself , is essentially a social structure , and it arises in social experience . " It could not conceivably arise outside of social experience . After it has arisen it contains the social system actively within itself , and so in a way can provide its own social interaction . The person can carry on a conversation with himself . What he says , or thinks he might say , calls out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ role of the other ) . This reply leads him to say something else , and so on . Thus a person , once he is socialized , can remain solitary for a long time without ceasing to enjoy a certain kind of social interaction . Eventually , however , he must have an audience . Otherwise he can not check the accuracy of his own responses ; his imaginings become barren , repetitive , and divorced from reality . But the very process of thinking is simply an inner conversation in which the individual responds to what he himself says and in turn replies himself to his own response . It is astonishing how early in life the infant learns to take the role of the other . By the age of two it plays at being mother , baby , or sister . In doing so it views the situation from the standpoint of the person in question , and acts accordingly . The attitudes thus imitated are often those taken toward the infant itself . Thus a child of two may examine a doll 's dress , pretend @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it to the bathroom . Such a child has already internalized the attitudes of others . By putting itself in the role of the other it can then respond to its own words and acts in terms of the meaning they would convey to the other person . In this way the self develops and grows . In an organized game , such as baseball , the child must be ready  | to take the role of everyone else in the game . " He must have the responses of each position involved in his own position . He must know what everyone else is going to do in order to carry out his own play . " 13 The organization of reciprocal responses is contained in the rules of the game . In so far as the child has grasped the rules of the game and thus can participate in the mutual responses that constitute the actual play , he has acquired within himself an organized system of roles . His specific response is controlled by his sense of the whole system of responses . These are not so much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ community or social group , like baseball , has an organized character . And as it takes shape in the organization of the self , a process of generalization occurs . What were earlier for the child the attitudes of particular other persons , now become the attitudes of everybody in the given situations . This justifies Mead 's term , " the generalized other . " As the individual incorporates into himself the system of mutually related attitudes in the community with reference to the common activities and goals of the group as a whole , he becomes a complete self , a social product in the fullest sense . Taking the attitude of the generalized other is , on the intellectual side , simply the process of abstract thought , while on the emotional side it is the process of moral reasoning . The rules of logic are universals applying to everyone who wishes to reason accurately . The principles of morality are equally universal , applying to everyone who wishes to live properly . Of course , not all of the attitudes acquired by the individual are equally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ groups , but even these are integrally related to the most general attitudes of the entire community . When a person puts himself in the place of the generalized other and thus judges his own conduct , he is reflecting in himself the organization of the community at large . The self , then , is a structure of attitudes , not a group of habits . There are some habits that have nothing to do with the system of attitudes , and the attitudes , while they may be habitual , are distinguished by the fact that they are acquired through communicative interaction with others . No sharp line can be drawn between our own selves and the selves of others , since our own selves function in our experience only in so far as the selves of others function in our experience also .  | The reflexive character of the self can be phrased in terms of the " I " and the " me . " " The I ' is the response of the individual to the attitudes of the others ; the me ' is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " and to which the " I " responds . The " me " is what is remembered and reflected upon ; the " 1 " is what remembers and does the reflecting . The " me " is the self that one is aware of , the " 1 " is the unpredictable response . A player can throw the ball to another player because he knows what the rest expect of him . Their expectations are his " me . " But exactly how he will respond ? whether he will make a brilliant play or an error ? neither he nor anybody else knows . The response at the moment of action is the " I " ; it is the dynamic unpredictable aspect of the self . As soon , however , as the " I " has acted , it can be remembered and reflected upon ; it then becomes a part of the " me . " The player has in him all the attitudes of others calling for a certain response , and this is the " me " of the situation ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I. " The " I , " then , is always acting in that infinitely small moment when the future becomes the present . It always contains an element of novelty . It resolves in a partially unexpected fashion the conflicting elements of the situation . It is what gives the person a sense of freedom and initiative . The " me " calls for a response in a given situation but the exact character of the response is not completely determined , being morally , not mechanically , necessary . Plainly the " 1 " and the " me " are separate aspects of the same thing . Taken together they constitute the personality as it appears in social experience . If the self did not have these two aspects there could be no conscious responsibility , and there could be no novelty . " The self is not something that exists first and then enters into relationship with others . " It is something that develops out of social interaction and is constantly changing , constantly adjusting , as new situations and conflicts arise . It assumes the prior @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in which and through which the order continues . DESIRE , CONSCIOUSNESS , AND THE SELF The energy for the self comes from the organism but the use made of this energy is only partly organic . Organic desires and needs  | must be met , at least sufficiently to keep the organism running , and they are met largely through the assistance of others . The self , in taking over the attitudes of others , is therefore acting partially as an instrumentality for the organism . However , it is at the same time acting also as an instrument for the control of the organism . Since it is built out of the attitudes of others , the self can not help but place a value on these attitudes apart from or in spite of organic satisfaction . This is especially true of one kind of attitude ? the attitude of approval and disapproval ; for this offers a key to much else . It is only through the approval of others that the self can tolerate the sel To be sure , there is a selection among possible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ counts with equal weight , and the degree to which an attitude counts depends on the degree of identification between oneself and the person expressing the attitude . In any case the others never give their approval for the complete and free satisfaction of organic desires . Some satisfaction is permitted , to be sure , but on the other hand much self-abnegation is also demanded . As a result there inevitably arises a conflict between the individual 's bodily desires as they impinge on the self and the attitudes of others toward the self in relation to these desires . Of course , other people do not give their approval to the pursuit of their approval by any means whatsoever . The individual 's striving for good standing must be undertaken according to certain standards . He is tempted to seek it by deceptive measures which if they became known to others would lead to the opposite result , just as he is tempted to satisfy forbidden organic desires by secret means . He is restrained , however , successfully or unsuccessfully , not only by the fear of detection @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ think of himself . All of this means that the self is perpetually in a state of uneasy equilibrium . It strives for superiority ( approval of others ) yet it fears inferiority ( disapproval of others ) . It seeks what organic satisfactions it can and yet reacts toward these satisfactions with the moral .. attitudes acquired from others . The conflict between what it must do and what it wants to do acts as a constant stimulus to bring the warring parts together , to work out an adjustment . The self is therefore a dynamic system , the parts of which are functionally related but never completely integrated . It is always striving and seeking .  | The conflict manifests itself in earliest childhood when frustration first makes its appearance . The infant begins with a completely egocentric reaction to the world ? the demand to have its desires met . Gradually , as it begins the slow and difficult process of acquiring the attitudes of others , it learns that anger is met with anger , aggression with aggression . The attitudes of others are part of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The infant must therefore take account of these attitudes and try to manipulate them , even before they are understood . He takes cognizance of them at first in an absolute manner , as sheer imperatives , because he is unable to enter into the role of the commanding adult who issues them . This is what Piaget has called the stage of " moral realism . " As time goes on , however andthe. child increasingly adopts the attitudes of others toward himself , he becomes less egocentric . He learns to communicate and identify himself with others , and to participate in cooperative enterprises . Instead of being controlled by exterior constraint he is increasingly controlled by notions of what is right and wrong , proper and improper , which he applies himself . He develops a conscience that reflects not only the opinions of those immediately around him but also the attitudes of the generalized other , the moral voice of the community as a whole . Instead of an external struggle there develops an internal struggle . The conscious reflecting part of the self must somehow balance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attitudes and goals , the organic urges , and the facts of the situation at any given moment . The conflicts can be resolved only with the help of suppression . Sometimes it is unpleasant facts in the situation that are suppressed , sometimes it is the moral imperatives , sometimes it is the organic desires . But though suppressed from consciousness , these elements still remain a part of the personality and still influence behavior . They manifest themselves in various ways which the trained observer can detect . For this reason the self can not be understood simply as that which appears in consciousness but must also be understood as embracing much that , at least at any given time , does not appear in consciousness . The unconscious part of the personality has been divided by the psychoanalysts into two parts : the " Id " ( it wants ) and the " Super-  | ego " ( thou shalt not ) . The one is partly a reflection of organic urges and desires and partly a reflection of acquired goals which , in a given situation , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other is a reflection of the moral imperatives of the community , the generalized other . Conceptualized in this way , a great deal of the behavior of the individual becomes comprehensible and to some extent predictable . As the normal individual becomes mature , a modus vivendi is worked out whereby some satisfaction is given to all parts of the self but no part is allowed to run away with the others and thus divorce the person from his social reality . The abnormal individual is one who fails to work out such a modus vivendi as he grows to adulthood and who thus appears queer to his fellows . Who Socializes the Child ? ' 6 The nature of socialization is obviously of such a character as to be greatly affected by the kind of persons who do it . It is furthermore of such importance to society that it has been institutionalized and regulated with regard to its form and personnel . In fact , from a societal point of view the child is valued more for what he will be than for what he is . His @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anticipatory . Any doctrine that views the child 's needs as paramount and those of organized society as secondary is a sociological anomaly . Since it is socialization that turns the child into a useful member of the society and gives him social maturity , it is natural that the child 's socialization has not been left to mere accident but instead has always taken place within an institutional framework and been controlled through institutional channels . There are two quite distinguishable categories of persons from whom the child acquires the sentiments , beliefs , and knowledge of his culture . The first includes those who have authority over him , the second those who have equality with him . His training varies in content and significance according as it is acquired from one or the other . In fact , the two general types of morality distinguished by Piaget ? that of constraint and that of cooperation ? are mainly , as he indicates , the respective product of these two types of relationship .  | The morality of constraint is one of objective duty based on unilateral respect for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , external , absolute , and beyond comprehension . The morality of cooperation rests on mutual understanding between equals , the rules having no mystic superiority or absoluteness in themselves but simply being the working principles of association , capable of modification according to the rational considerations and nee s of the participants . Of interest to us is the fact that these two types of socio-psychic relationship , both extremely important in the child 's socialization , rest upon the bases of status ascription previously discussed . Persons having authority over the child are generally older than he , and those having immediate and primary authority are also usually kin to him . Persons sharing equality with him , whether kin or not , are apt to be of similar age . That there should be an authoritarian element in socialization seems easy to explain . The patterns of behavior expected in the culture are not innate but are in many cases contrary to biological inclination . Hence the persons charged with socializing the young must not only have something to transmit and the responsibility of transmitting it , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reason why older persons are given this power is obvious , for when the process of socialization is first begun the infant has no juniors and no capacity for associating with equals . Furthermore , socialization must naturally proceed from those who have more of the culture to those who have less ; it must proceed from the mature to the immature . The fact that the particular adults first given the task are usually kinsmen ( e.g. parents ) arises out of the child 's original close connection with them in the family system . " It is convenient though not necessary to have the persons responsible for reproducing and maintaining children also responsible for socializing them . With a wide age and experience gap separating the child from his socializers , he can not " understand " fully the logic and nature of all that they transmit to him or achieve immediate insight into their minds . He has to accept some rules simply because his superiors stipulate them . In case he does not understand or , understanding ,  | does not wish to obey , he may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ society the essential thing is not that the child be " freed from taboo " in order to " express his personality " but that he be taught the folkways and mores , prepared for his adult statuses , and protected from himself during his period of childishness and dependence . Hence what the child absorbs at first is largely a morality of constraint . It is in this way that society , taking no chances , transmits the most valued and essential parts of its heritage . Ultimately , as we have already said , societal morality is not a matter of rational understanding but a matter of felt obligation . The official socializer ? be he parent , educator , or master ? is the representative of the greater authority of society . The equalitarian element in socialization , although ubiquitous , is perhaps a bit more difficult to explain than the authoritarian element , because it is not so much the outcome of deliberate policy or the focus of official attention . Let us begin by asking why similarity of age , sex , and rank should be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the morality of cooperation . The answer is that persons related by similarity of status stand in the same relation to persons in authority . This being true , they are in a position to protect rather than to coerce one another . Any rule governing their mutual interaction , in so far as it is made by themselves , has no other raison d'etre than the spontaneous realization that the rule is necessary for the continuance of the interaction . Age mates , for example , being at the same stage of socialization , can participate in one another 's subjective attitudes because they look at the world through the same eyes . This makes it easy for them to understand why each one expects a given type of response and thus lays the basis for reciprocity . The same is somewhat true of sex and caste mates . From such equals there are acquired some things that can not be acquired from persons in authority . These include not only the cooperative morality already discussed but also some of the more informal aspects of culture ? small folkways @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ modes of gratification , and forbidden knowledge . Such things are often socially necessary and yet socially tabooed . An example in our society is a knowledge of sex relations which , according to strict doctrine , is supposed to remain a closed book until marriage ; if the doctrine were carried out to the letter , the performance of numerous functions would be much more difficult ; and so sex  | knowledge is not excluded completely , but is transmitted as a part of the lore that passes from child to child , a part of the so-called " child culture . " Leaving such things to equalitarian relations for transmission has the effect of controlling them because coevals , being almost equally ignorant , can transmit relatively little real information one to the other . The total amount of knowledge transmitted from child to child can not be as great , potentially , as the total amount that can be transmitted from adult to child . Yet in so far as the child learns in the equalitarian group to understand the rules as part of a cooperative effort , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his rights without the protection of authority or the abjectness of dependence , he acquires something that is very hard if not impossible to get in the authoritarian type of relationship . In sum , both authoritarian and equalitarian relationships contribute to the socialization of the child , and both tend to be ascribed ( at least initially ) in terms of sex , age , and kinship . Things that involve discipline and responsibility in transmission are usually handed over to authoritarian relations , other things to equalitarian relations . We thus glimpse the manner in which ascribed statuses figure in the dynamics of socialization . Education and Educational Theory in Modern Society Until now we have discussed socialization as if it were the same in all cultures . This is true only in the most general sense . It now behooves us to consider the ways in which childhood varies in different cultures and to examine certain problems raised by our own society . A small stable society , which utilizes ascribed status more than does a large changing one , has a simple form of socialization . Training @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the day to day association with adults . Training for specialized statuses is accomplished through informal instruction given by persons already in those statuses , often members of the family . Certain rituals , fetishes , and emblems help emphasize changes of status , and the pattern of life for each individual is rather well defined from the start . The culture changes so slowly that the entire older generation forms a suitable agency for socializing the young . A large changing society , on the other hand , can not transmit its  | huge cultural heritage simply on the basis of informal and amateurish socialization . Nor can it fit persons into its complex and highly specialized statuses simply on the basis of sex , age , and kinship . Sex and age are so broad as to yield too few classes , and the inheritance of status is too static to fit a rapidly changing milieu in which hundreds of new statuses appear in each generation . The inheritance of parental position works best when the parent socializes the child . With increasing specialization , parental training becomes less @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ socialization outside the family . This le ads , to the appearance of schools , separate agencies in the society to carry out . the function of education . The schools have professional teachers , a physical plant , a large investment , and an aggregation of pupils . They can perform the complex tasks of education in a way that the parents could not . They , like the parent , are in an authoritarian position with reference to the child , but due to their professional interest in education as such and to their greater resources they can be more flexible in the kind of training they give and the newness of the knowledge they transmit . They are organized not only for the transmission of existing knowledge but also for the discovery of new knowledge . They instill scientific discovery and advancement , and hence change , as ideals . 1 It is little wonder that in such a large changing society status achievement encroaches upon status ascription , with sex , age , and kinship playing merely the role of limiting or fluid factors in the competition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ specific statuses . By the exercise of unusual ability and fortitude a woman may qualify for a man 's occupation , a young man rise to an old man 's professional rank , or a poor person climb to a position of wealth . In this way under complex social conditions , individuals of different sex , different age , and different origins compete for the same statuses . This means that it is the process of socialization itself , especially as found in the educational system , that is serving as the proving ground for ability and hence the selective agency for placing people in different statuses according to their capacities . Thus intense competition gives an incentive for intense effort in learning and , as if this were not enough , this effort is artificially stimulated in numerous ways . Furthermore , the existence of professional teachers with an interest in techniques of instruction and a high degree of  | specialization in their narrow fields enormously improves the effectiveness of instruction . The principles , the elements , the general guiding signposts of different subjects are ferreted out , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ short space of time . Libraries store knowledge in specialized compartments for ready reference . Mutual discussion among students helps reinforce what is learned . Thus the segregation of the educational function in a separate agency ( the school ) is necessary , in order to adapt the process of socialization to the needs of a society in which the achievement rather than the ascription of status is emphasized and in which complexity and change are paramount . Each kind of society ? the simple-stable and the complex-instable ? has its peculiar problems . The problem of the simple one , with its ascribed statuses and rigid institutional patterns , is its lack of adaptability to changing conditions . It may pursue ancient custom to the point of ossification and disaster . The complex specialized society , on the other hand , runs the nsk of uncontrolled individualism with consequent loss of social cohesion . Intense specialization leads to a failure of society 's members to understand one another . A partial antidote to this tendency is the fact that each individual has many statuses , so that his allegiance extends @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and between him and others , there must presumably exist some integration of the various statuses ; otherwise both personal and societal order will disappear . The integration must be on an evaluative as well as a factual level . The more a society becomes dependent upon specialization and its statuses become accessible through individual achievement , the more tenuous becomes the integrating principle ? unless ( and this is the difficult part ) the realm of sacred common values remains superior to the everyday world of competitive interest . Specialized achieved statuses require generally that the individual master certain rational techniques . He must adopt something of a scientific attitude toward his work and his career , and the highest prestige often goes to those who are the most skillful in this . Hence obligatory norms that limit arbitrarily the means for gaining a position are subjected to criticism by people competing for positions . The nonrational beliefs and practices associated with the obligatory norms are apt to be scoffed at . Under these circumstances , in the face of p 221 individualistic motivation and scientific criticism , the central @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Organized education can not escape this problem of the specialized society . In the liberal democratic United States it has intensified the problem in two ways : by trying to deny and minimize ascribed status , and by attempting to evade normative indoctrination . In neither attempt has it been wholly successful or consistent , but in philosophy if not always in practice it has stressed achieved and condemned ascribed status and has evaluated scientific truth above doctrine . In keeping with this it has stated its goal to be the scientific study and efficient satisfaction of the child 's needs , has minimized ritual , and has skirted those of the nonrational norms that could not be somehow rationalized as " science . " It has been individualistic in the sense of being preoccupied with " individual needs , " positivistic in the sense of looking to science for ethical conclusions , and rationalistic in the sense of assuming the sole significant orientation to the world to be one of cognition . ' " It may well be questioned , however , how far a society can dispense with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ To begin with , we have already seen that infants must be " placed " in the social structure before the process of absorption into this structure can begin ; and since the aim is eventual placement in highly specialized adult statuses , it is hard to see how the infants could all , regardless of sex , age relations , and parentage , be given the same place to start with , especially as long as a familial mode of reproduction is maintained . Moreover , any persisting society is an example of change within constancy , in which ascribed status helps to provide the constancy , achieved status the change , both being indispensable . It is also no accident that a regime in which ascription is strong is also one in which nonrational beliefs and norms are strong . To fix persons in statuses independently of their personal qualities requires a firm system of institutional controls . Ascribed statuses are generally broad ones in which the technical aspect is not complicated ; the important things are sentiment , custom , and ritual rather than ra-  | tional skill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ powerful prop from under the common values and ends which give society its cohesiveness , especially if these were further destroyed by scientific criticism and individualistic motivation . Since , moreover , as our previous discussion showed , ascribed statuses are connected with socialization in authoritarian relations , and these with the transmission of cultural values and mores , a regime of purely achieved status would constitute a threat to authority and to the functions of authority . Finally , there is every reason to believe that the individual could not stand the insecurity , conflict , and turmoil which such a changeable and disparate society would produce . The integration of the personality reflects the integration of society , and a regime of pure competition would produce neither the one nor the other . In short , it seems that a society can not travel always in the direction of specialization and status achievement , that eventually its loss of solidarity will reach the point where an internal revolution by a militant cohesive minority or an external conquest by a militant cohesive rival will turn it back in the direction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meant to blame recent educational philosophy but to point out certain features of the child-and-society relation which liberal democratic educators are prone to ignore . The discussion has attempted to show that status ascription , far from being merely an anachronism from a predemocratic era , is a universal and systematic part of society on which the process of socialization and the maintenance of solidarity are both dependent . In handling the stream of raw material from which it must build the personnelfor its differentiated social structure , a society has little to go on in ascribing the initial statuses which it must ascribe ; but it makes the most of this little , and utilizing it as a basis for the authoritarian and equalitarian relationships in which socialization takes place , it transmits both the formal and the informal aspects of the culture in a manner conducive to structural integration . Unless these things are understood it seems that educational philosophy will concentrate too narrowly on the so-called needs of the child and not sufficiently on the equally real needs of the society , so that many fundamental customs will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eliminated , would leave the society strangely incapable of maintaining itself .   Socialization and the Adolescent Consideration of formal education and its problems leads us to the last period of intense socialization , the period of adolescence . It is a peculiar period in many ways and hence requires separate attention . Whether publically recognized as a separate status or not , the adolescent period seemingly has- one outstanding peculiarity : it is a time when the individual is attaining physical maturity without necessarily attaining social maturity . In terms of growth , strength , fecundity , an mental capacity , full maturity tends to be attained oily a short time after puberty ; but socially the adolescent still has a long way to go before full status is reached . This tendency for the adolescent to be more mature physically than socially is most pronounced in those settled societies placing a premium on age ; but it is a condition that is to some extent inherent in the nature of all human society . Evolving through uncounted millennia , culture has developed a complexity of principle and a fullness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to master . At the same time it has made possible a type of social or ganization in which power and advantage are dependent on knowledge , experience , reputation , and social position rather than brute strength or innate cunning . In so far as these things have anything to do with age , they are more likely to come with middle age or even old age than with adolescence . Even an army , which presumably depends par excellence on physical skill and strength , is controlled by elderly generals and colonels . The adolescent , despite his achievements in battles , sports , and tests , has long been forced to defer to older persons whose biological capacities are less than his . The latter , by virtue of having held a position early in life , are able ( in a stable society ) to continue to hold it later in life and by virtue of it to acquire other positions of even greater influence . Furthermore , because of the endlessness of the educational process they are in a way better qualified for responsible positions . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and not a biologically maturing qualifies lion . It is based on knowledge and experience , both necessary for successful political and administrative decisions .  | In a sense ( the physical sense ) the community does not utilize its great men until they are already past their prime ; but in another sense ( the social sense ) it utilizes them at the peak of their greatness ? in what one might call their administrative or sociological maturity . The principle of seniority is therefore no accident , no empty form . The charge is frequently made that the old hang onto their positions as vested interests and that this is the explanation of the subordination of youth to age . That older persons seek to hold what power they have is generally true , ' but their desire does not explain the fact that they can do so . They are able to hold their power because they have a kind of superiority ? a superiority developed and buttressed by an organized society , but a superiority nonetheless . There has consequently grown up a situation in which the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the older person , is nevertheless placed in a socially subordinate position . The result is a sort of disharmony which in times of social disorganization sometimes expresses itself in conflict between the generations . If mental and physical maturity came between 30 and 35 years of age instead of between 15 and 20 , there would be a much longer period of youthful plasticity during which an enormously enhanced amount of culture could be absorbed . As it is , especially in modern society , the individual must keep on learning after his capacity to do so has already begun to decline . Even though his sheer capacity has reached its peak during adolescence , his acquired knowledge , judgment , insight , and self-reliance are generally far from their peak . The great extension of the average length of life in modern times , while it has afforded more scope and rationale to post-adolescent learning , has not lengthened the adolescent period itself . Instead it has prolonged the duration of adulthood and has consequently made adolescence a smaller fraction of the average life-span . Also helping to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Each individual is not required to learn the entire culture but only that part of it which concerns him . This mechanism , however , like the extension of the length of life , has its  | limitations , as one can readily see by imagining a society with no general language but merely with a separati language for every occupational group . Societies of course differ as to how freely they permit young people to accumulate knowledge and experience . Frequently , in order to transmit first the ideal elements of the culture the elders , as mentioned earlier , select the cultural content that is given to children and protect them from contrary experiences . To the extent that this happens it postpones social maturity to some stage beyond adolescence . In modern society , because of this protectiveness as well as other factors , even middle-aged people are commonly accused of being emotionally immature . Adolescence , then , is ordinarily the time when the lag of social development behind physical development first becomes pronounced . As society grows more complex the lag becomes greater , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ OCCUPATIONAL PLACEMENT If training is required for one 's occupation the choice of an occupation should be made by the time of adolescence at the latest , because this period represents the last stage of really rapid learning . Yet in a complex and changing society the decision as to occupation tends to be deferred until late adolescence or early adulthood , for the reason that occupational possibilities are altering so fast that decisions made earlier may be subsequently rendered inadvisable . But it is precisely in such a society that an elaborate training and hence an early decision are most essential . If in a simple and stable society the occupation is ascribed or chosen early in life , if the training extends through childhood or is relatively simple in character , adolescence does not stand out occupationally as a period of any particular importance . By the time he reaches adolescence the individual may in fact be practicing his occupation and may be looked upon in this regard as an adult . If on the other hand the society is complex and changing , adolescence tends to become a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a pronounced importance as a socially recognized , eventful period of life . If there is a gradation within each occupation , the adolescent generally starts at the bottom rung . This tends to rive him a distinctly subordinate status . If the element of competition  | is introduced , it acts as an individualizing force that makes of adolescence a period of strain and perhaps of deprivation at the same time that it raises the level of general achievement . REPRODUCTIVE CONTROL In its handling of the adolescent every society must somehow recognize the fact that the reproductive capacity first appears at the inception of adolescence . One crucial question is whether the adolescent shall be permitted to gratify his sexual desires through normal heterosexual intercourse or whether such gratification must be postponed . A second is whether the gratification , if permitted , shall be in marriage or in premarital relations ; and if the latter , whether the illegitimate children shall be killed , disposed of to relatives , or kept by the girl . Finally , there is the question of whether marital choice is free or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ separate household or merely an extension of the parental menage . Among most peoples of the world , at least until recently , there was variation around a recurrent pattern . Either marriage occurred shortly after puberty or premarital intercourse prevailed . The choice of a marital partner was generally in the hands of parents or kinsmen , though the right of veto , in theory at least , supposedly belonged to the parties to the marriage . Wedlock did not usually imply a separate household and did not convey full emancipation from the parents . Although there were countless variations on this generalized pattern , the underlying theme was extremely widespread . Its main characteristic was that it gave a sexual and reproductive function to the adolescent but carefully controlled the exercise of this function . By way of contrast , American society is unusual though not entirely unique in the following ways : It maintains the ideal of premarital chastity in the face of a long period of postponement of marriage after puberty . In connection with this it upholds the freedom of marital choice and fosters competition and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ emphasizes the independence and separateness of the wedded couple . As a consequence the adolescent period becomes one of considerable strain . The young person is permitted to associate closely with the opposite sex but is put on his honor to remain virtuous , is supposed to choose his own mate independently but is in many ways still under the authority of the  | parents , and is forced to compete for love in a rating and dating system that interferes and gets entangled with his fortunes in that other competitive system , the occupational sphere . The strains are somewhat different for boys and for girls , but only as different sides of the same situation . CULTURAL ACQUISITION Only the highly civilized societies , as previously mentioned , possess a specialized educational system forming a separate phase of life . For inculcating modern culture such a system is necessary . Its concentrated and abstract curriculum , professional staff , physical separateness , and internal organization all provide a rapid and systematic grounding in the principles of the civilization . But by virtue of the very qualities that make it efficient @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the facts and experiences of everyday life . For years the pupil is drilled in principles , on the assumption that he will subsequently apply them in actual life . His childhood is thus treated as the preparation for life , not as real life itself . The difficulty is of course that not everything can be taught in school . The person often emerges with a hoard of abstract knowledge but with little knowledge of the concrete situations he must negotiate in order to get along . The harder he studies , the more unfit he becomes for ordinary day-to-day existence . Above all , there is such a long interval between learning and application that the incentive to learn often flags and must be bolstered by an amazing system of planned competition and artificial rewards . Out of ennui and practical necessity the average pupil finally begins to participate in a more vivid world , the world of youth culture . This in its adolescent phase is characterized by irresponsibility , " having a good time , " athletics , sex attraction , and the repudiation of adult control @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is " denied status by society at large , and is regarded primarily as a destructive and undesirable , a foolish and queer expression of the impulses of young people . " 25 It has , in other words , no avowed  | function in the institutional structure but is interstitial , officially purposeless " ? a phenomenon seldom found in other societies . No wonder the cry of unreality is raised against the school system and reforms are proposed which have in view the reintegration of education and life . Some of the reforms , however , have missed the point . They have overlooked the efficiency of systematic instruction and have attempted to make education " grow out of real life situations , " 27 not realizing that since modern culture rests on abstract knowledge , to confine all instruction to the applied and the concrete would soon produce stagnation . The root of the difficulty apparently lies in the fact that while the young person is going to school he is doing little else of a responsible and productive nature . Therefore , the remedy is perhaps to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ school ? i.e. to let him work ? and to relate his schooling to this function . He could then receive his reward not solely in terms of grades , diplomas , honors and degrees , but also in terms of wages and things accomplished . Thus the learning of principles would be attached to actual situations , not by the radical method of reducing all learning to a clumsy empiricism and thereby bankrupting the culture , but by making the young person a citizen who produces to the limit of his natural and acquired capacities . The objection that a thorough grounding in basic principles leaves little time for participation in economic and political activity is valid . But there are three directions in which this obstacle may be overcome : first , the invention of new educational technology ; second , the elimination of irrelevances from the curriculum ; and third , the overhauling of the incentive mechanism . New educational technology , such as the recent methods of improving reading habits , may make possible the absorption of the same amount of knowledge in a much shorter time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clear that they are there because the purpose of schooling both for the society and for the individual is not clear . One way of eliminating the irrelevances would be to define more clearly the fundamentals in our culture and thus reduce the number and the variety of " liberal arts " subjects . An additional way would be to eliminate applied sub-  | jects such as manual training and shorthand , except in so far as they relate to the pupil 's known vocation . This would require specialization earlier in the school career than is now in fashion , and would have the disadvantage of requiring the choice of an occupation when the individual is still young and hence incapable of choosing wisely ; although under a planned economy vocational guidance by experts would be required in any case . Early specialization would allow the school work to be tied to actual life because the child would enter the first stages of his occupation while already going to school . This in turn would help to solve the incentive problem . If a child were already launched on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had specific application to his job so that his wages , advancement , and so forth , depended on them , he would be more disposed to study . YOUTH AND EDUCATION IN RUSSIA Of all the countries that have experimented with educational policy , Russia has been most drastic and apparently most successful in solving some of the basic problems of adolescence . " In the first place , she has made education as well as economics the monopoly of a completely dictatorial state , thus clarifying the goals of education ( greater production and more total allegiance ) and facilitating the planned integration of education with political and economic organization . Politically the official party associations ? Cubs , Pioneers , and Comsomol ( all neatly paralleling the stages of the school system ) ? give an official function to the youth culture by assigning students an active and responsible part in the school administration and the nation 's political life , and by serving as the chief source of recruits for the ruling elite , the Communist Party . Economically , through " polytechnization , " the school @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ school attached to a production unit but it is , at least by the high-school level , highly specialized . Indeed , the technical institutes are administered and financed by the  | factory trusts , and other forms of specialized training are controlled by the commissariats destined to employ the students upon completion of their courses . Often the student enters partial employment in his field while still going to school and remains partially a student after taking a regular job . His expenses are generally borne by the appropriate commissariat . Finally , the Soviets rely for education as little as possible on the family . Not only do they relieve the family of the cost but they take the child extremely early for " preschool education " in communal creches and kindergartens . By the time of adolescence , therefore , it becomes easy for the child to shake . off the parental authority , already superseded by a state authority that does not expect to be shaken off . The Soviet system suggests that to make the school an integral part of the political and economic structure and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the whole economy is necessary . Whether or not a democratic state can achieve such planning is a profound question . Apparently , however , it must either achieve it or go out of existence . The adolescent problems of America have been one price ? high and possibly unnecessary ? paid for an extremely individualistic , dynamic social order . In the future the growth of industrial culture and the competition of tightly organized giant states may force us to use more efficiently the brief span of human immaturity . Summary The still mysterious process by which the young human organism acquires the culture and enters the structure of the society can be illuminated by several different approaches . One of these concerns the role of socialization as a whole in relation to the other determinants of personality . Viewed in this way , socialization has a peculiar nature characterized primarily by communicative interaction . Concretely it can never be completely separated as a factor , and for this reason the logic of scientific abstraction must be kept in mind . The nearest an observer can come to concrete separation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ extremely isolated children . These demonstrate that without cultural transmission there can be no human mentality . A second approach to the problem of socialization concerns the  | development of the self . It appears that culture actually takes hold of the individual through his assumption of the attitudes of others . Through these the self gradually develops . The attitudes of others penetrate not only into the individual 's consciousness , but they form part of the unconscious as well . The individual 's psyche is largely a reflection of the attitudinal system and hence of the social organization of the community in which he lives . To be sure , the individual is not a passive receptacle for cultural influence . Instead he must somehow combine the capacities and urges of the organism with the acquired drives and the normative restraints of his society . For this reason the self is always at best an uneasy equilibrium . A third approach concerns the agencies of socialization . Who does the socializing , and why ? It appears that the task is accomplished both in authoritarian and in equalitarian social @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In complex changing societies much of the authoritarian socialization , particularly in the latter two-thirds of the child 's career , is carried out by a separate educational organization . Here one problem is precisely too much separation from the rest of life . The adolescent has somehow to reconcile his physical maturity with his social immaturity , his reproductive capacity with his educational and vocational needs . Modern society has still to solve some basic problems of socialization at all stages of childhood and youth . Indeed , it can not be said that any society makes full use of the individual 's capacities . The improvement of socialization offers one of the greatest possibilities for the future alteration of human nature and human society .  | PERSONALITY INTEGRATION WHEN in 1524 Francisco Pizarro sailed from Panama toward an unknown southern destination , he began a venture that had meaning in two different contexts . On the one hand he was , as history now shows , expanding the Spanish Empire over a great new area , the magnificent realm of the Incas , and was thus spreading the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the sociological ( including the political , economic , and religious ) context . On the other hand he was , as an experienced but still obscure captain in his early fifties , acquiring fame and fortune beyond the dreams of most men . An illegitimate son , a swineherd in his home town , an illiterate man of no education , he viewed his gamble as an avenue to the greatest glory in his life , a potential triumph of the most satisfying kind . This was the personal context . Necessarily the two contexts are related . If Pizarro 's venture had not been significant to others in a social sense , he would not have regarded it as important in a personal sense and would not have undertaken it . Yet despite their interrelatedness the two contexts are quite distinct . The political historian analyzes the action in terms of the first context , relating it to the other events in the world of national enterprise , events having nothing to do with Pizarro as a person . He knows that if Pizarro had not discovered and conquered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have done so . The biographer analyzes the action in terms of the second context , relating it to the thoughts and aspirations and other activities in the life of the great conquistador . In both cases , of course , the concrete event is the same ; it is only the ways of looking at it that are different . When one views behavior from the standpoint of the biographer or psychologist , the most profound problem concerns the total unity  | of the personality ; just as , when viewing behavior from the standpoint of the sociologist , the deepest problem concerns the total unity of society or the group . Both personality and society are modes of abstraction , ways of organizing sensory impressions and of relating events to other events . Each mode of interpretation leads ultimately to the question of the structure and functions of the system as a whole . What is it that gives personality , for example , its coherence and continuity ? What is it that enables us to place it in a certain category and give it a name such as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people often say that there can be no general principles regarding personality because " every person is different . " But this statement itself is a general principle , presumably applying to " every person . " To think that it is the only universal principle about personality is fallacious , because the very use of the word " persons " implies that there are some things that all people have in common . Such naive propositions , which kill rather than foster inquiry , result ( as mentioned before ) from a confusion between the concrete and the abstract . To be sure , all persons are different ; but just as surely , they are all alike . It depends on how they are regarded . Every apple is different but this does not preclude our making valid statements about apples in general . Indeed , we make valid statements about fruit in general and reduce them to a science called poinology . Francisco Pizarro was different from all other human beings , but in many ways he was like all other Spaniards and in some ways like all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is to sketch the nature and structure of the human personality and to show the place of social interaction in it . Our second interest is to describe the ways in which persons differ from one another and to show the role of culture and social experience in causing the differences . Since socialization is so greatly responsible for the development of personality , our discussion of that topic has already accomplished much of the task . The present treatment can therefore be brief . It is characteristic of human beings that they find it almost impossible to study themselves scientifically . In the case of personality as with other human topics , the first thing that catches the attention is not the normal behavior ( which is taken for granted ) but the abnormal . We therefore know more about personality disintegration than we know about personality integration . In fact we tend to define  | the integrated or normal person as one who has none of the characteristics of the disintegrated or abnormal . Integration therefore becomes a residual category into which we throw everything that is not disintegration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ categories should not be allowed to stand unmolested . Academic psychologists have done little toward clarifying the matter of personality integrE Lion . They have misinterpreted their task as that of explaining concrete behavior from every point of view ? organic , psychic , and social ? which has made them encyclopedic in their approach and confused in their methodology . Also they have been more interested in analyzing individual differences than in formulating a general theory of personality . As a result they have concentrated on personality traits rather than on the whole person . ' The psychoanalysts and other branches of " dynamic " or " depth " psychology have done more than the academic psychologists to give us a workable theory of personality organization . The term personality , as we use it , refers to a psychic phenomenon . It is neither organic nor social but is an emergent from a combination of the two . Since the psychic , or mental , is hard for people to visualize because it is subjective , there is a constant tendency to try to reduce it to something else @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of behavior , both of which are indicative of mental processes but not to be confused with them . The first evidence is that of nonsymbolic behavior , as in eating ; the second is that of symbolic behavior , as in speech and gesture . With these indices at our disposal we are capable of learning a great deal about the mental processes of others ; and since we experience directly our own mental processes , we can put ourselves in the place of others and predict on the basis of a knowledge of the situation what they will do . We can do this with particular ease , especially with reference to persons in our own culture , because our own self has been formed by taking over the attitudes of others through communication . Social interaction , as we have seen , is always based on mutual prediction of one another 's behavior and always assumes the operation of subjective mental processes . The central focus of subjective mental processes and hence the thing to which all behavior can be related in terms of a system , is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to show how it is formed and to indicate that it has two polar aspects , the one organically derived and the other socially derived . Let us illustrate these aspects in terms of two perceptions ? " sweetness " and " wrong . " Given a normal organism , candy will ordinarily taste " sweet . " The sweetness is riot a quality of the candy as such because candy has no mind ; nor is it a quality of the organism alone , because without something sweet the taste can not emerge . The sweetness is a sensation , a psychic emergent , which appears when candy and tongue come together under proper conditions . It appears in consciousness and therefore can be related to other things that appear in consciousness ? viz. , the color and shape of candy , the name for it , the box in which it is contained , and the price and occasion of its presence . The sensation is thus connected mentally with other sensations , with factual knowledge and with moral evaluations . Suppose , for example , that the individual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is tasting it during a day when according to his religion he is not supposed to take food in any form . Added to the taste of sweetness in this case is another subjective state of a very different character , the feeling of doing something " wrong . " Now the feeling of " wrong " resembles the sensation of sweetness in being a function neither of the external world nor of the organic structure alone ; but , unlike sweetness , it does not emerge from the combination of external stimulus and neural receptor . Instead it depends completely on meanings derived from other persons and involves an attitude taken toward certain facts or certain sensations . Identically the same sweetness may be viewed as either good or bad , depending on how the situation is defined . It is characteristic of subjective states , of whatever type , that they can be pleasant or unpleasant . If unpleasant , something must be done to alter the experience . If too much candy has been eaten and the sweetness becomes sickening , the individual usually gets rid of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may risk offending his hostess and consequently may keep on eating beyond the point of satiety . If he is doing something " wrong " he may stop or make atonement . In the case of the " wrong , " however , the unpleasantness does not derive initially from the organism itself but rather from responses set in motion by the individual 's conception of himself in the eyes of others . The ego , then , is in the position of  | having to control and reconcile the pleasures from different sources ; it is this process of controlling and reconciling that forms the key to personality structure . The Striving for Unity The unity of the self does not come easily . It is threatened on all sides by new and often hostile elements which must be either warded off or assimilated . The individual must be able to foresee and predict what happens , to understand the world he lives in and thus prevent the occurrence of sudden disturbances . In order to have confidence and certainty , he must feel that he lives in a stable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ much by physical injury as by unpredictability and misunderstanding , particularly in his social relations . Unpleasant or unforeseen experiences are imaginatively rehearsed again and again in the effort to understand and assimilate them . The assimilation of the outer world depends upon a constant but purely subjective interpretation which creates an inner world . Immersed in an environment which he does not and can not understand , the individual is forced to create a substitute world which he can understand and in which he puts his faith . He acts in consistency with that conception , derives his standards of value from it , and undertakes to alter it only when convinced by further experience that it fails to serve the goal of unity . Since this self-made scheme of life is his only guarantee of security , its preservation soon becomes a goal in itself . He seeks the type of experience which confirms and supports the unified attitude , and rejects experiences which seem to promise a disturbance of this attitude . The apparent stability of the habit system is therefore not to be interpreted as due to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rather as the reflection of a stable system of values . ' When the person is faced with a social situation inconsistent with his conception of himself , he must either assimilate it by incorporating it somehow into his value system or else reject it . Conflict is thus  | a necessary factor in personality development , and progressive assimilation of new situations is the only means by which a stable organization can be attained . If the new element is too foreign to the established system , it may be rejected . In either case , whether by assimilation or by rejection , the explanation of the choice lies in the individual 's existing organization of values . The ego is not influenced mechanically by each external stimulus , like a puppet in a Punch and Judy show , but experiences and reinterprets the stimulus in the light of the meanings already established ; and the effort is always to maintain the subjective unity which alone makes life possible . Assimilation or rejection of new elements is often accompanied by emotion , a by-product of the painful or exciting readjustment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mind is always directed toward the disturbing problem at hand , while past solutions of other problems form the unconscious basis for the solution of this one . All of an individual 's values are organized into a single system the preservation of whose integrity is essential . The nucleus of the system , around which the rest of the system revolves , is the individual 's valuation of himself . The individual sees the world from his own viewpoint , with himself as the center . Any value entering the system which is inconsistent with the individual 's valuation of himself can not be assimilated ; it meets with resistance and is likely , unless a general reorganization occurs , to be rejected . This resistance is a natural phenomenon ; it is essential for the maintenance of individuality . All human behavior can be interpreted as motivated by the need for unity . Particular motives are simply expressions of this main motive . The goals that the individual pursues are simply means to this more general result . Since the need for unity , however , never appears directly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . lie is aware only of the specific ends he is seeking . The general tendency to maintain unity is therefore an abstraction of the observer , a way of understanding the specific behavior of the person observed . Such an abstraction is necessary if a scientific explanation of the person 's behavior is to be obtained . A mistake of the mechanistic psychologists is to assume that the external stimulus , quite apart from its subjective meaning for the self , is a determinant of behavior.  | A mistake of the dynamic psychologists is to assume that there are particular goals fixed in the organism which determine behavior . The Freudians , for example , posited sexual satisfaction as the fixed goal , but they were forced to admit that other goals such as the " death instinct " could on occasion take primacy over it . Thus they wound up by positing a set of mutually opposed " instincts " or goals , without realizing that this situation is comprehensible in terms of some more general principle of balance and adjustment among the alleged instincts . The need for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can explain the mutual adjustments of the more specific ends . Freud 's scheme suffers from a low order of generality . He mistook the specific for the general . Thus the fact of repression was interpreted by him as the ego 's attempt to keep the sexual desires from offending the moral principles acquired from the society , or vice versa . But this whole process is meaningless apart from a tendency to maintain a system of subjective evaluation built around the conception of the self . Anything , not merely sexual desires , can be repressed . That which is repressed is whatever might threaten the unity of the self if it were admitted to awareness . Repression is one of the means by which the ego protects itself from disturbing elements and maintains its integration . In like manner the emotions can be interpreted in terms of self-integration . Love is the emotion subjectively experienced in reference to a person or object already assimilated and serving as a strong support to the idea of self . Grief is experienced when the personality must be reorganized due to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of rejection and destruction felt towards unassimilable objects . The emotion of horror appears when a situation arises suddenly which we are not prepared to assimilate , such as the sight of a ghastly accident . Thus the scientific analysis of the personality as a system of values , ends , and attitudes built around the individual 's conception of himself and having as its first necessity the establishment and preservation of its unity , gives the maximum degree of generality . It therefore affords the best approach to understanding personality . All other ap- proaches , in so far as they are correct in their observations , can be reinterpreted as special subsystems of the more general theory . ' The Sources of Personal Unity Some major sources of unity in the self seem to be the following : ( 1 ) physical continuity , ( 2 ) memory , ( 3 ) ends , ( 4 ) norms , and ( 5 ) statuses . The meaning of these will become clear upon discussion . PHYSICAL CONTINUITY Not only does the body furnish the capacity for psychic complexity and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the locus or reference point to which the personality is attached . If John Smith is said to be " a different person since he got religion , " he is still nevertheless attached to the same body . In the eyes of others and of himself he is located there . When his body dies , he dies too . True , the memory of him lingers on and his " stature " as a person may even grow , but the memories refer to a time when he had a body . The organism itself possesses a high degree of structural and functional unity . It would be strange if this unity did not account , in part at least , for the unity of the self . The constancy of organic needs provides a certain consistency , a thread around which the habits of action are woven . The capacities provide automatic limits on the varieties of behavior . The persistence of habits once established gives a cumulative character to personal development . The rhythm of the organism helps to determine the regular changes of mood . Moreover @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a certain meaning by others and hence by the person himself . Sex , age , and race are utilized in the ascription of status . Beauty , height , girth , strength , health , and alertness affect social relationships and , through these , the personality . Most of these socially noticed traits either change slowly or not at all ; they therefore afford a certain stability to the individual 's conception of himself . MEMORY The selectivity and scope of the human memory contribute greatly to personal integration . Through memory , events are related  | one to another in chronological order , and the past lives in the present . What is remembered depends primarily on its relevance to the self , with the result that memory helps to produce order out of the chaos of experience . Certain principles of memory do not vary much in different cultures . The curves for learning and forgetting , the mechanisms of primacy , recency , intensity , etc. are fairly uniform . But the content of memory is mainly social . We remember those things that are important @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . We generally remember what we are supposed to remember and forget what we are supposed to forget ; we remember things that are favorable to the self and forget those that are unfavorable ( with notable exceptions , of course ) . In many cases the act of forgetting is the result of a deliberate effort by the self ; such suppression does not mean that the forgotten event ceases to affect the personality , but rather that the ego is attempting to maintain its integration in the face of disturbing elements . Both remembrance and forgetfulness serve to protect the self in its most vital aspect , the conception of its relative standing with reference to normative standards . Events are easier to remember when they contain familiar elements . A sentence with only one new word is easier to remember , other things equal , than one with three new words . Bartlett recounts the results of a visit to England by a Swazi chief and his followers from South Africa . When asked what they remembered best among their English impressions , they recalled most vividly the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was that the Swazi greet their fellows in a somewhat similar manner , and the visitors were impressed by such an effective use of this gesture in a foreign country . Being one of the few things that fitted into the Swazi social framework , it was remembered . The social relevance of memory is easy to demonstrate . The Swazi , for example , remembered exceedingly well the characteristics of their cattle , presumably because of the importance of cattle in their lives , but their retentiveness in other regards was below that of white men . " Even the manner of remembering may be socially determined to a considerable degree . Bartlett reports that when he talked to a Zulu about the former military exploits of his people , the Zulu lived  | through his memories with the greatest vividness and emotional excitement . A Swazi would tell about similar incidents in a stolid and unmoved manner . It was not a matter of differences in temperament , since the Swazi also could be aroused to violent interest by other questions , particularly those dealing with cattle , women @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ through selective memory and forgetfulness that the ego organizes its experience and builds a conception of itself through time . Such selectivity helps to keep habit formation from being a purely mechanical process . The past does not determine the present automatically but only as sifted through and assimilated by the subjective mind . THE HIERARCHY OF ENDS The individual 's conception of himself refers not only to the past but also to the future . Regarding certain ends as valuable , he strives to realize them . His striving is socially determined in at least two ways . First , the ends themselves are acquired from others . ( Organic needs play a part , but the specific character of the ends is socially defined ? e.g. one does not eat whatever would be nourishing but only what is customary . ) Second and more important for us at the moment , the integration of the ends is also derived from the social milieu . We have seen that each person possesses a multiplicity of goals but only scarce means , and that consequently he has to allocate his scant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . How does he come to feel that some goals are more desirable than others ? How and why does he acquire his hierarchy of ends ? If a society 's survival requires that certain ultimate values be held in common , each individual must place these shared values at the top of his own private scale , at least in so far as he judges the behavior of others . This does not mean that the ends he seeks for himself will necessarily conform to these values but simply that he will judge others , and in return will be judged , according to the common values . Any competitive end he may pursue must therefore he limited by the more ultimate or cooperative goals of the group as a whole . His conception of himself is built from other peoples ' conception of the ends which he in his status and in his situation  | should pursue . His hierarchy of ends is therefore individualized yet subordinated to the common ultimate values . To say that the person 's various ends should be compatible is to state an impossible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ case incompatible , since their attainment requires the utilization of scarce means ( time and energy ) . What is required for personal unity is an organization of the ends in such manner that the degree of preference between any two is felt distinctly . Necessarily this subordination of one end to another must have an upper point ( the ultimate values ) which is like the tip of a pyramid , and a lower or bottom layer ( the purely instrumental ends ) which is like the base of a pyramid . In any case a scale of evaluation and therefore a basis of choice must be present if there is to be any psychic integration . An indication of personality disorganization is chronic inability to make a decision , because such a condition shows there is no orderly relationship between the ends ( the Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde , or split personality , type of adjustment ) . If ends are systematically arranged in a hierarchy , the claims of each and every one are recognized rather than ignored and a choice becomes possible . Subordination of one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has no claim in its own right but simply that the claims of the different ends are not all equal . It is impossible for a human being to treat all ends except one as if they had no claim of their own . The various ends are connected with different needs and functions that can not be ignored if life is to go on . The necessity of each one depends on the particular situation , so that the hierarchy of ends reflects in a sense the total balance of situations in which the individual normally finds himself . Also there are different avenues to the realization of any given end . Assuming , for example , that the individual 's goal is to have children , this goal may be satisfied in any of several ways ? by adoption , kidnapping , artificial insemination , adultery , or married intercourse . Which method is chosen depends not on the goal itself but on the demands of other goals involved in the situation . In our culture the desire to appear respectable makes adultery and kidnapping unsatisfactory as a means @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ paternity makes adoption rather unsatisfactory . Thus in every phase of life we find that other ends limit the means that can be used in the pursuit of any particular end . The person 's value system is therefore a network of sovereign  | but mutually dependent goals . He must know how to give each goal its due , which means that he must have a scale of preference ; and his scale of preference comes from and is constantly modified by social interaction . In short , not only does he get his values and ends from others but also his preferences or scale of values and ends as well . This acquisition of a value scale , however , is not mechanical . Other persons regard the individual 's actions from the point of view of their own values , not from the point of view of his . Thus a man may act in such a way as to bring success to himself . He does this by doing something that others consider worthwhile because it helps to satisfy their ends . They are not interested in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it , but they are interested in what he does . From their standpoint the success may be accorded as a grudging reward , but from his standpoint it is regarded as the achievement of a major goal . As seen by an observer the effort of the individual is always to achieve integration ? an integration built around the conception of the self as derived from others . But the actor seldom , if ever , regards himself as striving for integration as such . He is merely striving for certain ends , of which the most general is the good opinion of others or conformity to the standards of the generalized other . The integration comes from the largely unconscious balancing of the various ends . The preference system is a subjective thing . In a sense it is worked out by each individual himself . To aid him in working it out , however , he has ( 1 ) models in those around him , especially those with whom he identifies himself ; ( 2 ) cultural patterns of preference ; and ( 3 ) the fact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , is to penalize or reward behavior in terms of the individual 's own goals . If stealing appears to the actor to be a satisfactory means of acquiring property , the society can make it an unsatisfactory means by taking away legitimate or illegitimate property already acquired or by taking away the thief 's liberty . Precisely because his fellows make so many demands on him , precisely because his organism is constantly calling for gratification , precisely because his situations are so many and so different , the individual is hard put to it to achieve a working integration of his ends . His integration can not be only within himself but must also be between himself and others , because others are instrumental to the realization of his own ends .  | NORMATIVE INTEGRATION The moral imperatives appear to the individual either as desirable ends in themselves or as necessary obstacles to the attainment of other ends . In the first case the person must reconcile the moral goals with his other goals in order to give each kind of end some degree of attainment . In the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ moral code sufficiently to prevent retaliation by others from blocking his realization of his private ends . No individual adopts exclusively the one attitude or the other . All of us are normatively motivated to a great extent , but all of us are also sceptically opportunistic in many regards . Neither attitude , of course , leads to complete observance of the social norms nor to their complete nonobservance . No matter how morally inclined a person is , he still finds it necessary to provide some outlet for nonmoral desires . Some of the greatest sinners have been at the same time the greatest believers . If temptation were not inherent in the situation there would be no sense to the rule . On the other hand , no matter how morally sceptical a person may be , he still derives his conception of himself from others and therefore has some convictions concerning what he ought and ought not to do . Scepticism , indeed , is usually superficial . The individual needs , and indeed seeks , deep convictions because these give him a basis for constructing his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ amount of scepticism , because no system of norms is entirely consistent with itself or entirely adequate for all emergencies ; nor is it sufficiently tolerant of the individual 's nonmoral ends . The norms have evolved through millennia of imperfect obedience and consequently are so adapted as to compensate for the tendency toward nonconformity . A society in which everyone suddenly conformed strictly to the norms would not only be utterly static and incapable of adjusting itself to changing circumstances , but it would make impossible demands on the individuals composing it . The norms are formulated in such a way as to give a certain stress or pull that would create incompatibilities and distortions if carried out to the letter . The situation is like the representation of objects in two-dimensional space , where certain distortions must be practiced on the canvas in order to achieve a true effect . Certain distortions must be present in the normative system in order to achieve functionally adequate behavior from the members . For example the  | norms place great emphasis upon the necessity of work , relatively little on the necessity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is irksome . Similarly , they encourage the rearing of children but do not particularly encourage , and sometimes actively discourage , sexual intercourse ? on the assumption , presumably , that the latter will be indulged in anyway . The particular system of norms transmitted to the individual occupying a given set of positions is therefore only an element in his personality , but it is an important element . He must somehow assimilate the moral imperatives into his total structure of ends and behavior patterns . He must avoid both the error of compulsive conformity ( which would cause the other aspects of his personality to atrophy ) and the error of compulsive violation ( which would cause his relations with others to degenerate ) . He avoids these dangers primarily by keeping in mind the principles or general goals behind the specific normative rules ; by correctly conceiving himself and his situation in the eyes of others so far as observance of the rules is concerned ; and by bringing all the elements of his personality ? his goals , behavior , positions , and knowledge ? into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has often been noted that one 's personality changes with the social position . A man regarded as meek and timid often turns out , when placed in a position of authority , to be aggressive and decisive . A man who becomes a dean in a university has not had a dean 's personality all his life ; he acquires it with the office . A girl who becomes a wife often changes her behavior and her attitudes with surprising rapidity . The same is equally true of the delinquent and the criminal . If a change in a particular position can have such palpable effect , then the individual 's total system of positions must play a great part in determining his personality . In fact , we may view the personality : is a product of all the positions one occupies . From a sheer knowledge of the statuses and offices , without ever having seen the fleshand-blood incumbent , one could construct the positional personality . ' I his would not be the complete personality because the latter is a function of other factors as well , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ .  | It is easy to see why this should be . A status or an office is defined precisely by the expectations of others in a given situation . It fixes and organizes the expectations with respect to certain obligations and therefore represents the exact point at which social organization and individual behavior join together . Directed toward the particular individual are expectations that are not directed toward every individual in the society , but only towards those like himself who occupy the same position . The position locates him in the total social context . Furthermore , since he occupies not one but several positions , and since few persons in the society occupy identically the same combination of positions , his total positional system gives him an individual identity ; it specifies his unique , individual integration of societal elements . In this way he is able to build up a conception of himself in an organized fashion without being simply a replica of every other member of the society . The sociological determination of personality , therefore , does not imply a lack of individuality . As @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of course extremely important . In general a social system is so arranged that an individual does not occupy positions making incongruous demands on him . To be sure , it gives the same individual various competing positions in the sense that his time and energy can not be given to any one of them as fully as its demands seem to require . Our culture in particular forces the individual to strain and extend himself to a maximum . Thus a man 's occupational advancement often requires an amount of work that inevitably takes time away from his family ; his duty to his country as a soldier often interferes with his occupational advancement ; his love affairs interfere with his education ; etc . But competing statuses are different from incompatible ones . Statuses may be incompatible because the duties are opposite . Thus a Protestant minister could hardly be the proprietor of a burlesque show . In one role he would be expected to defend the mores , in the other to give relief from them ; and it is hardly credible that he could be equally sincere @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by social definition , they can not be occupied by the same person at the same time . This is particularly true of positions that stand to each other in a relation of subordination and superordination . Thus an army officer can not be at the same time a private , a king a commoner , or a pariah a Brahmin . Of course ,  | the same person may be subordinate in one context and superior in another , but usually with different persons . One is a parent of one 's own offspring but a child of one 's parents ; a scientist is an expert in his own field but a layman in another ; a captain is superior to the sergeant but inferior to the general . The individual exhibits great flexibility in adapting himself to different demands in different statuses , but there is a limit to which he can go in this direction . The social system usually helps him by virtue of its tendency to give some consistency to the statuses that one individual may occupy simultaneously . It also gives consistency and an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sequentially . In this way the person finds his psychic integration ready-made , at least in part . His effort is expended on simply living up to the expectations rather than choosing which expectations he shall want to live up to . The more his status is ascribed rather than achieved , the easier is his task . Individual Differences Social scientists ( anthropologists and sociologists in particular ) have often been accused by psychologists of overlooking individual differences . This is because the focus of the social scientist is on the social structure as a system rather than on the person as a system . If , however , as is usually the case , the psychologist thinks of " personality " as the concrete individual his notion of " individual differences " is likely to be heavily biological . The social scientist is interested in biological differences between individuals only in so far as they are somehow involved in social organization ? as in the case of status ascription on the basis of sex , age , etc . But the main fact is that persons differ from one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of sociological variation . The first great source of individual variation is cultural difference . One individual may differ from another because he has a different culture ; it is largely for this reason , for example , that a Chinese is different from a European . Each culture tends to give a characteristic stamp to the personality of the people who share it ; this stamp will differ from one culture to another . Within a single culture , however , it will be found  | that individuals differ from one another , not primarily because of their organic differences but because of their differences of status . They differ as to occupation , family relationship , class , education , etc . No two individuals have exactly the same combination of social positions and social experience . For this reason one of the main contributions of the social scientists is a description and explanation of individual differences . Without a knowledge of the social system and of the places of individuals within this system , the psychologist can not explain the major differences between one individual and another . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one hand and from biology on the other . ' This is to say that the psychologist himself has relatively little to contribute on the subject , except certain techniques of measurement and description . Suppose that we stood on a corner in New York City and interviewed at random a hundred people . How would we explain the personality differences between them ? Let the first one be a recently arrived Japanese . He would be different in countless respects from an American simply because he grew up in another culture and in another kind of social system . Some of the differences would be fundamental . The manner in which he had been socialized , the particular sentiments and attitudes he had acquired , the kind of family and class organization he had become accustomed to ? these would have given him a peculiar kind of character resembling in a general way the character of all other Japanese.It is in this sense that we can speak of " national character , " being careful always to avoid any racialistic implication or any assumption that there is no further variation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and a native white man . Reared in the same culture they would have a great deal in  | common ; but unless we kept the Japanese in mind as a contrast , we would tend to forget their common traits in our fascination with their differences . The Negro would inevitably reveal , either in exaggerated protest or in exaggerated humility , his conception of himself as a member of a lower caste . The white man would hardly be conscious of his own white caste status at all except in so far as he thought about his behavior toward Negroes . This freedom would give him an unreflecting security and a degree of self-confidence that the Negro could not enjoy with reference to race status . On other counts , of course , the degree of self-confidence might be reversed . Suppose that the next two persons were a research physicist and a rural politician . Here the habits of mind engendered by the practice of two diverse occupations , by different kinds and degrees of training , by opposite kinds of daily routine , and by divergent forms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the whole personality and would make the two men unmistakably different . Yet on the basis of other social influences on personality they might be somewhat alike . It does not follow that two research physicists or two rural politicians would be exactly alike . Suppose next that we found two persons , one of whom had been reared as an only child by a rich , indulgent , dominating , and overprotective mother , whereas the other had been reared in a large family by parents who were frugal , efficient , and well-balanced . Certainly there would be a difference of personality organization between these two . One of them might well exhibit a shut-in type of personality with a history of neurotic or psychotic behavior , while , the other might be open and sociably inclined with no history of mental aberration whatsoever . In this way we could go through the hundred persons , finding significant personality differences between each pair . To a surprising degree these differences would be due to differences of culture , status , occupation , training , or other factors in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we have discussed only one major source of difference in each pair , it is quite obvious that many different kinds of difference may be in operation at once . The Negro might be the research chemist , the white man the rural politician ; the Negro might also be the child of an overprotective mother and the white man the child of well-balanced parents . The complete personality of any one of the hundred persons , therefore , even on its social side alone ,  | would be a product of a large number of factors . No two persons in the entire hundred would be completely alike . This is why the description of individual peculiarities in a completely concrete sense would be a never-ending encyclopedic task . Scientifically we inevitably must deal in abstractions to some extent . Our interest in differences and similarities must be limited to certain aspects ; it can not embrace everything . It is the psychiatrist trying to restore the mental balance of a particular person , who must take account of the greatest number of factors ; but even he must draw @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Conclusion The self or ego can be regarded as a psychic system , the parts of which are functionally related to one another and to the system as a whole . It is a subjective system , involving values , ends , sentiments , and beliefs . Any theory of personality integration that tries to ignore the subjective aspect will prove a failure . The most general and universal motive , the motive behind all others , is the necessity of maintaining the unity of the system . Unless the individual can somehow fit his mental life together , he can not maintain the continuity and efficiency necessary for ordered existence . The thread around which the parts are integrated is the conception of the self , which is derived from and maintained in a social context . Aiding him in attaining unity are the continuity of his organism , the selectivity of his memory , and the unity of the social organization from which his ends , norms , and statuses come . In this way and with these sources he builds up a personality , or character , that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in its parts . One individual differs from another in his degree of integration . He also differs , quite apart from integration , in the kind of traits that are incorporated into his psychic system . In both cases the difference is to a great extent determined by the social context and social experience in which he has been reared and to which he must continue to respond . For this reason the study of social organization and interaction is a necessary adjunct to the understanding of personality . The unity and character of the psychic system are dependent upon , but not identical with , the unity and character of the social system .  | PERSONALITY DISORGANIZATION IF personality integration is in part a function of social factors , then so is personality disintegration . True , the organism is in both cases a necessary condition , but the variables or determinants often lie in the socio-cultural sphere . Just as a person may be physically sick without the cause lying in his psychic make-up ( e.g. malaria ) , so he may be mentally ill without the cause @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Of course , physical illness may affect one 's socio-psychic adjustment ( as when the malarial sufferer grows inefficient , loses his job , and becomes depressed ) , and mental illness may affect one 's physical equilibrium ( as when acute anxiety produces diarrhea ) ; but in neither case should the result be confused with the cause . Fruitful insight into the dynamics of human mentality comes from the study of psychic disorders , because in such disorders the requirements of the ordinary personality are , by their absence , made conspicuous . Our present interest attaches , however , only to the social aspects and hence to the social causes of mental disorder . In trying to assess these we shall pursue the following three lines of reasoning : First , the definition of mental disorder is stated in social terms ; second , the functioning of disordered minds refers to and in many cases arises out of social experience ; and third , the incidence of certain mental disorders indicates socio-cultural causation . The Concept of Mental Disorder Most people believe they can tell when a person @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a clear definition of mental disorder . Their reactions to a deranged person are spontaneous , not based on logical classification but on a quick response to the indi-  | vidual 's behavior in the social situation . Their definition is there , fore an implicit one , and in order to understand it we must analyze not only the mental processes of the deranged person but also the mental process of the people who judge him . In the last analysis the underlying criterion of mental derangement , the substance of every definition , is that of abnormality . But in what sense is " abnormality " to be taken ? Does it refer to actions different from the statistical average ? Decidedly not . There are , for example , very few diamond cutters in our society , far fewer than there are schizophrenics or paranoiacs ; and yet we do not label the diamond cutters as insane and the schizophrenics as sane . A diamond cutter might be regarded as insane if his behavior differed from that of other diamond cutters ? if , for instance , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shotgun . This is closer to the truth because it suggests that people judge normality and abnormality with reference to a position and a social situation , not simply with reference to the population at large . But we must be careful . A diamond cutter who invents an improved cutting technique may thus deviate from the usual practice of those in his trade , but instead of being called crazy he is likely to be called rational and clever . It is not abnormality in a statistical sense that constitutes mental disorder , even when the deviation is with reference to a given status . Neither the genius nor the feebleminded person is ipso facto insane , any more than the king , the explorer , or the oboe player . Does abnormality then refer to deviation , not from the statistically average but from the normatively expected ? If so we are all mentally disordered , because each of us fails to observe the behavior ideally expected of us . Criminals are not regarded as necessarily insane ; in fact , by the legal definition of crime no criminal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Furthermore , many crimes are committed in the name of the right and the good regardless of the fact that they violate the law . For centuries the English persecuted dissenters of all types , yet the " crimes " of these worshipers were religious and hence highly normative in their motivation . We can only conclude that the mere fact of deviation from a normative rule is not itself the criterion ordinarily used in defining mental disorder . Can the element of abnormality be dispensed with altogether ? Can it be said , for example , that mental disorder consists of holding  | erroneous beliefs ? Obviously not , because the concept of delusion so prominent in cases of derangement " refers not simply to a false belief , but to a false belief which a reasonable person would not hold . There are a great many false beliefs held by groups of normal persons " who have not had the opportunity to learn better but who are following traditional and religious authority . A false belief that is understandable in the culture and in the situation is not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the mentally deranged apart as a class is their unpredictability . It has been previously noted that social life rests upon the mutual predictability of one another 's behavior . By this is not meant predictability in the crude sense of merely an accurate statement of what the organism as a physical object will do next , but in the sense that the motives are understood by one 's fellows and the resulting actions known in advance . Expectation in this refined sense rests upon communication , for it is through symbolic contact that people share what is in one another 's minds . Even though a person does not conform to the obligatory norms , we expect him at least to be influenced by a knowledge of them . We expect him to realize , emotionally as well as intellectually , that certain norms apply to him in his situation . Above all we expect him to admit the norms as premises to his thinking , as ends , means , and conditions of action . If he does not , his behavior tends to become unpredictable ( in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ judge him to be mentally off balance . The clearest road to being considered insane , therefore , is to differ so systematically and persistently from the normative assumptions and mental habits of others that they can not understand the motivation and hence do not know what to expect . In such circumstances communication becomes impossible . It is not so much deviation as an inability to explain satisfactorily the deviation to others ( in terms that fit their assumptions ) that leads to the judgment of mental disorder . The deranged person is not capable of being influenced by the communications of others ; he is not " reasonable . " A person 's conduct may be unpredictable because his culture or his situation is unknown to us . " Many actions of natives in preliterate societies , normal in their own cultures , would be regarded as evi- dence of insanity in our society . Actions which are normal in one culture are abnormal in others . This generalization is even true of such variations in culture as may be seen within one large nation . For example , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the rural sections of Southern states , while the same behavior may be the occasion for commitment to a hospital in a Northern city .... Such eccentric behavior as attempting to push a peanut along a sidewalk with the nose may appear insane , until it is discovered that the performer is a college student , being hazed or the loser of an election bet : " Unpredictability becomes symptomatic of mental disorder , then , when it occurs in spite of a knowledge of the person 's culture and his social situation and when the grounds of the behavior can not be satisfactorily communicated to the ordinary persons within the group . If a person violates one norm ? e.g. by committing a crime ? there is no indication that he is mentally unbalanced . It may be that his reasons are understandable to others even though others would have behaved differently in the same situation . Only if the crime is such that the motive remains incomprehensible will the sanity of the criminal be questioned . If an individual kills his best friend because he thinks the friend is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was not in the least hostile ) or if he kills people indiscriminately for no apparent reason , we suspect a motive hidden to himself and therefore not communicable . The psychiatrist may be able to understand his motivation , but not the layman . For ordinary people , therefore , the class " crazy persons " is a residual class . Into it are put all those individuals whose conduct , in terms of motives , is quite unpredictable . In general the unpredictability derives from either a failure to " see " things as they are ordinarily seen in the group or a failure to communicate the reasoning process by which what is seen is connected with the results that emerge in behavior . If the individual believes that he is a famous personage when he is in fact an ordinary citizen , his actions may follow logically from this assumption and he may be able to communicate his motives based on the assumption ; but if no amount of explanation by other parties will alter his conception of his own identity , if he builds up additional false @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ then he is regarded as mad . There is a point when communication no longer penetrates to his mind ; he thus remains socially isolated in an important respect . In other cases practically no communication is possible at all , so that it is impossible to determine what the assumptions are , the individual being incoherent and unresponsive . This peculiarity of the conception of mental disorder ? namely that it is a residual category embracing all cases in which there is an extreme breakdown of communicative understanding ? explains two widely known facts . First , the study of the causes of mental disorder in so far as these are socio-psychic rather than physiological is greatly handicapped by the difficulties of communication . The psychiatrist must communicate with the patient in order to understand the disorder , and yet , because of the disorder , he can hardly communicate with him . The techniques of the psychiatrist are designed to overcome this handicap but as yet they are meagre , embracing such things as hypnosis , narcosis , free association , suggestion , dream analysis , winning of affection @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meaningless records , showing meaningless ink blots , or noting the blocking or hypertension produced by an assortment of words ) . The second well-known fact is the aura of horror which surrounds the idea of insanity . Scarcely anything is more terrible to the ordinary person , nurtured and created as he is by a social milieu , than the spectacle of complete unpredictability based on inability to communicate . It reveals to the observer a human organism which at the same time is not human and suggests to him a bottomless pit of mysterious depth , a pit in which the realities by which he lives are reduced to shadows , strange parodies . His assurance , his security , his sense of his own reality are menaced by this anomalous spectacle . The neurotic person , as opposed to the psychotic , is one whose motivational system is only partly removed from the comprehension of his fellows and whose unpredictability is therefore limited . For this reason more advance has been made in the study ( on the psychosocial level ) of neurosis than in the study of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out for the treatment of psychotic patients they are derived in the main from the easier work with more accessible neurotics.  | The Dynamics of Mental Disorder Though helpful , it is not enough to know the criterion by which mentally disordered persons are set apart . A further step is to examine the content of the disordered mind , the dynamic processes by which social reality is distorted and strange responses produced . These processes have been descr'bed at great length and under many names in the psychiatric literature dealing with neuroses and psychoses . In general the discussions of them have been more descriptive than analytical , and frequently the interpretations ( as in the early stages of Freudian psychoanalysis ) have been biological in character . In the present context we shall describe briefly some of the major maladjustment processes , but our main emphasis will be on showing how these processes arise from and relate to the socio-cultural system of which the individual is a part . CONFLICT In all scientific theories of mental disorder the notion of psychic conflict is fundamental , but the nature and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forms of mental conflict , we believe , can be stated in terms of the means-end schema , the logical possibilities of which are as follows : ( 1 ) Ends may be incompatible because they are opposite in character . A man who wishes to be both a person of learned dignity and a popular clown is pursuing two mutually opposed ends . A soldier who wishes to escape from the dangers of battle and at the sane time appear brave to his fellows is doing the same . In such cases one or the other end must be suppressed ; the ego must create a hierarchy rather than an equality of antithetical ends . if the ends are strongly held , however , the effort to control one or the other may fail , giving rise to neurotic or psychotic symptoms . ( 2 ) Different ends may compete for scarce means . The woman who loves her husband and children and at the same time loves her career will find that each makes demands on a scarce commodity , her time and energy . She must be prepared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to accept an incomplete fulfillment of both . If she can establish no such modification , then she allows the con- flict to continue and to that extent becomes a disorganized person . As previously mentioned , all ends are competitive , but genuine conflict arises only when there is no distributive order , no hierarchy of ends in the individual 's mind . As a yardstick in distributing his scarce means among his various ends , the individual has his feeling of preference . What leads him to prefer some ends against others is the strength of his organic urges on the one hand and the strength of his socially acquired desires on the other . Striving for any end presumably requires organic tension and satisfaction of the end implies release of the tension . But tensions having an organic origin , though their expression is socially learned , are different from those having a social origin , because attainment of the end usually causes temporary satiation and the demotion of that end to a lower status for the time being . Thus sexual gratification causes a temporary lull in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attention to other matters . Tensions having a social origin often ' lack any complete release . The rivalry for prestige and esteem , for example , is neverending . Particular subgoals may be attained , with some relief of tension ; but always there is the realization that one 's own prestige *and esteem are eclipsed by others . Moreover , it is the socially acquired tensions that take precedence over the organically stimulated ones , involving some control and suppression of the latter . The socially acquired goals thus create tension in a double sense  --  in their own right and by virtue of the tension created by suppressing and limiting the organic strivings . The social milieu is so organized s to make maximum use of the driving power of suppressed and ontrolled organic urges . The organization of the individual 's ends depends primarily on the social milieu in which he learns his ends . If there is no consistent hierarchy transmitted to him , he will have no means of adjusting the laims of the various ends , and conflict will result . Many psychiatrists ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( during childhood ) and in the main socializing groups ( family , play group , and school ) that the basis is laid for the personality disintegration bsequently manifested by neurotics and psychotics . Above all , innsistent discipline by persons who themselves are disintegrated nds to produce mental cases . One investigator sums up the backof problem children as follows :  | There is no consistent adherence to any rules . The child may frequently indulge in unapproved or unapprovable behavior without any attempt at correction whatever . On the other hand , he may frequently be punished for behavior that is insignificant or at other times approvable . The criteria for correction appear to reside in the emotional state of the adult rather than in the conduct of the child or any social implications of his behavior . The discipline for similar behavior may range from nothing at all to the most severe physical punishment , and punishment of any grade or severity may follow in quick succession punishment of any other grade . When punishment is inflicted , it tends to be oversevere . In other words @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lacks pattern and tends to be severe in contradistinction to strict . Not only does the child in such a setting have no solution to problems , but no one else has either . The child can not form habits that will uniformly protect him from punishment or guarantee him a reward . He must approach each new situation with apprehension and must find any decision extremely difficult . He acquires no principles of preference whereby he may distribute his energy between the various ends which he has . By the time he becomes an adult he may easily go to pieces in face of problems which another person might easily solve . ( 3 ) Conflict may arise from too great a disparity between ends and means . If the goal is strongly desired and yet is impossible of achievement , frustration necessarily results . Repeated frustration tends to produce a generalized lack of confidence in one 's ability to achieve any end , and a generalized conception of oneself as less efficient and less worthy than others . The main goal , the approval of others , is contingent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Repeated frustration therefore means a breakdown with reference to those standards by which one evaluates oneself . Fortunately , approval by others does not rest entirely upon a high   order of achievement but in many cases it rests on achievement higher than that which the person can attain . What is expected is also limited by the position one occupies , so that one does not ordinarily compare one 's lack of achievement with that of everybody else in the society . An advantage of certainty as to one 's position is that one then knows exactly what is expected and suffers no remorse for not doing what is not expected . Conflict , as viewed in terms of the means-end schema , reduces in practice to two possibilities : the lack of a consistent and assured order of preference between an individual 's various ends and the failure of achievement of cherished ends because the means are lacking . These are not mutually exclusive possibilities but rather they tend to reinforce each other . Karen Horney has pointed out that the neurotic person continually stands in his own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ makes it hard for him to achieve any particular end . The methods by which he escapes from the conflict of ends and from the sense of frustration make it still harder for him to accomplish anything . Since the rights and duties connected with social positions are translatable into the means-end schema , the conflict so far described is at the same time a conflict in one 's system of statuses and roles . Presumably the system of positions a given individual occupies should he integrated if his personality is to be integrated . Care must be exercised , however , to make sure that what is externally chaotic does not hide an internally well-organized personality . The occupant of a given status may exercise the prerequisites of that status without having adopted them in his emotional complex . Thus a minister may simply preach for a living ; he may not believe everything he preaches , and if his behavior in another position is incompatible with the proper attitudes of a minister this may represent merely a lack of intergration of the external social organization , not a similar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ role and internal attitude is usually present to a slight extent . It is least disorganizing to the person when the divergence is tacitly accepted and practiced by the social group in general ? the so-called institutionalized evasion of institutional prescriptions . Theoretically an indi-   vidual might occupy all his positions as a disinterested incumbent , merely playing the called-for roles as means to purely private ends . A society does not inquire too closely into private attitudes so long as the overt behavior is satisfactory . If the responses of a person are always satisfactory , it is assumed that his attitudes are also correct . Such a completely Machiavellian adjustment , however , is logically impossible , for the reason that to use one 's position purely as a means , one must have an end . The source of this end can only be the socio-cultural system of which the person is a part . Thus at some point the individual takes the prescriptions of his society sincerely . He wants certain things that he has been taught to want in his position . Furthermore , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ false role in even a substantial portion of one 's behavior is exceedingly tedious . Of course there are conventionally false roles that are played by everybody and which become habitual , but these in the last analysis are merely part of the social expectations and imply a deeper sincerity underlying the apparent insincerity . The crucial case is the playing of a false role to gain private ends which , if known , the society would not sanction . Individuals may and do play particular roles in this way , but that they should play any great number of roles in such manner is inconceivable . The ends would often not seem to justify the tediousness of keeping up the deception . Furthermore , the constant deception itself is impossible to maintain , for the reason that our deliberate control over our behavior seldom extends to all phases of it . We give ourselves away in some all too eloquent detail and the deception is off . In addition the actual attainment of an unsanctioned end is hard to conceal . Once the deception is discovered , the sanctions visited @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the risk of incurring them inadvisable . At bottom , then , there is a close relationship between the system of roles that the person plays and the private ends that he cherishes . If the one is not intergrated , neither is the other . The main danger of interpretation lies in taking too simple a view of social organization ? of mistaking the avowed moral norm for the actual norm . Though not all ends are normative in character , practically all of them are relevant to the norms . One of the greatest conflicts is between ends that are tabooed or for which nearly all convenient means are tabooed , and those which are normatively required . Even tabooed   ends are social in origin and tabooed means are socially learned ( in addition to being parts of the actual social structure ) . For an end to be tabooed implies that somehow , if it were not tabooed , it would be strong in its own right . The source of it must therefore be something else than the normative order . It may be learned , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ motivated in a way that a sheer obligatory end would not be . To explain this fact , we must assume that the source of the tabooed end is either an inherent organic urge built into the organism genetically or a relation of this particular end to the total system of ends . A good example of an end deriving its strength from the organic source is the attainment of sexual gratification . This end is permitted but only when certain means are utilized . Once a child has learned how to satisfy this urge by masturbation he is strongly motivated to use the means , even though it is illegitimate . Its illegitimacy conflicts with the contrary norm which has been thoroughly ingrained in him and has acquired its own power over the organism . Guilt feeling may consequently develop as a result of the conflict and produce a state of acute discomfort . An example of the second source of strength behind a tabooed end is the feeling which a person may have towards his mother-inlaw . Normatively , in our culture , a person is supposed to show @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ great appeal in herself , and owing to her past authority over the mate is a constant obstacle to the attainment of desired ends . There easily develops , therefore , an attitude of antagonism toward the mother-in-law , a desire to get her out of the way somehow . Most readily available means to this end , however , are tabooed . One may not poison her , turn her out of the house , insult her , buy her off , or disregard her . One is often forced to put up with her . In such a case there is no innate urge to be rid of the mother-in-law , but looking at the total configuration of positions and roles , she is a person who almost in spite of herself stands in the way . In a perfectly organized society , of course , the position of the mother-in-law would be integrated with till other positions , so that the required attitudes would now naturally from the attitudes implicitly embodied in an individual 's relations with all other persons in his social universe . But no society @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ends that are socially determined but are nevertheless tabooed . The conflicts to which they   give rise in the subjective mind of the actor are just as real and powerful as the conflicts created by tabooed organic wishes . SUPPRESSION The core of mental disorder being conflict , it remains to see what defenses the personality erects to protect itself against conflict . An obvious solution is to suppress one of the conflictful elements . Such suppression removes from consciousness the end or the memory of an act . If the end or the memory is in conflict with another end ? say , a moral norm ? the suppression of it will allow one to retain the feeling of self-approval so essential to a satisfied existence . Admittedly , suppression is a normal accompaniment of everyday life . It is one of the necessary features of social control , for if we acted on every impulse or idea that came to us , if we gave expression to every conflicting inclination , we would be incapable of conforming to social expectations . Our mind exercises a perpetual censorship , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ how varied and bizarre are the things that pop into our heads . Through repression the personality selects its ends and its actions , achieves consistency and integration . Unless , however , there were a set of socially derived obligatory norms , there would be no necessity of suppression . What the psychoanalysts have called the " super-ego , " that part of the personality which is authoritarian and moral , which makes the individual feel guilty when he has done something wrong , is the socio-cultural system of norms as internalized in the particular personality . Unless in addition there were impulses and acts which did not conform to the norms , there would again be no need of repression . The phenomenon of repression is therefore a normal manifestation of the kind of socio-cultural creatures that human beings are . The difficulty , however , is that suppression is not a perfect instrument . If the repressed thoughts could be completely eliminated , the conflict would come to an end . But in many cases there is strong motivation behind the suppressed ideas . Banishing them from consciousness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it banish them from influencing behavior . The individual may reveal the continued presence of the material in dreams , slips of the tongue , groundless anxieties , exaggerated goodness or modesty , unwarranted aggressiveness , unreasonable censure , patent rationalization , or what   not . He may actually perform the forbidden behavior in disguised form or with an elaborate but false excuse . If he performs the forbidden behavior despite disguises and excuses , he is likely to feel doubly guilty , with the necessity of still more complex defenses against the memory or the repetition of the act . The following case , that of a woman of thirty-five , illustrates the suppression of forbidden ideas by amnesia . The patient had experienced several periods of from a half hour to several hours in duration for which she retained no memory whatever . She would start to town , for example , then sometime later would suddenly come to herself at a distant point without any memory for the events that took place in the interval . . . . It was decided to hypnotize her . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ almost completely several of the amnesic episodes , all of which occurred in relation to a love fantasy with a man other than her husband . It was suggested during the hypnotic state that these memories would be retained following it . She was then awakened , and the entire production reviewed with her . At this time she recognized the need of forgetting these episodes and everything connected with them because the idea of infidelity to her husband , even in fantasy , was intolerable to her . In this case there have been no recurrences for several years . ' If instead of living in a West-European type of culture ( in America ) this woman had been reared in a Chukchee camp in Siberia , such a conflict could not have occurred , because among the Chukchee sexual relations with men other than the husband are considered right and proper . ' The content of the conflict ? the forces that are opposed ? thus varies considerably from one culture to another . But the psychic mechanisms once conflict has been started are presumably universal , being connected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ structure of the human species . RATIONALIZATION Probably the simplest way of giving expression to unacceptable desires and of trying to avoid guilt feelings is to think up a good reason ( i.e. one sanctioned in the social group by a moral evaluation   higher than that which forbids the tabooed topic ) . Thus a student who ought to study for an examination but feels disinclined to do so may tell himself that he needs exercise because exercise is essential to his health , and health is more important than passing a particular examination . He may then go out and spend the afternoon playing golf , enjoying himself immensely , and not suffering any remorse until after he has written a poor examination paper the next day . Even then he may still hide from himself the fact that he could have taken his exercise after the examination rather than before , with equal benefit to his health . As a device for preserving one 's self-esteem such justification of one 's disapproved wishes by allegedly good reasons is a normal and necessary aspect of behavior . The individual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unconscious self as well as against the repressed desires the expression of which gives rise to these guilt-feelings . Otherwise he runs the risk of becoming overrepressed ? more of a strict conformist than actual opinion demands and at a disadvantage as compared with those who have internalized the norms less drastically . But if the conflict is severe rationalization may gradually merge into something further removed from normality , such as projection or anxiety . PROJECTION It is but a step from simple rationalization to a special and more complex form of it ? namely , shifting the blame for untoward thoughts or actions to something else than oneself . The mother may hide her inability to manage her child by claiming that his mischievous propensities were inherited from his father . In this way she puts the blame primarily on the child himself ( which helps to satisfy her resentment toward the child ) and secondarily on the father ( which helps to satisfy her resentment towards him ) . In truth , however , she has done both of them a wrong about which , if she admitted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may lead her to assume that the child and husband are both resentful toward her , so that by a complicated process she has come to project her own hostility towards them into their minds as hostility towards her . It can be seen to what extent projection is a matter of the interplay of conceptions of the attitudes of others and how , by a cumulative   process , it tends to remove a person from an accurate notion of the real situation . For many reasons other persons are the means to our ends . Yet we are restricted in the extent to which we may use them simply as means . The baker has bread which the hungry might like , a man has affection which a woman might like , the politician has power which a citizen might like , etc . Always human beings are necessary instruments to the achievement of our desires ; and they and the rules they enforce also stand in the way of such achievement . All of us therefore have occasion to resent certain persons and wish that we could do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arise , they offend our sense of what is right . Consequently we suppress them and the hostility emerges in ways that we do not recognize . We may express the resentment by blaming them . Since this is doing them a wrong , we may expect that they shall retaliate . Such projection of our feelings into their minds may lay the basis for a paranoid reaction to others , and if carried far enough may eventuate in a full-blown psychosis . Hostility breeds hostility even when it is suppressed . " A person who wants to injure , cheat , deceive others has also a fear that they will do the same to him , " 4 because he knows that if they knew about these thoughts they would retaliate and because he knows that he stands in their way as well as their standing in his way . His guilt feelings not only force him to project onto others the hostile thoughts that he himself really feels , but they also punish him by making him fear the consequences of these thoughts in terms of what others will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ typical development of paranoia in the following way : The real difficulty may begin when the individual blames or condemns himself for some act or idea which conflicts with his ideals , and consequently he may persecute himself because his self-respecting sentiment demands it . It is now only a step further to project this persecution onto others . . . Thus his repression of the unacceptable acts or ideas leaves him with a feeling of self-condemnation which he in turn projects on others whom he now considers to be persecuting him . The activities and statements of those about him are now interpreted in terms of his feeling . . . . as being directed toward him . He is constantly looking for hidden meanings   and since his desire for condemnation and persecution is so strong he has little difficulty in finding them . Gradually he may come to believe that large organizations are attempting to ruin him and even those who claim to be his nearest friends are secretly planning his downfall . It may , however , occur to him that an individual who is given so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be a very important individual . He may develop delusions of grandeur . If he chances to come upon the name of some great individual it is not unlikely that the name will become associated with his delusional content , and since he misinterprets most things as having reference to him , he may gradually develop the belief that he is this great person . So ubiquitous is projection that its presence is not abnormal , but only its extreme manifestations . ANXIETY Realizing that this fear of others based on an unconscious notion of retaliation is really one form of anxiety , let us discuss other anxiety states and symptoms . The fact that ends always relate to the future but that the circumstances are never completely under control introduces uncertainty into human life . This , plus the fact that the self judges itself in terms of past successes and failures , creates perpetual apprehension of what may happen next . When the apprehension is normal ? when , that is , it is what one is expected to show in the given situation  --  it goes under the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ object feared appears too trivial or too imaginary in the eyes of others , when the intensity of the fear is disproportionate to the meaning of the situation , it is called anxiety . Fear and anxiety undoubtedly are present in every case of mental disorder , but we have now in mind those cases where there is a conscious realization of an unfounded phobia or compulsion . Since in such cases the explanation does not lie in the ordinary motivational terms of the society , an examination of the hidden and distorted mental content must be made . The apparent basis of anxiety may be an unfounded fear ( phobia ) , a fixed idea ( obsession ) , or an involuntary and oft repeated act ( compulsion ) . In any case the object of the phobia , obsession , or compulsion is not what it seems to be . Instead it is merely a symbol or diversion of the real source of the anxiety , which   at bottom involves a conflict . The real source , because in some way humiliating , has been repressed and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ symbolic defense against it . The individual may be completely aware of the futility of it and unable to explain it , yet he can not help himself . It should further be noted that anxiety accompanies an escape ( by means of repression ) from the conflict of ends . When the repressed material threatens to influence one 's behavior , anxiety is set up . The specific object of anxiety can not be consciously admitted because it has been suppressed . Therefore , the conscious object of anxiety must appear as something else , presumably something that entails less feeling of guilt . The common purpose in every case is the avoidance of guilt-induced anxiety . For example , the most frequent symptom of compulsion neurosis is the constant impulse to wash the hands . The memory of some past act or wish , such as masturbation , has been suppressed , but unconscious guilt feelings continue to create anxiety . Our hands may have been involved in the forbidden act or wish . Washing the hands is a perfectly permissible act , and in our culture the association @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ act a symbolic efficacy in relieving the anxiety . The thing feared , the guilt , is inside one . It can not be avoided by flight ( although actual flight is sometimes adopted ) but it may he helped by such symbolic , essentially magical , practices . If the practice succeeds in allaying the anxiety and keeping the distressing memories from consciousness , it may be pursued repeatedly , obsessively . The powerful drive behind the compulsion or obsession is provided by the tormenting anxiety . Intense anxiety is one of man 's most excruciating emotions . " Patients who have gone through an intense fit of anxiety will tell you they would rather die than have a recurrence of that experience . " 9 The helplessness of the sufferer contributes to the terror . Anxiety also lies at the bottom of hysteria which in one sense is the most rational of the psychoneuroses . The symptom or malady becomes a means of escape from something that would otherwise have to be faced . Almost any symptom may thus be utilized , from functional blindness , paralysis , vomiting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ episodes . The escape can not he consciously adopted , however , for then the individual would suffer   from guilt feelings . It must be real for the actor himself as well as for others , and there seems little doubt that hysterics actually suffer the symptoms they manifest . Dorcus and Shaffer 10 recount the case of a Negro girl who over a period of years had suffered from convulsive seizures . These seizures had gradually become worse and more frequent , and occurred " whenever she had an unpleasant duty to perform . " She was soon completely cured of the symptom by the following method : " She was told that her condition was due to her nerves and was given a bottle of asafetida which was described as a powerful nerve tonic that would build up her nerves very rapidly . She was to take a teaspoonful of it three times a day for a week and should cease having any seizures within that time . . . . If any time she felt a seizure coming on , she should take another teaspoonful of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a seizure did occur , it would then be necessary for her to take it three times a day for a week as in the beginning . " This spectacular and unpleasant treatment so impressed the patient that her seizures stopped within three days , with no recurrence of the symptom . Not all hysterias are remedied so easily , because the conflicts are deeper and one symptom , if cleared up , will be replaced by another . What is necessary is to establish communication with the patient , bring the source of the basic anxiety to consciousness , establish new attitudes and new social situations , and thus reorientate the system of ends in such manner that integration is achieved . This is not easy , but the case mentioned previously of the woman who suffered from amnesia illustrates that it can be done . SUMMARY Mental disorder , in so far as it is a result of forces on the psychosocial level , may always be analyzed as a conflict of ends in the sense of a failure to achieve a distributive hierarchy among the various ends and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This conflict is not , as has been so often maintained , a conflict between biological drives on the one hand and social norms on the other or between the individual and society . It is rather a conflict between ends , whatever their source . The societal norms would be powerless to influence conduct unless they became ends ; and to the extent that   they become ends , they carry behind them a quantum of organic energy . Organic drives would have no influence on action unless they too became ends , and as ends they are always channelized and given direction ? always , in a very real sense , acquired . The ends that represent the internalization of obligatory norms ( such as taboos ) as well as the ends that represent the internalization of socially acquired competitive aims ( such as ambition ) , become imbedded in the unconscious layers of the mind ; and their frustration by other ends may create just as much tension , just as much anxiety , as the frustration of ends more directly connected with innately structured organic urges . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conflicts ? usually by conscious deliberation , frank discussion with somebody else , rationalization , and repression . But if the conflict is strong the milder methods become inadequate . Repression is redoubled , only to have the conflict manifest itself again in indirect and crippling ways . In such cases rationalization , projection , and anxiety develop to such an extent that the individual 's behavior gets farther and farther away from reality ( i.e. farther away from the motivational assumptions and habits of his fellows ) . The more he departs from reality , the poorer is his adjustment and the greater the conflict and frustration of ends , until eventually a crisis develops which jolts him back into some reorganization of himself or pushes him into a full-fledged neurosis or psychosis . Everything therefore depends upon the type of socialization which the individual received and the type of social situation in which he lives . The integration of ends is closely though not rigidly dependent upon the integration of statuses and roles and the consistency of norms which have been given the individual . He will meet current @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he has developed from past interaction . Some of the psychosocial interpretations of specific types of abnormal symptoms may be erroneous , but the general theory of the dynamics of mental disorder seems established . This theory is plainly sociological , for it is only through communicative contact with others in his society that the person can acquire ends and can therefore experience conflict . It can therefore be said of mental disorder that its content is always , and its cause is often , social .   The Social Incidence of Mental Disorder Consideration of the dynamics of neurosis and psychosis has led us naturally to the third topic of our present discussion ? namely , the incidence of mental cases in relation to social organization . If personality disintegration is socially engendered , the amount of it will vary according to the type of society in which people live , the position which they occupy in the society , and the particular series of experiences through which they live . This is in fact the case . Both the amount and the kind of mental disorder vary as the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ AND MENTAL DISORDER Bronislaw Malinowski , in his observations of three different primitive societies , came to the conclusion that the type of culture determines the amount and kind of neurosis . ' His Trobriand Islanders , because of their family organization , had few neuroses of the kind which could be traced to childhood conflicts , whereas the Amphlett Islanders some thirty miles south , " essentially similar in race , custom and language , " but differing in social organization ( with stricter sexual morals , taboos on pre-nuptial intercourse , lack of periods of sexual license , and a tighter family unit ) exhibited considerable neurosis . In the Trobriands , though I knew scores of natives intimately and had a nodding acquaintance with many more , I could not name a single man or woman who was hysterical or even neurasthenic . Nervous tics , compulsory actions or obsessive ideas were not to be found . . . . The natives of the Trobriands know well and recognize that in the neighbouring islands of the Amphletts and d'Entrecasteaux there are other types of black magic which can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ themselves , of which the symptoms are according to their accounts compulsory actions , nervous tics , and various forms of obsession . And during my few months ' stay in the Amphletts , my first and strongest impression was that this was a community of neurasthenics . Coming from the open , gay , hearty and accessible Trobrianders , it was astonishing to find oneself among a community of people distrustful of the newcomer ,  | impatient in work , arrogant in their claims , though easily cowed and extremely nervous when tackled more energetically . . . . I at once found a number of people affected with nervousness whom I could not use as informants , because they would either lie in some sort of fear , or else become excited and offended over any more detailed questioning . On the South coast of New Guinea , Malinowski observed another tribe , the Mailu , who also differed from the Trobrianders in having a more authoritarian and repressive social structure and a greater amount of neurosis . Ellsworth Faris found that the Congo Bantu of the Equatorial Rain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he attributed to their simple and integrated social organization . ' " Ruth Benedict came to the conclusion that the emotions , so far as their violence and direction are concerned , are determined by the type of socio-cultural system . Jealousy , envy , and hostility , love and dependence , and consequently neurosis and psychosis , differed in form and amount according to the type of society . Following these leads , Abram Kardiner and Ralph Linton made an attempt to compare primitive societies with respect to the type of personality which they tended to engender . ' ' Several societies were compared , but two  --  the Polynesians of the Marquesan Islands and the Tanala of Madagascar ? were given special attention , the aim being to show the connection between the stresses of the sociological structure and the strains in the personality structure . Though not entirely successful , mainly because of the inadequacies of psychoanalysis and the unfamiliarity of the main author ( Kardiner ) with sociology and anthropology , the attempt nevertheless shows the extent to which the internal dynamics of the personality are produced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these comparative studies the conclusion may be drawn that societies differ in the degree to which their members are forced to play incompatible roles , to engage in disquieting scenes , and to submit to inconsistent norms ? in short , they differ with respect to the  | conflict of ends which their members according to their statuses and situations acquire . Societies consequently differ as to the number , prevalence , and kind of neuroses which their members develop . This does not mean that , once given the conflict , the mental mechanisms are not similar to those which would occur in any other culture . We have already seen that the structure of the personality , as a universal trait of the species , is the resultant of bio-sociological constants . The types of neuroses and psychoses , the external symptoms and internal dynamisms , are probably the same everywhere . " But the content of the conflict varies as the culture varies , and this content is highly important in causation and in treatment . It has been asserted that there are culture-specific psychoses , as in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a particularly gentle , peaceful people . Among them bloodshed is severely frowned upon , and murder is entirely unknown . But they lead a precarious existence . When famine strikes them , as it often does , they become cannibalistic . Because of the strong taboos on human flesh and the essential gentleness of the culture generally , it is not surprising that mental conflicts should result from this situation . The principal disorder of the Cree is the Wihtiko psychosis , in which there is psychopathic craving for human flesh , accompanied by the delusion that one has been transformed into a Wihtiko , a greatly feared folklore being who is himself cannibalistic . . . . This disorder is not known to occur elsewhere . But such cases are defined by their content and the inciting situation , not by the mental mechanisms , which are the same as elsewhere . Class Position and Mental Disorder Within the same society one would expect mental disorder to vary in amount and kind according to the individual 's place in the social structure . It should vary , for example @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must be exercised in making such deductions . In an integrated society the motivation of one stratum is understood by the members of other strata because every person , in conforming to his class or caste standards , is really conforming to the general standards of the society . Hence the ideology of one stratum is merely a specialized part of the central ideology . For this reason it is not necessarily true that the more a class ideology deviates from the average in a culture , the greater the incidence of mental derangement in this class . The ideological peculiarities of a particular class may be adequately provided for and incorporated in the central ideology . Furthermore , from a mental health point of view it makes little difference whether the system of stratification is that of classes or castes . Neither type is inherently destructive of sanity . But it does make a difference whether or not the system , whatever it is , is unified by a nucleus of common values . Only a particular kind of deviation ? a deviation from the norms governing the entire society @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ case the members of the deviant class find it hard to organize their lives and to achieve an integration of the self ; but if the class has a strong organization within itself and a protected system of contacts with other classes , this tendency may be checked . The rate of mental disorganization is highest when a class is put in the position of desiring certain ends that the general society regards as possible and desirable for everyone , and yet is prevented by the organization of the society from being able to realize those ends . ' In the United States , for instance , the Negro shares the avowed faith in equal opportunity for all and yet is denied such opportunity in fact . In India the social supremacy of the Brahmins , still satisfactory to the orthodox , is being challenged by the importation of political ideology from the West . The behavior of individuals caught in this frustrating situation manifests frequent attempts to escape an unbearable reality . Reality seems unbearable only when another reality exists as a conceivable alternative ; and another is conceivable when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conflict is engendered , then , not so much by the vertical structure itself as by inconsistency within the structure .   It might seem that an open class organization would affect mental health adversely because of the constant readjustments it requires of its circulating individuals . But the open class system is protected against this adverse result by the fact that as distinguished from a caste society the differences between the mores of different strata are small . If the differences were wide , vertical mobility entailing a shift from one set of mores to a radically different set would certainly have profound effects upon the person so shifting . But in an open class system the differences between classes take the form of an infinite number of small gradations and reduce themselves to superficial externalities ; so that though vertical mobility places the strain of rapid change and adaptation on the individual , it compensates for this by the pulverization and externalization of differences . Furthermore , even in a mobile system most people do not move , and if they move they do not move far in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ system most often suggested as conducive to mental ill health is its competitiveness . Where there is competition , there is insecurity with its accompaniment of fear and anxiety . if a social system is sufficiently competitive to have an open class system , it is also competitive in other relationships ? in courtship , in school , in athletics . The threat of competition therefore surrounds the individual , and almost everything he holds dear is subject to possible loss to others . No wonder the " inferiority complex " is a normal symptom in such a society . No wonder no social system can afford to be entirely competitive or to have an entirely open class system . Actually the individual is protected not only by his ascribed statuses but also by rationalizations for failure and by various aids extended to him by friends , relatives , and the community at large . In short , a competitive system has its own integrated system of values which helps it avoid the fatal consequences of its own competitiveness . URBAN ECOLOGY AND MENTAL DISORDER Evidence concerning the relation of class @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It has been found that in American cities some districts have much higher rates of insanity than others and that different types of derangement have different patterns of distribution . Faris and Dunham found that in Chicago the highest rates for schizophrenia ( dementia praecox ) occur in the  | hobo , rooming-house , foreign-born , Negro , and central business districts whereas the lowest rates occur in the residential , native-born , and high rental apartment-house districts . In general the high rates for this disease occur in and near the center of the city and low rates on the periphery of the city . The foreign-born living in areas apart from their own group show very high rates , and the foreign-born living in Negro areas show higher rates than those living in white areas . Different Negro areas show distinct rates according to the kind of neighborhood . Such evidence suggests that schizophrenia depends upon the social situation rather than upon race or place of birth as such , and that the main factor is the amount of social disorganization in the area . " Not only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ distribution but the various subtypes ? paranoid , catatonic , and hebephrenic ? show peculiar distributions within the schizophrenic areas . The paranoid type predominates in the rooming - house areas , the catatonic type in the foreign-born and Negro areas , and the hebephrenic falls between the two . In contrast to schizophrenia , no striking pattern of distribution could be discovered for manic-depressive psychosis . There is a tendency for this disease to occur more frequently in areas with a higher cultural and economic level , but there is no correlation with race or nativity groupings . Alcoholic psychoses , on the other hand , show a distribution similar to that for schizophrenia but unlike that of manic-depressive psychosis . The rates are highest in or near the center of the city , especially in the disorganized areas and particularly among racial and foreign-born groups not living in areas populated by their own kind . Drug addiction shows a somewhat comparable pattern , although the concentration is greater in apartment-hotel and hotel areas.Y2 These findings help to substantiate the view that social factors are involved in many of the psychoses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in which social factors operate ; it may well be , for example , that they are involved in manic-depressive as well as schizophrenic psychosis but that their nature is not revealed by ecological distribution . In the case of schizophrenia , the most com-   mon of all the mental diseases ( accounting for a third or more of the total patient population in state hospitals ) , the ecological method strongly points to some influence by the social milieu . The kind of person most likely to develop schizophrenia is one who has a seclusive or shut-in personality . Those areas in which the rates of schizophrenia are high are precisely the ones in which the individual is least likely to form an ordered and consistent conception of himself in relation to the world . They are areas where conflicting cultures , high mobility , great poverty , family disorganization , and personal insecurity are to be found . Such areas may tend to produce confused , frustrated , and chaotic personalities , some of whom seemingly protect themselves by withdrawal from reality , resulting in behavior so bizarre @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ helpless and leads to their hospitalization as insane . On the other hand , disorganized zones may have a high proportion of schizophrenics because they attract down-and-out persons . Ecological studies are not conclusive as to causation . War and Mental Disorder The two World Wars demonstrate in another way the role of social factors in mental disorder . The rate of derangement in civilian populations often declines during wartime due apparently to the mobilization of the citizenry behind a single purpose , giving new meaning and vitality to the common man . ' " In the armed services , however , the rate of mental derangement reaches phenomenal proportions . In spite of a vigorous attempt in World War II to reject draftees showing neurotic symptoms , the largest single class of disability discharge was neuropsychiatric . The proportion of all discharges falling in this class ranged from 20 to 50 per cent , depending upon the particular period of the war and theatre of action . Most of these discharges were for neurosis rather than psychosis , but the neuroses were often profound and very disabling , plaguing many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ explanation of the high neurosis rate among combat troops is almost purely functional ? in terms of a conflict between the desire to remain alive and the desire to be a good soldier . The men are  | away from home , away from the accustomed grooves and the usual satisfactions of civilian life . They are thrown into new groups of men of roughly their own age , living closely and constantly with them and depending on them for companionship and security in new and dangerous surroundings . These groups are organized so as to produce high morale ? intense devotion to the pursuit of a common cause through mutually beneficial cooperative endeavor . The individual thus becomes highly responsive to the opinions of others around him concerning his own behavior in dangerous situations . The safety of each person depends on the organization of the group and on the efficiency and bravery of every member under adverse conditions . The individual develops a conception of himself in terms of these expectations . He wants to be a good soldier , to be fearless , fair , accurate , cool @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hand he also wants to remain alive , and the two desires are often in absolute conflict . He sees death and destruction all around him , things that he has been taught in civilian life to avoid . He sees his buddies die , often under horrible circumstances . He knows that his own chances are poor , and this is brought home to him by narrow escapes . He is sickened by fear , but he tries to suppress the fear because it conflicts with his conception of himself as a good member of the group . The suppressed fear , however , may be exacerbated by numerous narrow escapes , repeated loss of loyal and well-liked friends , by the evident trickery and might of the enemy , the increase of fatigue and loneliness , the feeling of guilt over not playing one 's part and being afraid . Gradually the intense fear , in spite of the strong attempt to control it , may manifest itself in anxiety and tension which become so great that they tend to impair the performance and the personal relations of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ individual attempts to ignore and suppress his fear , which increases his ( to him ) inexplicable anxiety , which increases his inefficiency , which increases his fear and dissatisfaction with himself , which redoubles his effort to control himself and hence his anxiety , etc . Finally , various symptoms of his internal conflict may appear ? such as a phobia against the kind of plane he usually flies , a loss of visual acuity in time of battle , or a severe intestinal or stomach disorder that incapacitates him for fighting . The effect of the symptom is to save him from dangerous combat , but he can not admit this to himself because it would violate his conception of himself as a brave and   loyal member of his combat unit . If his symptom seems like a real illness to him this in a sense resolves his conflict , but from the point of view of the war effort he becomes a loss , and the aim of psychiatric treatment is to restore him to active combat , usually by giving him insight into his inner conflict @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very common and understandable , giving him rest and recreation for awhile , and showing him that his fellows have a sympathetic understanding of his difficulties . The following case of conversion hysteria illustrates some of the mechanisms . A 23 year old pilot , popular and competent as a combat flier , a member of a fighter-bomber squadron suffering heavy losses due to intense enemy action , had the misfortune on his twenty-fifth mission of seeing his best friend shot down . Saddened by this loss , he resolved to do his best to avenge it on the enemy . After his thirtieth mission , however , he began to notice a blurring of vision during flights . He could not see objects distinctly , especially when diving on his target and when strafing . In addition , he noticed that he was becoming restless and having vague and unaccountable feelings of apprehension . When he was told by his colleagues that his bombing was inaccurate , he went to his Flight Surgeon . Upon testing , he showed a defect in depth perception , but the cause seemed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for neuropsychiatric consultation . In the interview he was quiet , well controlled , and cooperative . He described the uneasiness he felt on missions but could not account for his apprehensions . He would not admit that he was afraid of enemy action or that he had been unduly disturbed by the deaths of his friends . His conversation became much more detailed and lively when focused upon his visual trouble . He said that shortly after he penetrated enemy territory on missions , his vision became blurred . The blurring would clear on active winking , but he would then notice that his eyelids felt heavy , as if he were sleepy . On occasion , this sensation would become so pronounced as to alarm him lest his eyes should shut completely and not open again . The patient was given a drug ( pentothal ) in order to get information about his suppressed thoughts and emotions . During the treatment he underwent a vivid emotional abreaction , freely acting out the anxiety which was his real response to the combat situation . He spoke of his friends who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @   if this had happened to them , it would certainly happen to him . He complained of all the things he had to watch for in enemy territory . There were so many dangers , so many things to look out for and to keep his eyes on , to avoid being taken by surprise . When he was in enemy territory , looking for German fighters and gun positions , he had to use his eyes to an inordinate degree . As the effects of the narcosis wore off , and he became oriented to the present , he expressed considerable shame at having revealed such strong anxiety . He thought his reaction was very childish and weak , and asked what he could do about it . He was told that half the battle was in understanding it and that , now that he had insight into how he really felt , he could see for himself whether he could master his anxiety well enough to continue in combat . From this time on he made rapid progress . He was sent to a rest camp for a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ increase of confidence . His depth perception improved . He was accordingly returned to his outfit , where he resumed combat flying and completed his tour of duty.2 ' Not all cases are this simple or have such a happy outcome . Many are complicated by guilt feelings growing out of family problems , sex matters , or other experiences only indirectly connected with the war . Nevertheless , the war situation tends not only to create a vivid conflict centering on the fear of death or injury and hence to produce neuroses in which the sex conflict of Freudian theory drops completely out of the picture , but it also brings many other potential conflicts to the surface . The total effect is enormously to enhance the rate of neurosis among military personnel in combat areas . In other words the current scientific view is not that some people will develop a neurosis and other people will not , but that everyone has his breaking point . There are strains that nobody , no matter how well balanced , can withstand . Military action , with its danger , uncertainty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strain and therefore produces neurosis in a high proportion of otherwise healthy individuals . The strain , however , is primarily a mental one , a conflict between what the individual believes he ought to do and the suppressed desire to escape terrible danger . The causation of military neurosis , then , as with all other neurosis , lies primarily in the situa-   tion as reflected in the mind of the individual rather than in the organism . In short , the etiology of neurosis is largely social as proven by changes in the rate of neurosis with a change of social circumstances . Conclusion Our interest in mental disorder is sociological , extending only so far as such disorder can be shown to have a social content and to be socially caused . Necessarily this is not the whole story , for there are obviously organic factors in addition ; yet the past theories of mental aberration have so far overemphasized the organic , the instinctive , the purely individual factors that it is wise to insist on the sociological determinants as well . " We have approached @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ showing that the definition of mental disorder is itself social in character ; second , by showing that the dynamic mechanisms of derangement ( conflict , suppression , projection , anxiety , etc. ) grow out of , reflect , and are concerned with culturally defined social relationships ; third , by showing that the incidence of mental disorder varies according to the kind of social milieu ( the social class , urban district , wartime experience ) to which people are subjected . Individuals vary in the degree of social stress and strain they can bear without cracking , but everybody has some breaking point . What defines the breaking point is not the objective situation but the situation as it appears to the actor . How it appears to him is largely a function of his conception of himself as the events and the action unfold . In the last analysis it is the socially formed self which disintegrates and falls into what we call mental disorder ; hence the disease process can be understood only when recognition is given to the self as an entity and to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @   PRIMARY AND SECONDARY GROUPS IN the classification of human groups one of the broadest and most fundamental distinctions is that between small and intimate groups on the one hand and large and impersonal groups on the other . In its formulation of this dichotomy American sociological theory has generally followed Charles H. Cooley 's distinction between primary and secondary groups , as set forth in 1909 in his book , Social Organization . ' European theory has followed a somewhat similar distinction formulated in 1887 by Ferdinand Tdnnies between Gemeinschaft ( close communal relationship ) and Gesellschaft ( organized impersonal relationship ) .2 Other authors have stated the same dichotomy in one form or another , not only because it is an obvious fact but also because it is a fundamental one . Cooley 's classic definition runs as follows : By primary groups I mean those characterized by intimate f ace-toface association and cooperation . They are primary in several senses , but chiefly in that they are fundamental in forming the social nature and ideals of the individual . The result of intimate association . . . is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so that one 's very self , for many purposes at least , is the common life and purpose of the group . Perhaps the simplest way of describing this wholeness is by saying that it is a " we " ; it involves the sort of sympathy and mutual identification for which " we " is the natural expression .  | Two things in this quotation are worth noting : first , that the author means to designate a class of concrete groups ( into which he puts families , play groups , neighborhood groups , and others ) ; second , that he uses the phrase " face-to-face association " but places the emphasis upon particular qualities of the relationship such as " sympathy and mutual identification . " These points have led to some confusion . It is generally agreed that all groups tend in some degree to possess consensus ? to engender a " we " feeling in their members . This was implied by Cooley himself in his subsequent discussion of the necessary extension of " primary ideals " to larger groups . Without the " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . ' If primary association is thus conceived as a quality of all groups , it does not constitute a means for separating concrete groups into two types called primary and secondary . Furthermore , this particular quality can not be said to be limited to " face-to-face " groups . There are relationships that are friendly and intimate but involve indirect contacts ( such as the friendship of two distant scholars or the love affairs of soldiers and girls initiated through correspondence ) , and there are relationships that are formal and impersonal but involve face-to-face contacts ( such as the military salute or the act of prostitution ) . , . Close scrutiny of Cooley 's statement seems therefore to reveal some ambiguity . In order to clarify the nature of primary groups our discussion will stress the following points : ( 1 ) There is a primary , or gemeinschaf tliche , type of relationship . ( 2 ) This type of relationship is characterized by a number of interrelated qualities . ( 3 ) It , with its distinctive qualities , is found more abundantly in some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ particular groups in which it is found most abundantly are those most likely to rest upon certain physical conditions . Let us begin with the last point and work backwards . The Physical Conditions of Primary Groups Cooley 's idea of " face-to-face " contact expressed an important fact , but he did not sufficiently analyze this fact to see both its broader implication and its narrower limitation . He should have realized that there are not one but three essential conditions which , when   present , tend to give rise to primary groups . The first of these is close ( face-to-face ) physical proximity of the group members ; the second is smallness of the group ; and the third , durability of the bond . All of these three conditions ? closeness , smallness , and continuation ? seem to be equally essential as well as mutually related . But note that they are physical conditions . They merely constitute the external setting in which a certain kind of social milieu is extremely likely to arise . It does not follow that this milieu will inevitably arise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under other conditions . It often happens that a primary relation arises with only one or two of the conditions present . Thus " the historic friendships like that of Emerson and Carlyle did not rest on physical presence " ? but they did rest on the fewness of the persons involved and the long duration of the acquaintance . The essential thing is not so much the physical conditions as the values , the regard for each other , that I drew these persons together in spite of physical separation . It is necessary to keep the temporal and spatial conditions of primary association analytically separate from its social nature . Why each condition is so closely related to the social characteristics will be clear only after discussion of these characteristics , but for the present a word more should be said about each condition . PHYSICAL PROXIMITY In order for intimacy to arise it is necessary that people have rather close contact , and nothing provides such contact better than face-to-face association . Seeing and talking with each other facilitates the subtle exchange of ideas , opinions , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " of which Mead speaks . So true is this that close contact has come to symbolize good feeling and identity between persons . Caressing , kissing , and sexual intercourse ' eating and dwelling together ; playing , traveling , studying together all tend to be regarded as external symbols of close solidarity . True ese symbols may become formalized as in the handshake of stranger or the kiss of a French general , but even such formal usage imply a certain element of mutual regard which ultimately stems rom the role of face-to-face contact in primary groups . A part of ur horror of prostitution apparently derives from our customary   association of sexual contact with affection , and the significance of the " kiss of Judas " would be utterly nil without a similar association of kissing with affection . Physical proximity thus provides an opportunity for the development of primary groups , but whether or not that opportunity will be utilized depends on the situation as defined in the culture . In the first place the normative order regulates the conditions under which physical contact may take @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ usually barriers ? e.g. between members of different classes and castes , different religions and occupations , different ages and sex . These barriers prevent physical proximity from providing an opportunity for intimacy to develop ; they thus keep different strata and different groups distinct . The existence of such barriers serves , in the second place , to emphasize the fact that physical intimacy in other relations is normatively prescribed . For instance the customary ban on close physical contact between the sexes serves to emphasize the necessity and importance of such contact in marriage . In these two ways ? by proscribing and prescribing it according to the situation ? a social system controls physical proximity in the interest of the existing social organization . In some cases where physical contact is necessary but not socially prescribed , it is treated in a tolerant but not encouraging manner . Physical nearness in a packed subway , a crowded restaurant , or a public lavatory may be much greater than the parties would in ordinary situations consider correct , but it is recognized that the circumstances make it necessary . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but not often . T.he ? effect of close physical proximity on , the social relationship depends in the last analysis on the cultural definition of the situation . SMALLNESS OF THE GROUP A face-to-face group must also be a small group , for it is impossible to be in sensory contact with many people at the same time , A speaker may address an audience containing thousands of persons , but this is under special conditions ; and it illustrates perfectly the necessity of smallness in addition to proximity as a condition favorable to the development of intimacy . Other factors being equal 4 ( such as the nature of the occasion ? whether a show , a lecture , or , a funeral ) , the smaller the group the more intimate it is .   Undoubtedly the character of the group tends to change with its size , and interesting attempts have been made to demonstrate the relationship between the two . As the group becomes larger each person counts less as a unique personality but more as a sheer cipher or um ; the group tends to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in greater abundance , the rules of association become more explicit and the means of control more official ; and the group increasingly acquires a character of its own apart from that of its specific members . With very small groups even the addition of one more member makes a difference . Thus a group of three is notoriously different from a group of . two , and a group of four is different from one of three . But when the group numbers five or six the addition of one more does not necessarily change its character although the addition of several more will do so . With very large groups , of course , it requires a great addition to change the character of the group . There is not much difference between a city of 100,000 and one of 125,000 , but there is a big difference between either of these and a city of 500,000 . In a small group the members can know one another personally and can all participate directly in group decisions . Furthermore , they can develop a group character and a group @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . If the group is larger more time is required to establish full mutual acquaintance between the members . When people live together all their lives , however , as in a peasant village , it is possible for 200 or more to know one another intimately . This brings us to the time factor as a condition of primary group association . DURATION OF THE RELATIONSHIP Intimacy is largely a matter of the frequency and intensity of association . Other things equal , the longer the group remains together the more numerous and deeper are the contacts between its members . Social ties deepen in time through the gradual development of interlocking habits . An oft-repeated association , like any other experience , becomes part of one 's way of life . Although a husband and   wife may have quarreled for ten years , the very fact that they have lived together for that long makes it hard for them to do without each other . A nation is a durable entity but not a small or intimate one . It thus becomes clear that physical proximity , small @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the development of intimate ties . It is possible for one of these conditions to be present without the other two , but the most favorable situation for the development of a primary group occurs when all three are present to a high degree . Let us now examine more closely the qualities of association that these conditions tend to develop . The Character of Primary Relations A primary relationship involves , first of all , an identity of ends as between the parties . Among the identical ends is of course the relationship itself , which is not regarded by the participants as a means to an end but as a good in its own right . This means that the relationship is noncontractual , noneconomic , nonpolitical , and nonspecialized . Instead it is personal , spontaneous , sentimental , and inclusive . A brief discussion of each of these major traits will indicate their importance . IDENTITY OF ENDS In a . perfect primary relationship there is an interpenetration of ends in two different senses . First , the parties have similar desires and attitudes so that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ without disagreement . They look at the world through the same eyes . Two friends who are united by a common intellectual interest afford an example of this . Second , there is an interpenetration in a deeper sense : each party pursues as one of his ends the welfare of the other . He may superficially and in a given connection define the other 's welfare differently from the way the other party himself views it , but in the last analysis he must accept the basic desires , the ends , of the other party as also his own ends . Thus a man who tries to dissuade his friend from a given line of conduct does so only on the ground that what the friend appears to want now is not what he will want later . He may explain to him , for example , that to throw up his job now in a pique at his boss will only cause him to regret the act later . This function ? that of helping an in- dividual interpret and understand his own welfare ? is one of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bottom that the ends of one become by that very fact also the ends of the other . Another example is the behavior of a mother who injures her own health looking after that of her child . Not only is the child 's welfare a supreme end for her but the joys and sorrows of the child are also her joys and sorrows , because she is in such sympathetic understanding with the child . Seldom is the identity of ends complete . A man may distrust and resent his friend to some extent ; a child may resist his parent . Seldom , moreover , is the relationship entirely mutual ; it is usually a hit one-sided with one party entering much more than the other into the spirit of it . But at least we can visualize a theoretical asymptote ? a complete and mutual identity of ends ? which primary relations approach but do not attain . The identification of ends is connected with a certain fusion of personalities within the group , so that what one experiences the other also tends to experience . This fusion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of stage-fright on the part of persons who are not actually on the stage but are close relatives of someone who is . They often experience the ordeal as vividly as if they were on the stage themselves , or even more so . There is the case of the mother of a student actress in a college play who when asked how she had enjoyed the play said she had not paid any attention to it , she was so worried when her daughter was on the stage . This fusion of personalities constitutes an important part of the " we " feeling that Cooley wrote about . It gives the relation an altruistic character , at least in one sense of the word . It does not mean that one party sacrifices his own Interests for the benefit of the other , but simply that the other 's interests are also his . If a mother injures her health in caring for her Child , she is not going contrary to her own ends ; rather she is avoidg the pain of seeing her child suffer . The child @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ END IN ITSELF A primary relationship , ideally considered , is not regarded by the arties as simply a means to an end but rather as a value or end in self . It is in their eyes its own excuse for being . If a friendship is ruled for a purpose ? say , to make a sale ? we do not regard it   as a genuine friendship . If a marriage is made purely with an eye to economic gain , it lacks a certain quality which we think should go into marriage . The intrinsic value attached to the primary relationship helps explain the sense of spontaneity and freedom felt by the parties . The relationship is not compulsory , not a means to a superior end , but is intrinsically enjoyable . From an objective point of view such a relationship may look like a subtle prison for the parties concerned . We speak of a couple being so attached to each other as to be oblivious to everything else ; we speak of " fascination , " " infatuation , " " entanglement , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is purely voluntary . Only when a close relationship is forced on one or is simulated for an ulterior purpose does it become burdensome ; and in this case scarcely anything can be more confining . A love affair in which one no longer feels any love but which can not be broken off is exceedingly trying . THE RELATIONSHIP IS PERSONAL In the primary group the interest of each is centered in the others as persons  --  i.e. as objects of value . The relationship disappears if the particular person disappears from it . No offense is greater in a lover than this : that he should treat his love " impersonally . " . . . The distinction between personal and impersonal relationships is a vital one in human affairs . Personal relationships , be they those of friend to friend or of husband to wife , be they motivated by love or by hatred , be they transitory or permanent , stand apart in a class by themselves . . . . The most obvious and inevitable quality of a personal relationship is that it is not transferable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ duplicated nor replaced . A new personal relationship can be established , an old one can be abandoned , perhaps the driving force that initiated the relationship may give way to another , but no substitution can be made of one individual for another in the same relationship . If Helen leaves Menelaus and flees with Paris , it is absurd to describe the new situation as a continuation of the personal attachment of Menelaus and Helen , with Paris acting as a substitute . The personal relationship between Helen and Mene- laus continues , with love changed to fear and resentment . The attachment of Helen and Paris is a new entity , a new relatio ( nship . On the other hand , any relationship which can be transferred from one individual to another is to that extent impersonal . When citizens enter and leave the allegiance of a State , when laborers enter and leave the employ of a factory , when men supplant each other in all the diverse functions of organized society , their personality is only incidental to the political , economic , or social @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these relationships themselves are constantly in being , whoever may be the persons bound therein.8 The primary relationship is a matter of persons ; it exists because of the person , not despite him . Cigarettes can be bought from at ybody . Our attention is focused on getting them , not on the pers ) n who sells them to us . The less the seller intrudes his personality the better . A vending machine will do just as well except that it will not cut prices . If one man or one machine will not sell us cigarettes , another will ; and it makes no great difference which one does . The personal nature of the primary relationship has a further consequence ? namely , that things trivial in other contexts may be important in this one . " As every lover who is not a bungler knows , there is no external distinction between great things and trivial things in matters of love . " ' This is because , since the relationship is personal , whatever either party chooses to regard as important necessarily becomes important @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ towards the other ; and anything that reveals this attitude , be it small or large , has great significance attached to it . A careless gesture , an idle remark , may be sufficient to start a quarrel . Events are not important in themselves but rather as symbols of the subjective attitudes that each is taking toward the other . TILE RELATIONSHIP IS INCLUSIVE The person in a personal relationship is not an abstraction . He is not merely a legal entity , an economic cipher , or a technological cog . He is all of these rolled into one . He is the complete concrete person and the relationship involves him in all his completeness , extending to his whole being . His value attaches not to any particular   aspect or activity of himself but to his whole self . This is why long acquaintance and close contact are so essential to a primary relationship . Each person comes to know the other in all the details of his life . In this way the primary- relation  --  differs from all other social relations , because the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ SPONTANEOUS A purely primary relationship is voluntary . In this it does not differ from a purely contractual relationship , but in a contract the conditions are laid down explicitly and the other person is held to these conditions . Furthermore , the contract exists for an ulterior purpose and is not an end in itself . As a consequence the personal relationship , which depends always on the will of either party at any point in the interaction , is voluntary in a more complete sense ; and as mentioned before , it therefore implies the greatest spontaneity on the part of the participants . In actual groups , of course , the very inclusiveness and closeness of primary association means that great control over the person is exercised . Neighborhood and family control is very complete control , and the individual often wishes to escape it by getting into the anonymous and more impersonal life of a larger setting such as a big city . The truth is that such actual groups embody only imperfectly the primary relationship . They demand a great deal of loyalty and they have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which makes them something less than spontaneous and free . Even so , the control is in general voluntarily accepted by the members of the group . One does not feel that a marriage relationship is onerous even though it imposes many limitations on one . If one does feel it to be onerous this is a sign that the relation is involuntary and therefore is not completely primary . Concrete Groups and Primary Relationships We have now described some of the essential qualities of primary relationships ? the identity of ends , the intrinsic value , the personal , inclusive , and spontaneous character which they possess . We have also given the physical conditions which favor the occurrence of such relationships . It has become increasingly clear , however , that primary relationships as we have described them do not exist in  | concrete form . They are merely the extreme pole , the asymptote , , toward which some actual forms of interaction tend but never reach ; ; ; " , It has also become clear , as the preceding paragraph suggests , that in actual groups @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ type opposite to those we have described may be found . Thus . the small and durable group may be characterized by hate and con-v flict rather than love and harmony . Obviously then there are some theoretical problems remaining that require clarification . The groups embodying most completely the characteristics of primary relationship are those that are freest from any connection with social organization . They imply no larger obligation , no fixed status , no involuntary element . Such , for example , is the relation of two friends who come together simply because they want to do so and who are under no obligation to continue the bond if either loses . interest . Even here some rudimentary sense of obligation is inevitably incurred and there is some cultural standardization of the relationship . In primitive societies friendships are often sealed with a ceremony and are expected to continue for life . In our own society they are remarkably free . If the number of friends is increased , the element of obligation and control becomes greater ; yet the boy 's gang , based on similar age @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ degree . Like friendship , the love relationship of a man and woman apart from any marital or parental ties has a strong primary character ; but here the fact of potential connection with the family system of the society places the relationship on a precarious footing . The truth is that every society is of necessity inimical to the full expression of primary association . If it is to control individuals , it must control their relationships . Even in the most personal affairs it must define mutual obligations . It must take advantage of personal affection of the sense of spontaneity , of the identity of ends to furnish organization for the performance of societal functions . It can not let individual associate simply on the basis of personal attraction or on a purely voluntary basis . Instead it must use the propulsive power inherent in these , and in using them it must inevitably destroy them in part . - Thusin countless ways it limits contacts in such a way that friendship will develop along functional lines that fit into the total organization . It tries to limit or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recognizes in such a group an anarchic force . Similarly it p 300 limits and controls sexual love between man and woman in the interest of reproduction , child-rearing , and the continuity of the system of stratification . It recognizes in the voluntary unregulated liaison an anarchic force . But if organized society is inimical to the full expression of primary relationships , it is also friendly to a partial expression of them . At the bottom of human society is the fact of communicative contact between one person and another . The self can not develop on the basis of secondary contacts ; it requires close , intimate , personal contacts . It requires the security of a stable and familiar group , the sense of identity with others , the sympathetic interest and personal evaluation which others show . The intricate process of socialization , then , is handled in those concrete groups ? notably the family and the play group ? where an emphasis is placed on the conditions and the qualities of primary association . Such groups are institutionalized and organized , giving their members mutual rights @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they are not purely spontaneous and voluntary ; yet so far as possible an attempt is made to give them an identity of ends , an intrinsic evaluation of the group as such , a sense of personal closeness , and an unawareness of the impingement of social controls . In the last analysis the society relies heavily on the physical conditions of primary group formation ? proximity , smallness , and long duration ? to provide some of the qualities of primary association despite their socially organized character . In this way the family and the neighborhood ( the local territorial group ) provide the archetypes of what may be called organized primary groups.10 It happens that human beings throughout most of their history have lived chiefly in groups characterized by proximity , smallness , and durability . But precisely because so much of their lives was passed in such groups , these groups were thoroughly organized from a social point of view . For this reason familial relations and in fact all personal relations seem more formalized in primitive groups than among ourselves . it is only in modern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ role , and consequently some of the burden of social  | organization has been lifted from the small primary groups which have thus gained in spontaneity and informality . Secondary Groups Secondary groups can be roughly defined as the opposite of everything already said about primary groups . In the first place the conditions for their existence are mainly opposite in character . The secondary group covers such a wide area that no two of its members need live in close proximity , and it is so large that all of its members could not possibly know one another personally . Although it may have very long duration , the personal relations of its members may be brief . In the second place its characteristics generally appear at the opposite extreme from those of the primary group . It involves relationships that are not ends in themselves , not personal , and not inclusive . But this way of defining secondary groups is not entirely satisfactory . If an organized social group is to exist , it must have some of the elements we have cited in the case of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an identity of ends on the part of its members ; it must be conceived by its members as a value , an end , in itself ; and it must have long duration . The modern nation , with millions of citizens , shows the necessity of these primary group characteristics ; yet we think of it as a secondary group . The same is true of a large labor union , an army , or a scientific association ; and it is true of any going group , no matter what its size . It is less true of a city , because under modern conditions the population of a city constitutes a group only in a very loose sense . In so far as the secondary group is a real organized group and not merely a statistical category , it has some of the elements we have already designated as possessed by the primary group . Do we then have a distinction without a difference ? No , because the real difference between primary and secondary association relates not to the groups as such but to the kinds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is called a secondary group because its members , as members , do not have close , personal , warm relations . They have these relations in other contexts ? as members of families , villages , fraternities , etc. ? but not simply as citizens of the same nation . Only when two persons are in a foreign land , and often not even then , is common citizenship deemed a suf-  | ficient ground for intimate association . Yet somehow the nation must be personalized , symbolized , represented , and led if it is to operate as a group . It must have the loyalty of its citizens . And this means that there must be a common bond albeit an impersonal one between its citizens . They must feel themselves to be members of the larger group and be willing to make sacrifices for its welfare . At the nerve center of this group , of course , there must be a small unit of political leaders and officials who know each other personally by reason of their position in the group structure . But as-between the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ does not lie in close personal interaction but rather in impersonal and indirect communication through newspaper and radio , formal representation through the .. and devotion to leaders known only at a distance . The growth of such large and impersonal groups is one of the most fascinating chapters in the history of human society . In many ways it is a new chapter , for the degree to which life today is controlled by the impersonal group has never before been equaled . The nature of secondary contacts is obvious . They may be faceto-face , but if so they are of the touch-and-go variety . The contact with the streetcar motorman , with the grocery clerk , or with the bank cashier is a perfect illustration . Many contacts are entirely indirect , being handled through long-distance communication , the two persons never seeing each other . Thus an insurance salesman may call a prospective client by telephone and handle the entire transaction by wire , mail , and check ; or a scholar thousands of miles away may write for a reprint of a scientific paper which he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the essential business of the modern world is handled through impersonal contacts , whether of the face-to-face or the indirect variety . Such contacts do not necessarily imply any identity of ends as between the parties concerned , any interest in the other party as an end in himself , any conception of the relationship . as an end in itself , or any sentiment whatever attaching to the con tact . They do not require that the parties know each other in a , inclusive sense but only in a very special context , and when th ' context changes the relationship has no significance . One party ma be substituted for another without affecting the relationship . The contact is viewed purely as a means to an end and is dropped as soo as the end changes . It , along with the other party , is treated in rational context . In other words the secondary contact is entered  | in the spirit of rational calculation ? in the spirit of technological , economic , and political manipulation . One of the clearest exemplifications of the secondary relationship @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ secondary contacts could be viewed as contractual in nature , some of them merely being highly informal and ephemeral . ) Each of the contracting parties enters the agreement for a definite purpose , and his purpose may have little relation to that of the other party . He intends to get all he can out of the contract , and he puts into it only so much of his own interest as he has to ; his liability is limited . Everything is explicitly stated ? what each of the parties contributes , what he gets , for what length of time , and under what circumstances . In case of dispute over the contract the law enforces only the terms of the contract . Anything that is not stated is not part of the contract . Sentiments and motives do not count . The parties may love or hate each other ; they may know or not know each other ; they may or may not share the same religion or the same class position . In short the contractual relation is a rational instrument . Neither it nor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ individual entering the contract ; the interest lies rather in the goal for which these are the means . Obviously no organized group can depend exclusively on secondary or contractual attitudes among its members . Whether it is a labor union or an army , a priesthood or a university , it must receive from its members some loyalty and devotion to the group as a whole and some attachment to the institutional patterns that make its structure . liven a business concern , which is so structured that virtually every relationship is supposedly contractual , will not work without a certain identification of its members with the organization as a whole . No matter what the group , it must have some basis of allegiance and identity that will support the rules that make possible the secondary and contractual relationships . Unless contracts can be enforced they are worthless , and they can be enforced only through the will of the people as expressed in their courts . Unless the day-to-day contacts of strangers in a city are somehow reduced to rule , unless they are guided by considerations of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will result ; and it is in the name of the collectivity and on the basis of sentiment that these rules are supported . Attitudes of loyalty and identification do not develop automatially . They come as a result of communication from one individual  | to another , and especially the kind of communication that occurs in intimate personal relations . For this reason primary groups are essential to the existence of large secondary groups . It is in the primary group that the individual in his formative stages identifies himself with others and takes over . There he acquires the sentiments of love , freedom , justice , and propriety later attached to the secondary group ; There , in face-to-face and durable personal relations . these sentiments are constantlyrenewed ancrrelnforced ; and there the expression of the self in the " we " of the whole is achieved . This fact explains why the family is often said to be the foundation of society and the play group the best school for the future citizen 11 Without these primary groups the large secondary group would be like a tree @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . For this reason the secondary group , no matter how big and impersonal , must be articulated with the primary groups . Its members must be associated not only in secondary contexts but also in primary contexts , and the two contexts must be structurally integrated . Hence we find that every primary group contains elements of formal social organization , just as every secondary group ( at least so far as attitudes and sentiments are concerned ) contains elements of primary association . The two kinds of group are symbiotic and interpenetrated . The large group , however , does not depend exclusively on primary contacts to maintain allegiance and provide cohesion . It makes use of impersonal controls , indirect communication , and bureaucratic organization . Whereas in the primary group the individual is controlled largely by the informal expressions of others ' attitudes ? by gossip , ostracism , withdrawal of affection , frank discussion , etc. ? in the larger group he is controlled in part by law and economic competition . He finds himself caught in a network whose operation is largely impersonal , touching @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ explicitly stated and quantitatively measurable . The rules apply to everyone in the group , and since they apply to large numbers they can not take the whole man into account . They treat the man as a cipher , a statistical and legal but hardly a human entity . He gets his information about the group as a whole from impersonal sources ? the newspaper , the radio , the lecture , the disembodied rumor . To be sure , this information is often about specific people ,  | the officials or the elite of the group ; and an effort is often made to personalize as much as possible the mass means of communication by radio addresses , gossip columns , lecture and handshaking . tours , etc . The symbols of the group are made as concrete and colorful as possible and are manipulated in a manner calculated to appeal to mass sentiments . Still , in the last analysis the communication is addressed to so many people that it can not help but be impersonal . Even though the leader 's voice and face come into the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ though the gossip columns recount his daily doings , he is still remote ; he would not know his admirer if he met him on the street and certainly could not be intimate with him and all others like him . By every device the secondary group attempts to overcome the sense of impersonality while retaining the efficiency that impersonal organization gives . The success achieved can be measured by the vitality of secondary groups in the modern world . Though they occasionally fail , they represent , as a form of social organization , an outstanding achievement of modern times . Conclusion The distinction between primary and secondary groups suffers the danger of reification . A " group " in a literal sense designates a physical aggregation of people , such as a crowd at a football game . On the other hand the term is frequently used in the sense of a number of people involved in one or more kinds of patterned interaction ; accordingly , the members of a state bar association constitute a group . The difficulty is that in this sense the same individual can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we have to give up thinking of groups as physical entities . In the foregoing discussion we have seen that not even groups in this non-physical sense can be classified as wholly primary or wholly secondary . It is much easier to classify contacts and specific relationships as falling in one or the other of these two categories , and this is largely what we have done . In the last analysis , however , we have found that the conditions and characteristics of so-called primary and secondary association are to a certain degree independently variable . The completely primary relationship is one which combines all of the conditions and characteristics that fall at the primary end of the scale . Such a relationship is an ideal-type which does not exist in actuality .   RURAL AND URBAN COMMUNITIES LET us now turn to a particular kind of territorial group ? the community ? where membership is determined by the sharing of an immediate locale . Later , in connection with the state , wider territorial groups will be dealt with and at another point , in connection with the family @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ present the local territorial group , universally important in human society , requires analysis . What Constitutes a Community ? An attempted definition that encompasses all human communities meets the same dilemma that presented itself in the case of primary and secondary groups . There is both a physical criterion ( in this case territorial proximity ) and a social criterion . Since neither alone will define the community , both must be considered . TERRITORIAL PROXIMITY Never does a population spread itself evenly over a region . Always there are clusters of residences , and inevitably the people within one cluster find it easier to interact with one another than with people in other clusters . They may do business with outsiders , but they do more business with one another . They find it more convenient to visit , worship , play , work , and gossip with one another than with outsiders . The slower the means of communication , the more restricted is the area , the fewer are the people , and the greater is the amount of primary contact . On the other hand the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the potential size of the community and the more secondary is its social structure . Those people   belong to a given community who live closer to its central cluster than to any other such cluster . It is no accident that people cluster together . Nearness facilitates contact , furnishes protection , and makes easier the organization and integration of the group . Within the cluster , patterns of spatial distribution are created or evolved which serve to symbolize and make more efficient the group structure . Among the Serente , a primitive Amazonian people , the community site is shifted from time to time , but always each household has the same spatial location with reference to the other households ( in accordance with its clan and moiety connections ) . A similar use of spatial patterning has been observed in other primitive societies . Malinowski has this to say of the Trobriand village : We pass the grove and find ourselves between two rows of houses , built in concentric rings round a large open space . Between the outer ring and the inner one a circular street @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ring consists of dwelling-houses , the inner of storehuts in which the taytu , a variety of yam , which forms the staple food of the natives , is kept from one harvest to the next . We are struck at once by the better finish , the greater constructive elaboration , and the superior embellishment and decoration which distinguish the yam-houses from the dwellings . . . . Both these and the dwellings always face the centre . . . . A big yam-house belonging to the chief stands in the middle of the central space . Somewhat nearer the ring , but still well in the centre stands another large building , the chief 's living hut . This singularly symmetrical arrangement of the village is of importance , for it represents a definite sociological scheme . The inner place is the scene of the public and festive life . A part of it is the old-time burial ground of the villagers , and at one end is the dancing ground , the scene of all ceremonial and festive celebrations . . . . The inner ring of store @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a number of taboos being placed on them . The street between the two rows is the theatre of domestic life and everyday occurrence . . . . The central place might be called the male portion of the village and the street that of the women . ' In American cities economic and social competition produce typical patterns of segregation of ethnic groups and class strata . In short ,   although the form of the community varies from one society to another , there is always a community which utilizes in its social structure the possibilities of territorial proximity . Always there is a center , a place where events that are community-wide in interest and importance may be celebrated . It is here that the villager , without fully realizing it , comes to honor everything affecting the entire community . Finally , the community is always the heart of a larger region of exploitation . This larger region , or hinterland , may or may not be settled . If settled , the people may simply be remote members of the community or they may be members @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ imperceptibly as distance and other barriers remove the hinterland from the community . The larger the central cluster , other things equal , the greater must be the hinterland . SOCIAL COMPLETENESS The community is the smallest territorial group that can embrace , all aspects of social life . Although the household is a smaller contiguous group , it is also more limited in scope . The community on the other hand is a local group broad enough to include all the major institutions , all the statuses and interests , that make a society . It is the smallest local group that- can be arid " otters is , " Complete society . The community does not , as does the clan , gang , crowd , business , or church , require the existence of other groups outside and beyond itself . In most instances it forms part of a larger organization such as a tribe or a nation , but it need not ; and even so , it remains true that most of the individual 's social life is lived within his community . The common area @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consequence , community ends are more ultimate than those of most other groups , for they embrace or transcend the ends of specific groups within the community . The community can not be partial , can not be identified with any particular institution or group by which it is constituted , for it consists precisely in the inter-institutional and inter-group connections that give to the whole its cohesion . The ends of the community are the standards by which the competing claims of its component groups are adjusted . This gives to community ends their transcendency and makes them at once more re- mote , more nebulous , and more pervasive than the specific group ends with which the individual is ordinarily in closer contact . Types of Communities In classifying communities one may use four interrelated criteria , as follows : ( 1 ) the size of the population ; ( 2 ) the extent , wealth , and populousness of the hinterland ; ( 3 ) the specialized functions of the community within the whole society ; and ( 4 ) the kind of organization the community has . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ primitive communities , between primitive and civilized and between rural and urban communities . PRIMITIVE BANDS AND VILLAGES What distinguishes the local group in primitive as against civilized society is its smallness , its sparsely settled and undeveloped hinterland , its detachment from other communities , and its comparatively simple social organization . The smallness of the community and the undeveloped character of the hinterland are both connected with the primitive technology . Slow transportation limits the extent , and simple hunting or tilling techniques limit the intensity , of exploitation . It has ordinarily been assumed that gathering , fishing , or hunting peoples will naturally have smaller villages than herders and agriculturalists , but so many factors other than the technology enter the picture that generalizations on this basis alone are true only in a crude sense . Fishing villages near well-stocked waters may contain more inhabitants than agricultural villages on poor soil . Bearing in mind , however , that food-getting technology is likely to be related to other factors as well , we can agree with the following summary by Linton : Where there is no reliance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ groups seems to be 350 to 400 . Even this requires unusually good soil and well-developed farming techniques , and such a size is rarely reached . Taking the world as a whole the average size of the band for agricultural peoples is probably between 100 and 150 . Herding peoples with well-developed transportation facilities may , by frequent movements , live in units nearly as large as those of agriculturalists . The bands of hunters and food-gatherers are usually much smaller . In regions of scanty food supply they may   be limited to ten or fifteen individuals , while under optimum conditions they rarely exceed 100 to 150.2 The hinterland of the primitive band may contain a great deal of space per person . The aboriginal population of California is estimated to have been only 150,000 ( about 1 per square mile ) , that of Australia 250,000 ( about 1 per 12 square miles ) . Nomadism makes it possible for a small group to cover a large territory . Usually nomadic peoples do not wander aimlessly and perpetually in a straight line , but rather have a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ re-establishing itself at different points . This enables the small band to exploit a wide territory despite otherwise poor means of communication and transportation . The largest primitive villages are those practicing agriculture in rich alluvial valleys with inexhaustible soil . But many less fortunate agricultural communities are forced by soil conditions to move every few years , thus practicing a sort of agricultural nomadism . This was true , for example , of the Indians in the Amazon valley and the Veddahs in Ceylon . Owing to its isolation the primitive community is more selfsufficient than the modem town or . city , more of a society within itself , and for this reason is the purest type of community . The main sources of inter-community contact are marriage , kinship , and trade . Except through marriage there is little exchange of residents from one village to another . Though on ceremonial occasions several bands or villages may come together , the rule still holds that life is almost wholly restricted to the local sphere . So far does this localism go that each band or village tends to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the individual seldom leaves the band , his absorption of culture is derived mainly from intimate and constant contact with its members . His loyalty and interest are bound up with the local group where most of his close ties , including those of kinship , are usually to be found . Not infrequently the members of a village feel vaguely kin to one another and often they are kin to one another , as emphasized in extreme cases by " village incest " taboos .  | One of the first steps as civilization develops is the breakdown of localism and the growth of inter-community contact . Some of the things usually missing or present only rudimentarily in the primitive community are laws , writing , science , and a special education system ? all fundamental in civilized life . The institutions of the primitive community have an undifferentiated character , being all woven into the same concrete patterns and giving to the community an organic corporateness that many modern towns and cities lack . This is why it is easier to study primitive rather than modern communities as functional organic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a specialized part of a larger whole , can not be understood in terms of itself alone . Each segment may be more closely linked with similar segments in other communities than with dissimilar segments in the same community . In college towns , for example , one of the reasons for town-and-gown conflict is the faculty 's greater concern with nationwide academic opinion than with local opinion . Similarly , the middle-class suburb suffers from the fact that most of its inhabitants have a residential but not an occupational interest in the community . The primitive band or village is more of a functional unit in its own right . Small , isolated , and unspecialized , it is a primary group in every sense . RURAL VERSUS URBAN In modern society one of the great distinctions is that between rural and urban , between country and city . It is a distinction that has little to do with the primitive communities just discussed because the village or hamlet in our society , no matter how small , is still subjected to countless urban influences . Whereas the strictly primitive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ urban influence , the civilized society is always partially urbanized . The rural-urban differential is therefore a gradient ( albeit an important one ) , with the rural end of the scale never even approaching absolute rurality . Much ink has been wasted in trying to define " urban . " The difficulty lies in the fact that as usual a physical condition ( in this case , concentration of population ) tends to give rise to but is not invariably correlated with a social phenomenon ( urbanism ) . One might think that all places with a high density of population are urban , but this is not true . Some of the agricultural villages of India , where land is so dear that as little of it as possible is used  | for residential purposes , have an average number of persons per room as great as have the crowded Indian cities . Yet nobody would think of calling these villages urban simply because of the density . They have too small an absolute population and too small an inhabited area . On the other hand , too large @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ place . " One would not call Australia a " city , " despite the fact that most of its people live in cities . The demographic distinction between rural and urban must therefore take account not only of the ratio between population and land ( density ) , but also of absolute population and absolute area . Accordingly , the degree to which a place is urban can be defined as follows : when U = urbanity , P = population , and A = area . The question of weighting the three factors is arbitrary , and is settled differently in different countries . The usual practice is to reason mainly in terms of absolute population , tacit assumptions about density and area being made explicit only when necessary . Thus the United States Census Bureau sets a floor on population as the dividing line between urban and rural . It treats all incorporated places of 2,500 or more as urban , the assumption being that an " incorporated place " has a restricted area so that the inhabitants dwell close together . Obviously , however , not all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so the Census Bureau includes as urban the unincorporated places having a sizable population . Within the urban category additional distinctions are made primarily on the basis of absolute population . Thus we speak of cities of 100,000 to 500,000 inhabitants , cities of 500,000 and over , etc . Nevertheless , although urban areas inevitably contain small parcels of uninhabited land , it is assumed that the area embraced should be generally one of high and continuous density . With the expansion of city populations beyond the municipal boundaries , it becomes necessary to redefine the  | areas in non-political terms ? hence the metropolitan district . The factor of density is clearly demonstrated by the fact that in 1930 the 96 metropolitan districts ( all with 100,000 or more population ) embraced nearly half of the country 's total population but only 1.2 per cent of the area . In 1940 New York City , with 299 square miles , had an average density of 24,900 per square mile ? more than 56 times the average density of the entire country . But the floor of what is considered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It varies all the way from 1,000 in Argentina to 10,000 in Italy and Spain . Also the amount of area included is not uniform . The cities of Hungary , for example , embrace a tremendous agricultural area . The municipios of Latin America ( somewhat similar to our New England townships ) are often confused with towns and cities in the strict sense , though they include great amounts of rural countryside . Furthermore , the reporting of statistics for cities of various size classes is not standardized . Generally , however , the larger the population of the towns being considered , the more available is the information and the more possible is international comparison . Socially speaking , the city is a way of life . The adjective " urbane " suggests this way of life very neatly ; it indicates a wide acquaintence with things and people , a certain tolerance born of this acquaintance , and a somewhat suave and polished manner arising from diverse association in a cosmopolitan milieu . The urbane person has mastered the art of external comformity , of superficial politeness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ state of mind . He has learned how to lead different lives in different contexts , to take advantage of anonymity and of special friendship as the occasion arises . He is the product of a peculiar kind of environment , the urban setting . Now the question arises , to what extent is the urban way of life limited to the urban population ? To what extent do the physical and   the social definitions of urban correspond ? The answer is that there is a causal connection between the two but not a one-to-one correspondence . The city , as a place where population is concentrated , inevitably gives rise to and depends upon certain features of social organization that we regard as urban . By its very nature it throws people into close contact with strangers , facilitates the rapid diffusion of news and fashions , permits a high degree of individualization , stimulates invention , social mobility , secularization , etc . At the same time it depends on a complex economic system which makes possible the quick transfer of goods and services , an elaborate division @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But once these things have arisen , once we have actual cities , their influence can be carried far beyond the city boundaries and can thus characterize people who do not actually dwell in cities . In this way rural areas can become highly urbanized . The fact that the city 's effects are wider than the city itself means that we should speak not only of cities but of urbanized societies and regions . Yet when the term " urbanized " is used this way its meaning is ambiguous . It may simply describe the degree to which the population of the region is living in cities irrespective of other social traits , or it may refer to the diffusion of urban attitudes throughout the population . Generally the two correspond , but one country can be demographically more urban and yet socially more rural than another . Chile , for example , has a greater percentage of its population living in cities than does Canada ' but its people , by almost any set of indices , are less urban . Origin of the City The problem of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other " origin " problems , because the first cities appeared recently enough to leave evidence of themselves . The archeologist , however , is not sure he has yet discovered the very first cities . Nor , assuming he has discovered them , is he capable of giving us the full social picture , because his evidence is limited to what he can dig up . Yet he does provide some valuable hints . Since cities can not exist without drawing an economic surplus  | from the hinterland , their emergence had to await the growth of technology to such a point that a surplus could be created and transported . This stage was not reached until settled agriculture had been attained in the late neolithic period some seven or eight thousand years ago . The most favorable spots were those where the climate was dry enough to be healthful and hot enough to provide sunshine , where the natural vegetation was thin enough to be cleared , the rainfall not so heavy as to leach the soil , and the soil itself so thick and rich as not to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ often found in rich alluvial valleys deficient in rainfall but with riverine flood waters to furnish irrigation.8 Consequently , what appear to be the first cities arose in the Nile , Tigris , Euphrates , and Indus valleys . In the New World the first cities , apparently without influence from Old World cities , arose along the desert river valleys between the Andes and the Pacific , in the flat table lands of Guatemala , and in the Valley of Mexico . Agriculture alone was not enough . Also required was an adequate system of transportation so that the surplus could be brought to the city . In this the invention of the wheel and the domestication of animals were a great help . The domestication of animals not only made possible use of pack animals and wheeled vehicles but also , as applied to agriculture , increased the ratio of crop production to human labor . In the absence of the wheel , as in the New World , pack animals could be used or , if the economic system were otherwise sufficiently well organized to release them ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ employed . Relatively dry alluvial valleys provided few obstacles to land communication , and the rivers themselves gave cheap transportation . In order to get the surplus to the city , however , something more than the means of transportation was necessary . The city had somehow to offer services to , or have power over , the rural people . It accomplished this purpose through the trading of manufactured goods ( hence the intense urban division of labor ) , through the offering of military protection ( drawing upon concentrated manpower and using   strong fortifications ) , through the provision of religious services ( furnished by a professional priesthood ) , and through the offering of recreation and entertainment : In every cae the city was admirably suited to prove e these things . But it did not need to attract only ; it could also demand . With a high concentration of numbers it was in a strategic position to attack and dominate any particular part of the rural region , even though the population of the whole hinterland might exceed that of the city by many times @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its soldiers well . The city was consequently in a position to levy tribute on the countryside ; or to put it another way , whoever could levy tribute over a wide area tended to create a city and to gain power therefrom . Written records relating to the early cities of both the Old and New Worlds are available . For the Old World they are records written by the inhabitants themselves ; for the New World they are records written by Europeans . We thus get a historical cross-view of some of mankind 's earliest cities . Cuzco in the Andes reached a population of about 200,000.9 Tenochtitlan ( Mexico City ) in the Valley of Mexico had approximately 60,000 houses and an estimated population of 300,000 when the Spaniards came.10 Many Mayan cities were admitted by the Spanish Conquistadores to be " more considerable than Seville . " 11 For people to exist in such large aggregates the conditions necessary for city life must have been well advanced . Descriptions of life in these cities ? with their professional sports , their gambling , their class distinctions , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and slang ? all have a modern flavor . They attest that there is a social atmosphere common to all cities whereever and whenever found . As we move forward from the late Neolithic and early Bronze periods the record , at least so far as Europe and the Mediterranean world are concerned , becomes ever fuller . There is gradual improvement in technology , especially in the use of metals and in handicraft generally . The greatest strides were perhaps made in the field of symbolic inventions , the most outstanding Oft which was writing . Any-   thing that improves communication and the storing of culture also facilitates the growth of cities . The historian not only finds in his materials the record of the growth of cities ? Athens , Carthage , Alexandria , Rome , Constantinople ? but he also finds the record of the decline of cities . The most interesting kind of decline was not that of particular cities such as Ur , but the decline of urban life in entire regions . A regional decline is indeed the maximum that one can find , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they were never completely lost . Once cities appeared on the human scene they never disappeared again except in particular areas . The Modern City and the Urbanized Society The great impetus to the development of cities came with the industrial revolution . The application of mechanical power to textile and metal industries in the latter part of the eighteenth and early part of the nineteenth centuries enormously . increased the economic surplus available for the support of urban populations . The new power could best be utilized with large machines and large plants ; hence the factory with its requirement of numerous workers created the factory town and factory city . At the same time the agricultural system , stimulated by a rising urban market , constantly improved its techniques . And the application of mechanical power to water and land transportation enabled the agricultural produce to reach the cities quickly and cheaply . Improved transportation also facilitated the circulation of people and information . The introduction of the power press and machine manufacture of paper made possible an enormous increase in printed matter , thus facilitating technical education , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The development of canning and refrigeration ; of telegraph , telephone , and radio ; of electric railways , automobiles , and airplanes ? these and countless other inventions enormously increased the number and potential size of cities . Everywhere the urban population grew faster than the rural ; everywhere the city increasingly set the   pattern of life , becoming the chief diffusion center as well as the main offspring of the new mechanical era . With this rapid rise of cities there came into human life something new and important ? the urbanized society . As long as most of the population remained rural , the urban way of life was not the only way of life . Only recently have the populations of large regions come to live preponderantly in cities . Only recently have urban atti- j tudes penetrated deeply into the country . The change , though oc- 1 curring rapidly , has only commenced . When the whole world becomes urbanized , as it seems it surely will , then human society will have undergone a major transformation . Table 1 gives the proportion of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ world . In many countries over half the population now lives in urban places . ' ' Urban Growth in the United States The growth of cities in the United States is a remarkable phenomenon . When the country embarked on its career as an independent nation in 1790 it had no towns of 50,000 inhabitants , and only 5 per cent of the population lived in places of more than 2,500 . By 1920 more than half the population lived in urban centers , and by 1946 approximately 60 per cent did so ( Table 2 ) . No less than 53 per cent of the urban people , or 30 per cent of the total population , resided by 1930 in big cities of over 100,000 inhabitants . The phenomenon is best summed up in this way : by 1946 there were 15 times as many rural people in the United States as there were in 1790 , but there were 420 times as many urban people . With the rapid concentration of people in cities there was an actual shrinkage of the rural-farm population . " In 1920 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ per cent of the total population . By 1940 it had shrunk to a total of slightly over 30 million or 22.9 per cent of the population . By the end of 1944 the farm population had declined still further , to about 20 per cent of the national total . " The increasing rationalization of agriculture   has enabled a smaller and smaller proportion of the population to grow the food for all the rest . As late as 1870 , 53 per cent of American workers were gainfully employed in agriculture , whereas in 1940 only 17 per cent were so employed . Clearly " in little more than a century our country has profoundly altered its mode of life and has been transformed from a rural frontier settlement into a full-fledged , urban industrial society . " It will be noticed from Table 2 that the rate of urbanization in this country has been declining . The rate was fastest during the period from 1840 to 1870 , and since then , with minor fluctuations due to economic conditions , has been gradually slowing down . Yet there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to an end . On the contrary the United States is still less urbanized than several other countries , and the basic economic and social trends still point to more concentration in cities . Hauser and Eldridge have made projections of the future urban population which are given in Table 3 . On the basis of their highest projections they find that 98 per cent of the population will be living in urban places by the year 2000 . On the basis of their medium assumption the percentage will be 78 , and on the basis of their lowest assumption it will be 62 . In the future the United States urban growth " will undoubtedly proceed at a slower rate than in the past . The average annual rate of growth of the urban population from 1900 to 1930 was about 3.2   per cent ( and higher in earlier decades ) , whereas between 1930 and 1940 growth averaged 0.8 per cent per year . " Since 1940 the urban population has increased about 0.25 per cent per year . The reasons for the decreasing rate of growth lie @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mortality , and declining immigration . Nevertheless , the urban population will in all probability continue to grow faster than the rural population . There are still more people on farms than are necessary to grow the crops . As between the various classes of cities the rate of urban growth in the United States has been fairly uniform . " The proportion of the population living in places of 100,000 or more inhabitants has increased in much the same way as the proportion living in all urban places . In most decades the increase in the proportion of the population in the large cities has proceeded at a more rapid rate than the proportion urban ( see Table 4 ) . The outstanding exception is   the decade 1930 to 1940 when the proportion in large cities actually decreased , and the proportion urban increased slightly . " 19 In Table 4 medium projections for the proportion of the total population living in cities of 100,000 and over are given to the year 2000 . According to these calculations " more than 67 million persons , or 41.2 per cent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of this size class by the year 2000 , as compared with about 38 million , or 28.9 per cent in 1940 . " L0 Confusion has arisen from talk about urban decentralization in America . It is a fact that the areas around big cities have been increasing more rapidly in population than the core cities themselves . In 85 metropolitan districts , for example , average annual rates of growth were as follows : 21 But this kind of " decentralization " is only natural . As the great urban agglomerations continue to grow they will not simply pile up an ever higher density at their center , but rather will add more people around the periphery . The periphery represents a much greater area , and with improving transportation , urban residents can live farther out and thus avoid the disadvantages of ever greater concentration at the center . Such decentralization does not mean , however , that urbanization is lessening . On the contrary it means that ever more people are flocking to the urban areas . This is shown by the following average annual rates of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are like sandpiles : the more that is added at the center , the more the edge expands . Our so-called urban decentralization is really an accommodation by which an ever greater urbanization is accomplished . Urban growth is continuing , and this means that business and industry are not moving to the country .   The Sources of Urban Population The speed and scope of urbanization in the United States , remarkable as it seems , is by no means unique . Practically everywhere in the ' world there has been and is now occurring a marked increase in the number and size of cities . This tendency slowed somewhat during the great depression but nevertheless continued . In every country in Europe during the inter-war period the urban population was growing faster than the rural. ? ' In India the percentage of the population living in places of 5,000 or more was 9.3 in 1881 but 12.8 in 1941 . In Latin America , despite a lack of heavy industrialization , the cities are growing very rapidly , and the larger the city the faster it tends to grow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . For an understanding of this world-wide trend toward urbanization one must know the source from which the cities are getting their people . We know , for example , that almost without exception the fertility of city people is lower than that of rural people . " We know , too , that the mortality rate is more often higher in urban centers than in the countryside.5 It follows that the cities have a lower natural increase than the country , and that consequently their faster growth can be due only to rural-urban migration . The rush of rural people to modern cities is probably the greatest human migration that has ever occurred . It means that the urban world is largely peopled by person not feared in that world but brought up instead in , a rural atmosphere . It means that urban growth must eventually come to a halt , because the massive size of the big conurbations will eventually preclude their absorbing enough migrants from the depleted countryside to maintain their rate of growth . As the rural   population becomes an even smaller proportion of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ diffuses from the city to the rural regions , the source of recruitment for the cities will dry up . At that point the cities must either stop growing or enormously increase their fertility . Social Effects of the City A great amount of speculation , most of it uncontrolled , has gone into the question of the city 's social effects . There is a feeling that urban life is somehow new , perhaps unnatural , yet that it is dominant and that consequently it must have tremendous effects on civilization . ' But concepts such as unnatural or abnormal , when applied to human society , tend to be normative or metaphysical rather than scientific . Certainly , for some millions of years after the first appearance of culture , human groups lived only in a rural setting . Most of them still do , despite the progress of world urbanization . In this sense cities are abnormal , but they are scarcely less abnormal than the numerous other cultural developments ? such as agriculture and metallurgy ? that originated in the last few thousand years . The problem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ research . In the first place , the variable ( " city " ) is difficult to isolate . In the second place , the " effects " are different according to whether we are talking about the people inside or the people outside the city . People need not live in a city to be affected by it . The city is a diffusion center , evolving traits which , though they could have arisen nowhere else , can nevertheless be spread to noncity areas . This means that the full effect of city life can not be measured by rural-urban differences in contemporary society , because both sides of the comparison reflect city influence . A more complete measure of urban influence would require a comparison between a modern city and an isolated primitive society . Yet this would not show what in the city is to be attributed to the city itself . It is all too easy , simply because cities are tangible , to attribute to them social effects that are in reality a function of other factors . What seem to be the effects of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on analysis of another area , to be due to something else . Thus in the United States we often attribute to the city effects which in reality are due to the newness of our social order , the influx of foreign immigrants , the ' diversity of groups , etc . By looking at England , an older and more fully urbanized area , we discover that many of the alleged effects do not hold true . For instance , the commonly assumed association of urbanism with high divorce and crime rates does not hold true in England as against the United States . Again , the frequent identification of high urbanization with heavy industrialization is not borne out in Latin America ; 28 nor is the association between literacy and urbanization fully supported by a comparison of Egypt or Chile with Norway . We can not attribute the rise in living standards , the occurrence of the industrial revolution , and the growth of science all to the city , because the city is a result of these . But unless we watch ourselves carefully , we are likely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ changes . Lewis Mumford blames the modern metropolis for business cycles , imperialistic wars , bureaucracy , mental disorder , and in fact " the paralysis of all the higher activities of society . " 29 If loose reasoning of this sort is to be avoided , some way of isolating the strictly urban variable must be found . The most satisfactory way seems to be to deduce the major social traits of the city from its demographic uniqueness ? that is , the size and density of its population ? and then to check with empirical findings . This is what is done in the following section . ( 1 ) Social heterogeneity . The concentration of a large population in a small area requires social heterogeneity for the following reasons : Density maximizes the competition for space and for comparative advantage , and thus forces a striving for specialization . The population can not support itself by agriculture but only by manufacture and trade , which flourish on specialization . The fact that goods must be brought from -a wide area means contact with regional diversity . Since competition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of population from the countryside , the diversity of different regions is incorporated into the very texture of the   city . As a consequence the city has always been more heterogeneous than the rural community . It has " been ' the ' melting-pot of races , peoples , and cultures , and a most favorable breeding-ground of new biological and cultural hybrids : It h'a 's riot only ' tolerated but rewarded individual differences . It has brought together people from the ends of the earth because they are different and thus useful to one another , rather than because they are homogeneous and like-minded . " Indeed , " the greater the number of individuals participating in a process of interaction , the greater the potential differentiation between them . The personal traits , the occupations , the cultural life , the ideas of the members of an urban community may , therefore , be expected to range between more widely separated poles than those of rural inhabitants . " ( 2 ) Secondary association . By virtue of its size the city can not be a primary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ People must associate constantly , , . and at close quarters with strangers . Hence the purely rural reaction to strangers ? a reaction of either hostility or hospitality  --  must be replaced by indifference . Although superficial manners of politeness and mutual convenience evolve in the city , they are mechanical ; in general the urbanite treats the myriad of strangers he meets in daily contact as animated machines rather than as human beings . His behavior toward an acquaintance is different from that towards the surrounding sea of strangers , yet it is conditioned by the very presence of these strangers . He distinguishes , for example , between various degrees of acquaintanceship , gives only a small portion of his time to each acquaintance , and judges each by much the same external standards that he necessarily uses for quick judgments of strangers . " The urban world puts a premium on visual recognition . " We see the uniform that denotes the function but are oblivious to the personal eccentricities lying behind the uniform . ' We judge the person by how he looks , how he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ moment of time ; because , not knowing him , not knowing anyone else who knows him , and not caring anyway , we can do nothing else .  | Even friends and acquaintances are likely to be known only in a particular context , in a particular segment of life . Urbanites , to be sure , are " dependent upon more people for the satisfactions of their life-needs than are rural people and thus are associated with a greater number of organized groups , but they are less dependent upon particular persons , and their dependence upon others is confined to a highly fractionalized aspect of the other 's round of activity . " For this reason urban contacts are described as segmental . It is parts of persons , not whole , persons , that , are known . ( 3 ) Social tolerance . Given the diversity of its population and the impersonality of its contacts , a certain tolerance characterizes the city . People rub elbows with and become indifferent to extremes of all kinds ? extremes of opinion and interest , extremes of poverty and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arises partly through necessity , partly through the superficiality and brevity of contacts , and partly through familiarity . If oddities and anomalies are seen often enough , they cease to seem odd and anomalous . The city dweller becomes blase , no longer surprised by anything . This tolerance certainly has its limits ; the city demands a certain amount of external conformity on grounds of decency and convenience . But the limits are wider than in a rural community , and they exercise less control over private life . Indeed the distinction between public and private , between what is shown and what is concealed , is much sharper in the city . It is the public behavior that the city regulates , the private behavior that it ignores . Its control is impersonal and general , that of the country personal and particular . ( 4 ) Secondary control . The presence in the city of two social worlds ? the world of physically close but socially distant strangers and the world of friends and acquaintances ? gives the individual it double refuge . He can escape the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ simply by disappearing into the sea of strangers . This is the famous anonymity of the city , which frees the urban dweller from close moral control . On the other hand he can escape the impersonality and indifference of the city , as indeed he must , by becoming part of a primary group . He can recapture in the family , the gang , the circle of friends , his sense of emotional security , of being a human being rather than a mere cipher , and thus banish the intense loneliness that the city gives the isolated individual . Al- though a secondary group , the city is at the same time a congeries of interlocking and overlapping primary groups . These exercise considerable control over conduct , but not so thoroughly as in an exclusively rural society . Because primary controls can be evaded , the city must ultimately have recourse to secondary controls . It must curb the spirit of mutual exploitation that arises from close , diverse contact between people having no sentimental or personal ties . The specialized policeman , the department store and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , all have a hand in regulating the complex and predatory relations between urbanites . Even religious control , in so far as it exercises an influence in the secular city , does so largely through secondary associations operating as legal entities and pressure groups . The larger the city , the greater becomes the problem of control and the more complex the agencies of secondary regulation . The city is therefore the place where legal control achieves its greatest day-to-day application , aric7w sera tie mores and folkways , of themselves , can least be counted on to handle the situation . ( 5 ) Social mobility . Just as the city requires and promotes great geographical mobility ( of persons , goods , and ideas ) , so it requires and promotes great social mobility as well . Its elaborate division of labor , its competitiveness , its impersonality ? all tend to emphasize the achievement rather than the ascription of status . Recruiting .1 heterogeneous population whose origins are obscure and rewarding them on the basis of-'uniqueness , eccentricty , novelty , efficiency , and inventiveness , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ how he looks rather than to whom he was born . The urban person can therefore raise or lower his status to a remarkable degree during his lifetime , and the competition for status ( and with it the insecurity of status ) becomes a perpetual preoccupation . This does not mean that inequalities are less in the city . On the contrary , they are tremendous . It does mean , however , that the inequalities of the city are not exclusively inequalities of opportunity but also , and to an increasing degree , inequalities of achievement . Thus the purely caste element in social stratification is minimized . In the great and growing cities of India , for example , the caste system can not be maintained.33 In the Middle Ages the budding cities were   places where serfs lost their unfree status . Today the city is a place where social climbing is most prevalent . The ascription of status on the basis of kinship is too conservative , rigid , and slow a principle to serve the dynamic needs and alternative opportunities of the urban structure . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ traits such as sex , age , and race , but even these are notoriously hard to sustain as strict bases of status in the city . By ingenuity and industry the urban person can overcome almost any categorical definition of his status . The exercise of talent , the achievement of education , the accumulation and display of wealth ? these are avenues to a high position in all the different spheres of urban life . It is characteristic of the city that nearly everything is professionalized , from sports and entertainment on the one hand to politics and business on the other . Status increasingly centers on the occupation , on the nature and competence of the activity , r than on the accident of birth . Although the city 's competitively induced equalities are great , ranging from the highest of the high to the lowest of the low , there are nevertheless limits peculiar to the city itself . One of these is the fact that the city gives greater voice as well as greater opportunity to the bottom strata . It brings a large number of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , where spatial juxtaposition strengthens common interest in creating class solidarity . As a result the stratification of the city appears to undergo a peculiar evolution . The erstwhile dominance of the higher commercial class slips increasingly into the hands of a higher governmental or bureaucratic class , giving rise to a new system of stratification more socialistic and collectivistic in character . Whether or not the new system contains less inequality than the other depends on the nature of the political system . The city can seemingly harbor democracy or totalitarianism with equal facility . ( 6 ) Voluntary association . The sheer size of the urban population , its close proximity , diversity , and easy contact , make it the perfect setting for the voluntary association . No matter what a person 's hobby or vocation , national background or religion , age or color , he can always find others with a similar basis of interest . For this reason nearly every kind of group tends to acquire a strongly   voluntaristic character , membership depending neither on the accident of geography nor the accident of kinship @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ both more voluntary and more specialized . Courtship becomes more open to individual choice ; wedlock becomes easier both to enter and to leave ; parenthood becomes more deliberate ; and friendship becomes more segmented and ephemeral . In addition , entirely new kinds of groups arise , based on extremely specialized interests . Thus the number of group memberships per capita is extremely high in the urban population , and these are divided among a bewildering variety of cliques , clubs , nationalities , and neighborhoods having relatively little to do with one another except in an economic sense . " Typically in the city , interests are made effective through representation . The individual counts for little , but the voice of the representative is heard with a deference roughly proportional to the numbers for whom he speaks . " 35 The group must organize or its cause will perish . The emphasis on the collective pursuit of particular interests helps to explain why the city is hardly a genuine community . Not only is it not a primary group , it is not even regarded as a group @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ geographical , and minor political entity commanding little allegiance for itself . ( 7 ) Individuation . Curiously , the aggregation of masses in the city has the effect , not of suppressing the individuality of each person , as one might expect , but of emphasizing it . The secondary and voluntary character of urban association , the multiplicity of opportunities , and the social mobility all force the individual to make his own deisions and to Dian his life , ? .. acareer . The concurrent variety of groups he may join and interests he may pursue make it unlikely that anyone else in the city will have exactly the same social personality . Moreover , the competitiveness of the city places . him over against everyone else ; he is not inexorably tied to any particular relationship or any particular cause . His awareness of differences in others and his knowledge of human relativity give him perspective on himself , so that he can view himself with greater objectivity and separate himself from the mass of those around him . The fact that he must manipulate others and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clearly between himself and others . The net result is a sort of atomization of the constituent  | individuals . On one side stand the individuals , highly self-conscious and unique , and on the other side stand the great associations and institutions of the city . There is nothing much in between . The individual stands over against the whole city , never completely absorbed by any one social group . ( 8 ) Spatial segregation . The competition for space in the heterogeneous and dynamic city leads to a characteristic segregation of groups and functions , visible in the city 's spatial pattern . The center of the urban area is of course monopolized by functions of basic importance to the whole city , such as finance and government . Most of the finance is paper work ; it can be carried out in small space ; but since it controls vast resources and is therefore high-priced , it can afford an exceedingly high rental in the center of the city . Similarly , the commercial activities that appeal to rare and expensive tastes and hence must draw their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , big department stores , legitimate theatres , fine hotels ? are also located in the center . The same is true of high-priced professional services ? e.g. diagnostic clinics , law offices , accounting firms , government offices , etc . Such functions can not be entirely dispersed to neighborhood areas , as is largely the case with retail grocery establishments , filling stations , cleaning and pressing shops , shoe repair shops , garages , and drug stores . Instead they need to be at the crossroads of the entire city , the point where they are nearest to the most people . Here the land is so costly that the buildings expand vertically , filling the center of the city with skyscrapers . .. So high-priced. are the , activities at the center and so valuable is the land , that residential occupancy is excluded except in hotels and skyscraper apartment buildings . As a result the place of work becomes increasingly separated from the place of residence . The financial and commercial hub has chiefly a daytime population ; at night the erstwhile occupants are sleeping in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ result of one 's social station , there arise in the city segregated residential areas where the inhabitants are distinguished by racial , ethnic , religious , occupational , or pccuniary characteristics . In general the higher the social status the more advantageous the residence from the point of view of space per person , architectural and scenic beauty , and freedom from nuances such as smoke and noise . If such places are near the place of   Occupation  --  - near the center of the city ? they require huge outlays in cash rentals . It they are far away from the place of occupation  - -  in the suburbs ? they require , in addition to the purchase price or rental cost a steady outlay in time and money for transportation . Only persons enjoying a high social status can afford these great costs . Spatial segregation offers a convenient means of understanding , the city 's social organization . The inhabitants of a given area tent ) to have not only a general social station in common but also many other characteristics . It is found that fertility , mortality @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suicide ; insanity and morbidity ; illegitimacy , illiteracy , vice , pauperism , and many other indices of social behavior differ sharply from one area of the city to another . The study of social organization in terms of spatial distribution ( socalled urban ecology ) therefore provides a method of study that is highly objective and readily accessible . Of course it is true that no section of a city is absolutely homogeneous and that often it is necessary to relate different indices of behavior to the individual as a unit rather than to the area . Urban ecology is consequently only one among many general methods of sociological study . Yet its results , some of which have been utilized in the present book , are useful . " " THE CITY 'S INFLUENCE ON ITS HINTERLAND The point has already been made that , since city effects are wider than the city itself , we must speak not only of city dwellers but also of urbanized societies and regions ; and that the degree to which a whole region is socially urbanized depends both on the proportion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dif fusion of urban traits from city to country . How can the latter be determined ? A purely physical measure of influence is the population of a city divided by the distance from it , on analogy with celestial mechanics and electrical magnetism . This way of measuring population influence has been analyzed by John Q. Stewart and has been applied   to social data by him and George K. Zipf.Such an approach seems perfectly reasonable because we know that , other things equal , contact between individuals is greater the closer they are . But the physical analogy is of . no consequence itself , except as suggesting a hypothesis . Human beings do not exert magnetism or attraction according to their physical mass , but they do so through socio-cultural channels . Therefore , the question arises as to whether or not social influences of cities ( or any other population aggregates ) vary according to their population divided by the distance from the point being influenced . In general , as several studies suggest , this tends to be true . Thus the percentage of a large @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ each of 96 surrounding towns and cities was found to be proportional to the population of the town or city divided by its distance from the department store . A similar relationship was found in the case of attendance at the New York World 's Fair , the circulation of big daily newspapers , the trips of trucks and passenger cars , obituaries in the New York Times , and residential moves ( migration ) .1 The relationship between influence , size , and distance has long been known in a general way . McKenzie proved conclusively that the influence of a city varies with its size and that it tends to wane with distance outward . He illustrated this with many different series of statistics . He also pointed out that influence on a certain point is conditioned by the competition of other large urban centers . " ' But the formulation of the matter in mathematical terms has received wide attention only recently . The advantage of a mathematical formulation is that it enables us to state exactly the generalized relationship which on theoretical grounds we can expect nearly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we can state the exact amount of deviation from this norm in actual cases , thereby setting a further problem for explanation . In this way order and exactitude in the study of urban influence can be introduced . Obviously , for  | example , the political influence of Washington , D. C. , is greater than its relative size and distance would indicate . But in order to know how much greater we must have a precise statement of the theoretical or expected norm from which there is a departure . The conventional " center of population " in the United States , computed by the Census Bureau , lies on farm land in Indiana . The computation is made on the lever-arm principle , one man at a distance of 1000 miles counting as the equivalent of 10 men at 100 miles . Thus the greater the distance , the greater the influence . But we know that social influence really works the other way . The shorter the distance , the greater the influence . If accordingly a simultaneous application of the **30;912;TOOLONG rule is made , we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on any one particular spot by all the other areas . In the United States the maximum demographic force or intensity is found to center in New York . This has been true for more than a century . New York City is therefore the true center of population in this country.40 Every city dominates an area around it . Why it should dominate is explained by the demographic force just mentioned . Translated into social terms this means that the efforts of more people are concentrated in one spot than in any other spot within the region , hence this spot carries more weight than any other particular place in the region . Even though the hinterland may contain many times the population of the citrtseop le are spread out more thinly and thus lose the advantatle of concentration . The city is the one strong among the many weary . Turning the y explanation around , one can say that unless the city is dominant it can not command the wherewithal for its survival . It must somehow , by exchange or by force , secure from the rest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ large numbers in a small area . The fact that it exists at all i evidence of its dominance . It is customary in dealing with urban areas to distinguish be tween the metropolitan community and the metropolitan hinterland The first , embracing the suburbs as well as the central city , is a , area of common life within commuting distance of the central city it is " the built-up ' area in which public services such as water , light sanitation , and power become common problems . ' ' 41 The hinterland  | on the other hand , is the trade area under the domination of a given city . As compared with the metropolitan community , which in the United States is virtually synonymous with the Census Bureau 's " metropolitan district , " the boundary of the hinterland is hard to determine . Dominance in one respect may not coincide with dominance in another respect . Nevertheless , in the United States a useful demarcation of metropolitan hinterlands has been worked out on various bases , including the distribution of daily newspaper circulation . If a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than City " B " newspapers , it can be placed in the sphere of City " A. " Dealing with all towns in this way one finds that the whole country can be divided into a number of cultural and economic provinces , each with a single dominant city as its focus . Since the newspaper is an important avenue of communication , supported primarily by advertisers who want business , it is not surprising to find that the regions thus delimited agree fairly well with those based on wholesale trade , farm marketing , telephone calls , railroads and bus tickets , and highway traffic counts . The city whose newspapers have the largest circulation is likely to be the city that sells the most goods in an outlying district . But the newspaper , although a business enterprise , is more than that . It carries stories and editorial comments about politics , sports , " society , " prominent persons , and a host of items about religious , civic , economic , artistic , and other interests and events . As readers of a metropolitan paper @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the influence of the central city is not equal throughout its hinterland . It is strongest in the immediate suburbs and weakest at the hinterland boundary . Furthermore , cities are somewhat specialized , and with reference to their specialty the hinterland may be larger than ordinary . Los Angeles dominates the whole country with reference to the movie industry , Chicago with reference to meat packing , and Detroit with reference to automobiles . By virtue of its peculiar financial character , New York dominates the entire country in countless ways ; and this accords perfectly with our previous state-   ment that it is the center of population . For New York , therefore , the whole country is the hinterland even though lesser cities have carved out subsidiary domains of their own . Given the dominance of the city , it can be expected that many of its traits will be diffused to rural people , first in the areas closest to the city , then in the remote outposts.44 The process will be faster the more the city is linked with its hinterland . The city @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and communication become more rapid and as distance is overcome by speed . " There is developing within the United States , and in fact throughout the modern world , a pattern of settlement which may be designated as city regionalism . This new city regionalism differs from the regionalism of former times in that it is a product of contact and division of labor rather than of mere geographic isolation . " National business concerns find it convenient to have branches in the key regional cities . So do many government agencies , including the Federal Reserve Banking System . Once a city has established itself as the center of a region it tends to expand and diversify its functions , becoming a true metropolis . The city has continued to absorb people from the hinterland , often taking away more than the natural increase of the countryside and thus depleting the rural population . ( Between 1920 and 1930 , for example , 41 per cent of all counties in the United States declined in population . ) But as it has drawn people from the hinterland the city @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the cities has been a drift to the suburbs , primarily to residential suburbs . If each metropolitan district is weighted equally , regardless of size , the average increase of population during 1930 ? 40 in the United States was 29.7 per cent for suburbs , 6.5 per cent for the central cities . Furthermore , those rural areas that are closest to the city have far outstripped the more remote areas in population growth . As a result of these twin processes ? the drift of people to the cities and the expansion of the . cities outward ? the metropolitan community has come to play a greater and greater part in its total region . In short an ever larger portion of the population is living  | in cities , exerting a constantly greater and closer influence on the diminishing . remainder . Future of the City Most speculation about the city 's future focuses either on beautifying the city or on dispersing its population . The first is primarily an engineering and architectural task . The second is unrealistic , because the only dispersion occurring is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Any large-scale dispersion of city people to the country would likely come , if at all , as the result of a cataclysmic event such as atomic warfare rather than as a gradual change . The truth is that the world is becoming ever more urbanized as regards both place of residence and point of view . Two great questions therefore stand out : First , to what extent can the entire world become urbanized ? Second , what will be the effect on human society ? In thinking of these questions , one should bear in mind that we have been talking all along about three different things : ( a ) The growth and size of particular cities ; ( b ) the percentage of the total population living in cities ; and ( c ) the spread of urban attitudes and institutions throughout the whole population . These require separate consideration . ( a ) It seems unlikely that the growth of existing cities will continue indefinitely . In advanced Western countries the growth of population in general is coming to a halt . This means that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do so not simply by draining the rural population of its surplus , as they have done in the past , but also by drastically reducing the rural population . They will draw not only upon the interest but also upon the capital . If , therefore , the growth of existing cities does not stop rather soon , the second aspect of our problem will be raised in an acute form ; for we shall . all be living in the very largest cities , and eventually in New York City alone . But , as pointed out before , the central cities , as contrasted with the rest of metropolitan districts , are already showing signs of a coming halt in growth . They may actually lose population while the metropolitan districts continue to grow . It may be , therefore , that future metropolitan growth will involve such an expansion of area that the average density of the districts will be either stabilized or decreased .   ( b ) Even in the advanced industrial nations , already heavily urbanized , the percentage of the population living in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in these nations the trend will eventually come to a halt the rest of the world , still overwhelmingly rural , will still have a tremendous urbanization ahead of it . Exactly what the saturation point will be is hard to say , but it is entirely within the bounds of possibility that the entire world will eventually reach the degree of urbanization now attained by only a few advanced industrial nations . Consequently it is possible that eventually 75 per cent of the world 's population will live in places of 10,000 or over . ( d ) As for the diffusion of urban attitudes , it seems likely that the advanced countries will move ahead until their entire populations manifest most of the traits characterizing the city . When this happens , such countries will be completely urbanized . There is little reason why the same trend should not eventually affect all regions of the world . When these areas advance far enough to have numerous cities , they will manifest demographic and social patterns similar to those of the more industrialized countries today . The main question is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ development is reached , when almost the entire population has been urbanized from birth , when the rural background of most urban people today has been entirely replaced by an urban background , the problem of social order can still be solved . Can the anonymity , mobility , impersonality , specialization , and sophistication of the city become the attributes of a stable society , or will the society fall apart ? How can devotion to a common system of values and a common set of mores be maintained in a highly literate , scientifically trained , individualistically inclined , and sceptically oriented population ? The answer is not clear . Probably it can and will be done . England , with its high degree of urbanism , is a stable nation as compared to many rural ones . But in any case it seems certain that a completely urbanized world will be greatly different in its social stricture from anything we yet know today . One difference for example , is that a world so technologically advanced as to be completely urbanized can not   exist as a collection @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ world or destroy itself in Brobdingnagian conflict .   THE CROWD AND THE PUBLIC TURNING from the stable and organized groups to the relatively unorganized , we come upon some curious manifestations of social life ? crowds , publics , mobs , and masses , in all their diverse forms . The unanticipated , irrational , and often undesired behavior of these groups lends them fascination as an object of study , not only for the social scientist but also for the layman interested in the strange aspects of the life around him . Although unorganized groups embrace many different types , most of them can be subsumed under two general categories representing opposite extremes , the crowd and the public . A consideration of the crowd and its variations will lead naturally into a discussion , later in the chapter , of the public . The Crowd It is extremely difficult to find human aggregates that are mere collections of physical bodies . Always people physically together are also to some extent socially together . Though they may congregate in the most casual way , on the street or in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's presence starts a lively though silent interchange of mutual impressions . Their clothes , faces , and movements reveal much about one another 's statuses . Their behavior makes allowance for the existence of the others , implying the unconscious sharing of certain sentiments and enforcement of common conventions . Even their apparent indifference to each other is a cultivated attitude , easily dispelled as soon as a change occurs in the situation . Let a bomb explode , a fist-fight develop , or an immoral act occur , the erstwhile indifference evaporates and gives place quickly to overt focused interaction . The aggregation has changed from a passive and nonfocused group to an active directional crowd .  | It is not simply the amount of interaction but also its focus that makes a group . The people in the waiting room of a railway station hardly form a social unit at all , but a lynching mob is a definite unit . The difference is not simply that there is more interaction in the is more clearly pointed latter butt at the interaction has direction toward a common end @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The latter-'is ' a focused crowd , the main object of our present interest , while the former is a diffuse crowd or mere social aggregation . In describing the general characteristics of crowds we have in mind ; the focused crowd , although it actually occurs far less often than the mere aggregation . GENERAL CHARACTERISTICS OF CROWDS One criterion of the crowd is physical presence . It has been said that the size of a crowd is limited by the distance which the eye can see and the ear can hear . Without such physical presence there can be no crowd . Unlike a gang , a famii , or a community , its existence ceases the moment it is dispersed . Since people can seldom remain physically ' " Pree anw length ' ortime , this means that the crowd is a temporary and ephemeral group . It is always a creature of the moment , with neither a past nor a future . Furthermore , its size is limited by the necessity of physical presence . When it gets beyond a hundred thousand it must be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at an important football game represents about a maximum . The people watching a parade up Fifth Avenue , if spread the entire length of that street and numbering hundreds of thousands , hardly represent a crowd in the strict sense . Such a throng has some of the characteristics of a crowd but also some of the characteristics of a public . The size of the crowd is equally indefinite at its lower limit . The popular saying that three is a crowd puts the limit a little too low . Five or six is a better limit . But in any case the physical characteristics of the crowd ? its size , closeness , and temporary nature ? mean little unless its social characteristics are also present . The crowd is unorganized . It may have a leader but it has no division of labor ' , no sysfem of statuses . The implications of this trait are far-reaching . It means , in the first place , that to an exceptional degree the interaction is uncontrolled , therefore spontaneous , amorphous , and unpredictable . It means , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ same status in the group , that the crowd is made up of uniform units Whatever the statuses of the individuals in the larger social system , as members of a crowd they are alike because the crowd has no organization which can utilize the individual differences . This situation at once provides them with anonymity , for their social identity does not carry over into the crowd . It also robs the interaction of whatever unique qualities the individuals , as separate socialized personalities , may possess and gives to the interaction its notoriously crude and unrefined character ? the ends and sentiments utilized being those of the lowest common denominator . In other words , the interaction takes place in terms of generalized emotions and sentiments that everybody possesses who happens to be in the group , no matter what his status ; it therefore appeals to society-wide or stratum-wide norms rather than to those norms associated with particular positions , and has none of the qualification or hesitation which ordinarily attends the application of norms in organized social life . This explains why the crowd can be so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any restraintr ? regard for consequences . Its participants have lost those parts of themselves which distinguish them as separate personalities , and have retained only that part which resembles all the other participants no matter how high or how low . For this reason , too , the crowd is uninhibited . Its participants not being identified as distinct persons , their ordinary statuses and roles being set aside in this temporary and unconnected situation , their sense of security and power being augmented by the immediate presence of others doing the same thing , they yield easily to impulses that otherwise would be restrained . As a result the crowd when aroused tends to focus its attention upon one thing , an id &; fxe . This gives expression to impulses that would not only otherwise be restrained but would in many cases be repressed from consciousness ; hence the capacity of the group to give expression to unconscious motives . This effect is further enhanced by the well-known cumulative and circular character of crowd interstimulation . Because the participants in a crowd are all on one level , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their inhibited impulses find ready release in spontanous action , the crowd is highly suggestible . The participants react to one another 's gestures , postures , and cries in an almost automatic animal-like way , with a swiftness that precludes thoughtful interpretation or rational  | foresight . Much of the reaction is in fact of an imitative type , each individual doing exactly what the others are doing . The effect of so many persons stimulating the actor in the same way and at such close range is to heighten his response . His heightened response in turn gives greater stimulation to the others , and their greater response stimulates the actor still more . This cumulative character of crowd interstimulation tends to make the behavior of the crowd ascend t ? a climax . The climax is passed only w en physical exhaustion is reached or the common end is accomplished . The individual is for the moment " lost in the spirit of the crowd " and works himself up " to a high pitch . " The members of the crowd as a whole are " beside @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ doing . " It follows that certain types of behavior such as fads , crazes , manias , riots , panics , and stampedes ? are more characteristic of crowds than of other groups . The initial close aggregation of individuals may be oppressive . The close presence of others may cause shortness of breath , discomfort , tension , and depression until the crowd as a whole gets into action . Then there is a quickened heart beat , thrill , exhilaration , and expansion until the excitement reaches a peak . Sometimes the source of suggestion comes from some particular individual or nucleus of individuals who may be located near the center of attention or who are themselves the focus of attention . Once the dominance of a center is established , , , its reactions are communicated ravidly to the periphery The power of suggestion in many cases is tantamount to hypnosis . Individuals are particularly susceptible to the display of excitement in others ; they tend to respond to such exhibitions with excitement in themselves . Once the crowd gets going , however , it is not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dominant focus of attention and activity are ignored , while those fitting it are accepted . To stop the formation of an acting crowd or mob or to disperse it after it has formed , it is often necessary to shift-its-attention . This can be done in some cases by calling to mind the identity of each person , reminding him of his everyday status and of the ordinary inhibitions by which his behavior is governed , etc . It can sometimes he accomplished by removing the object of attention , as when a Negro is spirited away from the jail in which the lynching mob hoped to find him . Again it can be done by strong measures that replace the original crowd emotion by a more powerful and dis-P350 couraging as when a prison riot is broken up by gunfire from the guards . Occasionally it is possible to divide the opinion of the group and start them arguing instead of acting . There is the famous story , for example , of the college professor who was summoned before the board of trustees and accused of disbelief in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ define God . Crowds , however , are seldom so sedate as a board of trustees , so that it is not easy to put them in an argumentative frame of mind . THE SOURCE OF THE CROWD The individuals who constitute any particular crowd , if it is purely a crowd , are together by accident . This does not mean that there are no causes which explain their coming together but rather that the causes do not flow from the group itself . Having.no organization and being ephemeral , the crowd does not select its participants . The casual nonfocused aggregation is a constant feature of social life , especially in complex urbanized societies where secondary contacts are the order of the day . Necessarily , the members of these aggregations are drawn from all walks of life and are present in the situation only because , in pursuing their private ends , they have to make use of common conveniences ( such as trains , subways , stadia , parks , restaurants , etc . ) . Most such aggregations never eventuate in any sort of acting crowd @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the proper circumstances arise . A focused crowd is formed , either out of an aggregation or a dispersed population , when some stimulus comes along that releases an existing tension . This stimulus may be nothing more than an individual doing something that others find they would like to do , such as dancing . Usually , however , it involves a more violent stimulus and a greater tension . A fire alarm , for example , may cause such panic to the occupants of a building that a stampede will result . The sight of an immoral or criminal act may arouse an aggregation to a high pitch of anger and punitive action . Societal mores and criminal laws could not exist unless they had emotional backing in the sentiments of the public . The open violation of these sentiments sets up a tension for which mob action furnishes a satisfying release . Crowds also give release to tensions created by social conditions considered unjust , so much so that some authors have considered the primary source of crowds to be social unrest .  | TYPES OF CROWDS The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ social organization . Not being organized itself , it has no elaborate articulation with the rest of the social system . Having no permanence it can have no culture or tradition of its own . And possessing a certain spontaneity and unpredictability it has practically no measure of self control . The social norms seem often designed to prevent the formation of crowds or at least to keep them on the level of nonfocused aggregations . Thus the police take precautions against riots , marine officials precautions against mutiny , fire departments precautions against stampedes , and banks precautions against panics . It is indeed a case of an ounce of prevention being worth a pound of cure , for once a crowd goes into action it is a potent engine of destruction , hard to stop and hard to guide . There is in most thought on the subject an undercurrent of disapproval of crowds , the assumption being that they are destructive rather than constructive and that they make beasts out of otherwise normal men . Because of the mechanism of circular response the crowd 's focus of attention @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and heedless violence ; and we have seen already that the normative order requires a certain balance of ends . The primarily emotional rather than intellectual character of the crowd , connected with its lack of organization and internal control , renders it incapable of any complex accomplishment . It can destroy more easily than it can build . And since it often gives expression to inhibited impulses , it tends to ignore or offend the restraining mores . In short , there seems plenty of evidence that the crowd is often an unanticipated and undesired social phenomenon , an anarchical element in an ordered society . But it would be amazing if such a potent force were not socially utilized in some way . In fact it requires but little reflection to realize that the crowd situation is constantly being planned for and utilized by every type of social system . In the last chapter , for example , it was pointed out that there is usually a central community area wherein community-wide gatherings take place . These gatherings are often of a crowd-like character . Especially noteworthy is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a highly effective device for instilling or re-emphasizing the transcendental . ends . the . group values , the sacred norms , and the tradi- tional ideas by which the community lives . These ends , values , norms , and ideas can not be maintained in the minds of the societal members simply in matter-of-fact ways , because they are not matters-of-fact but something added to and transcending factual ( sensory ) reality . Religion has always included the crowd situation among its most important devices for maintaining its hold upon the people . In some religions , especially those of primitive societies and the more muscular Christian sects , this is clearer than in others , but all of them make use of the device . The vociferous revivals and camp meetings of the rustic Baptists , Holy Rollers , Pentecostals , etc. are but extreme examples of crowd behavior characterizing the formative period of nearly every religious sect from the early Christians of Rome to the Jewish Chassids of the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries . But even the most staid and established church makes some use of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , political parties thrive on crowd like conventions ; governments rely upon public displays and enthusiastic assemblages ; and colleges whip up college spirit with pep rallies , shirt-tail parades , and goal-post demolition squads . The excited , yelling , sometimes hysterical throng is a perennial asset of large organized groups from the community to the nation . Lest it seem that two irreconcilable views of the crowd are here depicted , let us reflect that social attitudes are always relative . The active crowd in the wrong situation is regarded as a menace because of its tremendous force whereas in the right situation , because of this selfsame force , it is regarded as a great asset . Yet there is one qualification that must be made . The nature of the crowd is seriously altered when it is made a part of social organization . On the one hand its spontaneity and unpredictability , its anonymity , transiency , and destructiveness are sharply curtailed . The religious congregation , for example , is a group that has met before , which reassembles " to repeat an experience that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1 Its activity is guided by a body of memories and behavior patterns and is manipulated by the church officials . Often the exhibition of too much spirit is regarded as bad taste ; the congregation is restrained by traditional decorum and is reduced to a passive audience . On the other hand , the skill with which the con-  | gregation is manipulated may be such as to enhance the hysterical features of the crowd far beyond what could likely happen spontaneously . The minister may be a masterful leader , capable of evoking the highest emotionalism . His sermon may be interspersed with singing , injecting a rhythmic element into the circular response and giving the devotees a chance to participate actively in the meeting . Individual confessions of sin may further extend the mutual participation . The members of the congregation may have been so selected as to draw those with emotionally charged attitudes . In any case they have come with an attitude of expectancy of the exhilaration to come , with past habituation in this type of emotional self-abandonment . As the inflammatory oratory of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ increases in tempo and volume , as the confessions grow more intimate and fervid , as the heat of the room increases and the panting becomes more audible , certain individuals inevitably break under the strain and give way to wild cries and physical contortions . These in turn stimulate the others to like behavior . Soon there are sobs , groans , shrieks , hysterical laughs , shouts of ecstasy , jerks , uncontrolled shakes , barks , wallowings , and what not . Visions and hallucinations may appear to the worshipers . They may flail and roll about . An intensity of crowd hysteria has been reached which would seldom if ever occur without a high degree of deliberate planning and manipulation of the conditions . Such frenzied worship may defeat the very purpose of congregational association , because the pleasure of the orgy may eclipse all other values , including those for which the gathering was called . But the opposite tendency , to make of the congregation merely a passive audience , probably also defeats this purpose . It seems clear in view of these considerations that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is that between crowds which are definitely provided for in the social organization and those which arise spontaneously and unpredictably . This is a distinction cutting across the others , for nearly every kind of concrete crowd may have both a planned and an unplanned form . The interacting situations in which people come together are infinite in their variety . Most of these involve persons with fairly well defined statuses with reference to one another . As such , they are not crowds . Some of them may accidentally become crowds while others engender a crowd spirit by design .  | A second broad distinction is that between crowds determined by common or group ends and those determined by private ends . In the latter the private ends must be such as to bring the individuals together . They may be ends that are not even similar but which happen to bring numbers of individuals into the same restricted areas ? as on a crowded street . Usually , however , the ends ( at least on an immediate level ) , though disparate and perhaps opposed , are alike @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a fire are all motivated by curiosity : Everybody 's end is alike . But the crowd as a unit is in no way embraced in or conducive to this end . Any particular person would be watching the fire even if nobody else were . In fact he could watch it better if he did not have to look over others ' shoulders . The crowd is merely a by-product of the pursuit of similar but private ends . Doubtless the curiosity of each person is enhanced by the presence of others who are also curious , and there may be some thrill in simply being in a crowd . But the goal of each does not require or refer to the rest . There is a common external focus but no common end . How ends can be alike but separate is shown most clearly in crowds that are positive hindrances ? when , for example , the members are seeking all at the same time and to the inconvenience of one another to buy tickets , to take advantage of exceptional bargains , or to board a train @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ manifest mutual ill will or mutual tolerance . It can in any case do little as a crowd except mill around . If it breaks out in united protest against some inconvenience which it suffers , it becomes something radically different ? a common-end crowd . If it settles down to carry out some purpose by organizing itself and dividing its labor ? in case , say , it decides to put out the fire it has been watching or to save the victims of some accident ? it at once becomes an ordered group and ceases to be merely a crowd . With these distinctions in mind we can give , in outline form , some of the major types of crowds , as follows : L Crowds articulated with the social structure A. Formal audiences : theatre audiences , sports audiences , religious congregations . These have central focus and like ends but are passive in character .  | B. Planned expressive groups : dancing crowds , party crowds , religious orgies . These have little focus but pursue a similar end which is the activity itself and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ escape and release from the tension of routine activity . The presence of others through group interstimulation is a definite aid in the fulfillment of this function . IL Casual crowds A. Inconvenient aggregations : collections of people trying to share common facilities , such as a queue at a ticket window , a group trying to board a public bus , or a number of people caught in a traffic jam . In these crowds the presence of others is a handicap in reaching a competitive goal , and the interstimulation may take the form of mutual antagonism . B. Panic crowds : persons fleeing from a building on fire , from a flood , from a battle , or from any other catastrophe . In these the interstimulation within the , group is apt to heighten the sense of panic , to increase the irrational character of the response , and to be a positive handicap ( indeed sometimes a tragic handicap ) to escape from the common danger . C. Spectator crowds : groups drawn together to witness a fire or other spectacular event . These resemble the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the activity largely uncontrolled . The focus is an accidental occurrence ; group interstimulation plays a relatively small role except in drawing people 's attention to the occurrence . III . Lawless crowds A. Acting mobs : lynching parties , looting gangs , rebellious crowds . The aim of the group is to achieve some purpose by physical force contrary to the ordinary rules of law and order . The presence of large numbers gives a sense of anonymity , heightens the emotions , and leads to actions that the individuals alone would hardly perform . There is usually the feeling that an injustice is being righted and that basic rights are being vindicated in the face of slowness , inefficiency , or inequity of the established legal system . B. Immoral crowds : orgiastic assemblages , drunken brawls , riotous and destructive celebration . This type resembles the expressive groups mentioned above , but the release from tension goes so far as to violate the mores . Group interstimulation heightens the sense of release ; anonymity provides a feeling of          @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  