@@9541

The cultured mind , accustomed to explore And taste the choicest sweets of classic lore , With rapture dwells on each inspiring lay That paints the sports of Grecia 's proudest day ; When the thronged stadium rang with loud acclaims , To hail the victor in her manly games ; Those daring feats which famed Alcides taught , To nerve the limb , and elevate the thought ; Feats which the royal Iphitus restored , And consecrated to the powers adored ; Which gave to Greece a wreath of fadeless bloom , And raised the glory of imperial Rome . There , the fleet courser , with an eye of flame . Bold , like his rider  --  and as proud of fame , Impatient champed the bit , or pawed the ground , With ear erect , to catch the trumpet 's sound ; Then , with a speed that mocked the passing wind , Spurned the dull earth , and left the world behind . And with him flew  --  erect upon his feet ! The bold equestrian , through the furious heat , Reckless @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The rein submitted to the courser 's will , While , at the target , with unerring art , The fearless rider threw the whizzing dart ! Or , with a harnessed pair , of equal speed , Vaulted with matchless grace , from steed to steed , While mingled sounds of wonder and applause Proclaimed the deepest interest in his cause ; Till , past the goal , and claimant of the prize , When peals of acclamation pierced the skies . With feats like these , to charm the present age , And join the stadium to the modern stage ; To elevate the pleasures of the ring , By every aid dramatic art can bring  --  For this , you see , another fabric reared , Where late a dreary , barren waste appeared ! For this , kind patrons , we would humbly sue , To dedicate the tasteful fane to you . Here shall Latona 's bright-haired son impart The sweetest lessons of his tuneful art ; Here may the eye of taste admire the speed , And graceful prowess , of the generous steed ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ still more wondrous active powers of man . Here , studious votaries of the classic page May view the feats of Grecia 's golden age ; Feats which secured the victors of the game Unfading honors , and a deathless fame ; Inspired her youth with that chivalric glow Which urged them onward to subdue the foe ; Which fired her sons with emulative zeal , To rise the guardians of their country 's weal ; To which she owed the glory of her state , And that unconquered pride which made her great ; Preserved her freedom  --  gained the world 's applause , And prompts her now to be what then she was . And if like causes like effects produce , If you admit the stadium 's wondrous use , May not a thousand equal blessings spring From such achievements as shall grace our ring ? May not our patriot youth , who here perceive What sprightliness and courage can achieve , Be fired with emulation to command " The fiery steed , and train him to their hand ! " To vault , like feathered Hermes , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fierce attack ; To wield the sabre , or direct the dart , And boldly practise each equestrian art ; To wrestle , leap , or throw the pondrous quoit , And bear away the palm in each exploit ? Yes , generous patrons  --  thus our gallant youth , Champions of freedom , honor , love , and truth , Will learn to guard the sacred rights you prize , And raise Columbia 's glory to the skies ; In every clime behold her flag unfurled , Till Freedom 's golden star shall light the world .                     