@@747656

txt The extraordinary success which attended the American exertions in favor of liberty and independence , with the unparalleled growth and prosperity of the United States , hare left perhaps scarcely a doubt on the minds of our citizens , whether the Revolution will or will not be ultimately beneficial to the country . In the blessings which Providence has conferred on this land , all have reason to rejoice . That they may be continued and multiplied , is the ardent desire of the writer of this Article . But he apprehends that there are serious grounds to fear , that our present privileges will be of shorter duration than is generally anticipated , unless the attention of our countrymen can be excited to the dangers which threaten them , and to u the things which belong to their peace . " Some facts will therefore be stated , which he regards as a ground of alarm , notwithstanding all the present prosperity of the nation .  --  Liberty will be taken to express a dissent , on some points , from opinions which are perhaps popular @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be done in the spirit of candor and not of reproach , and accompanied with such reasonings as may at least evince that the subject deserves a candid and thorough examination . The sources of danger will be comprised in the following particulars . First . In the Revolutionary war , our countrymen avowedly contended for liberty and the rights of man ; yet they hold in slavery about half as many human beings as there were of white people in these States , when they were declared free and independent . So huge a mass of oppression , injustice and degradation  --  exposed as it is to the sunshine of liberty , can not fail to ferment ; and , unless a remedy shall be provided , the fermentation will probably increase till it shall burst all the bands of restraint , and overwhelm the country with distress and horror . What could have been more shocking to a reflecting mind than to see these States  --  unmindful of the condition of the blacks , engage a second time in war , on account of some violated rights ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our citizens to revenge alleged wrongs done to some of our seamen , by impressment into a foreign service , while , as a nation , we held in absolute slavery nearly a million and a half of our brethren ! A righteous God can not but abhor such inconsistency in a people who are so ready to fight for liberty ; nor will He be deaf to the cries of the oppressed . How many thousands of the poor slaves might have been redeemed , transplanted , and placed in comfortable circumstances , by the hundred and twenty millions of dollars expended in the late war ! Would not such an act of justice and mercy have contributed a thousand fold more to the safety and glory of the nation , than all our boasted exploits of revenge , depredation and havoc ? In another view of the subject , the direful mass of slavery exposes our country to ruin . The Missouri questions have already agitated the States throughout their whole extent ; and in some instances , they have produced such menacing language as ought not to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ respecting the rights of men , will naturally give rise to other questions , which will demand more of the spirit of conciliation and forbearance than has yet appeared in America . It is infinitely important to the welfare of these States , that the principles and spirit of peace should be as thoroughly and extensively cultivated , as the principles and spirit of liberty ; for if the latter shall continue to be cultivated , and the former discarded or neglected , the most horrible consequences will naturally result . A case may be stated , the occurrence of which it is the ardent desire of the writer to prevent . Suppose then , that the Negroes should be kept in ignorance of the Christian principles of love , forbearance and peace , till , by hearing of the glory of fighting for the rights of man , they become intoxicated with the popular sentiment  --  " Liberty or Death " and resolve , unanimously , " to be free , or perish in the attempt . " How shocking must be the consequences to themselves and to myriads of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ principles of the American Revolution , could raise the arm of violence to repel the Negro 's claim to the rights of a free citizen ? How very desirable then it must be , that both slave holders and slaves , should have their minds seasonably imbued with sentiments of benevolence and peace , that they may live together in harmony , till the way shall be prepared for the emancipation of the slave , with safety to himself , and to his master ! Second . The host of prejudices , excited by the wars with Britain , greatly endanger the future peace and welfare of the United States . To the prejudices which originated in the Revo /z/ qwq " A Ion J and bloody quarrel had existed between the two powerful families of A and B-in which each suffered great injuries from the other . At length , however , they became weary of the contest-formed a treaty of peacemutually engaged to refrain from further hostilities , and to treat each other as neighbors and friends , Itot strong prejudices had been induced by the contest , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ solemn agreement to " bury the hatchet " and to live in peace , the members ot each family are often heard reproaching those of the other for past injuries , boasting of their own sanguinary exploits and of the i advantages they gained during the conflict . Narratives of what they suffered and what they achieved , are on each side accompanied " with bitter sarcasms , adapted to projong their mutual prejudices , and to transmit them to future generations .. These things are done in private circles , at public festivals , in theatrical exhibitions , annual orations , and extensively diffused by newspapers and other periodical publications . In addition to these glaring improprieties each family has been openly , avowedly and unceasingly preparing for another conflict . Such are their jealousies each other , and such their mode of preserving peace .. - Now what shall be said of such a policy between two neighbor , imr families ? Is it not manifestly imprudent , antichristian , barbae ous ,  --  and in the highest degree reprehensible and dangerous . Would it not be next to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to make others believe that they really desire to avoid future wars ? Yet such is the policy of Christian nations !  --  buch the polTcy of Great Britain , and of the United States ! While m words they bless God for peace , and pray for its continuance , they pursue a direct course to defeat their own prayers and to blast their own enjoyments . Third The thirst for military and naval fame , m a large portion of our citizens , is another source of danger to our country . Under any form of government this disease is the bane of liberty and public happiness . In a republic , it is peculiarly dangerous . Its direct tendency is , the subversion of republican principles and the destruction of freedom . The more this thirst for sanguinary fame is indulged , the greater is the probability that our country will often engage in needless and ruinous wars ,  --  and that gradual encroachments will be made on the rights of our citizens , till they shall rise against the government , or sink under the hideous weight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also be truly affirmed , that a thirst for martial renown is not merely dangerous to liberty and peace , but in its very nature . offensive to God  --  immoral , inhumane and even murderous ? How is this military glory to be achieved but by exciting wars and filling the earth with violence and devastation ? Is he not then a murderer at heart , who desires an opportunity to acquire fame by shedding the blood of his brethren ? What shall be said of the monster in human form , who is willing that thousands of his brethren should perish , or millions be made miserable , that he may be called a Conqueror or a great General ? Is he not an enemy to God , to his country , and to his species ? Yet is not this diabolical ambition the very thing which is extolled and adored by thousands in this country , as well as in Europe ?  --  But what better does any people deserve than the curses of war , the chains of despotism , and the vengeance of Heaven , who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to conceive of a viler passion , either in man or devil , than the love of war ? Fourth . The unnatural means which are employed to prevent war and preserve peace , may justly be regarded as a source of danger and ground of alarm . War and peace are as perfectly opposites in nature , as disease and health , or death and life . What then can be more unphilosophical than to suppose , that such opposite effects are to be produced by the same causes or means ? Yet is it not a fact , that the popular means for preserving peace , are the natural means for producing war ? Suppose it to be the real desire of two governments to be frequently at war with each other ; what means will they adopt ? will they not employ the greater portion of their respective revenues in preparations for war , and little or none in preparations for peace ? Will they not in various forms exert their influence to excite and cherish the spirit of war , the love of martial glory , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the natural means of war . They are also the very means which Christian nations have adopted as means of peace ! As reason and nature teach , that opposite effects will result from opposite causes or means , if the popular means for preserving or producing peace , are adapted to their end , the following prescription will exhibit the genuine means for producing war . A Recipe for producing a general war in Christendom .  --  Let the several governments display towards each other the spirit of benignity , confidence and friendship  --  lay aside their expensive preparations for national hostilities , and no more give the world reason to suppose , that they mutually regard each other as unprincipled , public cut-throats and robbers : let much of the revenues of each government be employed in diffusing in every direction the principles of candor , forbearance and amity ,  --  and for bringing into disrepute the spirit , the maxims , the exploits , the apparatus and parade of war and conquest : let orators , historians , poets , painters , and all writers and teachers , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the miseries of war ,  --  and to excite in all men the love pf peace : let conquerors , war makers , and desolaters of countries , be exhibited as the enemies of human happiness , and the reproach of their species ; and let rulers of a pacific character , who shall exert their powers and even hazard ( heir reputation and their lives to prevent war , be regarded as the greatest benefactors of their respective countries and of the world Now what will be said of such means for producing war ? Why have they never been adopted by war makers ? Common sense requires no answer to these questions . It is seen at once , that war would never be produced by such means . Yet may it not be boldly affirmed , that these means are as naturally adapted to produce war , as the opposite means are to produce or prolong peace ? By this fatal misapplication of means , hostilities have been so common , that some have imagined war to be essential to the nature of man . But now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by a mistake as to the proper means for preventing them . Is it then impossible to correct this mistake ? If not , to abolish war is possible . It will be objected , that many wise and good men have recommended the popular means , as the best means for avoiding war . This is most cheerfully admitted . The writer was himself , for many years , an advocate for such means ; and being conscious of his own sincerity , while of that opinion , and having as full confidence in the sincerity of many others , he has now represented the opinion as a mistake , and not a designed imposition . But it should be remembered , that the opinions of the best of men of former ages , have been urged against almost every improvement which has been made in the state of society for a thousand years . How many laws , usages and customs , which were thought just and necessary by our ancestors , have been exploded by the progress of light ! If the preceding remarks should fail of satisfying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plain questions .  --  Who would think of preserving men from the small pox , by diffusing the contagion and exposing our whole race to its deleterious influence ? What wise parent would train up his children to the love of ardent spirits and the art of gambling , to prevent their becoming intoxicated and cheated in bad company ? Or inspire their minds with exalted ideas of the glory of boxing and duelling , to prevent their perishing in such shameful combats ? But what better or more rational are the popular means for preventing war ? Was there ever a course adopted for a good end , more repugnant to religion , to reason , or to nature , than that cf employing the genuine means and spirit of war , as the best and almost the only method of preserving peace ? It will not , however , be denied that , in some instances , a display of the spirit of war may have been the means of preventing mv mediate hostilities . Still it may be alfirmed , that this spirit has produced every war with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the more this spirit is cherished by any people , the greater is their danger ; and the greater the probability that they will make wanton wars till they shall bring ruin on themselves . Fifth . The people of the United States are in danger of being ruined by party dissentions . In connexion with t-ie other sources of danger , this deserves the most serious attention . While the Federal Union comprises upwards of twenty distinct governments , and a large extent of territory ; it also comprises a great variety of discordant opinions , habits and interests . In each of the independent States , the principles and spirit of war are cultivated as the means of safety ; the citizens are armed with weapons of slaughter , and taught to glory in martial exploits . Nor will it be doubted that , in each section of the country , there are men of talents and military ambition , prepared for demagogues in a time of great public excitement . Besides , our history has shown that the people of these States are liable to party passions of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ evil and evil good , and which transform professed friends to avowed enemies . u Who does not recollect , " says the Hon. Judge Story , " the violence with which party spirit in times past raged in this State , breaking asunder the ties of friendship and consanguinity Notwithstanding the more recent calm , unless special care shall prevent , the same spirit may again rise with greater violence , and arm the different sections of the country against each other . From these facts and circumstances , it is obvious , that the people of these States are very liable to the appalling tempests of civil war . In such an event , our boasted strength , our martial spirit , our hostile preparations  --  the very means relied on for safety , may all become the means of self-destruction , national ruin , and aggravated misery . Then the indescribable horrors of the French Revolution may be realized in these now happy States ; and , during the tornado , some Caesar or Napoleon may rise to power , and transform our numerous Republican Institutions , moulding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ favored land with oppression , conscription , proscription , murder and wretchedness . But , alas ! Shali our countrymen never be convinced , but by fatal experience , that they who sow the wind shall reap the whirlwind ! When these several sources of danger shall have been properly considered , the Christian and the Philanthropist will anxiously ask , What course can be adopted to avert the impending evils ? To this question a brief answer will be attempted . In general it may be observed , that a refuge may be found by resorting to the God of peaze , the principles of peace , and the spirit of peace . This general remark may comprise the following particulars . 1 . Let the white people of the United States display towards the slaves , that benignity and justice which become them as advocate* ibr liberty ,  --  and do all that wisdom and benevolence can do , to ameliorate the condition , improve the character , and effect the emancipation of this injured and degraded race . Let us as a nation no more indulge a thought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Massachusetts Convention . violation of our own rights , till we shall have exemplified a due regard to the rights of the Negroes , 2 . Let us do all that can be done to repair the injuries which cpntempt and avarice have inflicted on the Indian tribes . 3 . Let us lay aside our prejudices , our revilings and our boastings , in regard to the people of foreign countries ; and cultivate towards all nations and tribes of men , the spirit of philanthropy and friendship ; and , as a substitute for the barbarous thirst for military fame , let us seek that glory which results from doing good to all men , and evil to none . 4 . Let party passions no more have an ascendancy in the public councils of our nation , nor in the breasts of our citizens . Let the spirit of forbearance , harmony and good will , be cultivated between the different sections of our country  --  between rulers and subjects , and among all classes of citizens in the several States . Let our motto continue to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " 5 . Should it be manifest , on examination , that the proposed " Recipe for producing a general war in Christendom , " is not adapted to this end ; let due exertions be made to apply its principles for the production and preservation of universal peace . Let us no longer rely on the haughty , irritable , irritating , and revengeful war spirit , as the best means of preserving peace and preventing war . The precious Jigs of peace are not the natural fruit of this noxious thistle . If we would long enjoy the blessing of peace , we must sow its seeds and cherish its plants . Let our children , then , be educated to the love of peace and an abhorrence of war . Let such men of talents be raised to power frs shall be distinguished for pacific dispositions and a due command of their own passions  --  men who will not sacrifice the peace of their country to the idol of a party , to the lust of power , of wealth or of fame  --  nor to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ means which are best adapted to preserve peace among neighboring families , be extended for the prevention of war between neighboring States and nations . Then the several sources of danger will be continually diminishing ; and in pursuing such a policy , the people of every land may safely confide in the ALMIGHTY , as the God of peace , and the God of their salvation . It is not , however , supposed , that such changes and improvements , as have now been proposed , can be otherwise than gradually introduced ; yet , by proper exertions , much may be annually done to diminish the sources of national dangers , and to place ; these States on the ground of permanent peace .                     