@@8099

Fields , James Thomas , 1817-1881 : SONG IN A DREAM . from Poems , in The poets of Portsmouth ( 1865 ) Winter rose-leaves , silver-white , Drifting o'er our darling 's bed ,  --  He 's asleep , withdrawn from sight ,  --  All his little prayers are said , And he droops his shining head . Winter rose-leaves , falling still , Go and waken his sad eyes , Touch his pillowed rest , until He shall start with glad surprise , And from slumber sweet arise ! Fields , James Thomas , 1817-1881 : TO MY LITTLE FRIEND AT THE SOUTH END . from Poems , in The poets of Portsmouth ( 1865 ) Dear Child ! what thought or word of mine Is worthy thy first Valentine ? Those sweet blue eyes , thy witching smile , ( That angel hearts might well beguile , ) Have claims to win from deeper chords A strain beyond my simple words . What shall I wish thee , Baby , fair ? All choicest gifts ?  --  Heaven 's kindly care ? Beauty thou hast @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ born above , Lies sleeping in that little face , In mild repose , in infant grace . Ah ! dearest child ! we 'll pray that thou Mayst always smile on us as now ; That years may bring thee added charms ; That love may shield thy path from harms ; And all that 's best and bright below Around thy life-long journey flow . So take , Therese , the song I bring ; And when thou'rt old enough to sing , And pass me by , on some spring day , When all my locks are dangling gray , ( If haply , far away , my head Is not then pillowed with the dead , ) Forget not him whose lips to thine Were pledged to write this Valentine ! Fields , James Thomas , 1817-1881 : MARIAN IN HER CELL . After the Murder . from Poems , in The poets of Portsmouth ( 1865 ) You looked across the meadows At the red sun in the west , And the wood was full of shadows ; But my head lay on your breast , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hearts in music beat . You spoke ,  --  I only listened ,  --  ( Blest hours without alloy ! ) You sang ,  --  my tear-drops glistened ,  --  I was dumb and blind with joy . Could I hear your bridal bell  --  You in Heaven , and I in Hell ! Could I stop the cursd blade , At your throat so warm and white ; Where my loving fingers played With the moonlight through the night ? Could I think , and hold the steel ! Could I pause , and live to feel ! By the hallowed word of God There is Murder on your soul ! As I knelt upon the sod Where the death-black waters roll , I could hear the angry flood Calling , hoarsely , " Blood for Blood ! "                     