@@7620

Hayne , Paul Hamilton , 1830-1886 : VII . O faithful heart ! on balmy nights like this from Poems , in The book of the sonnet ( 1867 ) O faithful heart ! on balmy nights like this , I long to tell thee all the love I bear ,  --  My sacred love ! that knows not doubt , or fear , Fixd in golden round of married bliss ; The rapture of our first betrothal kiss Thrills through me now , as warmly fond and dear As when with eager soul I bent to hear Thou didst not deem my tremulous vows amiss . Time can not chill a love so true as ours , But rather , like a spiritual Sun , matures Affection 's bloom , and brightens all its flowers ; Thus , that which charmed in youth our manhood lures , For passion wins from age its noblest powers , And love 's evolved from love , whilst love endures . Hayne , Paul Hamilton , 1830-1886 : VIII . An hour agone !  --  and prostrate Nature lay from Poems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ An hour agone !  --  and prostrate Nature lay Like some sore-smitten creature nigh to death , With feverish , parchd lips , with laboring breath , And languid eyeballs , darkening to the day ; A burning Noontide ruled with merciless sway Earth , wave , and air ; the ghastly-stretching heath , The sullen trees , the fainting flowers beneath , Drooped hopeless , shrivelling in the torrid ray ;  --  When , like a sudden , cheerful trumpet , blown Far off by rescuing spirits , rose the wind Urging great hosts of clouds ; the thunder 's tone Breaks into wrath ; the rainy cataracts fall ; But , pausing soon , behold Creation shrined In a new birth ,  --  God 's Covenant clasping all ! Hayne , Paul Hamilton , 1830-1886 : X. Spirits there are inwrought with vilest clay from Poems , in The book of the sonnet ( 1867 ) Spirits there are inwrought with vilest clay , Which bear no God-like stamp of heavenly art , Whose envious instincts writhe with bitter smart Whene'er they feel some worthier nature 's sway . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ !  --  Poor reptiles !  --  whose envenomed passions dart Back to transfix their own corrupted heart , And speed the progress of the soul 's decay . We pity such , yet loathe them . Who can keep His honest scorn unspoken , should he see These human vipers strive their fangs to steep In the soul-blood of fame 's Nobility ? Who but is glad when the swift lightnings leap Of withering wrath , to blast them utterly ?                     