@@500116

The Causes of the Rebellion . THE CAUSES OF THE REBELLION . WHEN Jefferson Davis and his coadjutors so defiantly and with so irmeli apparent confidence entered on the path of rebellion , they probably did not foresee the abyss into which they were about to plunge . They rushed eagerly forward at the first call to battle ; but they hardly paused to consider how fearful a thing it is to light the flames of civil war among a people long accustomed to peace and security ; to marshal opposing armies drawn from the late happy dwellings of the same community , arraying in deadly conflict father against son , and brother against brother ; to add fiery devastatioii and reckless destruction of property to horrid carnage and the saddest bereavements of all kinds ; and to replace the brotherhood of a common country , a common ancestry , and a glorious history , with the relentless enmities engendered by rebellion and revolution . What wrongs and sufferings , endured by our brethren . of the South , or likely to be imposed on them by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hearts against the heavy calamities they have encountered and inflicted , or to justify the immense waste and desolation already suffered in both sections , in consequence of this most unnatural and fratricidal war ? The most ordinary charity would lead to the belief ; that if the mighty woes which have followed in the bloody path of the rebellion could have been anticipated , even the bold , bad leaders , and still more the infatuated people , would have suffered much and hesitated long before assuming the dread responsibility . Hate itself ; though reinforced and snpported by all other passions of a fiendish nature , would have stood aghast at the overwhelming avalanche of horrors which hung ready to be precipitated on our unhappy country . It is hardly within the limits of human depravity , that evils of such magnitude , attended by such world-wide results , should be attributable to the deliberate will and arbitrary action of even the worst members of the human family . For the credit of our common humanity , let it be admitted that the authors of the fatal movement did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and that they could not have had the least idea of the immense proportions the civil war was destined to assume , nor of the extent of ruin and misery it would necessarily drag in its horrid train . And if the prominent leaders did not intend all the sad consequences of their wicked act of treason , still less can they be considered personally responsible for the fatal popular enthusiasm which has so thoroughly sustained them in their section . Though full of hate and animated by a spirit of infernal mischief ; they had not the capacity to stir a nation so profoundly , except from the fact that they were dealing with minds already well prepared for their impassioned appeal , and with elements which had been wrought into discord by causes long preCxisting . In the midst of this stupendous conflict , individuals seem to be as insignificant and powerless to control it , as if they stood , awed and subdued by the warring elements of nature , and compelled to wait until these should expend their fury and of themselves subside . Thirty millions of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sundered parts have been thrown into fierce and deadly antagonism . Belligerent passions rage and boil among them with all the ungovernable power of the angry waves when the sea is lashed by the destructive tempest . The throes of the suffering nation are as terrible as those of the trembling earth , when , by some internal convulsion , its very foundations seem to be rocked on the fiery waves of the central abyss , and every living creature on its surface becomes // agitated with profound dismay . States have been temporarily but rudely torn from their long and peaceful connections with sister States , and great rents in the political soil , filled with the bodies of slaughtered citizens , mark the lines of separation . Vast armies have been assembled and organized , and have met each other in the shock of battle , on fields made slippery with fraternal blood , where tens of thousands have fallen to rise no more-swept down by the relentless storm of iron hail with which brother has greeted brother in this most unholy war . The measured tramp of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cries of the unnatural strife have disturbed the inmost peaceful recesses of its great central plains and mountains . From California to Texas ; from Colorado to New Mexico ; from Maine to New Orleans ; from the great lakes to the coasts of the Carolinas ; and along the measureless length of the father of waters ' and his great tributaries , the gathering armies have marched or sailed , and swarmed to the beat of the drum and the sound of the trumpet . More than a million of men , on both sides , have been engaged in these tremendous movements , which unhappily correspond too well in their unexampled magnitude with the physical character of our magnificent country . Civil war has sacrilegiously usurped the mighty instrumentalities of modern peaceful life ; and the bloody and destructive work of these vast armies is not less gigantic in scale than have been the ordinary operations of our wonderful industry and our ever-increasing commerce . The sacrifice of life , the destruction of property , the desolation of extensive regions of beautiful and fertile country , the vast expenditure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the grandest and most terrible phenomenon of the kind that has ever occurred in the history of man . To us , who are in the midst of it , and destined to be involved in its results , whatever they may be , it is a subject of deep and awful interest ; and while the scenes of the momentous drama are continually shifting around us and presenting new spectacles of slaughter and disaster every day , it is hardly possible to maintain the calmness necessary for an impartial appreciation of the causes which have been sufficiently powerful to turn the destructive energies of so great a nation upon itself , causing it to rend and destroy its own body politic , so recently rejoicing in unexampled prosperity and happiness . Some gigantic power , wielding strength enough to produce the tremendous results already visible , must be somewhere hidden at the source of these grand phenomena . In the physical world , a small quantity of water or a few kegs of powder , flashing into steam or gas by the application of heat , may be used to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ genius of men have ever been able to erect . What fatal means of destruction , and what traitorous hand have been employed to drill and charge the solid columns , or to mine the deep foundations of that beautiful and majestic structure of liberty , which our fathers reared for us with so much labor and sacrifice ? There is only one force adequate to the destructive work  --  the force of false and mischievous ideas . Ideas have in them the elements of all power . They alone move the moral and social world . Penetrating every crevice of the social structure , they have the force of attraction and repulsion ; they consolidate and strengthen , or , like frost and heat , they rend and crumble the hardest material , either slowly or suddenly , as circumstances and conditions may permit or require . They have in them all the terrible might , with all the explosive and dangerous quickness , which belong to the most destructive of physical forces . When , in any community , ideas are harmonious , they have an organizing power wholly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but when discordant and conflicting , they produce disorganization , ruin , and chaos . // Unfortunately for our country , opposite and hostile ideas have been growing up among us from the beginning of our national existence-nay , from the very hour when the first cargo of slaves was landed on our shores in the earliest days of our colonial history . Conflicting systems have naturally grown out of these hostile ideas , which have thus embodied themselves in the visible forms appropriate to their respective natures . The colonial authorities protested against the policy of importing slaves , which the mother country persisted in maintaining , until powerful interests were gathered around it , and opinions were thus nurtured to support and defend the fatal error . Slaveholding communities arose out of this sinister beginning ; they flourished and became powerful States ; and they finally presented the anomaly of maintaining a noble struggle for national independence , avowedly based upon the broadest principle of human right . They aggregated themselves , eventually , into a federal union  --  a political nationality founded on the corner stone ' of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all the circumstances , this was a wonderful result ; but the old original opposition , which had been incapable of resisting slavery in the days of colonial infancy and weakness , had not yet been subdued on the day when the nation arrived at its majority and assumed the rights of manhood . The venerable patriots of the revolution were men of the most enlightened and liberal views on the subject ; so much so , indeed , as to shame the degeneracy of their unworthy successors in those States which still retain the slave institution . With the general consent , in the Constitution of 1787 , the germs of freedom were planted , while at the same time , apparently as a matter of course , the flourishing tree of slavery was effectually girdled , and the axe was already laid at its root . Three very simple provisions effectually secured this momentous result . The provision for stopping the slave trade in 1808 , and the antagonist clause for opening wide the gates of our country to the immigration of free white men , together with that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of three to five-these cardinal provisions marked the certain doom of slavery . In the lapse of time , and with the operation of ordinary social causes , the result was as certain and inevitable as any other effect of natural laws . In spite of the universal prevalence of slavery at first , free labor pushed itself forward and won its way , until , in more than half the original States , slave labor had receded before it and disappeared forever . The ' wisdom of those great fundamental provisions of our Constitution has been fully vindicated by the results of eighty years ' experience . They have worked smoothly and progressively , in perfect conformity with that universal social law which has made slat very a temporary and transitional institution wherever it has existed among civilized nations . That such a law exists can hardly be questioned . Its operation is apparent , not only in the partial experience of our own country , but in that of all others where the natural social tendencies have had unimpeded sway . No one has ever denied its existence among @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to bring certain emancipation , whenever any nation has reached the proper position in the scale of progress . The rule is universal ; history presents no exception . But it his been supposed that slavery of the African to the white man is not subject to this great historical law , on account of the difference of race , whether that difference be fundamental and ineradicable , or whether it be only the consequence of material conditions operating through successive centuries . Neither reason nor experience , however , can be invoked to sustain this supposed exception to the general law . Except in Spanish America , African slavery has disappeared from the dependencies of European powers ; and even there , every one knows , the conditions // of slavery are far more favorable to emancipation than in the United States . Yet here , a majority of the original thirteen colonies have wholly discarded slavery , and given themselves up to the dominion of free white men ; while others among those known as border States , notwithstanding their apparent immobility , have long been unconsciously preparing to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the rebellion , it is demonstrable , we believe , that the border States could not long have resisted the necessity for gradual , hut complete emancipation . The civil war makes it more speedy , not more certain . In order to establish the principle that slavery , in any part of the United States , is destined to be an exception to that general law which decrees universal emancipation as a certain result , it would be necessary to show the negro to be incapable of improvement ; for if he be destined to progressive existence at all , it follows that , sooner or later , he will reach a condition in which he , no longer can or ought to be held in subjection or subordination of any kind ; and this , too , without the supposition of any moral change or improvement on the part of the slave owner . Indeed , the most usual and plausible , if not also the most truly substantial of all excuses or justifications for enslaving the African , in any form , has , from the beginning , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ *uperior intelligence of the white mau is calculated to improve him physically , morally , and intellectually . The capacity of improvement thus admitted , the logical result must be eventual liberation . This result is bound up in the very nature of things , and must inevitably be developed at some time or other , as proved by all history , as well as by any rational analysis of human character and intellect . But , only one half the argument has been employed to bring the mind to this irresistible conclusion . We have omitted all examination of the subject in that other aspect which has reference to industrial , economical , and moral considerations affecting the vital interests of the superior race . We need not say how much the discussion of these would serve to strengthen the argument and confirm the conclusion already stated . Now , it is apparent , this reasoning being admitted , that the attempt to perpetuate slavery , which in its nature is temporary and transitional , is contrary to the i*alpable laws of social existence and progress , and , if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to violence and disorder . Nature , the supreme authority , by her unalterable laws , wills and decrees one thing ; man , in his ignorance and audacity , attempts the opposite . Conflict must necessarily follow ; but the decrees of the higher power will be inexorably enforced ; they will sweep away every structure , great or small , which man , in all the pride of his puny strength and glimmering wisdom , may vainly seek to place as an obstruction in their path . But , when the Southern people adopted this false idea that slavery could be perpetuated and made the foundation of stable institutions , they not only placed themselves in conflict with the decrees of natural law , which was the most important and fatal error , but they also indicated hostility to those vital provisions of the Constitution to which reference has already been made . No thoughtful observer of events in this country will require evidence to sustain this assertion . The constant evasion of the law prohibiting the slave trade , and the impunity with which it was frequently and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opinion throughout the South on this subject and on that of European immigration , are quite sufficient to establish it . The violent resistance , by fraud and even bloodshed , to the settlement of the Territories by free white men , and the determined effort to establish the law of slavery in every region , against even the vote of the majority , and without any actual interest // or necessity for so doing , evince too plainly that the Southern people were not prepared to accept the results of the proper workings of the Constitution , which gave preponderance , in the number of States and in Federal representation , to the ever-increasing free white men , against the relatively diminishing numbers of the slaves and their owners . This inequality of power was continually becoming greater , and evidently could not be avoided or remedied under the Constitution , without a complete reversal of the policy of its framers , and of the contemporaneous construction which they placed on it . Thus it is plain that by the legitimate and intended operation of the Constitution , slavery had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must either prepare for its own gradual decline and ultimate disappearance , or it must provide means for invigorating and prolonging its life . There was only one way in which its power could be increased and for some time yet firmly established , viz. : by the reopening of the infamous and almost universally condemned African slave trade . This would have accomplished a double purpose . It would have increased the numbers of the South , and enabled them measurably to balance the representation of the North , as well as to extend their dominion over the Territories , and lay the foundations of new States ; or , in case of their success in destroying the Union , it would enable them to carry out their cherished schemes of empire , as an independent power . But , what was , perhaps , more important , it would tend to prolong , if not to perpetuate slavery , by infusing new supplies of barbarism among the African race , lowering their present grade of civilization , retarding their improvement on the whole , and thus postponing the inevitable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the early proceedings of the conspirators , that they seriously entertained the design of replenishing their gangs of laborers from the shores of Africa . It was only after the contest had assumed a serious aspect , and the immense difficulties of their position began to dawn upon them , that they were compelled ostensibly to abandon that design . They were compelled to conciliate the border States , which were all opposed to the foreign slave trade . Yirginia , whose chief annual income was derived from the sale of her slave population , rather than from the productions of their labor , was an indispensable ally to the rebellion , and she would hardly assent to the importation of Africans , in competition with her own supply . Moreover , it began to be obvious that the aid of foreign powers would be desirable ; and their intervention , if to be obtained at all , could not be solicited or hoped for , without the most explicit disavowal of an intention to reestablish a traffic which had already been denounced as infamous and piratical by the leading @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were compelled by the exigencies of their condition to prohibit the slave trade in their permanent constitution . Doubtless they would never have done this , had they not been vigorously assailed by the Federal Government , and forced to modify their purposes with a view to conciliate support at home and abroad . Thus it is apparent that , at the outset of their treason , the objects of the conspirators , however since modified , were utterly hostile to the letter and spirit of our Constitution , and could never be successfully carried out without the overthrow of the Government . The conflict , therefore , of opposite ideas , involved not only the laws of nature , which can not be altered or arrested , but , also , established institutions of the most sacred character , which could hardly be expected to succumb to the hostile doctrine without a fearful struggle . In what manner this conflict of opinions and purposes becomes transformed into physical combat and culminates in bloody war , is to be easily understood when the relations of human intellect // and passion are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the weaker and less active part of human nature . Passion generally predominates in action , and men are usually more disposed to resist with violence all unwelcome ideas , than to study and estimate them fairly by the laborious exercise of reason . Hence , from the early historical ages , when nations were but imperfectly enlightened , wars have been the principal means of propagating ideas ; and most of the great social truths gradually unfolded to man , have been written in blood for his instruction and improvement . Doubtless , if human nature had been different , if passion and intellect in his constitution had been mingled in other proportions , it would have been easier , if not better , to have disseminated great truths by the more peaceful means of argument and friendly communication of thought ; and it is to be hoped that the time is not far distant when reason will everywhere take the place of passion , and brutal force no longer be necessary for the work of intellectual conviction and moral enlightenment . But , evidently , this time has not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whatever may be the condition in this respect of the more civilized and enlightened portions of mankind . Nor , indeed , could any different disposition of the Southern people be expected in their I ) resent social condition . One third of their populatiol* is composed of African slaves , semicivilized , systematically deprived of knowledge , and subjected to physical coercion , instead of being incited to usefulness by the higher motives of self-interest and laudable ambition . To say that this is a degraded class , is only to recognize their supreme misfortune , and not to reproach or insult them on account of their unhappy condition . But this degradation does not affect them alone . It reaches their oppressors also , and involves them in its unavoidable consequences . By that inevitable law of action and reaction which prevails alike in moral and social as in physical phenomena , the community which has so large a portion of its members in a condition of ignorance and brutality , must , throughout its whole body , partake of the degradation which exists within it , and must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its feelings , sentiments , and purposes , through the gross and ignorant passions which such an association can not fail to arouse . The moral level of the whole society is lowered to the average condition of its constituent parts . To expect the controlling power of such a community to be accessible to reason and conciliation , would indeed argue an utter ignorance of the whole slave system and of its influence upon the minds and hearts of those who sustain it . War is the normal condition of those communities which cherish slavery ; and although such an institution , misplaced in connection with the civilization of the nineteenth century , may seem to have changed its original nature in accordance with existing circumstances , yet , when its purposes are thwarted , it is ever ready for military violence . It is like a native barbarian , schooled and trained to apparent civilization , but ever inclined , at the first temptation , to fall into his natural habits of wild and savage life . The Southern organization has already proved itself to be peculiarly fitted for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ industrial pursuits , except for the simplest and most primitive of all labors , those of agriculture . Indeed , these were always the principal occupations of slaves , even in those early stages of human progress when these classes were left at home to till the soil , while the masters followed their ordinary occupation of war . The same constitution of society at the present day leaves the masters free , it is true , to engage in more humane and elevated ocenpations , but not without an evident inclination or easy adaptation for those bold and bad pursuits from which slavery originally arose , and which it afterwards // contributed so much to sustain and prolong . But , notwithstanding this natural inclination of slaveholders toward commotion and war , it is not to be denied , on the other hand , that in civil conflicts like ours , in which discordant opinions and important local interests are invoWed , the issue of peace or war may to a great extent be controlled by that party which has the right of the controversy . Its conduct may be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ calculated to invite resistance . A magazine may be dangerous in itself , for an accidental spark or an unintended friction of apparently harmless substances may cause it to explode ; but , at the same time , the catastrophe may be brought on by the wilful folly of those whose duty it is to provide the necessary precautions against danger . The North has unquestionably been right in the contest on slavery , as to all the moral and economical aspects of the question ; and generally , too , as to all the political principles involved . But has she not been violent and abusiveso offensively obtruding into the local affairs of the opposite section , as unnecessarily to arouse the angry passions of the South , rather than to encourage the calm exercise of reason ? The answer to this question is by no means so obvious and easy as may at first be supposed . The whole subject has been so complicated with party movements , that it becomes impossible to follow the ramifications of influence , and to determine what share individuals or parties , on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the responsibility for the angry controversy , its aggravating incidents , and its general results . This , however , is certain : the slaveholders have for many years controlled the Democratic party , and that organization has held the power of government in its hands during far the greater part of our national existence . Important concessions have been made to their interests , from time to time , during the whole period ; and no single instance of actual wrong to the South , by the violation of any acknowledged constitutional right , can be designated , in the whole action of the Federal Government from the time of its establishment down to the commencement of this rebellion . Nor can it be denied , that while in power with the Democratic party and ascendant in its counsels , the South has been exacting in the extreme , and has often made demands wholly incompatible with the true interests of liberty and humanity . Witness the offensive form in which the fugitive slave law was passed , and its execution enforced in the North , wholly regardless of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , on the other hand , the unnecessary and sinister excitement deliberately aroused and kept up , in the extreme Southern States , on this subject of fugitives , although it is well known that no considerable losses of that kind have ever been suffered in that quarter . So likewise as to slavery in the Territories . It has often been admuitted by Southern statesmen of the extreme school , that the Territories recenP ly organized , over which so much hitter controversy has occurred , are altogether unsuited in climate and productions for the employment of slave labor ; and few will deny , whether those Territories be physically adapted or not adapted to the labor of Africans , that the South had not the means of populating them without an increase of slaves from their native continent , or by a resort to some other source of ample supply . Here , then , was a most violent and persistent effort to secure the acknowledgment of a right to do what they had not the means to accomplish , and what they could not obtain tire means of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well as a flagrant viblatioa of the moral sentiments of mankind . On this score , therefore , the account seems to be tolerably well balanced ; for if Northern men have sometimes wantonly started hostile and injurious agita // tion , calculated to arouse fierce passions and to close the ears of the Southern people to the voice of reason ; these , on the other hand , are liable to equal or greater censure for having made impossible demands , as unnecessary as they were inadmissible , and liable from their very extravagance to be considered as mere pretexts , deliberately adopted with a view to aggravate the quarrel and prevent a reconciliation . It is difficult to admit any other explanation of the extraordinary policy of the Southern leaders . It is not improbable that they will henceforward acknowledge such to have been the motive of their principal political acts for many years past . The terrible events now passing before our saddened eyes , are too solemn and weighty , not to be understood in all their past relations and in all their present import . They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the lurid light of the past and casting dark shadows over the future , while they sweep away all false pretences , and lay bare the real motives which , from the beginning , have actuated the men who are prominent in performing the great drama . But these questions of transient passions and objurgatory provocation are trivial and unImportant . They do not touch the real causes of the difficulty ; they are but the froth on the surface of the deep and mighty current of events , which was rushing on to the gulf of rebellion . The time had come , in the history of our country , when , by the necessary working of its institutions , the most solemn question of the age was to be determined . Slavery must either accept its inevitable doom and prepare for ultimate extinction , or it must provide new means for prolonging its existence and reestablishing its waning power . In three quarters of a century , the Constitution of 1787 had done its work . It had suppressed the immigration of Africans ; it had established that of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ achieved a complete victory over slavery ; and the The Cctu8e8 of the Pebellion* political power , long wielded by the Southern men , had passed forever out of their hands , as the representatives and supporters of the slave policy . In the Senate , in the House of Representatives , in the great majority of States , in all the Territories , and , finally , in the very citadel of their former power , the presidential mansion , their almost immemorial superiority had been utterly overthrown . The Government was about to assume its true character , as the home of liberty and the veritable asylum of humanity . Slavery , fallen into the minority , was about to experience an accelerated decline and eventually to disappear . To resist this doom , was to fight against the Constitution and against destiny . The people of the Southern States were wholly unwilling to accept the condition to which the legitimate workings of the Constitution had fairly brought them . Being a minority in numbers and in representative weight , they rose up in rebellion against this unalterable fact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ device , resisted it before it came . When it arrived , they resisted still more madly , even to the extent of self-destruction . The minority was arrayed not merely against the majority , but also against the necessary results of our institutions and against the decrees of nature : that is to say , against the law of man , and against the law of God . The majority was expected to give way , and to permit the engine of national progress to be reversed , our eighty years of glorious history to be undone , and humanity itself to be turned back upon the dreary path of its earliest and saddest struggles . This refused , the alternative was the destruction of the Government . It was wholly impossible for the majority to make any satisfactory concessions to a minority infatuated with such ideas . Compromise was impracticable , so long as the rebellious States made the perpetuity of slavery and the predominance of its power an indispen // sable condition of any- arrangement . Their demands were forever inadmissible so long as they remained in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as an independent confederacy , was equally out of the question . There is no longer any division of sentiment on this point , whatever doubts may have been expressed in the beginning . Separation of the States would be disastrous and fatal to all the fragmentary governments which would take the place of this majestic Union . The nation instinctively feels that its unity is its salvation-that disunion will be destructive of all its long-cherished and glorious hopes . Its permanent peace , its prosperity and progress , its greatness , its honor , and its influence among civilized nations-all depend on its unity . These , which are the glory of our country to every patriotic heart , were the stumbling blocks to the conspirators . Slavery was ambitious and discontented with its appointed lot ; it was determined ; it rushed headlong to its fatal purpose . The nation stood in its path , and would not , could not get out of the way . This is the central fact of the whole controversy . National unity is on the one side  --  the disintegration and anarchy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are the contending forces ; they are engaged in mortal combat , and one or the other must be utterly overthrown and destroyed . Slavery must succumb and consent to disappear , or the Union of our fathers must go down in the dust , never again to rise . Can the enemies of the United States , at home or abroad , suppose that these vital questions can ever be yielded ? That the nation can voluntarily abdicate its authority , confess the failure of its work for three quarters of a century ; permit all the purposes of its creation to be utterly thwarted , and tamely and basely surrender all those hopes of a glorious destiny , which we have ever been taught to cherish as the goal of our unexampled freedom ? The Southern people have been the sport of many delusions and infatuations ; but the belief of these incredible and impossible suppositions , is the crowning folly of them all . These restless and daring mcii occupied the fairest region of the globe , with a virtual monopoly of the cotton culture . The unexampled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had not filled their coffers with unbounded wealth , had at least given them lavish returns for the labor of their slaves and enabled them to live in unlimited profusion . That under such a system they should have little provident care , but should indulge unbounded confidence in the future , was natural enough , for they conceived their prosperity , which cost them so little labor or anxiety , to he in its nature permanent . When , therefore , they saw gradually approaching the certain downfall of their power , they could not understand that this was the result of natural causes , but attributed it to the malignant enmity of the Government . A social organization , so agreeable , so full of pleasures and advantages , conferring not only ease and luxury , but also station and authority , must necessarily be right in itself and worthy of every effort and every sacrifice to perpetuate it . What was the Government of the United States , that it should presume to erect itself as an obstacle to the progress of this rich and powerful organization ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it , and would not foreign notions be compelled by the very helplessness of their starving people to sustain and defend it ? Why should there he anything sacred in the institutions of the country , when they evidently tended , by their spirit and operation , to overthrow the power of slavery ? Washington was weak , with all his goodness ; Jefferson was a demagogue ; Madison had not forecast enough to see the necessary results of his political combinations . We have grown wiser ; then let us sweep away the obstacles which were placed in our path by the weakness and folly of our d* // luded forefathers . Let us prostrate the clumsy fabric which they constructed , since the Yankees have taken possession of it , and are working it for the benefit of Irish and German immigrants and their descendants , and not for that of African traders and negro masters . By some terrible fatality , it was the misfortune of the Southern leaders to believe these delusions . They have gone so far as to act upon them , and have seduced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reaping the bloody fruits of an error so profound and awful . The rebellious States not only thought it practicable to overthrow the National Government ; they , doubtless , also held that result necessary to their safety and success . This followed as a logical conclusion from their established dogma that the slavery of the laboring class is the only firm foundation of social order . They coi*vinced themselves that white men could not perform the labor necessary on cotton and sugar plantations . The negro alone was capable of standing the fierce rays of the Southern sun , and of successfully resisting the deadly malaria which prevails in that region . The Southern people firmly believed this doctrine , although before their very eyes , in all parts of their territory , except perhaps in the rice fields of South Carolina and Georgia , thousands of white men were and are daily occupied in this very work . So remarkable a delusion , contradicted by their own daily experience , &lt; is by no means uncommon under similar circumstances . When the passions of men are aroused and their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ comprehend the true significance , nor do they stop to estimate deliberately the actual conditions , of what is going on around them . Much less do they understand the character and tendency of great social movements , in which they themselves are actively engaged . The strongest intellects , in such circumstances , do not often escape the prevailing prejudices and delusions . A sort of common moral atmosphere pervades the whole society ; opinions become homogeneous ; and even the worst abuses , sanctioned by time and by universal custom , lose all their enormity , and command the support and approval even of good men . Palpable errors of fact , and , indeed , every available sophistry in argument , have been adopted by the Southern men to sustain the system of slavery . The deluded victims of these false ideas could not conceive a different organization of labor as possible for them . It was perhaps even natural for them to consider the opposite system in the Northern States , as hostile to their interests and dangerous to their peculiar property in labor . Nor were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ system need have interfered violently to overthrow their institutions ; but there was an instinctive feeling that the two could not exist together and flourish in the same community . It was obscurely felt that one must give way before the other , whether peacefully or violently , and it was impossible to doubt which of the two was destined to succumb , under the gradual but inevitable operation of our established political forms and principles . Under the dominion of excited and unreasoning prejudices , the Southern mind could see no distinction between the necessary and irresistible operation of principles and the intentional hostility of their hated rivals . Thus , with a fixed conviction of the inevitable end of their system under the Constitution , it was vainly expected to avoid that unwelcome fate , by destroying the Government of the United States , which had been deliberately created by its founders with a view to the ultimate extinction of slavery . But , alas ! this expedient has proved to be a fatal error-none more fatal has ever misled and ruined a prosperous and gallant people . Instead @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be admitted or even thought of ; with any toleration , for a single moment-they will only bring the cherished object of their bloody sacrifices to a sudden and disastrous end . Slavery never could have had-never ought to have had any better security than was afforded by the Constitution of this country , administered fairly , as it always has been , if not with evident partiality , toward this exacting interest . Take away from it the support of the Constitution , and , under any circumstances , it would most assuredly fall . But the Government assaulted , in the interest of slavery , for the increase and perpetuity . of slavery-that presents an emergency which admits of no hesitation , and in which those who have been most tolerant toward the system , and most ready to yield its unreasonable exactions to save the Government , will be the first . to strike it down for the same end . The nation must survive ; its enemies must succumb or perish . Can any one deny that the Federal Government was compelled to take up the gage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I Not merely the interests of civil authority and order , but the preponderance of freedom , and the claims of humanity on this continent , required the most determined resistance to be made , and forbade the possibility of quietly surrendering the destinies of the nation into the hands of the traitors who sought to destroy it . What a spectacle of imbecility and miserable failure in the hour of great peril would have been presented to the indignant world , if ; in this great crisis , the national authorities had been so far beneath the occasion as to have declined the proffered contest and basely betrayed their trust , at the first demand of the seceding States ! The everlasting scorn of mankind would have overwhelmed and blasted the dastard and degenerate race , who would thus have sacrificed the highest and most sacred interests of humanity . Rather than this , welcome the civil war , with all its sacrifices ! Welcome privations , labors , taxcs , wounds , death , and all the nameless horrors that swarm along the red path of civil strife ! @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been expended , and yet no patriotic heart thinks of turning back from the battle field , until the Union established by our fathers shall be restored to its integrity . Compelled to admit the conclusions already stated , let us not do injustice even to the men who are prominent in this iniquitous rebellion . The most difficult of all moral problems is to determine how far individual agency can control social or political events , and what degree of responsibility attaches to those who have been apparently influential in producing disastrous results . An impartial study of history will serve to establish the truth that prominent men who , in any age , may seem to have produced great changes by their individual will , were merely the instruments of society by which irresistible tendencies were carried out to their necessary ends . The very conceptions of such men are the offspring of their times , and in order that they should have power to accomplish their designs , the great social forces of the community must be at their disposal , ready and indined to perform the work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so balanced at the mountain top , that a small force  --  the sound of a trumpet , a mere breath of air-may dislodge it , and cause it to descend , carrying destruction into the valley . But the force of gravitation is necessary to bring it down and give it the impetus of ruin . So the might of a great people may be poised on some lofty pinnacle of human destiny ; but unless there be involved in the existing sentiments and convictions , the situation and surroundings of that people , the elements of force and action , for good or evil , no individual agency and no combination of men can impart the power which they lack . All that was required among the Southern people , // for the initiation of this gigantic rebellion , was some universal animating idea , capable of binding them together in unanimous accord , imparting the necessary force and velocity in the direction of treason , when started and impelled by the efforts of their leading men . Slavery was just such a principle ; it was the gravitating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the tremendous impetus of ruin which they have exerted in their awful descent . But , in truth , this mischievous power has been accumulating ever since the Government was founded . It grew out of the antecedents of existing society ; and the present generation is not wholly responsible for it . The misfortunes of our fathers , their omissions and errors as well as ours , have left this fatal legacy to descend into our hands . We may not have dealt with it wisely , but assuredly the framers of the Constitution did not intend slavery to be perpetual , nor did they provide for it the power to overthrow the Government .                     