@@739719

txt Corrox .. - It can not be doubted that the fall of Vicksburgh and the opening of the Mississippi , will give exit to a good deal of cotton . Nearly all of it in Western Tennessee  --  in the " cotton-growing region between the Tennessee and Mississippi rivers  --  has already got out , by one means or another , curing the year in which our armies have been in that part of the State ; but a great deal of the crop of the last two seasons in Mississippi and Southern Arkansas , still remains on the plantations in those States . Col. GalsasoN saw much of it during his ride through the central part of Mississippi ; and while GRANT 'S army was encamped near the Southern line of Arkansas . scouts saw plenty of it in that section  --  only a trifling fraction of which was brought away from the region near the river . Recent naval excursions up Deer Creek , in the Yazoo ( JOURReproduced try , and in Red River and other Southwestern streams , have also found cotton  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if GRANT capture Vicksburgh and PORTER 'S fleet ride to and fro from Memphis to New-Orleans , some time must elapse before the cotton in the Mississippi Valley can be brought out . It will be impossible for traders to penetrate the country to obtain it , as rebel guerrillas will everywhere abound ; and , doubtless , when it is found that the river and the adjoining country are irrevocably in our control , these guerrillas will proceed to fire the cotton on the plantations , in obedience to the orders of JEFF . DAVIS . We observe by our London letter that a line of steamers is being built in England expressly to bring cotton from New-Orleansone of which has already been launched . The manufacturers there are sanguine of its speedy arrival , and are building new mills , and filling them with machinery , to be ready for it . It is to be hoped they will not be disappointed ; but in any event , and with the best fortune to our Western army , it is not likely they will get many bales before Autumn @ 