@@740056

txt The position of the Army of Western Virginia is unchanged , except that it is now nearer Charlestown . The trains are all arriving in this vicinity , and the decks are being cleared for action . Perhaps your readers are somewhat puzzled at the evident willingness of Gen. SHERIDAN to retreat , and to the spectator not conversant with this section of country , and to one not posted in the requirements of military strategy , no doubt the recent movements of the Army of Western Virginia appear strange . The country around the city of Winchester is not at all favorable for a stand against an enemy ; hence the endeavor of Gen. SHERIDAN to reach that position before EARLY , for the rebel general would then have no alternative but fight , and that upon ground of our own choosing . Back of Winchesterjitretchea out in unbroken line the towering range of the Great North Mountains , and it would be impossible for a defeated army to fall back in that direction , for the lofty summits of these grand old piles of granite @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ direction . If our army had succeeded in reaching the Strasburgh and Winchester pike , we could have prevented EARLY from pushing through in that direction , and the only road open for the enemy would have been that to Martinsburg . What a pity our advance did not succeed In performing their part of he work , On the other hand , our position at Strasburg , along the line of Cedar Creek , was a very good one so long as the force under EARLY and BRECEINRIDGE was the only opponent we had to contend with . The Rebel line of defense , it is true , was a very strong one , out it was nevertheless capable of being attacked with every chance of success . But when the Rebel column began entering Thoroughfare ' Gap it became imperative upon General SHERIDAN to fall back , for this new element in the problem changed entirely the scheme of.operations . The Front Royal road comes in exactly upon our flank , and partially uncovers our rear communications , and it Would be almost madness to attempt to bola that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ merely as a measure of anticipation , and as soon as our column had become closed up , that place also was abandoned . The situation of Berryville le far better , for in adnition to the advantages of the ground in its immediate vicinity , our rear will be fully CoYe/e111 121117 guerrillas can do any damage In that direction . Besides this , wenold the key to the gaps in the Blue Ridge , enabling us to prevent any hostile movement toward Washington . The only thing to be feared is the movement of an additional column in the Virginia Valley , but at present writing no news of the presence of any rebel force in that direction has yet arrived , and let us hope that our fears are unfounded . Should our army fall back ' still further in this direction , it will not be evidence of either weakness or want of confidenle on the part of the Commanding General , for at this point we hold the two leading lines of commmunication . As regards the probability of a fight , I think there Is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and one a great deal more decisive and important in its results than the encounter so long anticipated further up the Valley . It is extremely to make anything difficult like an accurate estimate of the enemy 's forces , tor , like all other rumors In this region , one has to make allowances for large ado -- lions made by the irrepressible habit of exaggeration so apparent among those who ought to know better . Nevertheless , it is evident that the present strength now in this vicinity is of greater of the rebel army strength than gny previous column since Lee crossed tie river last Summer , during the Gettysburgh campalm I hope it is not contraband to tell you that Gen. SHERIDAN has received large additions to the rotes with which 110 aSiVa4084 up the Valley .                     