@@739404

txt AS a little varation from the incessant rain with which the Division of the Lower Potomac has been deluged for the last two months , that mythical personage , the clerk of the weather , treated us on Monday last to a hurricane on a small scale . The wind was really very strong , and it was fortunate that its effects were not more disastrous . Numerous trees were uprooted , and tents succumbed almost without resistance . The Potomac surged to and . fro , and the flotilla only held their positions by continued exertion . As it was the United Slates cutter Bailey was driven on shore at Liverpool Point , with the loss of her bowsprit . A spite driver used for building a dock for the landing of the commissary stores at the point was upset and disabled . The rebels amused themselves when the gale was at its height by blazing away at the Resolute , which was anchored a short dIshince above the bar , and rather nearer than usual to the Virginia shore . It is needless to say @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the rebels on the Potomac batteries were leaving for Richmond , and it did seem as if they had taken away some of their guns from the upper batteries . but be that as it may they are still on the banks of the river in large force : There are indications , indeed , that their force is larger than it has been heretofore . They have probably abandoned their idea of blockading the Potomac , but they have by no means abandoned that side of the river , and there is every reason to believe that they are well prepared to hold it , and that should Iloossa 's Division cross , they would well contest the ground . What may be the intention of our commander as to giving the rebels battle at this point lime alone will determine . The rebel steamer Page was somewhat astonished the other day at the whistling of some rifled shot in close proximity to her moorings . A couple of longrange Whitworth guns have been planted a short distance above Poesy 's , and the other day they demonstrated the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ got up steam and moved up the creek out of sight . Some little changes have been made among our troops . Gen. Nermaz succeeds to the command of the First Brigade , of which Col. COWDEN , of the First Massachusetts , was acting Brigadier-General . He has been busy reviewing and inspecting his brigade . Gen. SIMILES is adopting the same course with the regiments of his brigade . A court-martial for nomiee Division is in session at POSIT 'S house . The men are being drilled in the intervals between the showers , in the bayonet exercise . The recent victories in the West have created much joyous feeling in camp . Great preparations were made in some of the regiments for the celebration of the 22d , but the rain was a damper upon them . The inhabitants of that secesh village , Port Tobacco , now begin to admit that if it is true about our victories in the West , may be the North may yet sue coed in tyrannizing over the South . 