@@740036

txt It would be worth while for those who have been earnest in urging on public attention the necessity of providing a permanent Home for Disabled Soldiers , to go round among them , and learn what the soldiers themselves think of the matter . It is.easy enough , we apprehend , to get at an average opinion without going beyond the limits of New-York . The writer hereof , for several months past , has made it a regular practice , whenever the opportunity presented itself , to get into conversation with wounded or disabled soldiers , with the view to draw them on to the subject , by speaking of the provisions made in other countries for public servants of their class . The result of these conversations , in nine out of ten cases , has been to elicit an opinion by no means favorable to the proposet benevolent enterprise . Our experience may have been unfortunate . We may have lighted on an exceptional class of invalided soldiers . Or we may not have embraced in the inquest ? informal ' as it has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enable us to eliminate the actual facts of the case . But , such as it was , our inquiry pointed most distinctly to but one conclusion , that the bulk of our disabled soldiers here , at least , look with most indifferent favor upon the proposal to make a permanent disposition of their lives and fortunes in a Public Home . The causes which underlie this disposition and temper are not so inscrutable but one may readily get at them . The oldest of our war-worn veterans ( we speak of age in the service ) , and those of them who have seen the hardest campaigning , have not been long enough under the rigid discipline of military life to have become weaned from their former home associations , from the freedom  --  one may say from the license as applied to many ? of early habits ; and from that easy confidence which belongs to the American ? as distinct from any other people on the face of the globe  --  that a living can always be had ; that no one starves here from hunger ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ always be had . With this natural habit of estimating the difficulties of life , and the means by which they may be overcome , there creeps over the disabled veteran the conviction that life in a soldier 's home is subject to restraints which mole its endurance a penalty , which impart to its subjects a character at variance with that of free citizenship , and which , therefore , imply more oit ' less of degradation . The large proportion of them ? we may say , indeed , all of them of American birth or of early American training  --  have been unused , like the German or French or English recruits to regard life as a struggle primarily for bread and butter , or rather for bread without butter . The American knows nothing of the over whelming joy with which the European or British Islander contemplates the possibility of a good bellyfull . The childhood of the commonest of these disabled soldiers of ours has been passed amid a profusion , which his class in the Old World might have dreamt of in visionary and ecstatic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a distance , at the rarest of intervals , as when the Squire or Baron 's eldest hope came of age , and the peasantry or villagers were invited to gorge for one blessed afternoon . ' For such a class ? for those belonging to it , who have gone through a long military career , under an absolutely rigid system , with no superfluous commissariat like ours , who have lived in the camp long enough ? as nine-tenths of them do ? to forget or be forgotten at home , and who have suffered , withal , disabling wounds in the field , a soldier 's hospitium is a glory which they anticipate with an equal share of hope and pride . It presents itself to them as the crowning joy of their career as servants of . the State , and casts a light upon " heir path , for which no other possible provision could compensate . After this country has gone through long years , or more properly , long ages of political change , of revolution and of centralized administration ; after its inhabitants @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have begun to jostle against each other as they do ? in the overcrowded States of Central - and Western Europe ; after all the public lands have been used up to feed the home population ; and after commercial enterprise shall have begun to look for a supply of breadstuffs for the countless crowds occupying the over-populated plains of Illinois , Kansas , Idaho and Oregon , along the banks of the Amoor ? we may then begin to find out the analogies between social and military life here and in Europe . Till then we need not , unless by way of speculative amusement , attempt to square our business by the same rules . Our people are different , by the very conditions of their birth and its surroundings ; and our schemes , Whether of philanthropic or any other enterprise , must start on a different basis .                     