@@739869

txt As I told you in my first letter in appreciation of the Emperor 's speech , all other subjects are made to yield to the project for a Congress , and the abro. gation of the treaties of 1815 . The American ark Italian questions are completely swamped  --  nobody has even the courage to talk of them ; while the Mexican question only occupies an obscure corner in people 's thoughts . All Europe , as you will see , is in a ferment about these unexpected propositions of Neromou in regard to a Congress , and people are still asking themselves , Is he serious , or is it only a scheme for bringing up his waning influence in European Politics ? " In the speech to the throne there was just enough of menace to frighten the timid , but the Letter of ConvOcatIon has dispelled that idea ; and once relieved from this , the whole attention may be concentrated upon the Congress itself , and upon the motives which prompted the Emperor 's action . In general , it is not believed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the powers except those which will have no concessions to make in it . Thus , sixteen powers have been convoked , to wit : England , Russia , Austria , Prussia , the German Confederation and Rome , from among those which will lose by the Congress , and Spain , Portugal , Italy , Turkey , Greece , Switzerland , Holland , Belgium , Denmark and Sweden , from those which will either gain , or at least , not lose by the Congress . All the Powers will perhaps immediately accept the Congress in principle , but refuse it on the details . They will show a great willingness to accede to the idea , but will laugh in their sleeves at NAPOLEON 'S verdancy in supposing that they are going to walk blindly into the net he has set for them . They will at least want to know beforehand the nature of the bait they are invited to nibble at . In his work , entitled Ides Napoleoniennes , the Emperor has given a programme of what he believes to have been nis uncle 's design @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he has now put forward for the consideration of his brother monarchs . It is but a dream , probably , and impossible of realization ; but the idea is grandiose , and Its acceptance and execution would immortalize a much less prominent monarch than Louis NAPOLEON . To remodel the map of Europe in such a way that the principle of nationalities should be respected . that the boundary lines should be fixed on natural and immutable bases , in fine , that everybody should be satisfied , would indeed be a great work , and one that would lend more lustre to the BONAPARTE family than any and all of the acts of the founder of the family . If Only such a remodeling can be accomplished as will enable the great States to reduce their armies and arrest their expensive preparations for war , much will have been gained . But all Europe is suspicious of NAPOLEON , and jealous beside . They suspect that his present movement is made partly to gain popularity in France , and partly to make Europe talk about him , and thus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; and they are too jealous of him to be willing to give away their contested Provinces in order that he may acquire a towering name in history . Reduced thus to its proper proportions , the proposition for a Congress is likely to be rejected by the most important of the Powers . and thus to fail altogether . But NAPOLEON will none the less reap certain important benefits from the coup which will well compensate him for his defeat in the elections at Paris and in his discussion with GORTSCIIAEOFF at St. Petersburgh . The thing was well studied up and produced all the effect of a nicely arranged surprise in a drama . His Majesty excels in this sort of thing , and certainly his good genius has never served him better than in this last , and if not the most solid , at least the most dazzling of his political hits . In connection with this Congress , the two questions I hear in every one 's mouth are these : If the Congress meets , will the majority impose their decisions on the minority by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ breaks up without an agreement . will not an European war be a necessity of the situation ? The Queens of England and Spain and the Pope are asked by the Emperor to represent themselves in the Congress by diplomatic agents of their own choice . The replies from the various Courts are not expected yet for several weeks .                     