@@739467

txt When BEAURFGARD had started southward from Corinth , the immediate fall of Memphis was seen to he inevitable . When Memphis was ours , the whole line of the Mississippi River , and the whole of the Great Valley , was in our military possession . Above that place our descending gunboat fleet had reduced every stronghold from NewMadrid to Fort Pillow . Below it , our ascending fleet had battered down or brought . to terms every rebel fort and city from the Delta and from New-Orleans to the mouth of the Arkansas River . And both of these fleets were pressing hard upon the city . Beside our upper and lower river fleets , there was advancing upon it an overwhelming military force from Gen. HALLECICS army . Either of these naval or military detachments was capable of capturing the city ; ? aeting together , resistance on its part was useless . The most convenient National force to Memphis of late , has been the upper naval flotilla . The only obstacles to its southern advance were two or three unreduced rebel earthworks , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the river ; and into the principal one of these our mortar-boats have been showering bombshells for the past two months . We have news this morning that this work ( Fort Pillow , or Wright ) has been reduced , and that both it and Fort Randolph . ten miles below , are in possession of our troops . These were the only defences of any moment . unreduced , known to exist above Memphis . So that there is little doubt that yesterday afternoon or this morning , our fleet appeared before the great rebel city of the Southwest . and demanded , and probably received , its capitulation . It was understood . that our upper fleet was not to advance upon it until our fleet below was ready to cooperate . So that it . is not unlikely that the citizens of the last rebel city on the Mississippi , on looking up the stream this reorniug behold the Stars and Stripes floating in the breeze , and , on looking down the stream , behold the same resistless banner approaching from that direction . War have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the city before they would surrender ; and here , as elsewhere , we have heard plenty of gammon about dying in last ditches . But a hundred rebel towns , and one of them the capital of Tennessee , which had vociferated the same nonsense until they were hoarse ,  - -  have capitulated when they saw they Beale ' not help themselves ; and the fact that Memphis has roared louder , if possible , than any ether place , is only a sign that . it is prepared the quicker to devour its own words . With Memphis , as we said , the whole of the Mississippi River is in our possession . . All its trout tributaries , too , running through many hundreds of miles of rebel territory -- navigable streams like the Red River , the Arkansas , the White , the . Yazoo , etc. ? are ours . Our gunboats can traverse them all . and comrletcly control the States which they penctiate . Whatever hope rebellion mayhave previously had in the Southwest , it must now sive up all hope , finally and forever . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accomplish so vast a work as this  --  the ** of the Mississippi River ? in so brief a. period . The rebels represented that . the great river was lined along its entire banks with bAte:ies , earthworks , forts and defences every emeieivabie kind . Columbus , the Gibraltar of the West . stood magnificent in its array of battlements . furnished with all the appliances of a stupendous military stronghold , and manned by twenty thousand troops . Between there and Memphis the banks of the river , so said the rebels , bristled with cannon ' along its entire line and fort succeeded fort in such countless numbers as to render ridiculous any attempt ever to reduce them . The rebel assertions in this ease were as exaggerated as their boastings elsewhere . Still , undoubtedly . their Ny s were formidable enough . But , to-day . they are every one reduced ; and now a rebel gun or a rebel soldier can not he found from Cairo to 3,1emphis . The defences of the Lower Mississippi were represented as equally impregnable . They began below @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they joined those at Memphis . The navies of the world could not , reduce them , and the armies of the world might try to assault them , but in vain . Our gunboats , however , began the work a brief month or two ago ; and we know that they have steadily pushed their way up the river till , in all likelihood , they have by this hour saluted the descending flotilla . Thus virtually ends the naval campaign in the Southwest . it closes as triumphantly to our arms and es destructively to the rebels , as the military eanipaign has closed gloriously to us and disgracefully to them . The Mississippi . from its delta to its source , is ours .                     