@@739811

txt The whole importance of French recognition of the Confederacy , or of a French alliance with it , lies in its probable effect upon the fortunes of the war , and it is sale to say that this is greatly exaggerated even by those who are least apprehensive of any danger from that quarter . Recognition has been so much talked of , and so often threatened , that a large portion of the public have come to look upon it as something inexpressibly horrible ? so much so , that there is hardly a doubt that a well-authenticated announcement that France had recognized the rebel Government would spread a panic through the whole country . People can not , therefore , be too often reminded that it is a mere piece of etiquette , whose significance is entirely conventional . If we choose to consider it important , it is important ; if we choose to consider it of no moment , it is of no moment , It is on our own nerves that it would be intended to produce all its effect . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in anything but the name . Their Minister in Paris would not in consequence of it enjoy a single advantage that he does not now enjoy . lie already has access to the Emperor and to the Minister of Foreign Affairs just as readily as Mr. DAYTON , or any other Ambassador . What he says is listened to , and treated with just as much consideration as if he were in full possession of all the honors of the Plenipotentiary of an acknowledged Power . All that he would gain by " recognition " would be the privilege of bowing to the Emperor on NewYear 's Day , and wishing him the compliments of the season . That it would give the South much moral support we very much doubt . The South has got far past the stage when " moral support " is of much use . Two years ago , when the laurels of Bull Run were still fresh on its brow , the formal concession to it by any European Power of the rank and honors of a nation would have made it wild with exultation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the war is long gone by . The task has now become one of weary drudgery , in which cheering words are of little use . What it wants now is substantial aid , and nothing else . Compliments that would make a soldier 's heart throb with hope and animation on the morning of battle sound rather drearily in his ear when faint and wounded in the evening . A little brandy or a reinforcement is then more welcome than any amount of eulogium . The value of recognition to . the South would , in short , depend altogether on our manner of receiving it  --  and there is not an eye in the South , let it be ever so damaged by bad liquor or late watching , that would not be turned upon us the minute the news of it arrived . If it maddened us into active resentment , it would at once become of immense moment , but no sooner . How we should take it , is a question we need not here discuss . That would depend in a great degree upon the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and security . The only precedent we could look to for guidance has only an apparent value . Great Britain declared war against France for recognizing the independence of the revolted Colonies of North America , mainly because it was well known that the recognition was but a preliminary to lending them active aid . Whether we should declare war against France for simply recognizing the South , though without any intention of helping them , is one of those questions which in a community like ours it is almost impossible to decide beforehand . So much of our policy lies sleeping in the national heart until the moment comes for revealing itself , that he must be a very bold or a very shrewd man who can foretell what the people of the United States will do under any given set of circumstances . The amusing blunders made by the most sagacious politicians both of the North and South before the war as to the manner in which the free States would receive overt acts of hostility on the part of the Secessionists , is a signal warning of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and whenever Louis NAPOLEON recognizes the South , we shall probably be guided in our manner , of treating it by the way in which the public views it at the moment , and the relation it may happen to bear to the situation in the field . But if it ' should be accompanied by an offer of substantial aid to the South , we should of course have no alternative but to meet force by force . The culties of the Mexican enterprise , however , are so far from being over , and the difficulties which France would have now , as she has always had , in sending or maintaining considerable bodies of troops beyond the sea , would almost certainly confine the assistance she might render to the Confederates to th operations of her navy . In a contest of this sort , the war we ar waging with the South would not cause th least embarrassment . We should enter upo it with precisely the same advantages as the rebellion were not raging , and we had ha two years to prepare a large fleet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in opening th blockade , would avail it , which did not furnis it men . Ammunition and provisions it notc riously has in sufficiency ; but the supply c men is running low ; and no diversion in it favor at sea would help it on this point And if we are not a match far France on th ocean , and if after even one year of nave war we could not leave her much in the same condition in which she has twice been loft b , Great Britain , it must be because the condi tions of success in maritime warfare hav been totally changed , and skill , money any sailors , and a huge commercial navy have los all value for Powers who aspire to the empire of the seas .                     