@@739667

txt Not to crush these serpents before their rattles are grown , would be ruinous , " wrote LEE to NV-mum:from , in 1776 , of the Long Island Tories , who avowed an intention of resisting the authority of the Provincial Congress . WASHINGTON concurred , but proceeded with characteristic discretion . He replied to Las : " You can seize upon the persons Of the principals ; they must be so notoriously known that there will be little danger of committing mistakes . " LEE , the historian says , acted up to the letter of these instructions , and , with a vigorous hand , disabled some of the rankest of the species . It seems very probable that similar duties will devolve upon our present authorities . Not only are threats freely made by the Copperhead leaders of resistance to the Conscription bill of Congress , but open violence has already been offered against other laws for the efficiency of the army . The Copperhead chiefs , by secret associations . and public harangues , are doing their utmost to foment and exacerbate a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be a question that if they continue at their work with the same freedom and the same diligence as for the last two months , very many Northern communities will have become so wrought upon by the time the Conscription bill takes practical effect , that they will be fully prepared to resist it by force . This rebellious predisposition , when skilfully managed , is sure to develop into the overt act , unless checked by external means .. There must be a prompt and thorough vindication of the law , or there wilt be scenes of lawlessness and bloodshed here in the North , which will deplorably damage the cause . But ? let WASHINGTON'a wisdom be heeded . Strike at the instigators . These men will take precious good care not themselves to use violence against authority . Not an individual of them will ever be caught in the overt act . They are too wary for that . Their business is simply to make others the instruments of their traitorous designs . They understand perfectly well how to cajole or provoke credulous . or passionate men into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ how to keep themselves well clear from the perils that " do environ The man that meddles with cold iron . " But these prime-movers are really , by far , the most guilty of all engaged in resisting the law . They should be the first marked ; and should be relentlessly dealt with on their very first offence . The law gives abundant authority . It attaches a penalty of fine and imprisonment to the counseling of resistance to a draft , or the counseling not to perform the required military duty , or the counseling a soldier to desert . These Copperheads profess great indignation over these restraints . They have the presumption to style them infringments of their rights of free speech . Of course , they know better than this , for many of them are lawyers . They know perfectly well the rule of universal law , that he who in any wise counsels another to commit an unlawful act , is an accessory in the crime , and liable , to punishment . They might as well plead their right of free speech , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for those civil crimes would not be a thousandth part so disastrous as would be the successful subversions of those military laws in this great national crisis . It not only devolves upon the Government to enforce the law , in its strictest letter , upon these **27;33;TOOLONG is eipial ! ly the . duty of the ? people to form and concentrate public . opinion in support of this action . The fact should never . be . forgotten that , . - under our popular system of Government , the administration , of law depends greatly upon the- popular sentiment for its vigor . This must be especially true of the great exceptional measures , which have sprung . from the exigencies of these times . The Conscription bill  --  which , if effectively carried out , will render the suppression of the rebellion an absolute certainty  --  may yet bear upon our Northern people with a pressure unexampled in all our previous history . The people must be prepared to sustain it patiently and cheerfully . Government can not so prepare them , for Government deals - very little in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ among the people themselves ; in some measure by public journals , but chiefly by associations like Union leagues . These organizations not only promote concurrence of opinion , but they will facilitate concert of action , too , if . it shall be needed . It is one of the best omens of the times that these leagues are multiplying with such rapidity . But let no means of energizing and compacting the loyalty of the North be neglected . The laws must be effectively upheld by the Government , but to that end the Government must be just as effectively upheld by the people . ? If each is true to the other , these plotters of Northern rebellion will soon be incapacitated from all further mischief .                     