@@739638

txt The Emperor 's very admirable discourse , delivered on Sunday last at the ceremony of conferring honors on the most notable of the ' French exhibitors at the London Exhibition , is proclaimed by the " independent and devoted " Press as the great future political programme of the present dynasty . It foreshadows , they say , the longlooked for crowning of the edifice , the finishing stroke to the grand mission of the Bonapartes in France . Unfortunately , there is a reverse to the medul , for experience rises tip to tell us that the Ltinp , , ror is the only man in France who dares thus to talk of liberty , and he scums to use the strange monOpoly as a sort of halt with which to , tantalize his subjects , and to ace how long they will jump after it without murmuring at the length of the string . But the enlightened Litt. erals are not deceived at this new demonstration of imperial purposes ; it precedes too closely the much-dreaded legislative eleetiors , not to suggest the object of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to seeing the political edifice go bareheaded to believe now in its speedy covering . The official paper publishes the " Commissioner scheme , " to which I referred a fortnight ago , and this hasty publication of it is accepted by all as art evidence that the measure is meant to satisfy the suffering workmen in France ; that the Government is doing all in its power to bring the war to an end . The Ministerial Press naturally applaud the measure , and fleclire it to be impossible that the Government of the United States should reject so friendly , so humane and so practicable a proposition ; while the more savage of these papers go further , and declare that if the proposition is rejected , the Confederacy must be recognized at once . And such is the preponderance of abuse over the defense of the Union , that the public mind is thoroughly prepared for , and anticipates a recognition . Read the following paragraph from the Paris money article of the Indelpen , li:nce Beige , and you will see to what point of opposition to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ misrepresentations of the 3finisterial Press 4 ? Yesterday the Bourse was feeble and hesitating . All the stocks had suffered a considerable fall , when the telegraph brought the news of the success of the Confederates at Galveston . Immediately the tendendes of the market were better , and at the close a sensible and general improvement had taken place , on every species of funds . In the future , therefore , we must expect to see the Exchange receive with a rise every success gained by the Confederates . In the beat of its zeal for the rebellion , speculation exaggerates the importance of the successes of the rebels , for the same dispatch which announced the Federal defeat in Texas , announced a Confederate defeat on another point . But the friends of the South , so numerous at Paris , were only able to see the first part of the dispatch . ' - ior'them : the victories of the North . count for nothing . " Whatever answer Mr. SEWARD may make . to the Commissioner 's proposition of M. DlitoeTN Dt Luurs , it is almost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the intermeddling of . the French Government will not stop here .. They will not go to the extremity of an armed intervention , unless invited to it by the attitude of the Democratic party in the North ; but they may be led to a recognition of the South , If , by that . recognition , there is any hope of discouraging the North to the extent of giving up the contest . The position of the French Government may be summed up thus : They desire peace , and are , as near as may be , indifferent as to whether there is a reunion or a final separation between the two sections . To obtain this peace there is be need of addressing themselves to the South , for , since the Emancipation Proclamation of President LINCOLN , the South is obliged to resist either to success or Vt. exhaustion . Neither is it worth while to look to Mr. LINCOLN for concessions , for he , too , is bound to persevere in the putting down of the rebellion . It is , therefore , to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ French Government looks for cooperation in this work , and it is for this reason that whenever Mr. Saulsbury or Mr , Vallandigham rises up or sit , down in Congress , the European telegraph has a tremor of joy , and all the suffering nations are made to hear the joyous fact in the least possible space of time . It is for this that every movement of the Democratic party is watched with the same interest as a mariner watches the needles of a barometer , and that for the French the important part of each dispatch from America is that which relates to what we have a right to call treason in the Nerth . The debates in the French Senate on the Address to the throne , commenced yesterday , and only extended to the Italian question ; that of the United States and Mexico will be discussed today or to-morrow . You will see that on the question of Rome the Emperor declared , through his Minister . M. Bit ' , AULT , that both Rome and Turin now refused the terms offered by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Majesty still believed there was a way of reconciling the two parties so as to secure the independence of the Pope and the independence of Italy , and that he was willing to wait and work still longer for this desirable object . And this is the whole of the Imperial policy on this important question .                     