@@739571

txt The Democrats of Utica had a " time " on Thursday evening over the result of the election , and Mr. SEYMOUR being in the city , was called out for a speech . A synopsis is thus given in the Utica Herald : " His address was mostly congratttlatory of the fact of his election . He thanked the electors for their verdict on the aspersions that had been cast on his principles and loyalty . The decision of the ballotbox he regarded as a sufficientjustification of his antecedents . The victory had been won not alone by the votes of democrats , but by those of conservative men of all parties . It was due largely to the letters of soldiers who had written home , entreating their friends to support the Democracy . The victory would carry joy through the whole nation . From this time henceforth it would be seen there is a great Union party all through the South , who desire to cooperate with a party they know to be ready to welcome them back into the Union . The success @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ position of years ago , when the Constitution was the supreme law , and the laws were impartially administered . Henceforth the laws were to be obeyed , and constitutional authority respected . The Democracy would offer no opposition to the legal actions of the President . It was not their intention to obstruct any constitutional measures of the Administration ; on the contrary , it would be sustained in every constitutional demand for the prosecution of the war . There must be no more higher laws , ' but only the law of the Federal compact . He denied the charge that the Democratic party were not loyal to the Government . They opposed the Government only because it failed to fulfill the promises with which it assumed the reins of power . " A synopsis of the speech . given in the Telegraph , is as follows : " Hon. Holum SEYMOUR was called for with all the vigor with which nearly 2,000 throats . could utter simultaneously the name of SEYMOUR . The Governor soon appeared , and though still laboring from hoarseness , which he apologized for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Republican friends were troubled that way , he spoke about half an hour , with all his accustomed energy . Among other things which the late elections have taught , was the lesson that laws are to be respected , the Constitution preserved , and the authorities obeyed . There must be no higher law-ism . The country is to be brought back to the principles established by the founders of the Government . The fears entertained by some , that the Democracy were disloyal , hre groundless . We have been sneeringly called ' Union-savers , ' and other opprobrious epithets have been applied . No , we love the Union , and , instead of weakening and embarrassing the Government , we intend to sustain it in all its constitutional acts . It has failed to carry out the promises with which it started , therefore , it has been rebuked . When the grand new s reaches all parts of the Union , new confidence will spring up , and new hopes will animate the people . You have saved the country  --  our country  --  and it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Respect for the laws will be restored : the integrity of the Constitution be maintained . We will re-erect the structure of the Union upon the great principles our fathers established . Renewed vigor , glory and greatness will spring from the elections just passed , and we will sing hosannas over the rescue of our land . "                     