@@739787

txt We have looked with curiosity to see into what corner of refuge the English secession Press would creep to escape from the effect of the crushing blows which the cause they sustain has recently received . It was perhaps to be expected that they would lay hold of the desperate " last ditch " utterances of some of the Southern leaders and insist that the Southern people were not cast down or discouraged or disunited by the victorious progress of our arms , but that they " rallied with the sterner resolution the more gloomy their prospects became . " They had not yet heard of the crowds of deserters from the rebel armies which fill the mountains ; the admissions of Southern papers that the rebel troops which crossed the Mississippi were lost to the Confederacy ; or their lamentations over the state of things in Mississippi , where the people are anxious to give up the struggle . They had not heard the cry for peace from North Carolina , nor seen scathing review of the abundant promise and scant performance of Secession . Probably @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they had , for the determination to see all things by rebel lights and through Pro-Slavery spectacles . would inevitably prevent them from giving any weight to these multifarious signs of dissolution . But nothing could show more clearly to what straits these sympathizers with rebellion are driven , than the final refuge which the London Times in all gravity puts forward for the rebels . It announces : 4 , In case it should appear that they have no chance on land against the vast hosts which the North may be able to command , they have begun to organize a new means of offence , and are prepared , like the Athenians of old , to abandon the land and wage an interminable warfare on the sea . A Virginian Navy Company has been organized , and the stock subscribed , by which the Confederacy will send ships to sea so long as they own a foothold on Southern soli , and prey upon Northern commerce , without the chance of receiving any similar retaliation . " We have no doubt of the ardent desire of the rebels to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of our enemies in England that they should do so . But hitherto the vessels with which the rebels have done work of this sort , if built by English hands , have been paid for by rebel cotton . Where will the means come from to put afloat this navy when it plainly appears that the rebels " have no chance on land " against our armies ? No doubt it is highly advantageous to England to have our commerce preyed upon in this way , but does she propose not only to build , but also to pay for the ships which are to do it ? If not , something more is required than the formation of a Virginian Navy Company , or even the subscription of its stock . That will not build the ships . Cotton is the only thing that will do that , unless , indeed , England proposes to pay for them her . self ; and as to cotton , Mr. may say what he will about the capture of the Southern seaports " not endangering the loss of a pound @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that if it can not be got out of the country before we capture the forts , it is lost to them unless they buy it from us . None of these considerations seem to occur to the London Times . This wildest of schemes is to it perfectly reasonable  --  nay , even glorious , for it compares it with the retreat of the Athenians to Salamis . It could hardly have made a more inapt comparison . The Athenians were masters of the sea . They were warring for civilization against the flood of Persian barbarism which threatened to drown all that Greece has given to the world . Overborne by numbers upon land , they left for a time their homes , betaking themselves to wooden walls and an inaccessible position , that they might the better carry on the war . The proposition , it seems , is to put afloat corsairs , which shall never fight , but whose entire success shall be only to escape from armed antagonists , and to plunder and burn peaceful and unarmed merchantmen . This is to be done not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of their success is gone . Perhaps it is hardly to be wondered at that the English abettors of the South , having taken up the side of Slavery against Freedom , should now take the side of piracy against commerce . They are teaching the world every day the old lesson that those who abandon principle for interest enter upon a downward road , which leads to unknowi and ever-despairing abysses of shame .                     