@@740099

txt One of the most splendid and satisfactory political triumphs known to the history of this country , was that achieved in the State of Ohio last year over VALLANDIGHAM , in which the Union majority mounted to a hundred thousand . Its value consisted not simply in the fact that Joss BROUGU was elected and VALLANDIGHAU defeated  --  not merely in the fact that the principles of the Union party gained a local and temporary ascendency ? but the main and permanent value of the triumph consisted in the magnificent moral power , in the all-pervading and dominating patriotism , which was exhibited by the rolling up of that stupendous majority . It is the exhibition of such a moral power upon a national arena that we desire in the forthcoming Presidential election . It is not enough that we defeat VALLANDIGHAM 'S candidate  --  the man whose nomination in the Chicago convention was made unanimous upon motion of VALLANDIGHAM  --  the man whom VALLANDIGHAM , though pretending to be miffed for a moment with his letter of acceptance , is now laboring to have elected . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as VALLANDIGHAM himself was repudiated by the great and patriotic State of Ohio . The principles of VALLANDIGHAM , as enunciated in the Chicago platform , must be spurned and scorned by the Unionloving millions of the nation , as the identical principles were last year scorned and scouted by the hundreds of thousands of Ohio . Suppose VALLANDIGHAM had been elected in Ohio through the carelessness or indifference of the people  --  and suppose his traitorous principles had obtained control of the organized powers of the State  --  who can think without dread and horror of the result ? In that event , would the forty thousand Ohio veterans under SHERMAN have been at this moment bearing our victorious banner into the heart of Georgia ? Or is it not almost certain that the Revolutionary Copperheads , with the reins of power in their hands , would have brought about a state of affairs in Ohio that would have demanded the recall of those veterans , and thus have brought confusion upon our arms and disaster to our cause ; while it would have reddened with blood and blackened with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ North ? Let those who doubt it , recall how narrowly we escaped anarchy in this city and State , and how we did actually have to bring troops from the Army of the Potomac to restore and maintain order ; because we had elected SEYMOUR for our Governor ? a Copperhead of far less malignity and far greater timorousness than VALLANDIGHAM , and one with whom McCLELLAN claims to be more nearly identified . The very thought of anything like an outbreak on the part of the Copperheads of Ohio was utterly crushed by the result of last year 's election ? by the moral power of the overwhelming vote for the Union candidate and party  --  and because it showed the futility and hopelessness of any attempt at revolutionary , violence . The grand triumph in Ohio was achieved by systematic , persistent , courageous and earnest work . The patriotic people of the State appreciated the vital importance of the election , and , they acted accordingly . Even before the election , they felt confident that their candidate would easily be elected . But this was not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . They wanted , and we want , to give an impressive moral grandeur to the triumph of Union principles . Let every man , then , who appreciates the world-wide and everlasting significance of the questions now at stake , labor for a victory worthy of the cause during the four brief weeks that now remain .                     