@@739821

txt JUDGE SELDEN AND LEGAL TENDER . - Some of our Democratic contemporaries affect to be in great tribulation on account of Judge SELDEN 'S opinion against the constitutionality of the act of Congress making " greenbacks " a legal tender . They seem to think that friends of the Administration can not vote for him . We do not see why not . To our minds , while we do not concur in the soundness of that opinion , the fact that he gave it , under all the circumstances of the case , against all the political temptations the other way , proves his preeminent fitness for the Bench . It is much more important to have Judges who will be independent and honest in the discharge of their duties than to have men whose opinions concur with those of any political party . Practically , moreover , Judge SELDEN 'S opinion is of very little consequence . The Court of Appeals has affirmed the constitutionality of the legal tender clause , and this is conclusive as to the sentiment and position of the State of New-Yorks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ State authorities upon this point . Our Democratic friends ought to vote for Judge SELDEN , not only because he has given an opinion on this subject which agrees with theirs , but because he'has proved his complete independence of party control . It is a little curious , by the way , how little importance the public attached to this control ' versy from the very beginning . When our local Court decided that greenbacks were not legal tender in this State for thwiyponof debts contracted before the passage of th ( act , many persons supposed there was to be s terrible convulsion in the business of the country , and that all holders of mortgages that were overdue would instantly exact their payment in gold . Nothing of the sort took place . Nobody cared a fig for the decision . Both debtors and creditors concurred in treating it with utter indifference . The great body of the people knew that the issue of paper money and making it a legal tender was , under the circumstances of the case , a matter of absolute necessity  --  and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ went on exactly as usual . There is an instinctive common sense in the public that decides legal questions which affect great public interests , much more promptly and with even higher authority , than our Courts of law .                     