@@739957

txt The presence here of the Governors of Pennsylvania . Ohio , Indiana , Illinois , Iowa and Wisconsin , has reference to the defence of those States against rebel raids . They ate urging upon the President the necessity for a call of two hundred thousand six months ' volunteers for special service . Four of the above-named Western States propose to furnish onehalf . These troops , if raised , are to be placed along the Ohio River , and will be used to perform duties which are now performed by efficient and experienced regiments . The President has expressed himself favorable to the proposition . THE BUTTERNUT COPPERHEADS OF THE NORTHWEST . Information received here confirms suspicions of wide-spread conspiracy in the Northwestern States to inaugurate armed resistance to the Government . The object of this organization , of which we have frequently heard so much , is to accomplish VALLANDIGHAM 'S idea , and to force the country into compromise with the Southern rebellion . Crawford County , Ohio , the headquarters of a gang of Butternuts , has been placed under martial law @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be put in the same position . Ohio , Southern Indiana , and Southern Illinois contain the principal portion of these Incipient rebels , whose leaders only await a disaster to the national arms to give signal of revolt . BARBARISM OF THE ENEMY . The *Hedged inhumanity of the rebels in the treatment of prisoners of war , and of dead and wounded soldiers on the battle-field , has been made by'Mr . DEMING , of the House Military Committee , a subject of extensive inquiry . A report embracing the first year and a half of the war is complete , and will soon be published . The facts presented are heartsickening and shocking to humanity . SICK SOLDIERS SENT TO WASHINGTON . The hospitals of the Army of the Potomac are being cleared of their inmates . The streets of Washington were thronged to-day with ambulances filled with sick from the front . GEN . WILSON 'S NOMINATION . The nominations of Cols . RUCKER , Noma and Aunt were postpened in executive session to-day . An animated discussion sprung up over the nomination of Gen. WILSON , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Senate adjourned . His confirmation has been made a matter of special request by Gen. GRANT . AMENDMENTS TO THE NATIONAL BANK BILL . About forty amendments to the National Bank Bill have been adopted by the Senate Finance Commit- , tee . The right of States to tax National Banks and to fix the rate of interest is recognized . Many of the amendments are in direct opposition to the views of Mr. CHASE and will meet with much opposition in the Senate . STEAM COMMUNICATION WITH BRAZIL . The further consideration of the proposed line of steamers from New-York to Brazil has been suspended until certain information required by the Senate Post-office Committee can be obtained from the Postmaster-General . THE ILLINOIS SHIP CANAL MEASURE . The Illinois delegation in Congress , in view of the present condition of the finances of the country , and at the urgent request of Eastern men , has agreed to the postponement of the Illinois Ship Canal measure until the next session of Congress , deeming it not safe to press it to a vote at this time . Great inconvenience @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , calling forth remonstrances from Government officers . In fact , official papers , accounts , and vouchers for large sums or . money have been detained and sent to the Dead-letter office , because the words " Official Business " were not written upon the envelopes with the names of the officers . sending them , or because the writers were private citizens . Every Department has suffered in this way . To remedy this difficulty , Senator COLLAMER has rknorted , from the Post-office Committee , a bill upon the old system , allowing all communications to the heads of departments and bureaus and their Chief Clerks to pass free through the mails . TILE 10.40 LOAN . The subscriptions to the 10-40 loan reported at the Treasury Department to-day , amount to $2,110,000 . THE TELEGRAPH TO RUSSIA . The efforts of Mr. COLLINS o enlist Members of Congress and other prominent parties in his great enterprise of a telegraphic connection between Europe and America are , we understand , meeting with encouraging suebess . This subject has previously received the attention of Congress , in which body @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were made three years ago  --  one by Senator LATHAM , of California , the other by Mr. JouN CootiRANX , of New York . Since the date of those reports , Mr. COLLINS has spent a large portion of the intervening time in pushing his enterprise , mainly ' in Europe , where he has succeeded in not only interesting a considerable portion of the mercantile community in his project , but in enlisting the patronage of Governments also . The fact of the valuable conces , ions , made to him by . England and Russia of the right of way through their dominions In the northwestern portion of this Continent ' has already been made public . These concessions are valuable as indicating the favor with which the enterprise is looked upon in other countries . They are valuable also in another point of view , for they offer such inducements to capitalists as will , it is believed , insure the speedy completion of the overland line to St. Petersburgn and London , with a very moderate degree of encouragement from the United States Government . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and is to be owned and cnntroiled by American capital . For these reasons alone , therefore , it would seem to have peculiar claims upon the attention of the American public , as well as upon the favor of the Government . A large portion of the Russian line , which the wires of Mr. CoLuNs are to connect , is already finished , and the work is now being rapidly pushed on at both ends , namely , from Irkouska. in Eastern Siberia , to which point the wires are already working from St. Petersburgh , a distance of four thodsand miles . and from the Amoor westwardly , to meet the Siberian wires . The patties who have undertaken the construction of Mr. COLLINS ' portion of the line . that is , the connecting link between liniope and America , via lienringis Straits , are gentlemen of experience in telegraph matters . It was their enterprise , which , of tan PApitie lin ? d at a tuna when other men shrunk from it , and enlisting the sympathies of the Government in its behalf , carried @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the warn . Ingo of friends as well as capitalists , to let it alone . Tha fact that these eminently practical as well as energetic individuals have nut their shoulders to the enterprise of Mr. Comes , is an assurance that the project will eventually be accomplished . But as the work is eminently national in its scope , and as , moreover , mach time must necessarily be consumed in its construction before any returns can be made for the vast outlays its proprietors must submit to , it would seem that Government ought to find in the enterprise case eminently worthy of its fostering patronage . The small subsidy allowed the line to the Pacific , has , we are told , been paid back over and over again every year , through the facilities of the line enjoyed by the Government in its correspondence ! with the Pacific posts . Similar facilities , only quadrupled lit value , will be the result of the completion of the Russo-American line . proportions , l ' a ail undertakingsof this nature , so vast in its so full of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Government will but show a prudent regard to the future , as well as a generous spirit , in extending a helping hand . Russia and Great Britain , in granting the right of way through their territories , besides according other valuable privileges , for the purpose of encouraging the enterprise , have therein set an example which our Government , it is to be hoped , will not hesitate to follow . NOMINATIONS CONFIRMED . The Senate to-day confirmed the following nominations : Samuel C. Sholls , John R. French and James L. Rtdgely , to be Direct Tax Commissioners for North Carolina ; W tlliam Kellogg , of Illinois , to be Minister Resident at Guatemala ; Major Nathan W. Brown to be Deputy Paymaster-General United States Army ; Joseph H. Eaton to be Paymaster , with rank of Maior ; Solomon P. McCurdy to be Judge of the District Court of the United States for the District of Utah ; George P. Wood , to be Consul at Muscat ; John G. Hineley , to be Consul-General at Nassau , N. P. ; Geo . C. Taylor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , of Nashville , Tenn. , to be Assessor of Internal Revenue for the Second District of Tennessee ; Wm . Aisop to be Direct Tax Commissioner for the District of Florida ; George W. Decosta , of Kansas , and S. W. Pomeroy , of Pennsylvania , to be additional Paymasters ; and the following as to be Commissaries of Subsistence : John H. Alley , of Massachusetts ; Wm . C. Thome , Thirty-fifth Massachusetts ; Jacob Cholwelt , of New-York ? Levi N. Smith , of Massachusetts ; Wademer Cursch , of Maryland ; Charles H. Davis , of Massachusetts ; Sere . B. F. Weeks , FirstConnecticut Artillery ; Lieut . Noah P. Ives , Eighth Connecticut . 