@@739309

txt Fears have been felt and expressed by citizens who have watched the developments of popular feeling in Kentucky , that Gen. FREMONT 'S proclamation would have a bad effect on the Union sentiment in that State . The fact that the Louisville Journal has strongly condemned the proclamation seems to confirm this view of its probable effect . But we shall wait for a full review of the case by the Unionists of Kentucky before we give their position . They are not , in our opinion , so tender-footed as their leaders and organs . The past has shown this most . clear-. ly . We recognize the unwavering loyalty of the Louisville Journal ? we acknowledge its matchless zeal and ability in the cause of the Union , and in ? opposition to the secession heresy and consequent rebellion . But we remember that the Journal was vehement in its denunciations of President LINCOLN for his call for 75,000 volunteers to suppress the rebellion . Yet this was after Sumter had fallen , and Major ANDERSON , a gallant . Kentuckian , had been obliged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rebel flag . Surely , if the Union was ever to fight for existence , then it was time to begin . But the Journal did not think so . Again , it . was supposed that Mr. CRITTENDEN , in the Senate last Winter , represented the Union men of Kentucky . But he strenuously opposed " coercion . " He was for the Union ; but would let rebels destroy it rather than ' , ' go to war with them . The people reviewed the matter later . Mr. CRITTENDEN became a candidate before them for a seat in the lower House . And he and all his Union compeers had to advance their standard of patriotism in order to get abreast with their constituents . They were elected by immense inajorities , but had to pledge themselves to vote all the millions of money and all the men the Government might need to suppress the rebellion . That . was Kentucky Unionism , in June . We have no reason to believe the sentiment has grown weaker since . It seems to us to have grown a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as some leaders suppose , but strong meat . They are all at the fighting point , and resolved to fight . to a purpose , if the light must come . To such men , FREMONT 'S proclamation should eontai II no discouragement . It only pronounces the rights of Union men , and the doom of traitors . What right have men to the protection of their property by the Government , when they are engaged in deadly attempt to overthrow the Government ? Does not a traitor forfeit all right to the protection of law and Constitution , by defying both ? In what respect is a Union man better off than a traitor , if the Government gives like protection to each ? If the Union men of Kentucky are compelled to go to war with the rebels , to chastise their insolence and outrages  --  what sense in shooting the traitors , and using all the care and power of the Government to save to the villains the undisturbed enjoyment of their property ? is there not a tremendous absurdity in this idea of war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the rebels , and experience their tender mercies in war , and they will surpass FREMONT in the vigor and ecope of their campaigning . Snell at least is our opinion . We would have preferred to see a different view taken of t ; en . FREM ONT 'S proclamation by the Louisville Journal ; but it is a noticeable fact that while the Journal condemns and the Courier at Louisville ( secession orga- ) frantically assails it , neither paper makes any special objection to that feature of it which looks to the instant liberation of the slaves of rebel masters . All tacitly concede that such men have no right under the law and Constitution , when they are in arms against both .                     