@@740278

txt The Louisville Journal is very emphatic in rebuking the " Radicals " of the North for meddling with the negroes of the Southern States , and in exhorting them to " look at home and spend a little more of their humanity there in a practical way and a little less of it in a cheap way at a great distance from home . " It charges them with publishing exaggerated reports of the cruel treatment of negroes by the whites of the South , and adds : " Thus these radical enemies of order , peace and industry  --  these enemies of the freed negro  --  these old enemies of the Union  --  these people who have so long cursed the constitution  --  ply their evil trade and keep up their evil practices . They are to-day the bitterest enemies of ANDREW JOHNSON 'S policy , and the bitterest toed to the heartfelt harmony and permanent repose of the country . They let slip no effort to irritate and exasperate the sections , to exaggerate little things  --  provided they tend to keep alive geographical antagonisms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and thus propagate error which always leads , sooner or later , to disastrous consequences . They are the efficient and only allies of the Secessionists and Iteactionista of the South  --  precisely what they have always been . " Beyond all doubt , there is a class of persons in the North who are justly obnoxious to these censures . But the Journal must bear in mind that more denunciation of them does no good . It only aggravates the evil , and aids in stirring up the strife and animosity at which they aim . The whites of the South have this matter within their own control . The negroes are with them , and , to all intents and purposes , under their control . No considerable portion of the people of the North desire to have anything to do with them . We have quite enough to attend to here at home , and the great mass of our people are quite as much disposed to attend to it as the Journal can be to have us . But it must also be remembered that the negroes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ position , ? one that places them in new relations with the people of both sections . We of the North should have been very glad to stay at home all the time , but the misconduct of the Southern people rendered it necessary to forego that wish and to give a good deal more of our attention than was at all pleasant , to matters in the Southern States . While there , attending to the rebellion , it was impossible to avoid " meddling " with a great many matters which belonged , perhaps , more properly to the South than to us , ? slavery and the negroes among them . That action on our part set these negroes free and made it incumbent on us to guarantee them protection in their freedom and in the enjoyment of the rights and immunities that belong to them . The Journal must not call it " meddling " for us now to seek the fulfillment of that guarantee , ? or if it does , it must not hope to dismiss the matter from public thought and action by so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ good reason for believing that the personal and civil rights of these negroes , who have been freed by the action of the National Government , are quite safe in their hands , we shall not willingly surrender the task of " meddling " with their affairs . The South has this question wholly in its own hands . It can disarm the " fanatics " of the North utterly , and deprive their efforts for stirring up sectional strife of all effect . It will attain this object by taking prompt and effectual measures to secure to the uegroes good treatment , to give them the right to appear in civil courts , and there seek redress of their wrongs , to educate them , to promote thrift and industry among them , and to prepare them for the responsible duties which their sudden enfranchisement has devolved upon them . The moment the South is seen to be doing this heartily and willingly , that moment it will be left in their hands , and all the " fanatics " in the North could not take it out , if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the South will not do this , the nation MUST . It can not be left undone , and that able and influential paper will accomplish much more toward the object it seeks by stimulating the people of the South to their duty in this respect , than by rebuking and denouncing those of the North . Its influence is much greater in Kentucky than in Massachusetts ,  --  and the real work it has to do is quite as " near home " as that which it commends to " fanatics " in the Northern States .                     