@@739674

txt A letter to the Mobile News gives the following regarding affairs at Charleston , and the measures taken to repel our forces : The orders just issued by Gen. RIPLEY , who is the Brigadier commanding this district of Gen. BEAURE ? GARD 'S Department , are significant . No more blockade running steamers are to pass Forts Sumter or Moultrie by night ; if they succeed in running the gauntlet of the Feaeral squadron , they must anchor until daylight outside and under the guns of the forts , and t eport by a small boat at Fort Sumter . Every channel in the harbor bristles with torpedoes , and woe to the hostile vessel that tries to pass in , without a pilot familiar with the position of the submerged and slumbering thunderbolts . By another general order all furloughs are revoked and absentees recalled to their commands . The hospitals are to be immediately cleared , and all the preparations which denote the expectations of an action at any moment are going on with great energy . The struggle , when it comes , will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the shock of tremendous forces , the relative powers of which are yet untried . The long-mooted question of the fighting value of ships against batteries will be brought lo a test more conclusive than any to which human warfare has yet subjected it . In other words . the Monitor iron-clads , which the Federals claim to be the most impenetrable vessels ever constructed , will necessarily eome within point-blank range of the most numerous and powerful batteries that ever yet have been used in a single engagement . We have good reason , too , to believe that our guns will be managed with admirable tact and precision . The more important batteries are manned by the South Carolina regulars , for whom the credit is claimed , and I think justly , of being the most expert and practical heavy artillerists in the Confederate army . The forts are well officered , and Gen. RIPLEY , who has made the study of heavy ordnance a specialty for years , and whose excellence in that particular branch of military knowledge is an admitted fact , will himself take command @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appearance . Ms scarcely possible that any floating thing can breast unharmed the concentrated storm of heavy metal from the guns of Sumter , Moultrie , ; and Battery Bee , the three principal works commanding the throat of the harbor . Nor can the peril of running the gauntlet be diminished by any attempt to pass under the : cover of darkness , as has been the case at Vicksburgh and New-Orleans . So tortuous and intricate is the channel leading to the forts that the most experienced pilots of the harbor would not venture to bring in a vessel by night , under the conditions which the enemy can not escape , namely , without a light or a landmark to guide the way . Even when the blockade-running vessels leave the harbor , it is always necessary to aid their exit by previously arranged lights ( shaded ) and signals ; so that it is reasonably certain that the attacking iron-clads must either enter in open day , or incur the immense hazard of getting aground upon one of the most treacherous bars on the Southern coast , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ keel . But if , perchance , ' despite of mazy channel , multiplied torpedoes , and the combined batteries of the forts , some of the nine Monitors should chance to get into port , they would still have to encounter a concentrated fire from other batteries , which . as the Northern papers have learned from contrabands , " line the shores of the interior of the harbor . " And then will come the " tug of war " which will determine the possession of the honored old city . The captured gunboat Isaac P. Smith , now called the Steno , has been repaired , and is now in good fighting trim . She will be the flag ship of Commoaore INGRAHAM.                     