@@740139

txt The President 's Message is brief , yet very comprehensive and explicit . It presents a satisfactory view of our foreign relations and of all the great departments of our internal administration . The exhibit thus officially authenticated , may well inspire the people with new confidence , though they were already prepared for its general outlines . The President shows in a very forcible way the undiminished strength of the country in respect to adult males , the first necessity in war . In spite of the havoc made by battle and camp diseases during this mighty war , the number of voters at the last election in the loyal portion of the country , he declares , is greater than was the number in 1860 , by 145,000 , without including the ninety thousand soldiers who could not vote , or the largely augmented population in the Territories . This is a. remarkable fact . Nothing like it , we believe , can be found in the previous annals of the world . Of course this supply of the drain made by the war has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ make the increase of strength any the less positive . How different , in this respect , is the condition of the Confederacy , as presented in the late Message of JEFF . DAvis The rebel leader directly admitted a most serious diminution of fighting material , and made this a strong point in his bold suggestions respecting the expediency of obtaining soldiers from the servile population . The prime want of the rebellion  --  that which , if nothing else , must in due time bring ruin to it  --  is the want of able-bodied men whereby to keep its armies up to a capacity for resistance . The Richmond correspondent of the London Times , though committed to the rebellion by every prejudice , and writing under all the restraint of the rebel capital , did not hesitate . in one of his late letters , to declare that this deficiency , if the war should continue , must sooner or later bring the South to a condition of helplessness . What a volume of meaning is contained in this simple showing by the President that the North is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weaker . What stronger incentive could be presented for our perseverance in the war until the rebellion shall sink , and the National Government , with its invigorating power , be reestablished throughout the length of the land . The most salient feature in the Message is the emphatic declaration of the President that he recognizes but one single condition for peace  --  and that , the return of rebels to their allegiance . He says : " They can at any time have peace simply by laying down their arms , and submitting to the national authority under the Constitution . " The President neither insists upon , nor looks for , any stipulation in advance in respect to the abandonment of slavery . His only claim is for an abandonment of armed resistance . This makes good precisely what we have contended was the true construction of the famous missive , " To whom it may concern . " It puts beyond further dispute the President 's absolute singleness of purpose , and his determination to maintain the war solely on a constitutional basis for constitutional ends . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that he will not attempt either to retract or modify the Emancipation Proclamation . Yet in this he is perfectly consistent . That proclamation was a war measure , authorized by the war power involved ill thelduty prescribed to the Executive by the Constiturion , to enforce the laws . Its operative force must continue while the war lasts . When the war ceases , itself must cease as a war measure . It can have no further continuing effect , though the effect already consummated , whatever the courts may decide that to be , can not be undone , and must remain unchanged . The President holds to the Proclamation in just the right manner . He treats it as an instrument for war , but in no way interposes it against peace . The rebels can get peace at any time without touching it . All that is required of them is that they shall in good faith bow to the Constitution . But the President , nevertheless , holds to the civil necessity of purging the nation from the evil which has been proved so damaging to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ slavery throughout the land , and makes a fervent appeal to the minority in the present House of Representatives to permit the question to be submitted to the States for Bitch action upon it as their legislatures may see fit to take . We most earnestly hope that this appeal will be received in the same liberal spirit in which it is made . Though the minority of the present House may not personally like the proposed amendment , yet it is only the initiative they are asked to join in . The Constitution makes it the part of Congress only to propose constitutional amendments . The final responsibility concerning their adoption or rejection does not rest with it , but with the State Legislatures . All that is asked is , that these immediate representatives of the people should have an opportunity to carry out the will of their constituents , one way or the other , upon this mighty question . Surely , nothing could be more anti-democratic than to refuse the people this opportunity to declare their will in the way provided by the Constitution . This refusal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would be sure to propose the amendment . The only effects of the refusal would be to make injurious delay , and to bring new popular odium on the party whose representatives should thus seek to baulk the popular will . The President renews his liberal offer of amnesty to the rebels , but this time accompanies it with a significant intimation that " the time may come , probably will come , when public duty shall demand that it be closed . " The public mind of the North will receive this language with satisfaction . There is a limit beyond which clemency loses its character of magnanimity and sinks into weakness . That limit is nearly reached , in the dealings of our Government toward persistent rebels . The time has nearly come when expedients which have not yet been applied in any serious way should be visited upon the seat of the rebellion in all their rigor . There is no lack of human precedent , and , what is infinitely more , there is an unquestionable divine one . The first man who made fratricidal war was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the face of the earth . It would be a fit retribution for all men who persist in the same crime .                     