@@739899

txt We copied , on Tuesday , from the Toronto Globe , a very temperate analysis Gf the law of the Chesapeake case , in which the writer says , speaking of the crew : " Having got the men back , the question remains , what is to be done with them ? Their fate must , to a great extent , depend upon their character . If they acted under a duly authorized commission from JEFF . Davis , they can not be treated as pirates . Bat if they were not commissioned , then . they must suffer the Penalty which attaches to their crime . It matters little practically , whether they killed the engineer of the Chesapeake in self-defence , or whether they murdered him in cold blood , the mere fact of an unauthorized seizure of the vessel is the main point in the case . It was a capital offence , an act of piracy , and all our interests as British subjects demand that the perpetrators should be punished . It is not a Question with us as between North @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . All we have to care for , is the-vindication of our own law . " This is all very true . The question for the British authorities is , simply and solely , whether the seizure of the vessel was or was not made under the orders and personal direction of an officer commissioned by JEFFERSON DAVIS . If it was not , then it was an act of piracy , committed on board an American ship , and they ought either to be tried for it , and dealt with according to law , by the Nova Scotian Courts , or else delivered to us . If it was , we have , of course , nothing to say , except what we have always said , by way of protest against the concession of belligerent fights on the sea to a Power which has not yet been able to fit out a single vessel-ofwar in its own ports . But , as between us and the Confederacy , it makes no difference whatever whether the pirates were , regularly commissioned or not . The killing of the Second @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and:the volleys fired at the Captain were an attempt at murder , and they are both punishable as murder , whether the captors of the ship were pirates or soldiers . The Chesapeake was not a fighting ship  --  the Captain and crew were non-combatants , and made no attempt at resistance . The Second Engineer was slaughtered simply because he refused to work the engines , and the Captain 's life was attempted apparently in sheer wantonness . The perpetrators of these deeds are , therefore , both by our laws and the laws of war , liable to punishment as criminals whenever we can lay hands on them ; and if they return into the Confederacy , we are entitled to ask either for their delivery to us or their punishment by the rebels themselves . If these demands are not complied with , we are entitled to retaliate . If we do not make them , we virtually concede to SEMMES , MAFFIT and all the rebel rovers , the right to murder the crews of the prizes they capture , or spare them at their option @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Engineer of the Chesapeake , they will justify the Alabama or Florida ' in throwing American sailors overboard whenever their presence seems likely to embarrass their captors , or to necessitate a stronger guard than can be spared . We sincerely trust that our Government has no intention of even tacitly sanctioning such monstrous doctrines . The killing of an unarmed man , especially if he he a noncombatant , whether ashore or afloat , is just as much murder in time of war as in time of peace . And the status of the murderer does not in the smallest degree change the character of the act . We hope this point . in the case will be brought prominently forward in any discussions which may arise out of it between the authorities on both sides ; so far the press has taken no notice of it .                     