@@740083

txt Old BEN WADE is on the stump for the Union cause and candidates . He made a strong and telling speech at Meadville , Pennsylvania , on Saturday last , of which we published an outline yesterday . He sees the importance of the crisis and will do his part toward meetinu  --  it . We are glad of it , for his own sake and for that of the country . We are sorry he has made his task somewhat more difficult than it ought to have been , by exciting prejudices against President LINCOLN which he must now remove . He took occasion , when the prospects of the Union cause seemed darkest , to deal It a blow from which nothing but its inherent strength enabled it to recover . He furnished the Copperheads with powder and ball for the whole campaign . Giving him all the credit which he may claim for the sincerity and purity of his motives , the act was one of supreme folly , and calculated to do infinite mischief to the country . But we are glad to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and ready to face the bullets he himself supplied . We have no doubt he will render most effective service to the Union cause . HENRY WINTER Davis has not yet taken the stump for the Union candidates , nor do we hear that he intends to do so . He is entitled to all the praise which Mr. WADE bestows upon him for his early efforts to stem the tide of Pro-Slavery aggression and to rid his own State of the accursed " institution . " He is able , fearless , and eloquent . But a man may easily mar the labor of a life-time by a single injudicious and faithles act . He may , in some crisis of his country 's fate , yield to some selfish impulse of personal resentment or ambition , and so betray the very cause for which he has made sacrifices and seemed even willing to die . HENRY WINTER DAY 'S has come very near doing this very thing . If his blows at the candidate  --  the only candidate and representative ? of the Union cause had taken full effect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ calculated and intended to ' produce , the whole power of the Government would have passed into the hands of a party pledged to betray the cause in which he had achieved all his successes and won all his laurels . But the cause is stronger than any man , and it sweeps before it , like chaff before the whirlwind , every man who , from whatever motive , seeks to oppose its progress . We hope yet to hear of Air . DAVIS in the field where he belongs  --  doing service for the Union and the cause of Freedom . Nor ought he to be content to reach the ground only in time to join in the cheers that will hail the most glorious and beneficent victory ever achieved on this continent . ?                     