@@739322

txt The negotiation of the first installment of the great National Loan , renders Mr. CHASE 'S role for the future a very easy one . Being entirely relieved , of all anxiety about raising ' money , his whole attention-can now be given : to its economical expenditure . The negotiation was a crowning success in more- , ways than one . It completely established confidence in the Government ; rendered it respectable at home and abroad ; gave full assurance of the defeat of the rebellion , and was ' the first important step toward a renewed commercial activity . With a strong Government , all the interests of society take care of themselves . Individuals can embark in full confidence upon their customary enterprises . All our flagging industries , consequently , have been again set in motion . Fortunately , that devoted to agriculture has been amply rewarded by abundant crops , and by an active foreign , as well as domestic , demand . A foundation is thus laid for manufactures and commerce , both of which are beginning to assume something like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of work in the great manufacturing districts , helped to a considerable extent by Government orders . The volume of trade is at present much less than in former years , as the most rigid economy is being everywhere practiced ; but everything is fast getting into a healthy condition . We have already reached a point from which every change must be development and improvement . We long ago discounted on the effects of the civil war . We have lost the trade of the rebel States , and are moving forward with that of the loyal States alone . Its loss has not impaired , apparently , in the least , the financial strength of the Government , nor to any very great extent , that of the nation . It was no small advantage to pass through the ordeal forced upon us , and to demonstrate by experience what could be reasonably inferred , but which for a time was very difficult for the public to believe , that we could-maintain ' the vigor of Government and our material prosperity in the very height of a civil war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but advices from abroad assure us that we shall have for the coming year an active demand for our grain crops . This is most important , should cotton not go forward . Our exports of breadstuffs for the present year will exceed $100,000,000 in value ; those , for the next bid fair to be still greater . These , qwq only thing which may entirely fail us , but the chances arts ten to one that the embargo on a considerable portion'of the crop will be unlocked by the progress of our arms , before three months are over . If not , we can see our way clear , with low rates for money , with Government abundantly supplied , and with a steady improvement in all the departments of business . If in the next six months we should send the cotton crop forward , we shall witness an activity and expansion of which our previous experience can probably furnish no parallel .                     