@@739324

txt The barges , for bridging at any point the rivers , have arrived here from Cincinnati , and are being rapidly fastened together , making a floating bridge of great- sustaining power . They are laid side by side , and a platform , giving muck the appearance of a plank-road , passes over the middle . In a few days the Ohio here will be crossed by a highway , which , while affording passage for any number of soldiers and the heaviest artillery , can be moved at pleasure , or , as the exigencies of the day require , to points above or below . Now that Government has awakened to the importance of Paducah as a post for future operations , it becomes a wonder that the perceptive faculties of those in power have on this subject so long remained dormant . Commanding entirely the Tennessee river , a tributary navigable for hundreds of miles , an avenue of boundless wealth , and whose course is through a bitterly ht. - stile country , with the mouth of the Cumberland but a short distance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Paducah , easy of access from all points for Union purposes , becomes at once a centre of great military interest and power . Ever since the commencement of the war , until very lately , boats loaded with contraband goods have plied without interruption up the Cumberland and Tennessee , carrying aid and comfort of the most acceptable kind to the kingdom of the C. S. A. This is now impossible , and the occupation of Paducah will have the same effect , and almost as great a one , as that of Fort Hatteras . Paducah is the key to the enemy 's territory here in the West , and over Kentucky 's soil the Armies will have to march that effect anything at present in the Confederate territory ; and some move is already on foot that is expected to bring with it important results . Steamers new lying at the levee leave , it is understood , tWs evening , for Evansville , and will bring down from ibere six thousand Indiana troops to this point . Activity prevails in every department , and evidently " something @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as there is one chance in a dozen that a guess might hit the truth . Two or three steamers are constantly busy towing the barges for the bridge into place , while others ply mysteriously off to points up and down the river . 