@@739637

txt At this distance it is difficult to learn the exact umount of treason now prevailing in highplacesiti the North , but from the messages of some Governors , and the speeches of certain officials , I should judge there was enough to shake the hope forever of half the patriots in the country . From my stand-point I can not find apology or excuse for any one 's being indifferent to the success of the war for the Union . Any hesitation , any compromise , any anything , but a thorough , vigorous prosecution of the war until the rebellion is put down , w ill be at the sacrifice of every interest of humanity , and in defiance of the mercy of God . Very little indeed occurs in the movement of the war , to console the spirit of the patriot , or relieve his Impatient longings for a vigorous crushing out of the rebellion . Our brave soldiers in the field w ith Halt a chance win viotories , they suffer death and defeat without mutmuring , and only complain , that they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foe . Our navy , Heaven help its officers , if they are not the most wretched creatures In the world at the unchecked havoc of the Greta and Alabama , may wake up one of these days and achieve something worthy of ancient fame , but let us be thankful that our vessels of war do something , and that they are not all captured . In their negativeness they do less a damage to our cause than it they were in the enemies hands and armed against us . Let us pray that the authorities at Washington will some time or another be earnest , a quality in the National Capital even leas common than honesty  --  but do what we may , let the man who talks of compromise be declared and treated as a traitor ; let not the people , the great , noble , intelligent people of the North and West , as a body , ever contemplate submission to the leaders of this rebellion ; let the people feel assured that they are to hold on to what they have a little longer to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ miserable manner with which this war has been conducted , we have made procress . In the aggregate we are far advanced to what we were a year ago , and if we will patiently wait , and do nothing but open the Mississippi and seal up the Southern ports , a few months at furthest would stifle out this lustful Confederacy , and bring its leaders on their knees , suing for reprieve from a criminal 's halter . Urge the necessity of taking Charleston , Sa:vannab and Mobile ; seal up these pestilential places , and , thus at blow , end the power of the enemy to send to Europe for supplies . Once isolated , the monster rebellion , without another Union gun being fired , would be in the terrible position of the scorpion surrounded by fire  --  it would , for a while , writhe in Impotent agony , and then sting itself to death . A. Aitijor-General has been fairly tried by his peers , and dismissed from the service . Much to my astonishment , many of the papers which have honestly supported @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it , as If a great wrong had been committed . So it was when an officer of the navy , who was derelict of duty , was dismissed . What sense is there in day afterday condemning the action of the Government , and then endeavoring to make it unpopular the moment authority is exerted to punish the delinquents . Is it not a plty that more officers in both arms of the service are not dismissed ? Would It not be better for the good of the country if very many were hung ? Our battle-fields are everywhere . almost , merely fearful evidences of the indifference and incapacity of men placed in high positions , and we should hail , as the commencement of a reform , any act that promises a more strict responsibility on the part of every one intrusted with the lives of our men and the glory of our country . Let more Court=artists be convened , Let the men who have met with defeat , or failed to achieve a victory , when reasonably within their power , be punished . Let there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the whole country : the moral rust and fetid stagnation , that seems to pervade almost every department of the army and navy , would disappear , and the traitors North , who are clamoring for a disgraceful peace , would seek obscurity and silence for safety . Among the arrivals here yesterday , were three pestilential clergymen , who have so vexed aid- betrayed New-Orleans  --  Messrs . Leseoce , FULTON and GOODRICH . Their appearance here'was the signal for mischief and strife . These " , wolves in sheep 's clothIng , ? , , knew after they left New-Yorit , that they could not come ashore here without taking the oath of allegiance , and when they arrive here they contumaciously defy the Government , throw the women of the city into a state of hysterics because they are imprisoned for defying the laws . Since they left this place , a very considerable amount of Christian spirit has displayed itself ; peace and good-will were springing up , and there was a fair chance , if these demagogues had been kept away , that we should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Now sills changed , and these wretched notoriety seekers , these miserable mischief-makers , have set the social pot boiling and bubbling , and everything is crackling like burning thorns under a pot . Mr. Lescoce is a British subject , born in the West India Islands ; Mr. FULTON came here an avowed Abolitionist from Ohio , and Mr. GOODItIcil is a " ConnecticutYankee . ' , Neither one of these men , pursuing their profession in accordance with the spirit of their professions , would ever be heard of outside of limited congregations at nervous ladies and dyspeptical gentlemen , but as makers of mischief , under the assumed garb of clerymen , they can do immense injury , If either were Southern men born , if either ever had any other education in their life than to condemn Slavery . if either couldfind any legitimate excuse for their conduct , I would try to be somewhat charitable , but they are exotics in the South  --  their Pro-Slavery sentiments are the results of selfishness , a want of moral principle , a pandering to base influences for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in defiance of the education they received on their mother 's knee , and in contempt of the teachings of our Saviour , whom they profess to serve . I am happy to say , that Brig. - Gen . Bowes , our new Provost-Marshal-General , declares his intention of holding these gentlemen in prison until they comply with the law . Our new Mayor , Capt . J. F. MILLER , Assistant Adjutant-General , acting Mayor of the City of New-Orleans , has assumed the responsibilities of his office , and is administering them with impartial justice , and true magisterial discrimination . As Adjutant-General and Secretary of State , under our popular Military Governor , Gen. SHEPLEY , he has had a most excellent opportunity to prepare himself for his duties , as he seems as much at home as if one acting from a lifelong experience . He has some responsibilities from which his predecessors , Gen. Wenzel. and Col. Dxrmto were relieved . I allude to providing for the wants of the poor . Under the two previous administrations the public works engaged a large number of persons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ laboring men circulated a great number of printed petitions , headed as follows : NEW-ORLEANS , Feb. 2 , 1863 . To Capt . Jas . F. Miller , Assistant Adjutant-General , Acting Mayor of New-Orleans : RESPECTED Sin : We , the undersigned , laboring men of New-Orleans , good and loyal citizens , desire your interference in our behalf . We are victims of a rebellion , brought upon our country without our connivance , and we and our children are in a most suffering condition . To your predecessor , Gen. G. F. SHEPLEY , when Acting Mayor of the city . and now Covernor of the State , we are indebted for active official interference in our behalf , and we trust that you will , in your wisdom , follow his example . We ask not for charity . but for work ; let us be employed , until commerce again blesses industry , in cleaning the streets of the city , in completing the opening of Washington-street , in finishing the works on the drainage canals , in repairing the levees and wharves , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chief Magistrate of the city , and relieve our pressing wants . . onie two thousand names were soon appended . In the meantime a delegation waited upon Maj - Gen . Bases , w ho received them with kindness , and promised to use his influence in their behalf . I indulge the idea that employment will be provided , and that ere another week passes away the pressure now becoming so irrepressible will be relieved . I will say this , the working men of New-Orleans. all things consit:ered , are easily governed and with a fair chance will even become peaceable , and If believe loyal . Many of them remember with bitterness the prosperity before the rebellion broke out . Many remember how many of their number have been seized as conscripts for the Southern army , and all remember that laws were passed here by the City Council , at the time in the possession of the Confederates. making it a criminal offence to employ white men on the levee or steamboats , thus at one blow cutting off their chief resources of income and compelling them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The news from up the river seems to justify a belief that the present stage of high water has made " Britgats Gut , " the cut-off across the point below Vicksburgh , available for navigation , and that a large vessel at the time of writing has already passed through and is now below Vicksburgh . If this is the case , that stronghold needs only to be invested , and then left to starve into submission . This is the season of high water , which lasts from this time until May , and the " fresh " seems to promise to be liberal , so that there can not be longer any necessity of delay of our boats moving in the Mtsai &sippl.; Open the river and all dissatisfaction about the management of the war will soon beN forgotten in the recuperative energies of disenthralled trade ; then we shall feel the blessed influence of the " resumption of trade " upon the starving thousands in rebeidom living on the banks of the river . The Mississippi opened , and Richmond ceases to be an object of interest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as well be a prison for them as any other place further South ; let them , if you please , remain there to hate each other and starve together . The appointment of CUTHBERT Buttery , Esq .. of New-Orleans , Collector , is hailed here with general satisfaction . It is appreciated as a compliment to the Union sentiment of the city , for Mr , Buttery had the last Union flag under secession rule flying on his residence , and so great was ' public respect for him , that in spite of the threats of the crowd.lit remained flying through the day . Subsequently , however , Mr. DULLETT was obliged to flee from the city . He now returns honored by his Government , and will be greeted by his fellow-citizens.                     