@@739390

txt Active though quiet preparations have been going OH for some time at Cairo and Paducah , for a pretty strong military and naval expedition against some point which its planners had the good sense to conceal both from us and from the rebels . The expedition was not strong enough to make the grand assault on Columbus , much less to descend the Mississippi on the long projected tour to Memphis and New-Orleans ; so it has been generally conjectured that it was bound to operate against some of the rebel works or camps on the Tennessee or Cumberland Rivers . It was necessary that the detached rebel forces in Western Kentucky should be dispersed , as those in the Eastern part of the State have just been dispersed , before any general forward movement be attempted . It seems now that the conjecture was correct A force declared by the telegraph to consist Of ten thousand men and eleven gunboats , have entered the Tennessee River , and , at latest ac. counts , had got up in the vicinity of the rebel fort Henry , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only works or camps known to exist in this vicinity , are two  --  one on each of the rivers , the Tennessee and the Cumberland , which here flow not far apart , in a parallel direction north . ward . Fort Henry , on the Tennessee , is an earthwork thrown up along the river , and constructed mainly to prevent our advance in the rear of Columbus , while both this and Fort Donelson , en the Cumberland , were intended , also , to prevent our operating so as to turn the left flank of the main rebel body at Bowling Green . Fort Ilay , which , according to the telegraph , is to be at once assailed by the very respectable force we have mentioned , has an armament of some ten or twelve guns , of heavy calibre , and has been manned by a garrison of three thousand men . It is very probable , however , as this same point was threatened in the reconnoissance in force , made from Cairo a fortnight ago , that the reb. els have sent additional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the opposide ( or western ) side of the river , the rebels have a battery placed on rising ground , which commands the fort , so that it will be necessary for our forces to operate on both sides of the river . The gunboats , however , which are those strong iron-plated craft built for service in the Mississippi Expedition , can , if their qualities are anything like what is supposed , ascend within striking distance of the rebel guns , and bombard the position , while the troops , acting from a direction north-easterly of the fort , will meet the rebels in case they evacuate the fort . But if any action has taken place , or is intended at this point , we will at once have news of its result , and speculation thereon is unnecessary . These operations in Western Kentucky are , we suppose , to be looked upon , like those against ZOLLICOFFER and Mansfield. , as merely part of the necessary work preparatory to our pending advance in Central Kentucky . When these rebels on the Tennessee and Cumberland are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ State will have been destroyed , excepting , we believe , an inconsiderable force at Russelville , the present capital of the bogus provisional State Government . There will now remain for us to act upon simply the two great rebel forces at Columbus and Bowling Green , which can easily beheld at bay by one-third of the troops we have now in their front ; and , as a result of these actions , the way is open for our grand advance into Tennessee by any of the routes to the right or left of Bowling Green . The country bordering on both sides of the Tennessee , and as far east as the Cumberland , are in the De . partment of Gem IIALLsee ; but , still , we look on these operations as primarily relating to the Inter ' ments of Gen. Buell .. The geography of this Tennessee river , on which we have now fairly begun military operations , as regards the rebellion , is remarkable . From Paducah , at its confluence with the Ohio . we ascend its stream , through the State @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our course through that part of Kentucky where alone the rebel sentiment predominates ; thence following the river we sweep across the entire State of Tennessee , from north to South ; then , still pursuing tit* stream , we pass through almost the entire State of Alabama from west to east , till onee again entering Tennessee , we find ourselves among the loyal patriots of the Cumberland Mountains  --  having traced a distance of over twelve hundred and fifty miles , and ' having cut deep down into the huge body of rebeldom . In our progress northward from Kentucky , this river will undoubtedly form one of our most important and interesting bases of operations .                     