@@739898

txt Gov . SEYMOUR devotes all the latter portion of his message to an indictment of the Administration for not manifesting a " wise statesmanship " and a " conciliatory policy . " Like all men factiously inclined , he is very careful , however , to confine himself to general phrases . He does not indicate the particular line of " statesmanship " which wisdom demands , nor the particular " policy " which is to secure conciliating . He goes in fora milder form of war , especially as relates to Slavery , but does not show , nor attempt to show , how such mildness would promote loyalty , or hasten peace . He either does not know , or he affects not to know , that it depends altogether upon circumstances whether forbearance is wisdom or weakness ; whether mildness is a lure to peace or an encouragement to resistance . Much that Gov . SEYMOUR says concerning the burdens and evils of the war is applicable to all war ; and , though he does not so avow it , is simply an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its very nature , is a hard power . There is no such thing as engaging in it without terrible sacrifices ; and there is no possible justification of it except its purpose be to avoid sacrifices more terrible yet . For men who believe in the war at all , the only real question is , whether the war is conducted in the way best calculated to secure a speedy and solid peace . Gov . SEYMOUR had a right to discuss this question in his Message , if he would do it directly and firmly . He does nothing of the kind . He imputes to the President ends in prosecuting the war which he has most explicitly declared he does not entertain , He says  --  or if he does not say it directly ; he , with characteristic indirection , so phrases it as to convey the impression  --  that the President denies the revolted States a political existence , and is for treating them as new territories , whereas in his late Amnesty Proclamation , the President expressly declares that its object is to " reinaugurate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " in constructing a loyal State government in any State , the name of the State , the boundary , the subdivisions , the Constitution and the general code of laws as before the rebellion be maintained , subject only to the modifications made necessary by the conditions hereinbefore stated . " The Governor 's representation of the doctrines and purposes of the Administration on this point is a complete and disgraceful perversion . It may be true that there are individuals who think and feel as Gov . SEYMOUR declares ; but for that the Administration is not responsible , and no honest man would ever think of using it as a reproach against the Administration , in the teeth of its own official language . Again it is charged upon the Administration , that " it is insisted that the war shall be prolonged by waging it for purposes beyond those avowed at the outset . " Now Gov . SEYMOUR has a perfect right to differ from President . LINCOLN in respect to the expediency of the Emancipation Proclamation , as a means of restoring the Union ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's adoption of that means proves him false to that original and exclusive purpose of the war . The President opens his preliminary Emancipation Proclamation in these words : " ABRAHAM LINCOLN , President of the United States of America , and Commander-in-Chief of the Army and Navy thereof , do hereby proclaim and declare that ' hereafter as heretofore , the war will be prosecuted for the object of practically restiring the constitutional relation between the United States and each of the States , and the people thereof , In which States that relation or may be , suspended or disturbed . " President LINCOLN issued that Proclamation against Slavery , because he believed that Slavery , as it had been the cause of the rebellion , was the great incentive to persistence in the rebellion , the main source of strength to the rebellion , and the chief hindrance to a return to loyalty from the rebellion . He , therefore , was entitled by his war power to destroy it as a means of destroying the rebellion . The majority of the loyal people of the country have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ necessary that Gov . SEYMOUR should join in that approval ; but it is necessary , if he wishes the name of an honorable opponent , that he should refrain from charging upon the President a betrayal of the object . of the war . It is beneath any man even in the lowest position  --  immeasurably beneath a Governor of the State of New York ? to stoop to this wretched demagoguism . It is not possible that Gov . SEYMOUR does this thing ignorantly , He is not an idiot . He has mind enough to know that men may agree as to , the end , and yet disagree as to the means -- and that the adoption of new means does not involve any change in the end . President LINCOLN 'S policy for sustaining the Union is to break down Slavery which rebelled against the Union . Gov . SEYMOUR 'S policy is to save Slavery , and to conciliate it , by holding out that it has only to stop fighting the Union to be again safe . President LINCOLN has to show for his policy the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Arkansas , and Western Virginia , secured and confirmed to the Union , since the issue of his Emancipation Proclamation . What has Gov . SEYMOUR to show for his ? He and his comrades have constantly been proclaiming that the " conciliatory " policy was the true policy , and yet they have not succeeded in eliciting a syllable from Jen ' . DAVIS or any responsible man in the " Confederacy , " in the slightest degree indicative that conoiliation was either desirable or possible . On the contrary , the language of these rebels from the start has been that of unmitigated hate and unyielding defiance . The Emancipation Proclamation has not changed that spirit one tittle . From the beginning these rebels have known that they were playing a desperate game ; and nothing on earth ever could or ever will prevent their holding on to it to the very last extremity . To talk of " conciliating " JzFr . DAMS and his crew is no more rational than to talk of conciliating the pirate or the highwayman . Nay , less rational . The Governor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and incendiaries in City Hall Park , and called them " his friends , " and sympathized with their complaints , and promised them satisfaction , did at least succeed in getting great cheers for HORATIO SEYMOUR , though the murders and the fires went on all the worse afterward . But , for two livelong years , he has been calling the red-handed rebels his " brethren , " and has sympathized with their complaints , and has promised them satisfaction and he has not obtained even a nod of recognition  --  nothing but silent contempt .                     