@@739891

txt In the matter of exchange cot prisoners , the United States Commissioner has been driven by Mr. OuLD from point to point , from position to position , until , finally , Gens . ' MEREDITH and lImencoca have abandoned every point in dispute , except the treatment of negro prisoners . The " Message " of President Davis , of Jan. 12 , is now made the reason of suspending exchange , notwithstanding that from January to July this " Message " had been in force , ana was never once referred to as sufficient cause for stopping the operations of the cartel . The enemy now rest their case upon this Message . " We have already shown that the law of Congress for delivering all negroes and their white officers , captured in arms . to State authorities , for trial under State laws , was too wide in its language , and covered matter that is not within the province of one nation to dictate to another . No nation has the right io say that its enemy shall not employ in its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of armies is a matter belonging exclusively to the authorities of the nation Itself . If the Yankees like negro troops , they have the right to- employ the free negroes of the United States in their armies , and they have the right to demand for them the proper treatment as prisoners of war . It a nation employs savages in its armies , retails . Lion is proper and justifiable , not because of the employment of the savages , but for any acts committed by the soldiery not in accordance with the laws of war . So , if the negroes employed by the United States compose a part of those States , and are regularly mustered into their service ; if , after capture , they can be proved guilty of acts not recognized as within the rules of civilized warfare , they are not entitled to the rights of prisoners of war , but may be punished as bandits and robbers . And so of the white troops  --  color has nothing to do with soldiers . But the case is afferent as to the slaves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ranks of the enemy . Their detention is justified by the laws of war ; their punishment we can provide for , though we should not like to see any enforced , for the poor wretches have no will of their own , and being forced into the ranks are not responsible for their conduct . Congress , then , should so modify the law as to apply only to the slaves and free negroes of these States captured in the ranks of the enemy . Let us lace ourselves right under the laws of war , and leave the consequences to take care of themselves . If the enemy think proper to leave their soldiers h.ire in prison , because we will not give up our right under the laws of war , to continue their soldiers in prison for our slaves and free negroes , we can do nothing but accept the issue and meet its responsibility . The law , as it now stands , is not within the spirit of the laws of war , and since It is made the last and only cause for suspending @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ &mended,; and'its provisions eanfinee to the case of slaves and free negroes of these States captured in arms . Indeed , we see no necessity fos any law on the subject . The Yankees axe poi ; LIMAS to sense their negro troops into the field  --  they know as well as we do that no reliance can be placed upon them ; but as depot guards , prison guards , &c.,; tnev - will relieve their white troops . This is the use that will be made of them , Should they be sent to field ; and , be Dut in battle , none will be taken prisoners  --  our troops understand what to do in such cases . If any negroes have been captured during the war , as soldiers in the enemy 's ranks , we have not heard of them ; We do not think that such a case has been reported . The law is , thereiore , useless .                     