@@739459

txt In the Senate , yesterday , petitions for a General Bankrupt law were presented ; also , a petition from citizens of Maryland , asking for the better enforcement of the Fugitive Slave law in the District of Columbia . A resolution calling upon the secretary of the Navy for official reports of the latg naval battle on the Mississippi ' was adopted . A resolution was offered by Mr. SUMNER , but laid over , directing the Committee on the District of Calumbia to inquire what legislation is necessary to protect colored people from unconstitutional seizure as fugitive slaves . The bill donating lands for the benefit of agricultural colleges and mechanic arts was discussed until the expiration of the morning hour , when the Senate resulsed itself into a Court for the trial of the Humphreys impeachment case . The Managers of the case on the part of the House , Messrs . BINGHAM , PENDLETON , DUNLOP and TRAIN , appeared and read to the Senate the articles of impeachment . They received assurances that the Senate would take the proper order in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the House of the same . The Court was then adjourned , and the Senate resumed its regular proceedings . The Tax bill was then considered until the adjournment  --  the sixty-third section having been reached . In the House , the bill to secure the speedy transportation of the mails , by requiring railroad companies to enter into a contract with the Postmaster-General , and in case of failure to agree upon compensation , the same to be fixed and determined by the Court of Claims , was reported back from the Post-office Committee , and passed . Consideration of the Confiscation bills was then resumed , and personal explanations were made by Messrs . KELLY , of Pennsylvania , and VORIIEES , of Indiana , with reference to the debate of Wednesday , during which the Speaker found it necessary to call Mr. KELLY to order . The matter was subsequently dropped . The debate on the hills was continued until the adjournment . 