@@739486

txt The reading of yesterday 's journal consumed half an hour . Various messages were received from the Senate concerning the passage of certain bills . The Speaker signed numerous enrolled bills . Much confusion prevailed . The bill to divide Michigan into two Judicial Districts was taken up and passed . Mr. STEVENS , of Pennsylvania , ( Rep. , ) moved that the House concur in the request of the Senate to extend the adjournment until 2 o'clock this afternoon . Mr. Hoopes , of Massachusetts . ( Rep. , ) asked consent to introduce a bill providing " ' First on and after the first of August , all postage and other United States stamps shall be received for all dues of less than five dollars , and which may be received in exchange for United States notes . No pr ' - ate corporation or bank shall make and issue an ken , note or device for less than one dollar to circu ate as money . Any person so offending shall , on conviction , be punished by a fine not exceeding $500 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ both , at the discretion of the Court . " Objection having been made to the reception of the bill , Mr. HOOPER moved that the rules be susnended in order that it might be taken up . Motion carried by Yeas 68 ; Nays 33 . Mr. HOOPER caused a letter to be read from the Secretary of the Treasury urging the measure , and inclosing the draft of the bill for the object stated , and also one for changing the weight of the smaller silver coins . Mr. PHELPS , of Missouri , ( Union , ) briefly contended that the second clause in the bill prohibiting the issue of paper money below the denomination of one dollar was unconstitutional . Mr. Cox , of Ohio , ( Opp. , ) moved to lay the bill on the table . The motion was lost by yeas 39 , nays 64 . The bill was then passed by yeas 63 , nays 29 . The joint resolution suspending the sales of the lands of the Kansas , Sac and Fox Indians , until the 4th of March , 1863 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President LINeet.N and read . FELLOW-CITIZENS OF THE SENATE AND ' loess OP REPRESENTATIVES : Considering the bill for an act to suppress insurrection , to punish treason and rebellion , to seize and confiscate the property of rebels , and for other purposes , and the joint resolution explanatory of said act , as being substantially one , I have approved and signed both . Before I was informed of the passage of the resolution , I had prepared the draft of a message stating objections to the bill becoming a law , a copy of which draft is herewith transmitted . ABRAHAM LINCOLN . July 17 , 1862 . FELLOW-CITIZENS OF THE House OF REPRESENTATIVES : I herewith return to your honorable body , in which it originated , the bill for an act , entitled , " An act to suppress treason and rebellion ; to seize and confiscate the property of rebels , and for other purposes , " together with my objections to its becoming a law . There is much in the bill to which I perceive no objection . It is wholly prospective , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ loyal citizen , in which particular it is just and proper . The first and second section provides for the conviction and punishment of persons who shall be guilty of treason , and the person who shall incite , get on foot , assist or engage in any rebellion or insurrection against the authority of the United States or the laws thereof , or shall give aid or comfort to any such existing rebellion or.insurrection . By fair construction the persons within these sections are not to be punished without regular trials in duly constituted Court under the forms and all the substantial provisions of law , and of the Constitution applicable to their several cases . To this I perceive no objection , especially as such persons would be within the general pardoning power , and also within the special provision for pardon and amnesty contained in this act . It also provides that the slaves of persons confiscated under these sections shall be free . I think there is an unfortunate form of expression rather than a substantial objection in this . It is startling to say that:Congress can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it said that the ownership of the slave had first been transferred to the Nation , and that Congress had then liberated him , the difficulty would vanish . And this is the real case . Tne traitor against the General Government forfella his slave at least as justly as he does any other property , and he forfeits both to the Government against which he offends . The Government , so far as there can be ownership , owns the forfeited slaves , and the question for Con gress in regard to them is , or sold to new masters ? " Shall they be made free " I see no objection to Congress deciding in advance Met they shall be free . To the high honor of Kentucky , as I am informed , she has been the owner " tif some slaves by escheat , and has sold none , but liberated all . I hope the same is true of some other States . Indeed I do not believe it would be physically possible for the General Government to return persons so circumstanced , to actual slavery @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which would never be turned aside by Argument nor driven away by force . In this view of it , I have no objection to this feature of the bill . Another matter vathea in these two sections and running through other parts of the act , will be notified hereafter . I perceive no objection to the third and fourth sections . So far as I wish to notice the fifih and sixth sections they may be considered together . That the enforcemerit of these sections would do no injustice to the persons embraced within them is clear . That those who make a causeless war should be compelled to pay the cost of it , is too obviously just to lie called In question . To give Government protection to the property of tiersons who have abandoned it and gone on a crusade to overthrow that same Government is absurd , it considered in the mere light of justice . The severest justite may not always be the best policy . The principle of seizing and appropriating the property of the persons embraced within these sections is certainly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it would be very difficult , and to a great extent impossible . And would it not be wise to place a power of remission somewhere , so that these persons may know they have something to save by desisting ? I am not stile whether such power of remission is or is not within section thirteen without a special act of Congress . I think our military commanders when , in military phrase , they are within the enemy 's country , should , in an orderly manner , seize and keep whatever of real or personal property may be necessary or ? onvenient for their commands , and , at the same time , preserve in some way the evidence of what they do . What I have said in regard to slaves , while commenting on the first and second sections , is applicable to the ninth , with the difference , that no provision is made in the whole act for determining whether a particular individual slave does or does not tit 11 within the classes defined in that section . Ile is to be free upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not pertain to him , no mode of ascertaining is provided . This could be easily supplied . To the tenth section I make no objection . The oath therein required seems to be proper , and the remainder of the section is substantially identical wail a law already existing . The eleventh section simply assumes to confer discretionary powers on the Executive . Without the law I have no hesitation to go as far in the direction indicated as I may at any time deem expedient . And I am ready to say now , I think it is proper for our military commanders to employ as taborets as many persons of African descent as can be used to a ' ! - vantage . Tile twelfth anti thirteenth sections are something better ; they are unobjectionable , and the fourteenth is entirely proper , if all other parts of the act shall stand . That to which I chiefly object pervades most parts of the act , but more distinctly appears in the first , second , seventh and eighth sections . It is the sum of those provisions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the causes of treason and time ingredients of treason , but arnOnn:ing to the full crime , it declares forfeiture extending beyond the lives of the guilty parties ; whereas , the Constitution of the United States declares that no attainder of treason shall work corruption of bloo:I or forfeiture , except during the life of the person attal ntcd . Tree , there is to be no formal attainder in this case ; mill 1 think the greater punishment can not be C ' institutionally inflicted in a different form for the name offence . With great respect I am constrained to say , I think this feature of the act is unconstitutional . It would not be idilTicult to mortify it . I may remark that the provision of the Constitution put in language borrowed from Great Ilritain , applies only in tics country , as I understand , to real or landed estate . Again , this act by proceedings in rem. , forfeits property for the ingredients of treeson without a conviction of the supposed criminal , or a personal hearing given him in any proceeding . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because we can not give personal notIce to an owner , who is absent , endeavoring to destroy the Government . is certainly not very satisfactory ; still , the owner may not be thns engaged , and I think a reasonable tune should be provided for such parries to appear and have personal hearings . Similar provisions are not uncommon in connection with proceedings in. rem . For the reasons stated I return the hill to the House in which it originated . The message was laid on the table and ordered to be printed . The Speaker also laid before the House a message from the President , recommending that some suitable acknowledgment be made to Commodore VANDERBILT for the gift to the Government of the vessel of that name , which has been doing valuable service . This message was referred to the Committee on Naval Affairs . The House then passed the Senate 's joint resolution , making further appropriatibns for the current and incidental expenses of the Indian Department . Mr. Wtesurre , of Kentucky , ( Opp. , ) asked leave to introduce a resolution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ order a reoord to be kept of the names , age and sex of all slaves received into our lines , together with the names of the owners of the same . Mr. BINCIIAM , of Ohio , ( Rep. , ) objected to the intro , duction of the resolution . Mr. WICKLIFFE moved to suspend the rules . Motion negatived by 58 against 45 . The House then passed the Senate resolution , providing that the compensation to pension agents shall be two per cent . on the entire disbursements by any one of them , provided the aggregate compensation shall not exceed $2,000 per annum . M r.Wserote , of Vermont , ( Rep. ) from the Committee on Printing , reported a resolution to print 10,000 copies of the President 's message on the subject of confiscation . On a motion to:lay the resolution on the table , no quorum voted . It now lacked twenty minutes to two o'clock . The proceedings were temporarily interrupted by the reception of a message from the Senate , stating that body having completed its business , was now ready @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " " Good , " " Good . " The Speaker , in accordance with usage , appointed a committee to act with a similar committee of the Senate to wait upon the President and inform him that Congress was ready to adjourn . The proceedings in the call of the House were then resumed , and these continued until 2 o'clock , at which hour the Speaker terminated the roll call . Mr. Cox , from the Committee to wait on the President , reported that the President had no further business or other communication to present to Congress . The Speaker then said , " The time fixed for the adjournment of the two Houses having arrived , I hereby declare the House adjourned sine die . " Loud applause by the members followed the an ' nouncement . A few minutes only elapsed before all the members had left the Hall .                     