@@739739

txt This afternoon , after a sharp and exciting chase of about six hours , the United States steamer elorida captured the iron steamer Calypso , bound for Witmington . N. C. , with a cargo of rum , molasses , medical stores , and what else may be under these will be determined before long . She is an English built iron screw steamer , and was sailing under the rebel flag . She is a fast propeller steamer , and her capture is a great feather in the Florida 's cap , as very few of our vessels can go over 14 knots an hour . and the men on the Calypso claim her to be a 15-knot steamer . She had on board some ten or fifteen passengers , five of which were women , and one or two little girls . The crew had been into the rum very evidently , and the One Claiming to be second officer was pretty well steeped in liquor . They attempted to sink the vessel or blow her up , and all but a few had left @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Capt . SAMIERILD to blow them and their vessel out of water if they did not instantly quit any further attempts is that direction , brought them to terms  --  especially as our 50-pound Parrott was pointed at her , ready to carry the threat into execution . So the vessel an d the cargo was saved and captured , the holes that had been made stopped up , and water pumped out . The Florida was the only one of all the fleet that espied the Calypso , and captured her many miles out of sight or sound of any other vessel , so we suppose the one half of the proceeds will be entirely ours , according to the law in these matters . And here a lesson is to be learned which I think will not soon be forgotten , that is , the propriety of cruising far of from shore through the day , and thus be enabled to see the rebel steamers that lie off the coast till nightfall to creep in then under cover of the darkness ; for had we been in with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ steamer , and the chances are she would have got in during the night . But , as fortune would have it , we got permission to go a number of miles out from the coast to fish . First , we hauled up a shark , about six feet long , on a line about one-third of an inch thick ; then some hundred smaller fish on smaller hooks and lines , and now we have hooked on the end of a long line , some ten inches in circumference , the biggest fish yet caught , in the shape of a seven or eight hundred ton steamer . I hear this is the first large steamer that has been captured off the Wilmington blockade , and the Florida has done much to console us for the loss of the Monitor , and make those of us who were once Monitor men find a " new love " in her .                     