@@740191

txt A careful reading of the leaders which appear from time to time in those rebel journals which are influential in the South , will convince every thinking man that , were it possible for the rebels to view dispassionately their own position , they would conceive it to be nearly as hopeless as we ourselves perceive it to be . There are three great points to which they are now directing attention , and upon which they exhaustgall their powers of logic and appeal  --  negro conscription , the development of their internal manufacturing resources , and the raising ofmoney to pay the expenditures of the war . The laws under the consideration of the rebel Congress for the conscription of negroes , are advocated by all their leading military men . The letters of Gen. LEE and others , recently published , contain an admission , more or less distinctly stated , that it will be impossible to continue the war much longer by the white force alone , and that the assistance of the slaves is absolutely necessary . Gen. LEE explicitly says : " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " I do not think that our white populaton can supply the necessities of a long war without overtaxing its capacity . " The whole tone of the Southern press , East and West , goes to show that they depend entirely upon their prospective negro force to afford those reinforcements to the army of LEE . without which , even if successful in every battle against SHERMAN and GRANT , it would be impossible for him to hold his own , because the drain of battle can no longer be supplied by white men , the whole power of the Confederate Government being unequal to the task of bringing into its ranks the absentees and deserters , respecting whom the rebel papers speak in such bitter terms . There are two ways of raising and organizing an army . In the one , time , labor , constant drill and good officers and non-commissioned officers , construct , from any moderate physical material which may be supplied , a machine army , capable of great endurance and determined lighting , but generally failing , when by itself , in all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intelligence and skill , such as cavalry , light infantry and artillery ditty . In the other case , the individual intelligence of the soldier , and his love of the cause he fights for , are elements in his training . His enthusiasm gives him elan ; his intelligence enables him quickly to perceive where he can take advantage of his enemy ; his faith in the cause he is fighting for gives him determination and persistence . Such were the armies of CROMWELL and WASHINGTON ; such was the army with which royalist La Vendee so long withstood republican France , which France herself hurried to her frontiers to stop the tide of European invasion , and which , handled by the genius of NAPOLEON , carried her victorious eagles across the continent of Europe . Such are the armies which both North and South have hitherto sent into the field ; but such is not the army upon which the South now proposes to rest her faith . The negro army of the South , whether nominally ? free or not , , is really an army of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and fighting qualities , entirely on its white masters , its non-commissioned and commissioned officers . Such an army is valuable exactly in proportion to its drill and discipline . In time , such a force becomes formidable ; without time to fully organize and equip it , such a force is the most useless of mobs . Hence , for the present campaign , the negro reinforcements are practically useless . No men understand the value of time more fully than GRANT and SHERMAN , and they do not seem at all likely to give LEE leisure to raise , collect , organize , equip , arm , drill and discipline a large army of negroes . In their calculations on this matter , the South have lost sight of the great element of military success , time . The same remark may be applied to their discussions about the development of the internal manufacturing resources of the South , now that all their ports are hermetically sealed . They seem to have no conception of the time necessary to organize and develop manufacturing industry , even as applied to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a war . In this matter , also , they have begun rather late , and are now leaving out of their calculations the most important consideration . In the matter of financial resources , the South , by the confessions of the rebel authorities themselves , are in a perfectly hopeless condition . The Tax Bill recently passed by the rebel Congress is absolutely ludicrous tn its terms and provisions , and seems hardly to be the , conception of men possessed of sanity . The South th , prefore require , according to their own showing , four things to continue a Successful resistance  --  time , men , material and money . Let us take their own estimate of their resources . With time they may be able to organize a slave army ; with time they may develop considerable material resources . But GRANT and SHERMAN will not give them time . It is of fundamental importance , however , on many grounds , that we should now especially continue to furnish men promptly to the army . One man now is worth five hereafter , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the same estimate of the military value of time which is taken by our great military leader , the campaign now being prosecuted by the Lieutenant-General will be " short , sharp , and decisive . "                     