@@739668

txt It is now evident that the tribe of orators and journalists who have undertaken the task of dragging the people of the United States down to their own level , have turned their attention to the Conscription act , and are torturing their wits to convert it into an instrument of division and discomfiture . And we need not doubt that they will meet with a certain measure of success . Wherever we see knaves and charlatans , we may be sure that there are dupes not very far off . The field of imposture is just as fertile in politics as in money matters , and is almost as zealously cultivated . Among the delusions which they are now fostering and spreading , is the very gross but very ingenious fiction , that if the war had been properly conducted the conscription would never have become necessary , or if necessary , would at all times and in all parts of the country have been quietly welcomed . The value of this device lies in the delicate tickle which it administers to the national vanity . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ belief that every American was a born soldier , with a natural taste for carnage and long marches , and that the Government had only to hold up its little finger in any cause , good or bad , to cause the whole male population to rush to the field and serve for three , seven or twenty-one years . No w there is no doubt , there was at the beginning of this war , and there will be , after a long interval of peace , at the beginning of every war , an ex ? traordinary readiness on the part of the population to shoulder the musket . No nation has ever raised , in the same period , by voluntary enlistment as many men as we have raised during the past two years . The amount of military ardor bred by half a century of such peace . freedom and prosperity as we have enjoyed , is enormous . And so far as this goes there was and is abundant matter for national pride and confidence . But the notion that the enthusiasm which raises 800,000 volunteers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can be or ever was maintained beyond a single year by any people , or in any cause whatever , is simply ridiculous , and will never be seriously put forward by anybody but an ignoramus or a demagogue . Nothing that any Government could say or do , or leave unsaid or undone , could accomplish such objects . No number of victories could suffice for it . If we had been victorious in every engagement since Mill Spring  --  and we might have been and have the rebellion still unsubdued  --  the popular ardor would have flagged through the mere lapse of time . There has been but one national levy in history which can be compared for fire and unanimity to our " first uprising , " ? that of the French in 1793 ; ? but the armies raised in that noble paroxysm were with great difficulty kept together for a single campaign ; and the great wars which followed , by which the revolution justified and established itself , were fought by conscripts taken nolentes volentes from the plough and the counter . There is , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war , on a great scale , having been protracted beyond a year by means of volunteers alone . The only nation in Europe which relies on voluntary enlistment for filling up its ranks is England , and she does so solely because she has never been engaged in a contest rendering large standing armies necessary . Her fleet has always been her main means both of offence and defence , and she has never carried on a serious conflict with any great Power without impressing seamen for the navy . She never brings into the field in European wars a land force of over 40,000 men , and if hostilities are protracted beyond one campaign , sbe invariably resorts to foreign levies to fill up the gap . She had foreign mercenaries in her pay during the whole of the war against the first NAPOLION , and never brought into action , not even at Waterloo , over 40,000 men of British origin , not because she did not want them , but because she could not get them by voluntary.enlistment . In the Crimean war , one of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the nation was ever engaged , the utmost exertions of the Ministry , acting under till lash of an enraged public , did not suffice to bring into the field more than 50,000 men , and of these 10,000 were a foreign legion , recruited in all parts of the world ; but mainly in Germany . 41 short , if military history teaches us any- thing , it teachietnetliat &bid; enthusiasm about a : war does not . last . beyond the first levy ; ands that the feeling of calm approval , or even of determination. : which succeeds this first otaburet . of fervor , does not produce recruits in any considerable . number .. The hardships , dangers and sacrifices of ' military life have by this time become so generally known , that the great mass of men shrink from encountering them , in the hope that their neighbors will be more heroic ; and one of the great uses of Government is , when this crisis comes , to compel the nation to do its duty . It.is well known that those countries which are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most of the military spirit , are those in which there is least tendency on the part of the population to enter the army voluntarily . It has again and again been demonstrated by competent observers , that in France , for instance , the most warlike nation of Europe , 50,000 men could not be raised for military purposes by volunteering from men not already in the service . And we have under our noses in the South a standing proof that no enthusiasm , no unanimity , no confidence in the ultimate result , will suffice to bring recruits into the ranks in numbers sufficient to meet the demands of so tremendous a struggle as that which we are carrying on . The Confederates fought their first campaign with volunteers , but that general determination " to die in the last ditch , " of which we have heard so much , has not served to ward off , at any time since , a conscription unexampled in the annals of war for stringency and barbarity . If there was not a Copperhead , . or demagogue , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ necessary , if we mean to win . It is the condition of victory . And if we were ever so unanimous in our lip devotion to the country and the cause , there would still be found hundreds of men throughout the Union who would seek , by every means in their power , to avoid the supreme test of their courage and patriotism . It is human , and almost excusable , for a people who , for half a century , have never seen a shot fired in anger , and know nothing of great wars , except from books , to recoil from the tremendous sacrifices required in a struggle for national existence , But to refrain from imposing these sacrifices because some men would rather not make them , would be the height of imbecility as well as cowardice .                     