@@739833

txt To-day a Government warrant was received by the Customs officials at this Court , authorizing the detention and seizure of the two rams recently built by LAIRD BROTHERS for the Confederate Government of America . The broad arrow has just been placed upon one of the rams . From the Liverpool Post , Oct. 10 . It was generally reported on ' Change yesterday evening that Government officers had put the broad arrow on the two steam rams recently built by the Messrs . LAIRD . The report reached us at too late an hour to enable us to make inquiry ; but the information is of a nature almost to exclude dont:4 . Other reports state that but one of the rams had been seized by Government . A PROTEST . From the Liverpool Post Oct. 10 . Yesterday the members of the Preston Branch of the Southern Club , forwarded a memorial to Earl RUSSELL relative to the steam rams in the Mersey , Sic . The memorial was to the effect that the members of the above Club had learned with considerable regret that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; that as there was no proof , but only suspicion , of the destination of those vessels , and as the law declares there must be at all times a thorough . sober persuasion and satisfaction in respect to the guilt of the party accused , it would be a departure from the principle of the English Cqnstitu don if the vessels in question were to be detained that by detaining the vessels the " wished wishes " of those who were fielking to " subjugate and extirpate the bravo people of the South " would be as much complied with as it the vessels were delivered up to then , . Allusion is then made in the memorial to the decision of the Lord Chief Baron in the Alexandra case , in which it was stated that a snipbuilder had as much Held to build or sell ships to a belligerent Power as the makers of gunpowder and muskets had to furnish these articles to one . The memorial also mentions that the detention of the vessel 's named was a:dangerous interference with English trade , that already British @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ LINCOLN 'S Government with ships trading between neutral parts . That it was , therefore , important that no steps should be taken ' which , by preventing Ent:dish shipbuilders from supplying their customers , would increase the evils whereof so many persons complain and that strict neutrality would be violated by the detention of vessels supposed to be intended for the Confederate Government .                     