@@739380

txt Mr. TRAIN , of Massachusetts , ( Rep. , ) introduced a bill transferring the Penitentiary building of the District of Columbia to the War Department , for the use of the Arsenal . Referred . On motion of Mr. FENTON , of New-York , ( Rep. , ) over one hundred bills from the Court of Claims , were referred to the Committee on Claims . Mr. Deers , of Indiana , ( Rep. , ) from the Committee on Patents , reported a bill authorizing the Commissioner of Patents to examine the application of Saw en BENTS for a renewal of the patent process for hulling wheat , the patentee having by mistake failed to make Ms application for that purpose within the time prescribed by law . The patent expires on the 4t4 of March next . The bill was passed by 24 majority . Mr. Dents also reported a bill for extension of the patent of JOHN G. MINE for an improvement in the manufacture of lampblack , the consideration of which was postponed . The House then resumed consideration of the Pennsylvania @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the substitute reported from the minority of the Committee on Elections . that JOHN M. BUTLER is not , and Wu . E. LEHMAN is entitled to a seat as Representative from the First Congressional District of Pennsylvania , which was adopted by a vote of 77 against 67 . The resolution of the majority of the Committee , as thus amended , was then agreed to . Mr. ALLEY , of Massachusetts , ( Rep. , ) from the Post-office Committee , reported a bill authorizing the establishment of branch post-offices in cities . Passed . The House then concurred in the Senate 's amendments to the bill to promote the efficiency of the Dead-Letter Office .. Mr. DELANo , of Massachusetts , ( Rep. , ) made a report from the Committee for the District of Columbia , on a resolution referred to them relative to Marshal LAmoN 'S jail regulations . The Committee say that it was striet:y in Marshal LAMON% official discretion to make rules to remedy the existing abuses , and though they can see no necessity for subjecting members of the Congress to the idle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Senate or Speaker of the House , yet that there is nothing so palpably oppressive and onerous in the regulations as to call for the special intervention of the House . Hence the Committee ask to be discharged from further consideration of the subject . The further consideration of the report was postponed . Mr. STEVENS , of Pa. , ( Dem. , ) nom the Committee on Ways and Means , reported a bill for the support of the West Point Military Academy , and on his mo . tion the Committee obtained leave to sit during the sessions of the House . He took this occasion to ex. plain the reasons why the appropriation bills were not sooner reported , adding he had been informed that numerous libelling letter writers had been finding fault with the Committee for not reporting an equals . ble tax bill . The Committee , however , are gathering facts , and work for hours after attending to business In this hall . lie desired to say that the criticisms and libels of the Press would not make them move one minute faster @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ permit . Mr. FENTON , of N. Y. , ( Rep. , ) rising to a question of privilege , inquired by what rule Marshal LAMON occupied a place on the floor of this House . The SPEAKER replied that ho was not aware of such a rule , and had no doubt the Doorkeeper would enforce the rules . Mr. KELLOGG , of Illinois , ( Rep. , ) inquired whether the enforcement of the rules was to operate on the Marshal only . lie did not see anybody interfering with the business of the House . Then why should Mr. Idimies be made tin exception , when others , not members , were also on the floor . The Speaker directed the Doorkeeper to enforce the rules , and expressed the hope that members would not hereafter insist on introducing their friends here . Marshal Lam " who was standing near the main door , here retired . The House resumed tile consideratton of the Fortification bill . During the debate on amendments , Mr. ARNOLD , of Illinois , ( Rep. , ) said it were better m @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on official estimates . It was not to be supposed that this bill embraced all the fortifications necessary to the Atlantic Coast and Western Lakes . But the Select Committee have the matter under consideration , and will at an early day report the result of their deliberations . Mr. CRITTENDEN , of Kentucky , ( Union , ) suggested that we have not money enough to carry on the war within our borders . To this should all our energies be directed . It was no time to enter into expensive precautionary measures against a foreign war , which he hoped was far distant . Let us defend the Government , and when peace shalt ensue to the country , we can provide against the danger of a foreign war . Mr. Weems , of Pennsylvania , ( Opp. , ) agreed with Mr. CRITTENDEN that there should be no new works commenced unless there was an absolute and overruling necessity for them . He had been informed the bill appropriated between five and six millions of dollars . In order to afford time for examination into some of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . All amendments were voted down , when the Committee rose and the bill as originally reported , was passed . Mr. Houses , of Indiana , ( Opp. , ) from the Committee on Ai my Contracts , reported a resolution , which was adopted , calline on the Secretary of War to communicate to the Committee a copy of the contract for the purchase of horses for Cot . WILLIAMS ' Cavalry regiment now in Kentucky . Mr. STEELE , of New-Jersey , ( Opp. , ) of the same Committee , reported a resolution to Inquire into several orders on contracts , one for fifty thousand and another for twenty-five thousand infield rifles ; whether these contracts have been extended or annulled , and whether they have been sold or Offers made to sell them , etc . The House here adjourned until Monday .                     