@@739783

txt I have received information that the draft is about to be made In the Cities of New-Yorkvand Brooklyn , and I understand that there is danger of disorderly and riotous attacks upon those who are engaged in executing the law of Congress . I can not believe that any considerable number of citizens are pisposed to renew the shameful and sad scenes of the past month , in which the lives of so many , as well of the innocent as of the guilty , were destroyed . Our Courts are now consigning to severe punishment many of those who were then guilty of acts destructive of the lives and property of their fellow-citizens . These events should teach all that real or imaginary wrongs can not be corrected by unlawful violence . The liberties of our country and the rights of our citizens can only be preserved by a just regard for legal obligations , and an acquiescence in the decision of juaicial tribunals . While I believe it would have been a wise and humane policy to have procured a judicial decision with regard to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ day and by a summary process , yet the failure to do this in no degree justifies any violent opposition to an act of Congress . Until it is set aside by the decision of judicial tribunals , it must be obeyed like any other act of the State or National Legislature . The following rule of duty in this respect was laid down in the Farewell Andress of Agnazw JACKSON . This view has always been accepted by the friends illrf our Union , and the upholders of our Constitution : Unconstitutional or oppressive laws may no doubt be passed by Congress , either from erroneous views or the want of due consideration . If they are in reach of judicial authority , the remedy is easy and peaceful ; and if , from the character of the law , it is an abuse 9f power not withid the control of the judiciary , then free discussion and calm appeals to region and to the justice of the people , will not fail to redress the wrong . But until the law shall be declared void by the courts , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of indivinuals , can be justified in resisting its execution . The antagonistic doctrine that men may rightfully resist laws opposed to thtir own ideas of right or duty , has notonlyleCto great disorders and violence , but is one ol the chief Caine. of the destructive civil war which has wasted the blood and treasure of our People . Disregard for the morrislina of Constitution , for the majesty of OA law , and for the decisions of the Judiciary , is at this time the greatest danger which threatens American liberty . This spirit of disloyalty must be put down . It is inconsistent with social order and social security , destructive to the safety of psalms end property , and subversive of the liberty of the citizen and theefreedom of the Nation . Those who fear that there are designs in any quarter to overthrow the rights of the citizen , or to obstruct the accustomed adMinistration of our laws , or to usurp any power in violation of codstitutional restraints , should bear in mind that all acts of violence , all public disorders pave the way @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with satisfaction by those who for any cause may wish to destroy either the power or rights of our National er State Governments . The Constitution and statutes of the State and nation contain ample remedies for all wrongs which may be committed either by rulers or citizens , and those who with to " preserve their rights or to punish offenders , whether in public or in private life , should themselves carafe &; perform their duty , abstain from all illegal acts , generously support the Government , and then calmly and resolutely claim their rights . I again repeat the warning which I gave to you during the riotous proceedIng of the past month , that " the only opposition to the conscription which can be allowed is an appeal to the courts . The right of every citizen to make such an appeal will be maintained , and the decision of the Courts must be respected and obeyed by rulers and people alike . No other course is consistent with the maintenance of the laws , the peace and order of the City , and the safety @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , be pot down . The laws of the State of N ew-York must be enforced , its peace and order maintained , and prop . erty or all citizens protected at any and every hazard . The rights of every citizen wilt be properly guarded , : and defended by the chief magistrate of the State . " I hereby admonish all judicial and executive officers , whose duty it is to inforce the law and preserve public order , that they take vigorous and effective measures to put down any riotous or unlawful assemblages ; and if they find their power insufficient for that purpose , to call upon the military in the manner pointed out by the Statutes of the State . If these measures should prove insufficient , I shall then exert the full power of the State , in order that the public order may be preserved and the persons and property of the citizens be fully protected .                     