@@740326

txt The following is , the letter of Mr. Peabody donating the sum of $25,000 to Phillips Aeademy'ol An-dover : To the Honorable and Reverend the Trustees of Phillips Academy , Andover GENTLEMEN : You are intrusted with the oversight of one of the oldest Academies in our country , weieli was most carefully and wisely planned , and for tho times , most liberally endowed by its lee-seeing founders . Having had several relatives placed in the school , and having watched with great pleasure their p  --  t - gress under its influences ctur ; ng their course in preparing for college , or for business life , after repeated conferences with your Treasurer and your Principal , I some years since intimated to them my desire to aid you in adding to its usefulness as one of the loremost classical schools in the land . The time has now come when I can gratify this wish , and shall be happy to do it . Cordially appro. - ing the general character and aims of the Ac and sympathizing with you in your efforts to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it enters on its work in your new edifice , I regret to loin : that . none of its chairs of instruction have as yet been specifically endowed ; I therefore hereby tender to you the sum of $25,000 , to be by you and your successors hold in trust for the purpose of endowing a Chair of Mathematics and the Natural Sciences in the school to be occupied , upon such terms and in Filch manner as you may judge most conducive to the welfare of the Academy , wishing for myself to give only this general direction and condition , to wit : that this fund shall be held by you specially and solely for this object : that the fund itself shall he kept intact , its income only being used in payment of the salary of the instructor in this department , and that It the Chair shall at any time be vacant , so that the income can not be thus applied , or if in any year there ie , for other causes , a balance of income not needed for said instructor 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the principal for its permanent increase . I make this offering , gentlemen , from a heartfelt appreciation and desire for the promotion of the moat thorough and liberal education which our American institutions can be made to impart , and to a school like Phillips Academy , which , as I am informed and believe , seeks to give , in my native county of Essex , and so near my early home , not only the highest mental discipline in its sphere to all classes , but such a general training in manly virtues and in Christian morality and piety as all good men should approve , and which is , and I trust will ever remain , free from all sectarian influence . I have pleasure in extending a helping hand . I am , with great respect , your humble servant .                     