@@739917

txt The speech of M. Tit i sits . in the French Corps Lsgislatif , treating of the actual pont ical condition of France , and already the subject of discussion in thesyolumns , gives us a glimpse of her future , frornlvhich nobody who is interested in tier progress can , derive much satisfaction . It is impossible on laying it down to avoid asking , as so many of the best men in France have been asking for so long , what she has gained by all the changes through which she has gone 0 the last eighty years , except the reduction of all ranks and classes to the same level before the law . This was no doubt an immense gain , but it was achieved before a drop of innocent blood had been shed . The nobles had lost their privileges before the revolution had entered on its sanguinary phase , and all the troubles , and turmoil , and broils , and ' mortal anxieties , loss of life and loss of treasure , which Frenchmen have since suffered , would seem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It does not appear , as we remarked a few weeks ago , that a subject of Louis NAPOLEON enjoys a single legal guarantee for life , liberty or property , as against the Government , which the subjects of Louis XIV . did not enjoy . He is better oft ; it is true , better fed , and better clothed , and possesses general . exemption from gross tyranny and outrage , but this is due to the general progress of the world in humanity , and the greater force of public opinion , which has been bred by greater publicity to politics , properly , so called . France is to-day very much what it was in 1700 . Moreover , it now appears that the much vaunted change from the parliamentary system to the system of . personal government which the Emperor brought about , is not much of a change after all . All readers of r the wonderful lucubrations of the Duke DE MORNY and the Duke DE MOUCIIY are aware that what France gained by the 2d of December was the utter extinction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " men of action , " the soldiers , and speculators , and horse-dealers , were henceforward to have the sole charge of public affairs and the expenditure of the public ' money , and the scribblers and rhetoricians were to be relegated to harmless silence and obscurity . This admirable invention was tried for exactly seven years , and failed miserably . The " men of action " *ran the country horribly in debt , and proved such blind , - as well as mute guides , that the Emperor called the very worst part of the parliamentary system , the talking part again into existence . The Corps Legislatif was permitted to debate and to vote the budget by items , and not in the lump , as previously . The result is that the talkers are all once again let loose on France ; and what is , if possible , still worse , the old set of talkers who adorned the closing years of Louis P-isters 's reign , are again making their appearance on the surface . It is true , the main feature Of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regards the vote of the Chamber  --  still remains ; but it was not the dependence of the Ministry on the Chamber , which was , after all , in the eyes of the Bonapartist publicists , the worst of its features ; but the distracting , disturbing , exciting influence of , the debates on the public mind . And now the debates are going on as vigorously as ever , and are faithfully reported in the Moniteur and every other journal that . chooses to publish them . Every member says what he pleases , the only check being the interruptions of the great Duke who presides over the deliberations of the body , whose reproofs fall upon such men as Tittsns and PELLETAN and JULES FAVRE , with about as much effect as the exhortations of the pious Cobbler upon the " Essayists and Reviewers . " What makes the position all the more absurd , is that the Emperor has not , as might be supposed , got over his fear of free speech . The press is as completely gagged as ever . The property of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ police . The assembling of over twenty persons for any purpose of discussion is forbidden , and the prohibition is rigidly enforced . ' But the newspapers are not forbidden to report the debates in the Senate and Corps Legislatif , provided they copy them in full from the Monitedr . It is hardly necessary to say that speeches of men like BERRYER , Or THIERS , or JULES FAVRE , are not rendered one whit more effective or ' more damaging by being commented on by the press ; on the contrary , the enjoined silence of the press gives . a point and force to their arguments and invective ; and yet the speeches are printed and read in every cafe in France , and the Government seems to think that as long as the Journal des Debats or the Opinion Nationale is not allowed to say amen to them , they can not harm it . And nevertheless there is little question that the fears ? of the Tuileries are every month increasing , and that the Fleurys and the Mornys and the Persignys feel each day their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ armed these men is , perhaps , at this mo- ment the most effective instrument that could have been devised for completing the political training of the French Liberals . The necessity under which it places , of working under constraint , of submitting day after day to defeat without losing heart and hope , cultivating , in short , the great virtues of patience and selticontrol. without which a minority is nothing , and can achieve nothing , will , we have no doubt , prove an invaluable blessing to France , and may end by rendering it hereafter impossible for the country of limiest. and Dssemerss to pass , body and soul , into the hands of such a band of adventurers as now rule her . 