@@739484

txt Fort Jackson is now in command of the Twentysixth Massachusetts Volunteers , ( the old Massachusetts Sixth , ) Col. A. B. FARR commanding . This regiment is admitted to be one of the best drilled and most effective in the service . It was the first regiment that , landed on Ship Island , and I believe Col. FARR W Rs the first man of the regiment . On the 15th of April , the regiment shipped on board of the steamer Mississippi and reached the Passes two days before the bombardment commenced . After various disappointments in trying to get up to the forte in time to take some part in the action , the Mississippi ran out of the Passes , came up one of the innumerable bays , and , finally , by incredible exertioas , landed within foi , r miles of the rear of Fort St. Philip . Here the men disembarked on board of small boats , and on the 7th of May landed at Quarantine , and , among ether exploits , succeeded in capturing two hundred Confederate soldiers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Gen. BUTLER detached the regiment from the brigade and it took possession of the forts , where it has remained up to this date . Two companies are at Fort Jackson , four at Fort St. Philip and one at Quarantine . The health of the troops is , on the whole , good ; the soldiers stand the climate better than was anticipated by the most sanguine , the deaths being less titan would probably have occurred among the same number of men in the North . The amount of labor done inside of Fort Jackson , not by the soldiers , but under their immediate control , has been immense . The inside of the fort con ? sequently is beginning to assume an orderly appear . ance . It is a singular fact that the place is overcrowded with captured munitions of war , the quantities are immense , and give a magnificent idea of the superabundant resources of the rebels . The citadel in the centre of the fort , which was knocked to plecea by the bombardment , is being removed , but the brick @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of doing it is immense ; the rubbish once out of the way , there will be made a handsome parade ground for exercising the regiment . The ? e were in Fort Jackson , at this date , thirty-five political and criminal prisoners , the number includes many of the prominent city officials , ( Mayor Mortees among others ) . The criminals are some of the most notorious scoundrels that ever went unitung . One of the latter is sentenced to hard labor for life , one for 21 years , some for a year , and some for six months . Ataong the recent additions to the labor gang , is a late Deputy Collector of . New-Orleans . The political prisoners are cot fined in the casemates , seven in each . Col. Feint says they generally behave well , and are liberally supplied with luxuries from the City . The Federal guard who keeps watch over them , eats his hard biscuit or slice of pork , and has the satisfaction of seeing these rebels feasting on rich food , or guzzling costly wines . On @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a row ; an addition to the select party was rudely treated , on account of their want of some position . Col. Flan announced to the high . toned gentlemen that he knew no difference between them and the fellows just admitted ; and If be heard any more noises , or bad any more trouble , he would put the entire company , without any distinction , in Irons ; since that time said casemate has been the quietest in the Fort . In addition to the criminals who labor , about one hundred street men are employed . Every possible care is taken of the soldiers , to make the dreary but most responsible duties as light as possible , and so long as the Twenty-811M Massachusetts . the sufferers in Baltimore , the first to land on Ship Island , the guardians of the flag at Fort Jackson , remain at the posts , the honor of the country will be sustained . 