@@739216

txt In the present issue will be found highly interesting dispatches from Mexico . The Constitutional Government is pursuing the work of reform with energy , determination , and , to all appearance , discetion , according to the programme laid . down in what may be termed the Inaugural Aessage of the Liberal Government . This able State paper is well worth perusal , and wo recommend it particularly to the attention of our legislators and Executive in Washington . The Constitutional Government apparently occupies that trying position in which a victorious party always finds itself after a violent and protracted revolutionary struggle . With the Govrenment now in power in Mexico , the case cculd not be otherwise . An empty treasury , upon which constant demands are made by needy domestic claimants and merciless foreign creditors ; every variety of interest at work for supremacy ; political parties clamorous , some for radical and some for conservative measures ; no adequate concentration of power or facilities to carry on any sort of a Government ; and yet , the work of construction and sweeping reform @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mexico , at this moment , certainly presents a great moral spectacle , worthy the attention of the civilized world . But a few short months since , the Liberals of that country were regarded and spoken of pretty generally as disorganized , irresponsible bands of guerrilla savages , warring for plunder and against religion , law and order . We now see this same Liberal Government in power , banishing from the country the highest European officials , civil and religious , along with their own principal ecclesiastics , and otherwise- entering profoundly Into the work of reform , in a manner that astonishes everybody ; and yet on grounds that are positively incontrovertible , and which must command the assent of all civilized communities , unless they are determined to make open war upon the cause of private virtue and public order in Mexico . It is an old Aegean stable the Liberals are cleansing in the capital of the Republic , and in the cleansing , the foul accumulations of three centuries are turned up and exposed . The evidence of this is irresistible , and the fact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the great elements of strength which sustains the Goverm-nent in its Herculean task . The fortunate change that has taken place in Mexican affairs , in connection with the adverse change that has occurred in our own country , has brought Mexico fully before the public mind . All sections of the Union are now looking to the neighboring Republic with political or commercial intent , and it behooves the new Administration to select with the utmost care a proper representative to reside near the Government of Mexico . Any one of imperfect personal recommendations , and who does not understand the Spanish language , Mexican character and Mexican politics  --  who likewise does not comprehend the demands of commerce and the mission of fillibusterism , would be worse than useless to the interests of this country at the present crisis . The Administration will find the mission to Mexico most difficult to fill adequately .                     