@@740177

txt We have now a right to look for a consolidated support of this war by men of all parties in the North . The peace conference has confirmed beyond all question that there is no alternative to war but disunion . The commissioners of the rebel Government demanded the recognition of its independence as an indispensable preliminary to any negotiation for peace . President LINCOLN in vain exhausted every inducement to bring them to ground where compromise was possible . They would not swerve one hair'sbreadth ? in fact could not so move without violating their trust , and at once evoking a repudiation from Richmond . Their directness was honorable . They practiced no reserve or equivocation . They confronted us on their real position at the outset . So far from attempting to deceive , they , from the very beginning , made mistake impossible . No sine qua non was ever more sharply defined , or more positively claimed . It must be met in the same manly spirit . It can not be yielded to without treason . It can not be paltered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , we have never for an instant imagined that it could be ended by compromise . The issue was between the life and death of the Union , and between life and death there can be no such thing as compromise . Holding this absolute conviction , we have yet recognized that many good men have believed that the rebellion might be propitiated , and peace promoted , by liberal overtures . It was not difficult to see how such a belief could be honestly entertained . A large portion of our people had been educated to the idea that as the Union was originally created in compromise , and had worked habitually through compromise , the only possible mode of saving it must be by compromise . Within certain limits ? as bearing on minor differences  --  this was all correct enough . Mutual concessions of sentiment and of Interest always have been and always will be necessary to the successful working of our federal system . But the mistake of these peace men has lain in not recognizing that , while compromise may be ever so efficacious within its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Government to which it can not apply . A Government , like a man , may give all that it hath for its life ; but when the life itself is demanded , and no concession will be taken short of that , it must stop giving . There is no such thing as yielding a part of the life , and reserving a part . The rebellion was an attack upon the life of the Government , and nothing else . From the beginning it has been simply and purely a disunion movement . Its essential nature , then , precluded the possibility of its being compromised with ; and a peace policy , founded on the idea of compromise , could be nothing else than a mockery . But old associations had charmed many with the word compromise , and the delusion clung to them that somehow the rebel spirit could be laid by it . During the Presidential canvass , argument and evidence to the contrary were presented to an extent that should , we think , have convinced them , a hundred times over , of this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of cases , not because the spirit was essentially malignant and factious , but because the power of old association was too strong . But let all that past be forgotten . Whether or not the peace men ought to have been convinced long ago that their object could not be reached by compromise , it is enough that the proof of it now comes to them in a way that permits no doubt . In the face of this attestation by the rebel Government itself , that it will not negotiate for peace except as an independent Power , every syllable henceforth uttered in favor of negotiation must be taken as a proclamation of sympathy with treason , and its author should suffer the fullest force of public opinion . We hope now to see every peace man of the past , who has preserved one spark of loyalty , come squarely up to the support of the Government , in the most vigorous prosecution of a war , which shall crush what can not be conciliated . Every loyal sentiment of every shade , throughout the length and breadth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ determination to conquer the peace which baffles all other effort . The fact is patent to everybody that the war has already - vastly reduced the strength of the rebellion . This the rebels themselves do not pretend to deny . It requires , then , but a perseverance in the war to exhaust the rebellion altogether . All military authority agrees that a few months , at most , will suffice for this , if the national armies are kept up to their proper standard . In fact , SHERMAN 'S last campaign has made it plain to all the world . Let it be honestly accepted , in conjunction with the result of the peace conference , and be resolutely followed up with a universal cooperation in meeting the last call of the Government for more soldiers . Even the most inveterate peace man of the past must admit that if the rebellion must be crushed , the sooner it is done the better . 