@@739211

txt In 1811 , when the late Nee or of the medical profession , Dr. JoaN W. Fitancts , received the degree of Id D. from the Cola ge of Physicians and Surgeons , the state of medical science was such that the President of the L. I. College stated , at its opening sessisn , " that the Professors of the Institution enjoyed less advantages at that time du- ing the whole course of study than was at the command of the student now in a single day . " In spite of these increasing advantages , it has often been thought that physicians wrangled , as of old , over t chnicalitles , contended for priority among each other , and urged a favorite theory , while the patient died ere the consultation was at an end . In this condition of medical science we are pleased to bate the strung common-sense statement which heads this article , and which has been adopted by : ate learned bodies in Europe . Though only now asserted in Europe , this vital medical truth has been the basis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Known throughout the United States , in all its towns , villages and hamlets , having reduced the bills of mortality more than one-half , having almost eradicated many of the most torturing constitutional maladies , and made Consumption completely subject to judicious treatment , it has , within a year , in obedience to public de-mend , assumed a prominence in the City of New-York which has already thrown ... many other medical institalons and seats of instruction far into the back around . We allude to the Grmfenberg Medical incorporation , which has been for some months , impelled by grave public considerations , located in the splendid building , Jo . 2 Bond-street , near Broadway . No one who has passed through Broadway can have failed to notice this structure , and natural inquiries concerning it have led to the investigation of its merits and the publication of this article . The Directors of the Institution have never descended to personal warfare , nor claimed for it a sectarian origin . Though designed for the dissemination of particular remedies , it has judged fairly and dispassionately @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has tended to the promotion of the public good , and has denounced with unhesitating condemnation whatever has involved detriment or disaster to the well being of the community . With that modesty , inseparable from enlarged ideas and correct knowledge , it has n ever assaulted nor wan red with individuals , nor has it sought to elevate its claims to public confidence by petty , sectarian wrangling , but , confiding in the gradual development of public sentiment pr.aluced by the universal benefit following the adoption of its theory and practi ce , it has gone on unobtrusively , carrying health and happiness wherever it has gone , quietly rendering gratiuitous and effectual aid to thousands , until the esteem in which it is held has forced it into a position in New-York City more prominent than that enjoyed by any other medical organization . The Grmfenberg Family Remedies consist of eleven medicines , among which will be found one suited to the prevention and cure of all diseases incident to this country and climate . Full descriptions of them , and of all diseases , their symptoms . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Graefenberg Manual of Health , a family medical book of 300 pages , which is sold or sent * mail for 25 cents , and which is illu strated with elegant er gravings of the human system . Two of the series demana especial notice , from their inestimable value ; and the universal prevalence of the diseases fur which they are a certain cure .                     