@@740162

txt We regret that we do not hear as yet of the appointment of any special committee by Congress for the sole purpose of discovering means of reducing expenditures . The Congress and the people also have apparently come to the conclusion , that the wealth of this country is boundless , and as our cause is the most noble possible , there can be no harm in spending to the utmost for the purpose of success . The unfortunate feature of this syllogism is , that the major premise Is not quite correct . The resources of this country are , - without doubt , almost beyond estimate , but the wealth or capital which can be reached by any system of taxation we may be able to devise , is quite within estimate , in fact , is not astoundingly large . Our debts must be paid either from the labor of today or the mortgaged labor of the future . The labor of to-day  --  the production of these years of war  --  can and will be taxed heavily , and yet there are obvious limits @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ available up to a certain point ; when carried beyond that , consumers cease to demand the commodities . Taxes on labor and capital at home , may finally become so burdensome as to diminish production or to create so great discontent as to ultimately threaten the security of our whole funded debt . A vast deal of the property of the country can not be taxed directly ; a large proportion , it it were taxed , would not yield revenue enough to pay the expense of collection . The property of a nation is not precisely and accurately the measure of its ability to pay its debts . We are aware that one large class of producers  --  the agriculturists  --  have not vet been burdened with their fair proportion of the national taxation . But as they are , par excellence , the source of the national wealth , it was wise to spare them as long as possible . Still , even with what taxation may yet be laid on the farming interest , we are approaching the limit of feasible and profitable taxation . The loans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expenses increase as we increase currency . No possible taxation and no loans which we can probably place , can pay all the current expenses of this tremendous struggle . We are forced continually to resort to paper , which is reducing the wealth of the nation faster than the most oppressive taxation . The only feasible course now for our Government to meet the financial storm approach . ing , is , not to borrow more , but to save . We must act as any sensible merchant would in vast enterprises which were expanding beyond his means ; not give them up , but call in all possible expenditures . The nation has spent thus far with prodigal hand , because it knew that whatever was done in putting down the rebellion , must be done promptly , and therefore expensively . Had we waited and saved , foreign nations would have recognized the Confederacy , our people have become discouraged , and the war at length died out from the  --  vety slowness of our progress . Now , however , we have reached a point , when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fearful embarrassments , and secondly when we can afford less expenditure . We are persuaded that immense sums can now be saved by close investigation into the outlays for our army and navy . With the most honest administration there must be in such vast expenditures , great leakages . They need incessant supervision by competent and critical outside investigators . Many and many a supernumerary officer , many a useless garrison , many an expensive vessel or commissioned transport now out of service , many a " job " unknown to our officials , can , doubtless , be discovered , and cut off by vigilant committees . The cry of save ! must be heard through all the departments . ECONOMY must be given out to the whole public service as the order of the day . We trust that the displacement of Senator HALE as Chairman of the Naval Committee of the Senate means no shirking of his vigilant investigations and criticisms of the Navy Department . They ought to be continued with the utmost rigor . Equally so with the War Department and all others . We @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and , if not absolutely necessary , unsparingly cut off . The people must insist through their representatives on the most exact economy , arid every possible retrenchment . ? Let us have from one end of the service to the other a strict regime of economy , and we may be able to weatherthis financial storm . There is no doubt in any foreseeing mind of the fall of the Confederacy ; but the problem for Congress is to prevent its dragging with it our own bankruptcy .                     