@@740392

txt The probable result of the groat impeachment trial is the universal topic of conversation in all circles of society here and elsewhere , but the groat wonder so frequently expressed Is , " How does President JongsoN feeil ; what does be think of the chances of conviction or acquittal ? " To gratify this very natural curiosity or wonder on the part of the people , your correspondent sought information at the Executive Mansion , whore ho was cordially received by the President , who , with perfect nonchalance , inquired , " What news to-day ; how stands impeachment ? " No one could have suspected that the party who propounded these questions wits himself the party impeached and then on trial for " high crimes and misdemeanors . " Mr. JoaNsow has never looked better than he does to-day , and his fine flow of good humor indicates anything but a troubled mind . Atter briefly replying to his questions , your correspondent ventured upon his work directly and without circumlocution . " I would be pleased to learn your views of the situation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? " The President promptly replied ? " Oh , I have never allowed myself to believe or feel that the American Senate would prostitute its great power of impeachment to base party purposes , and 1 shall not believe it until I know the vote of conviction has been recorded . Such is my abstract opinion of the Senate ; but wnatever their judgment may be I shall cheerfully bow to the authority of the Constitution . " " But , Mr. President , it was suggested by Mr. BINGHAM in his closing argument that it was doubtful whether you would obey the mandate of the Senate if the judgment be one of conviction . " Mr. JOHNSON% face flushed , and a slight start was perceptible as if about springing to hie feet . Smiles and pleasant looks were gone , and with suppressed indignation he said : " The suggestion of Mr. BINGHAM was a base one , but , nevertheless , one In per-fect harmony with the charges and suggestions contained in the eleven articles of impeachment . Why should I not obey the mandate of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are complied with ? If Senators abuse their trust they are not responsible to me , but to the peoule , who hold the sovereign power . The people have placed me in charge of one of the great departments of the Government , with all its duties and responsibilities , and the same people have pieced genatop in another department also , with grave responsibilities and with the power to try impeachment and render judgments thereon . If Senators misuse or abuse this great power thus intrusted to them , it is not for the party impeached and convicted to attempt to set aside the judgment of the Senate . The people alone can settle with their agents for any abuse of their great trust . Mr. I3IN0HAM well knows that I have never failed to yield a cheerful comp ) ice vzit.h. all the requirements of the Constitution . I have enaehored , to the beet of my ability , to protect , detend and preserve that great chart of our liberties , and I am more than willing to surrender my official respoustoliity whenever called upon so to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ instrument . " Tao President spoke with considerable warmth of eeling , and added ' chat he had every confidence in the honesty and rdetriotisin of the neat mass of the people ; and wrAlever the judgment of the Senate might be , the , people would do him justice . He felt that his repbtation was perfectly sale in the hands or U0Sl'ority . It is very evident that the President reaids the whole impeachment prooceeding as simply a trial of the Constitution , and one in which he feels a deep interest as an American citizen . There was no indication by look or word that he felt any special Interest , in the result on private account . lie spoke of the trial precisely as ho would speak of any other public matter involving the public interest .                     