@@739751

txt Foreign Intervention Again . Loots NAPOLEON seems quite inclined to try his hand again at intervention in our affairs . The news this morning announces that he has invited England to join him , and intimates that if he can not get England , he will be content with Spain . Spain has suffered , it is said , more than France from our war ; and therefore , it is hoped , she will be at least equally anxious to have it ended . w e regret ma movement on the part of France , because it can have no possible effect except to prolong the In ar . The Paris correspondent of the London Times gives us to understand that this new intervention is to proceed upon the ground of the recognition of the Southern Confederacy . The Emperor is satisfied , we are told , that the restoration of the Union is impossible . Intervention or mediation on such a basis may incite the South to fresh efforts by arousing in their minds fresh hopes of foreign aid . They are making now their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ likely to fail , at every point , nothing but this prospect of foreign aid can give them courage or motive for a new endeavor . Under its influence France may possibly stimulate the exhausted South to drag into the field their few remaining men and make one more struggle to overthrow the Government of the United States . The French Emperor ought by this time to understand that upon the people of the North and West his intervention can have no other effect than to make them still more determined to prosecute the war to a triumphant close . It will at once strengthen and exasperate them . Thousands and tens of thousands of those who would purchase peace by concessions to the rebel South , will not take It at the hands of a foreign Power . Even men who would submit to being conquered by Americans in arms , would scorn to accept the dictation of a coalition of European despots . Any attempt , therefore , which Louis NAPOLEON may make to take part in the settlement of our affairs , will be resented as an insult @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to words , it may lead to no result beyond encouraging the defeated and disheartened South , and thus prolonging the war . But if it takes the form of forcible intervention , it will unite the great mass of our people as one man , and arouse them to efforts of resistance far transcending any they have hitherto put forth . No part of the policy of this Administration has been received with more absolute and universal favor than its prompt and resolute rejection of all tenders of foreign intervention or mediation in our affairs . We trust that in this respect that policy has undergone no change , and that any proposition which France , or England , or Spain , or all of them combined , may make , intended to affect in any way the decision of this contest , will meet with an instant and peremptory rejection .                     