@@740170

txt There is no doubt that the British Government are making preparations to send a naval armament , of greater or less proportions , to the lakes . And probably the London journal that announces Capt . SHERARD OSBORN as the designated commander of the force , has quasi Official ttUthoriij itFf statement . But them is great reason to question the report received yesterday as to the number of vessels and men detailed by the British Government for this new service . We doubt whether there are thirty gunboats in the British service of a class at all adaptable for lake service . The locks of the St. Lawrence canals are of ample length ? two hundred feet ; but their width is only twenty-six feet , and their depth only ten , while the Welland locks are but one hundred and fifty feet in length , with dimensions otherwise the same as the St. Lawrence . We very much doubt whether there is now such a fleet of serviceable gunboats corresponding vt ith these measurements , and also whether such a fleet could be ready by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ story otherwise is improbable . It comes through a rebel , or at least most unfriendly channel . And it is ' difficult to believe that the British Government , by commencing with so formidable an armament , would desire to enter into a competition with us in a naval enterprise which is solely and purely defensive  --  and defensive not as against Great Britain or her colonies , but.as against outlaws and pirates who find now , or may find hereafter , refuge on British territory . If contrary to our belief , however , we are to be invited to enter a race in the matter of naval armament on the inland waters , we must make up our minds to ir , and if our neighbors can afford the luxury , we certainly believe that we can . It strikes us , at the same time , as the more rational ? as we are willing to believe it to be the most likely ? policy for both Governments to measure the strength of the naval force which is to be employed on the lakes solely by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ task is simple . It is to see that piracy on these inland seas shall become impossible . A half score or less of clean , swift , light gunboats will probably be more than sufficient for this purpose . And it would be a perversion of common sense to regard such craft as a menace against a friendly neighbor , demanding an opposing armament of three times the size . This , however , is a point which the British authorities must determine on their own responsibility . We shall proceed to our part of the work with the sole and single-minded purpose of protecting our frontiers .. We shall do so in the belief and the hope that even these purely defensive precautions are of an exceptional character , and that the termination of the rebellion may render them of nothing more than temporary necessity .                     