@@739598

txt Nothing of particular interest has occurred in this department since my last , so far as military matters are concerned , even rumors of invasion by the Confederates have ceased . The opening up of the Lafourohe country has filled our levee with sugar , and already a large crop of sugar has enriched our commerce . It is a melancholy fact , however , that the demands for insurance , owing to the depredations of the Alabama , has put up insurance so high that there seems to be but little chance for the trader to make any living profit . Is it not a fearful thing that a single English vessel , commanded by a pirate , can effect the entire commercial interests of this vast country . Was there ever before such an example of national inefficiency ? The Seceshers here insist upon it that the President will back out from his emancipation proclamation ; if such should be the case I do not see how the cause of the Union can ever recover from such a sad event . Any hesitation now , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I see nothing in the late Presidential elections but the usual reactory effect that follows every exciting Presidential contest ; the natural effect has no doubt been exaggerated by certain acts of the officials in power , but I believe that there is no case where the elections following a Presidential contest have not gone against the party in power in Washington . As the result forces on Mr. LixcoLN to a moat vigorous prosecution of the war , lie has nothing to fear from the past ; the people want the war ended In the shortest possible time , and that policy and that sort of action will carry the indorsement of the people . We are just at this time excited by the preliminaries of a Congressional election . I am sorry to say that the Unionism of many voters is of the most fishy kind . It is very apparent that the " flesh-pots of Egypt " are not forgotten , and that the restoration of the Union means nothing more than again getting possession of the niggers . This party has accepted , for their candidate a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ voted Louisiana , against the wishes of the people , out of the Union . I understand , however , that he can not take his seas in Congress , even if elected , as the oath necessary to obtain a seat could not be taken by him . Nevertheless . he has the impudence enough to run , and people enough , claiming to be loyal , who will vote for him , it he will give them a chance . Hon. E. H. DIIIIilaft ? President of the Finance Bureau , and B. F. 111. exDERS , Esq .. present City Treasurer , are the accepted candidates of the Union Conservatives , and It la probable that they will be elected . These gentlemen are uncompromising in their politics , and will be satisfied to give nothing else than an unqualified sup- , port to every measure that will vigorously prosecute the war to put down the rebellion . Thursday , the 27th , was celebrated here by many New-Englanders , as Thanksgiving day . Very many families indulged in the luxury of going through the celebration with such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ good-nature and jollity of the , people entertained , made up for what was lacking ill the way of fat turkeys and mince pies . Of course , the Sons of Massachusetts were the most enthusiastic , and the Thirteenth Massachusetts , stationed at the barracks below the city , did most to honor the old times custom .                     