@@740089

txt In the trenches , on fatigue , skirmish or vidette line , is now the order of the day . My time for keeping you posted In a private 's daily experience is limited enough , and I write this on my knee , whilst relieved on fatigue  --  one hour ion , and one hour off . The great expected attack of LEE 'S army is hourly looked for night and day . The boom of cannon on our right at Bermuda Hundred is heard every day ; but on our left all is silent as the grave  --  the lull preceding the terrible struggle that is to be made for the possession of that vital road . There is pretty sharp Picket-firing each evening on our left , said to be where the one hundred rebel prisoners were recently captured , and that neither party can relieve their pickets until trenches are dug from the main line . Last Saturday . the 10th. the rebel battery killed one man ( his arm and side blown off ) , and wounaed ten or twelve at work.on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mortar shelling , but on Wednesday the 14th , there was the heaviest cannonading on our side yet . It was commenced by the rebels , but they were soon silenced . Towards the conclusionothe Dutch battery flrea by volleys. and the voice of its commander giving order to fire could be heard over the rebel lines . Shells burst all along their lines and over their batteries , tearing down a tent . Deserters say they lost a good many , and expecting a charge , were drawn up in two lines of battle . Our loss was two men of the Sixteenth N.Y.Heavy Artillery , ( on fatigue ) one had his head blown off , the other wounded . The cars can now be heard passing our lines towards the Weldon road , probably the track Is completed partly or in whole In that direction . Four men are said to have been killed last night while felling trees in front of a very ) moortant battery ; they were volunteers who were Co have 60 days furlough , The weather is cool and occasionally chilly in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ comfort . Over 2Q0 of our men were mustered out on Monday the 12th , and left for home watt Col. HAWLEY , who , it is said , is on a short furlough of twenty oars . Ninety men for duty In the trenches remain . No more sign of nay-day than there was two months ago . Some of the men have written and received money from their friends at home . Picket firing is kept uo pretty . sharp and accurate on both skies . " Yesterday two or three shots struck the sand-bag by my head ; about a dozen the bark , and the hole I fired throu.rh was partially closed two or three times by the flying dirt , the Johnny 's probably . thought they had a green horn they would silence . I never took my gun from the hole until toe seven char ges in the magazine were exhausted , but kept sighted and ready for my chance . Their distance is from five to six hundred yarns , and our bullets , if the gun is kept clean , will nearly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was that we nearly silenced the rebels by noon , and that a battery that fired one gun was completely silenced the remainder of the day . W hile wntit , r. this battei y has fired three shells without injuring any of us . Our small whisky ration once a day is to us almost as much as our meat . I am no lover of ardent spirits at borne , and would not drink one glass in three months , but I have learned its use and necessity here , to our health and . comfort . Coarse food , constant duty , danger and excitement , ana Ito money to purchase any of Vie little luxuries , a r-.an feels in want of for near seven months . I consider the order of Gen. GRANT giving to men half a gill per day as wise and necessary .                     