@@740159

txt The statistics of crime in this city , as exhibited in the annual report of the Police Commissioners , are well worthy of general consideration ; while the vast discrepancy between the number of arrests for high crimes , and the number of convictiwis for such efferees in the courts , is truly alsrming . After enumerating seven hundred and forty-two cases of arrest , during the year 1864 , tor violence against the person , including forty-eight for murder and ten for manslaughter , the Commissioners say : " A small portion of this mass of high crimes has received the punishment provided by the laws . The fault , if any exist , is somewhere beyond the power of the police . " When life and property are in daily peril from lawless ruffians , and it is safer to take a stroll on the picket-line of the James than to walk through some of the streets of New York after nightfall , it becomes a matter of importance to our citizens to know where that " fault " does exist . Perhaps the leisure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Citizens ' Association could not be better employed than in the investigation of this matter . We are willing to concede the activity of the police department in making arrests ; and a criminal , after arrest , is usually indicted ; but in too many instances that is the last that we hear of him until , perhaps , he is again arrested for another crime . The fault in such cases lies in the lax administration of justice in the courts ; and not , so much with the Judges as in the loose manner in which the business of the District-Attorney 's office is conducted . Out of fifty-eight arrests for homicide during the year past . only- thirty-two have been disposes of in the criminal courts ; and while more tirk'n forty indictments have been found for nlltder , there was only one conviction for that ethos ' , in 1864 . In the Court of Sessions there were 466 cases disposed of during the last 4 year . Yet , for various crimes triable there , the Grand Jury of that Court found 093 indictments , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the District-Attorney 's office . It is a growing custom with the District-Attorney to accept a plea of guilty of a minor offence from a party indicted for a high crime . For instance , a man is indicted for murder in the first degree , the penalty upon conviction of which is death . Ills counsel informs the prosecuting officer that the prisoner is willing to plead guilty to manslaughter in the fourth degree , the punishment for which is a few months , or at most two years , imprisonment ; and that official , ostensibly to save the time of court and jury , accepts the plea . The murderer is sentenced , as in two cases that we remember , to a few days ' confinement in the City Prison , and then goes on his way through the world ready to kill the next man that crosses his path . It is this pernicious practice that holds forth to the assassin and robber an almost certain chance of escape from the full meed of punishment ; and we are confident that until this , among @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ police can not prevent the increase of crime . Not only the Commissioners of Police , but every resident of the city , has cause to complain when an inefficient administration of law , combined with injudicious executive clemency , turn upon the community forty or fifty murderers , , annually . The many chances which a felon always has of escape are so increased from these causes , that they hesitate at nothing in the accomplishment of their objects of gain or revenge . We cea.e to be startled at the frightful record of bloody affrays or violent robberies which the daily papers present , when we see that criminals seldom receive the punishment due to their crimes , but are let loose to tell their comrades how easy it is to escape justice in New-York.                     