@@739709

txt The failure of the Federal attack on theCharleston forts was the theme of general comment ; but there is a wide difference in the deductions drawn . from the event . The London Times says that the effort against Charleston , which was to retrieve and avenge all previous disasters , has ended in a catastrophe more signal than any reverse the North has yet sustained . Continual failures are not mere accidents . The object of the North is impossinie . Those who appeal to arms should surely be prepared to accept the decision of the field . Even if the conquest of the South were to be achieved , it would only destroy the North by turning it into a Russia of the New World , compelled to be the despotic oppressor of a Poland of the tVest . The Times , in another editorial , remarks , on the importance of the affair at Charleston as a victory of forts over ships , of land batteries over iron-clads , of the defence over the attack , and that the moral to be now drawn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to perform better service against ships or movable batteries than was imagined when a resolution was taken last year to suspend the cons struction of forts at Spithead . In its City Article , the Times says : " Great satisfaction was expressed in the city at the fact of the strong tone adopted by Parliament having drawn forth a promise of vigor from the Cabinet . previously to the arrival of the news of the total repulse of the Federal fleet before Charleston . If the notification that the British Government will no longer tolerate the proceedings of Admiral WILKE3 had been delayed until after this event , the determination would have been attributed to a desire to take advantage of a crushing disaster . " The Daily News says it is puerile to describe the repulse at Charleston as a catastrophe . The disappointment will oe sorely telt for a few days , but it is doubtful whether many sensible Americans ever expected to see Charleston taken by a fleet . The Morning Herald says if , as it confidently expects , the success at Charleston should prove the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tennessee , the Southern Confederacy will have established its claim of independence by arg  --  iments which few European Governments will be willing or ab ! e to contest . The Morning Post looks upon the affair as demonstrating the impregnability of the Charleston defences .                     