@@739910

txt We publish several communications this morning on this subject  --  two of them from clergymen , one of them sustaining , the other opposing our view . Iyrg Ire going into no labored argn-trient on this subject . It its not necessary . The plain , practical sense of patriotic , Christian men , intuitively settles the nueRtion . The statement is simply this : There is a statute against raffling . The managers of the fair have decided to permit raffling , as one source of income , and have appointed a committee to regulate it . Shall good men , therefore , discountenance the fair ? So far as regards the decision of the managers we think it unwise . Though we freely recognize that the spirit , rather than the letter of the law , is what binds the conscience -- -ghat the law was intended particularly to apply to restrain appeals to chance for the purpose of gratifying cupidity and not charity  --  that the very essence of the sin of gambling is that it takes from your fellow-man that for which no equivalent is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the satisfaction of helping on a good cause  --  yet , in view of the evil tendency of the example upon the undiscriminating , we think the managers would have done better to have conformed to the strict letter of the law . But the real question is not whether the Committee have erred , but whether this error , if there be one , justifies a repudiation of the fairs . In our judgment it does not . The same rule of practical Christian morality applies here that applies to all other relations to men and things of mixed character . Your duty is discharged in opposing the evil in the man , or in the thing , and goes no further . You op.pose-Slavery ; but you do not repudiate the Union , which contains Slavery . You oppose liquor-selling ; but you do not cut loose from the Government which grants licenses to liquor-selling . You oppose running railroad trains on Sunday ; but you patronize on week days the corporations which thus , as you consider , violate the Sabbath . There is a law in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between parties nolo personally known to him shall first obtain legal proof that they are actually the parties they represent themselves to be . Most clergymen fail to comply with that requirement , and yet , notwithstanding this , you contribute to their support , and go to hear them preach , and are edified . Every intelligent Christian man feels that his duty requires him to oppose the wrong , and not to discard the wrongldoer . What Christian pastor in this City denies this ? What man of them is willing to have his daily practical conduct toward society judged on any other principle ? Who could abide it ? And yet here the extraordinary spectacle is presented of certain clergymen  --  very few , we are happy to believe , in comparison with the whole . number  --  refusing to join the most effective of all movements for the rescuing of the defenders of our country from sickness and death , because , forsooth , its directors have in , their judgment , made a moral mistake in one of its details ! It is almost incredible . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this is essentially the spirit which murmured against the Saviour for healing on the Sabbath-day . We beg not to be misunderstood . If these managers have erred , - let them be put right . We care not what moral constraint is brought to bear upon them to effect this . But in the name of the Christian patriotism of the land , nay , in the name of the common sense which belongs to every American , ' we protest against suspending the lives of our soldiers on the question , whether there shall be sportive games of chance in some nook of the great fair , which is designed solely for their relief ; and which , if not thwarted , will produce the grandest results . We would sooner take the responsibility of all the grab-bags in the universe than the responsibility of letting one of those heroes die , whom it was tip our power to save .                     