@@739936

txt It is remarkable how public injustice and want of faith always come back to plague their authors . During the time of what seemed to European eves our national dissolution , when the great Republic was breaking up into fragments , the fitting out and sending forth of privateers from British ports to destroy , under a bastard flag , our falling commerce , seemed to many British eyes a highly agreeable and exciting pastime . Ships were openly built , fitted out , armed and manned in Great Britain . When complaints were addressed to the Government , the proofs were either not considered legally sound , or certain public officers were providentially stricken with diseases , so that the suspected ships might escape through their delays . " Dodges " of various kinds were adopted to shield and secure the departure of the dangerous privateers . It needed but a few fast-sailing steamers thus to go forth to destroy half our commerce , as our English friends well knew . When Mr. ADAMS protested in the name of the British Municipal Act , he was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ execution of their own laws , that England could not proceed in violation of law , as some countries were in the habit of doing , and that evidence was exceedingly difficult to procure in such cases . When , standing on a broader platform , be protested against such acts in the name of International Law , and pled the unchanging example of the American Government in similar cases , he was put off with ambiguous declarations and replies , such as that both sides were thus receiving help from Great Britain , and neither had a right to complain . The American Republic seemed in its dying agonies , and these little spoliations of a commerce , soon to yield to British commerce over every ocean , were looked upon rather as the over-hasty plunderings of the effects of a sick and dying man:than as anything very reprehensible or unjust . Strangely enough , it seemed to occur to only one or two leaders . of English opinion , that England was setting in these measures the most fearfully dangerous precedent for her own interests which could possibly be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ No British statesman could arise and say that of all nations on earth whose interest and duty it was to observe the strictest neutrality , Great Britain was the first , that to her it was a matter of almost life and death to avoid even the slightest suspicion of bad faith . Time and the development of our resources , and more reflection , has changed all this . England has awakened now to her folly . She is threatened at this moment with a war with a Power which has no navy , and scarcely a port . Germany has the position toward her that the rebel Confederacy occupies toward us . Before these fatal precedents , the German Confederacy could have done no more damage to British commerce than , for instance , did Russia in the Crimean war . But now all is changed . Within twelve days from the first declaration of war between England and Germany , letters-of-marque will be forwarded to this country . Should we pursue British precedent , thousands of men will be busy at once in building , or arming , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from American or German capital . The arms will go out in one ship , the men in another ; they will meet outside the Hook , and the privateer will begin its career of desolation and havoc over the Atlantic . Or they will sally from San Francisco , under the German flag , and sweep the Pacific . If the British Minister protests , our Government might return with emphasis the to quoque reply ; they might say that they accepted the British version of our own law , that ships could be sent , provided they had no arms , and arms , provided they did not belong to the ship ; they could . urge the difficulty of procuring sufficient evidence to convict ; that we were supplying both sides , and that the lawful exercise of commerce is not to be checked . Telegrams from Washington to New-York could be mysteriously delayed , and Judge BATES or the ProvostMarshal General be providentially attacked with sudden disease , and an unlucky ship or wo escape . All this might be , and the whole world would say @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ perfidy . We sincerely trust that such would not be ; he action of our Government . We have a ugh and noble record of our action in past ; Imes , in matters of international law , and we hope it will still be preserved unsullied . We are sure , with our present Cabinet and ) resent Judges , it would be . The decisions of ) ur courts in our early history and during the war , have been models of fairness and jusice , and the highest international spirit . We lave no doubt thOY will continue to be so . 3ut to our people , such an example has been et in England of subterfuge , and skillful and ethnically legal evasion of international aw , that all we have stated as hypothesis night be logically realized as fact .                     