@@739271

txt We fully recognize the duty of all patriots , in the present national crisis , to give to the President of the United States all the respect due to his office , and all the support that he can justly claim of good citizens , in the perilous work he has to perform . We shall strive to strengthen his Administration in its efforts to suppress the gigantic rebeirion that threat ' ens the existence of the Government , with all the means and influence in our power . We do this from personal , from political , and from national and patriotic considerations . But all must admit that the good of the country and the efficiency of the military service of the Nation , are superior in their claims upon all patriots , to the incidental interests of individuals of the Administration ; and an independent journal can not and should not approve sentiments or measures of members of the Government , however well intended , if i they are calculated to impair the National defence . It is with such views of our duty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Administration we call attention to the following extract of his Message for the purpose of disapproving it : " It is worthy of note that while in this , the Government 's hour of trial , large numbers of those in the Army and Navy who have been favored with the offices , have resigned and proved false to the hand which pampered them , not one common soldier or common sailor is known to have deserted his flag . Great honor is due to those officers who remained true despite the example of their treacherous associates , but the greatest honor and the most important fact of all , is the unanimous firmness of the common soldiers and common sailors . To the last man , so far as known , they have successfully resisted the traitorous efforts of those whose commands , but an hour before , they obeyed as absolute law . " We are of the opinion , most decidedly , that this drawing of comparisons between the loyalty of " officers " and " common soldiers , " to the advantage of the latter , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Army and Navy of the United Statese must have a demoralizing and pernicious influence . It is . subversive of all subordination ; it puts suspicions in the minds of sot diers against the fidelity of those appointed to lead them in battle . ' And when their confidence in their leaders is lost , the bravest soldiery in. the world are worthless in battle . To the mutinous portion of an army  --  and an army composed as curs is , of men not used to subordination , , will always contain such  --  this , portion of the President 's Message supplies ready weapons with which to assail ' and vilify linedeleted , ing the confidence and obedience of soldiers . If the President felt called upon to condemn the disgraceful conduct of the many officers of the Army and Navy who have recently quit the service , he might at least have put in a saving clause , that they were in nearly every instance citizens born of the rebel States , and that the service being now purged of traitors , the officers left in command were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been grateful to the officers in the service from the loyal States , upon whose fidelity the breath of suspicion has never rested . We can not agree with the President in his declaration that those officers that have remained faithful deserve any " honor " for their conduct . They have done their duty  --  nothing more . And they ask nothing but a recognition of that fact . While the passage we have quoted from the President 's Message must have , as we fear , an unfortunate effect on the relations that should subsist between officers and men , there is an intrinsic injustice in it to the officers of the Army that should have been recognized by the President . Ile says that , while so many officers have " proved false " to the Government , " not one common soldier or sailor has deserted his flag . " It should be remembered that " a common soldier or sailor " enlists for a term of years in the public service , and when he " deserts his flag , " he is summarily shot as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " has not been held to stand in any such relation to the Government . When he desires to leave the service , he " resigns , " and his resignation is accepted  --  and the Government thus connives at his treason ! It does not become the head of the Government to stigmatize a practice on the part of officers which itself has allowed to grow into an army usage . 