@@739596

txt We have a dispatch from the headquarters of the Army of the Potomac this morning , which states that the rebels have not changed their position . On Thursday they brought some field-pieces to bear on our gunboats lying in the Rappahanatock , near Port Royal , but a few shots soon convened them to withdraw out of range . The weather is reported to be cold and unpleasant . The news from the Southwest is becoming interesting , as the plans of Gens . GRANT and SpinIrsti become more fully developed . The advance of the two columns of National troops under the immediate command of these two Generals is not the only movement against the enemy in Missis sippi . The expedition under Gen. HOVEY , which recently left Helena , we now learn made a landing at Friar 's Point , some fifteen or twenty miles below , and marching inland , occupied Grenada on Monday last . A large number of the citizens lied on the approach of our forces , and some fifteen or twenty locomotives , and about a hundred cars @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that a large proportion of Gen. Ifovxy 's Expedition consists of cavalry , which indicates that the work airigned to it is to be done rapidly . This work , undoubtedly , is to obstruct the retreat of the rebel army down the Mississippi Central Railroad , and to compel a battle with the combined National forces marching southward . - A dispatch , dated Cincinnati , Dec. 3 , has these items : " Gen. ROSECRANS has made a forward movement toward Murfreesboro , and as the enemy have made a stand there , and determined to give battle , an engagement during the present week is expected . The National army has advanced with limited transportation , and ten days ' rations . The enemy are claimed to be well fortified between Murfreesboro and Dechard , in a naturally strong position . ItfcCI.EnseNn 's expedition will not fairly get off before Christmas . The gunboat Indianola , built on the Monitor style , heavily encased in iron , and of powerful build , is at the wharf , but will not get away for a week to come . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and important results from his line of march are anticipated . Gen. WRIGHT is in Louisville on an important mission . " Gen. Roszcaarts is organizing a train of 5,000 pack mules , to give his army efficient and sufficient means of transportation when it moves . Gen. Cox informs the War department of a brilliant and successful affair in Greenbriar County , Western Virginia . Col. PAXTON , of the Second Virginia Cavalry , supported by the Eleventh Ohio Infantry , made an attack on a post of the enemy , near Cold Knob , surprising the rebels , capturing two commissioned officers , one hundred non -- commissioned officers and privates , one hundred horses , two hundred stand of arms , four wagons , and the camp equipage of a regiment  --  all without the loss of a man . On Dec. 3 dispatches were received at headquarters in St. Louis from Gen. BLUNT , stating that Gens . HINDMAN and MARMADURE were concentrating their forces , 25,000 strong , preparatory to an attack upon him . Gen. BLUNT will not retreat , and as reinforcements under Gen- IlmartoN are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ battle near the scone of the last at Cane ITill . Ex-Col . Fula ) , in a card which appears in the Columbus ( 0 . ) Fact , denounces in strong terms the Harper 's Ferry Commission . He says " its report is false and unfair in its statements , anti the facts have been suppressed for fear that certain prospective promotions might not take place . " Ills application to Judge Hour for the privilege of publishing that part of the testimony relative to him was denied . lie intimates that facts will soonor or later appear that will show who should be held responsible for the surrender of Harper 's Ferry .                     