@@740330

txt A large number of Fenian prisoners were discharged this morning and taken on a special train of the Great Western Railroad to the SuspeuSion Bridge , in charge of a gtu.rd of twenty men , under command of Lieut . HAnnisoN , of the Seventeenth Regiment . Before leaving the jail the prisoners took a hearty leave of the jail officialikthanking them for the kindness which has been shown them iu this ' city . On their arrival at the bridge they received $6 each in American money from the Deputy Sheriff , to carry them home . They bid good-bye to their escort at the bridge . On their arrival on the American side they gave three rousing cheers for the American Government and the Fenian Brotherhood in America . A company of the Royal Hussars left this morning for Fort Erie to patrol the river in that vicinity . They are to be immediately reinforced by a regiment of infantry . The Queens Own refuses to do duty if the Fenian prisoners are not hanged . Great excitement exists among them . Their officers , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the position of the Government . It is feared that they will make an attempt to lynch the prisoners . The Court of Queen 's Bench opened this morning , when it was decided that no appeal would be made for a new trial for LYNCH and MuMalioN before Thursday . Release of Fenitua Prisoners . TORONTO , C. W. , Monday Nov. 19 . On Saturday night thirty-nine Fenian prisoners , confined in the old jail , were released from custody . Their discharge was conducted with great secrecy , only about an hour 's notice being given them before their being sent away . When the prisoners were made aware of the joyous tidings they were furnished with transportation by the Government to Suspension Bridge , and a special train was furnished by the Great Western Railroad . This drew up in the rear of the jail at ten o'clock , and the men were sately lodged on board in charge of a guard of twenty men , with a corporal and sergeant , under the command of Lieutenant Harrison , of the Seventeenth Regiment . The prisoners received @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ each one of them was presented with a five dollar bill in greenbacks . On reaching the Falls , the Fenians bid good-bye to their escort , giving three hearty cheers for the Sheriff , the Governor of the jail and the jail officials . Accident on the Grand Trunk Railway ? Coroner 's Jury . TORONTO , C. W. , Monday , Nov. 19 . The Coroner 's Jury in the ease of WEEKS , who was killed by an accident on the Grand Trunk Railway , on Friday , returned a verdict " that the deceased came to his death by the train running off the track near Breslow Station , on the 16th inst. , which was caused by a broken rail . We further find and are of the opinion that no blame rests on the Company in this case .                     