@@739677

txt It will be remembered that the dispatch of Lord LYONS to Earl RUSSELL , respecting his interview with the leaders of what he calls the " Peace party , " had the following remarkable juxtaposition : " They seemed to be persuaded ; that the result of the election would be accepted by the Presidet as a declaration of the will of the people ; that he would increase the moderate and conservative element In the Cabinet ; that he would seek to terminate the war , not to push it to extremity ; that he would endeavor to dicta reconciliation with the people of the South . and renounce the idea of subjugating or exterminating them . On the following morning , however , intelligence arrived from Washington which dashed the rising hopes of the Conservatives . It was announced that Gen. McClellan had been dismissed from the command of the Army of the Potomac , and ordered to repair to his home  --  that he had , in fact , been removed altogether from active service . The General had been regarded as the representative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had been made one of the articles of the conservative electoral programme . Ills dismissal was taken as a sign that the P .. esident had thrown himself entirely into the arms of the extreme radical party , and that the attempts to carry out the policy of that party would be persisted In . The irritation of the conservatives at New-York was certainly very great ; it seemed . bower er , to be not unmixed with consternation and despondency . " " The rising hopes " of the Peace Party " dashed , " and " consternation and despondency " ensuing , because Gen. MCCLELLAN is removed from the chief command ! Was the like ever heard of ? An avowedly peace patty dismayed at the displacement of a Commanding General . There is but one possible way of accounting for it ; and that is that the General was not furthering a war policy , and was secretly in sympathy with the party aiming at peace . That we verily believe is the key to all the extraordinary procrastination , inefficiency and unmilitary behavior which marked tho entire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . That alone is the real explanation of his constant study howinot to do it , and to misdo it when he was forced to act . He was for harming the enemy as little as possible , and for getting en peaceful terms with Min as soon a ? possible . One is amazed in carefully perusing the late Report of the Committee on the Conduct of the War , to mark how uniformly Gen. McCLELLAN displays this disposition , from the very outset of his assumption of the chief command . The Committee have not set this forth in the salient manner it deserved . They confined themselves simply to a digest of the voluminous testimony , and abstained from all deductions and all comments . They left to the readers to take the matter home to themselves in their own way . We believe that it would not have been a departure from their proper functions had they summed up consecutively the shortcomings and misdoings of Gen. MCCLELLAN , as established inevitably by the documents and the military witnesses before them . In default of this , we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and select the more important particulars wherein Gen. MCCLELLAN failed to do his duty as the Cornmanding General , and acted in conformity with a peace rather than a war policy . It is proved by irrefragable evidence That with 185,000 men , on the 1st of December , he for weeks refrained from advancing upon Manassas , ? where were less than 70.000 of the enemy , though the roads were hard and the weather most favorable , and in spite of the urgent solicitations of the President ; That during all that time the Potomac remained blockaded , because Gen. MCCLELLAN , though strongly urged by the President , would not send a column to cooperate with the naval vessels in destroying the batteries and clearing the river ; That , in spite of the solicitations of the President , of the Secretary of War , and of the War Committee , and " the opinion of Generals most familar with the subject that it was of the utmost importance , " he neglected even to begin the division of his large army into army corps until the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him during the Winter to properly man the fortifications around Washington , and exercise men in the management of the guns ; That the President , impatient with the long delay , on the 19th of January , issued orders for a general movement of all the armies ; that this order not being heeded by Gen. MCCLELLAN , he issued another order twelve days afterward , specifically enjoining an advance movement by the Army of the Potomac before the 22d of February upon Manassas , and thence on to Richmond ; that Gen. MCCLELLAN opposed the order , insisting upon the Rappahannock route , and that while he was consuming time in interposing objections , the enemy evacuated Manassas without the loss of a man or a pound of material ; That then MCCLELLAN settled upon the James River route , with the assent of the President on the single condition that such , a force should be left in and about Washington " as in the opinion of the General-in-Chief and the commanders of all the army corps should leave said city entirely secure , " that these commanders @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to protect Washington , ( 30,000 in the forts , and 2.5,000 as a covering force , ) and yet that MCCLELLAN left but 19,000 to protect the Capital and those poorly disciplined , and without any knowledge of artillery ; That MCCLELLAN reached Yorktown on the 5th of April , and on the 9th the President wrote him , saying that " it is indispensable to you that you strike a blow ; the present hesitation to move upon an intrenched. position is but the story of Manassas repeated , " , rand yet Gen. MCCLELLAN rested one full month before Yorktown , though . when he first reached it , it was defended by less than twelve thousand men ; That Gen. MCCLELLAN , instead of directing the movement on to Williamsburgh , remained behind at Yorktown without definitely entrusting the command to any body , and that in consequence the Williamsburgh battle was fought in confusion and at immense disadvantage and loss ; That , after , the battle , he arrested pursuit and sent two of the divisions back to Yorktown , though several of the Generals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would have been taken at once , and all the subsequent intelligence of the condition of the rebel army and of the rebel capital at that time confirms the fact ; That two weeks were consumed in getting the army from Williamsburgh to the Chickahominy , a distance of only forty or fifty miles ; That on the Chickahominy Gen. MCCLELLAN ordered Gen. CASEY 'S division of new and undisciplined troops three-quarters of a mile to the front , at Seven Pines , within six miles of Richmond , left them there for days unsupported , against the urgent remonstrances of Gen. CASEY and Gen. KEYES , and that in consequence they were attacked and overwhelmed with tremendous slaughter ; That , after the successful battle of Fair Oaks , on the next day , according to the testimony of the highest officers , " the army could have pushed straight into Richmond with little resistance , " but Gen. McaxuAri ordered the troops to be recalled ; That he was continually sending on to ' Washington for reinforcements , and in particular for corps on the Rappahannock , though @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up the Shenandoah , under Stonewall Jecxson , and were threatening Washington , and that the men protecting it were much less than the number originally agreed upon as necessary to its defence ; That , at Gaines ' ** of our troops were set upon by 65,000 of the enemy and badly beaten  --  all the effect , as testified by high pfficers , of not keeping the army properly concentrated ; That , when tile resolution was taken to retreat to James River , Gen. MCCLELLAN printed an order to destroy all baggage , tents and equipage , and only failed to issue it because other officers remonstrated against it ; That all the seven days ' battles were fought in the absence of Gen. MCCLELLAN , and without ' any directions from him , he confining himself simply to the ride of placing the troops in the morning , then departing to seek a position for the next day , leaving to the troops to come up to that position as they best might : That he was also absent at the last great battle of Malvern Hill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , according to the testimony of many officers , " the enemy were so severely pushed that they could have been followed into Richmond by vigorous pursuit , " yet , instead of advancing , he fell back from Malvern to Harrison 's Bar ; That , at the latter place , the entire army was huddled within a space of about three miles along the river , without the least order ; were kept so for twenty-four hours , and would in all likelihood have been destroyed but for a very heavy rain which prevented the enemy from bringing up the body of their artillery ; That the Army of the Potomac originally landed on the Peninsula 121,500 men ; were subsequently reinforced so as to raise that number to 159,500 ; that this number , by the time it had reached Harrison 's Bar , had been reduced to 102,000 fit for duty ; and that Gen. MCCLELLAN telegraphed to Washington for 50,000 men " to be promptly sent " him ; when , in fact , as the President replied , all the soldiers under MCDOWELL , BANES @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Washington , did not exceed 60,000 ; That MCCLELLAN finally agreed to resume an advance movement with a reinforcement of 20,000 , but afterward wrote to Washington that he must in addition have another 15,000 or 20,000 from the armies in the Valley of the Mississippi , which was of course impracticable and absurd ; That , on being thereupon ordered to withdraw his army from the Peninsula , " as rapidly as possible , " to cooperate with POPE , who was contending with superior forces , he refused to obey until the order had been repeated again and again , involving a delay which put Washington in the most imminent peril ; That after the troops were at last brought up the Potomac , he constantly interposed the most useless delays to giving POPE any help , and that , according to Gen. HALLECK , POPE would have conquered instead of been defeated , had MCCLELLAN acted with all the energy circumstances permitted ; That after Gen. MCCLELLAN had moved from Washington with nearly all of his army into Northern Maryland , to intercept LEE , he wrote to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Washington should be taken while these armies are confronting each other , this would not , in my judgment , bear comparison with the ruin and disasters which would follow a single defeat of this army ; " That at Antietam the attacks , instead of being made concurrently , were made seriatim , and consequently with great loss and little effect , and that to Gen. BURNSIDE 'S urgent request for reinforcements to enable him to hold a very important position he had gained after a terrible struggle , Gen. MCCLELLAN replied that no reinforcements could be sent , although the corps of FITZ Jorni PORTER , of 15,000 or 20,000 men , had not at that time fired a gun , and did not even cross the river during the entire battle ; That , according to the opinion of Gen. BURNSIDE , Gen. FRANKLIN , and other officers , the enemy could have been overwhelmed and destroyed had the attack been renewed next day , but that Gen. MCCLELLAN refrained from all such attack without any good reason , and allowed the enemy to escape ; That , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to build a double-track suspension bridge and a permanent wagon bridge across the Potomac at Harper 's Ferry , with a view to make that place his great and permanent point of concentration ; That gen . HALLECE , disregarding this extraordinary request , ordered him , through the President , to cross the Potomac at once , and to advance against the enemy , that he failed to comply , urging that his army needed shoes and other articles of clothing  --  when it was shown that every requisition had been promptly met  --  and that the President 's order to cross was not fulfilled until four weeks after it had been given ; This last delay was more than . even the long-suffering President could endure , and two days after the last corps of the army was again op the south side of the Potomac , Major-Gen . MCCLELLAN was ordered to turn over his command to Major-Gen . BURNSIDE , and repair to Trenton , New-Jersey . For a wonder , he obeyed this last order without pleading inadequacy of means , and demanding reinforcements . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ protection  --  the repeated failures to seize the rebel capital when the opportunity presented itself  --  the uniformly tardy and sluggish movement  --  the constant avoidance of attack on his own part so long as there was any alternative  --  the frequent disposal of his forces in a way expressly calculated , it would seem , to invite a damaging attack by the enemy  --  the uniform refusal to allow the enemy to be pursued when beaten , all point in one direction  --  which is , that Gen. MCCLELLAN meant peace with the rebels , and not war against them . There is not such another record of dereliction and inefficiency in all military history ; and it will stand alike a marvel and a derision to future generations .                     