@@740198

txt The Tribune again raises the cry for a proclamation of the President presenting overtures to the rebels . It declares that the Southern people must now be fully satisfied that a Southern Confederacy is impossible , and that an offer of . liberal terms would probably detach them from their leaders , and bring them back to the Union without further bloodshed . It considers that the proclamation should particularly set forth the Presidential policy on the six following points : ? Union , Amnesty , Confiscation , Emancipation , Reconstruction , Representation in Congress . We have no idea that the Tribune will be gratified . The President has already said all t he can say , and all that is needed . The Southern people , as a body , perfectly well understand what he has declared from the beginning , that they can have peace by submitit ng to the Constitution and laws , and on no other condition . They also understand that so far as he has any discretion in the premises , his policy is generous . In none of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Savannah , Charleston , Wilmington  --  has there ? been a necessity for any effort to dispel misapprehensions concerning the disposition of the Government . The readiness of the people to bestow their confidence , proved that all the lying of the rebel press concerning an intention of President LINCOLN to grind and ruin them had ceased to have the slightest effect . The thousands who have deserted from the rebel armies , without a single misgiving concerning the treatment thgy were to receive , are witnesses of the same fact . It is absurd to gauge Southern intelligence upon this point by the mendacity of the rebel prints . The white man is not more obtuse than the negro , and the latter was not deceived by all the assertions that the Yankees , if they got hold of them , would sell them to Cuban masters . No conciliatory language that President Liscout could use would hasten the submission of the Southern people one single hour . What is needed , and all that is needed , is the dispersion of the rebel armies , and the breaking up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of its leaders and managers . This is the province of the strong arm , not of the bland tongue . If the Tribune means that the military and civil chiefs of this rebellion should be asked to submit with an offer of full amnesty and condonation , it is wide of the mark . Such an offer would probably only be laughed at by the men to whom it was addressed ; and certainly it would not be tolerated by the loyal sentiment of the country . Af ter these men have once submitted , the disposition that shall be made of them may become a serious question ; but most assuredly they will get no bribe or personal promise In advance as an inducement to submission . The Government will not bargain with men who are striking at its life . It will vindicate its authority and establish its power first of all . When that is done , the time will come for determining what shall be accorded to justice and what to mercy . The lesson that must go into history for all coming generations is , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ paying business , but the reverse  --  that the Government , as the organ of the Constitution , has both the power and the will to make good the supremacy of the Constitution , and the binding force of all laws duly enacted under it . This principle is on the eve of a complete vindication . It only wants the rounding off of military work , which at most will occupy but little more time . When this is consummated , tip rebellion will be no longer a living thing . Submission will take its place , and the President will be left free to adapt himself to a new situation . The wisdom of the policy which will follow needs no better guarantee than the grand result of that policy which has governed him from the first blaze of the rebellion , and which will govern him to its last spark .                     