@@739788

txt ENGLISH FINANCIAL SAGACITY. - Never , since the first record of the world , has a nation stood in a more false business and financial light before her peers than does England . She holds the unmerited reputation of a sturdy old business plodder , making money by industry alone , and looking with a wary and suspicious eye on everything approaching to speculative knavery . On the first appearance of any movement in another land , savoring of financial scheming , she commences a homily upon the wickedness of tempting fortune , and warns the unwary to . keep their pockets tightly closed . Having satisfied her conscience on this point , the next is to look about that she may see some opening , be it ever so small , into which she can creep . and with her superabundant moneybags feed the flame , and rake out the monkey 's share of the roasted chesnuts . England has grown plethoric in wealth , not by agricultural industry , for she never yet has brought from the toil enough food to sustain her people , hat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , or by working up their raw products and forcing them to a market . It is her policy not to have a war unless it be a paying one , and this consideration only , keeps her at peace with continental nations , and diverts her belligerent propensities to the East , where sbe has already acquired wealth enough to sustain her a century . She has , consequently , more capital than she can find profitable use for at home ; and like some old shopkeeper , who finds after a life time of dickering and haggling , that he is getting together more cash than he can invest in the store , looks about to shave paper at two or five per cent . a month , or back up some young speculator with more energy and brains than money , in the hope of getting cent . per cent . for the risk . Of this class of speculation was British investment in the Southern Confederacy . From the very beginning the thing had no solidity . It was a bladder that the stab of a bayonet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , professing business knowledge or financiering acumen , putting loyalty entirely out of the question , would ever have gone one per cent . on the chance of this rebellion 's final success . Speculations that have been made here in gold , stock , or merchandise , were based upon the length of time- the war would last , never upon the defeat of the Union . England , on the contrary , exhibiting only another phase of that ignorance , we will not say willful , for men do not generally lose their money willfully , which has persistently filled her Press , and the aristocratic portion of her people , went in to make money upon the bass of rebel success . She has built ships on partial credit , and furnished goods . She has invested in Confederate scrip , and sent them arms and munitions of war for so much worthless paper . She has advanced upon rebel estates that will surely meet the doom of confiscation , and as a last and most astute operation , she has invested twenty or thirty millions in cotton @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , who knew the chances , would not have given the value of the paper on which they were printed . All this she has been doing when she could have bought United States bonds at par , with exchange at 180 or 185 , which would have made them coat 55 to 674 ? making them now , when exchange is 140 and bonds at 105 , ranging at 75 . At this latter rate she is now buying them in our market freely , and at the same time has offered our Government a loan of $100,000,000 at par for thirty-year fives , which has been refused . In the midst of this financial awakening the old speculator is doing his best to push off his cotton bonds , which are tumbling lower and lower .                     