@@740238

txt It is now stated in official quarters that it is the intention of the government to reduce the array to 100,000 , and perhaps to 50,000 men . We see no reason why the latter mark may not be adopted without injury or risk . All accounts represent that an absolute submission to the National Government prevails everywhere throughout the South . There is not the least guenilla warfare among the whites , nor the fear of any ; and not the f:1 sign of a violent di-position has yet uppc , : i:Ad inneng the blacks . There is , indeed , gt ? at disturbance of industry . and a e : . t , nt a civil and social disorganiz thong , but nothing that calla for military inturpo : , : th n . It is really rcmarlmble how quit tly all the rulirrs a the Provost-Marshals and otlar ge-. - crion ? et ofticials are acquiesced in , trout the . - Viantie to the ilio Grande . There : ( : ( . ; ; : s to be no difference in this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ garrinoned nith - , ntional troops and . those which have fa w ov none . ' lie ' universal feeling is on the of iL ( : rattle to submission to the NaCon : : 1 ( h Ilnia ? nt. and the speediest restorapc aurae of law , order , industry and prosperity . Jta:ging front present appearances , nothing is more unkl  --  zly than the rise of any disorder in the South of more than local character , and which could hot ije easily repressed by a few regina " Ifs t . A general armed rising in any Slate of the South is no more probable than a general c artliquake . The contingency that could call fi : the employment of heavy forces is so remote that it ought not to enter at all into any practical precautions . Even should it occur , it could be met effectually , though there were no such forces in service at the time . There are hundreds of thousands of veterans in the North , trained and disciplined to perfection , who would spring to their arms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ way as available as any in the regular army . This reserve is the chief military strength of the nation , and would make a large army in garrison superfluous , even were the situation of the South far more unpromising than it is . It is justly a matter of great concern with the government to reduce the public expenses to the lowest practicable limit consistent with the national welfare . The people are heavily burdened with taxation . It is felt by them grievously in every line of industry and in every branch of social life . Nobody complains of it , for all recognize that it is the price we have had to pay for the salvation of the republic . Nobody would get clear of it at the sacrifice of the public faith . The debt is sacred , and must be paid to the uttermost farthing . Yet , for all that , it is a sore burden ; and it is the imperative duty of the government to take care that every doifar Of the public revenues possible shall be used to lighten it . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and brace the popular heart , and contribute new strength to the national credit . - The bare fact of getting our national - army down to some such low figure as fifty thousand will of itself speak volumes to the world for our ability to meet every public obligation . That which , more than all things else , has frustrated every attempt to reduce the great national debts of Europe , has been the magnitude of the standing armies . England has all the while about 230,000 soldiers on a peace footing ; France , 450,000 ; Prussia , 200,000 ; Russia , 550,000 ; and the smaller Powers in proportion . Immense outlays are requisite to keep up these military establishments ; and it is quite a marvel when , with all the heavy taxation , and with strict economy , an annual budget , like the last of Mr. GLADSTONE 'S , is presented with a surplus of a few millions of dollars applicable to the extinction of some little side-piece of the public debt . Put our army down to the standard of 50,000 men , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ palpable to every one . The financiers of Europe would quickly comprehend that when Americans talk of paying off every dollar of their debt of three thousand millions before this and the next generation pass off the stage , they can and will do what they say . But , again , we believe that the occupation of the South by only a small number of troops will be far more effective in generating a healthful , loyal spirit there than the opposite policy . Mere intimidation can do little or nothing towards creating the sound public sentiment in the South which is now the most important of all things to be realized . To inspire confidence , our government must show confidence . President JOHNSON 'S entire course toward the Southern people has been in conformity with that principle ; and its favorable effect has been unmistakable . But the confrontation of any community with a heavy garrison , for the purpose of maintaining authority , is a practical allegation that the community can not be trusted ; and its whole tendency would be to repel rather than attract , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the spirit of the Southern people to feel that the strong arm of the National Government has overcome them in the actual battle . To keep even the shadow of that army before them , after their submission has been made and peace has been sr cured , will only tend to perpetuate the sense of humiliation and the bitterness . We doubt not that the goverment will , , ive due weight to all the financial and political considerations which call for the reduction of the army to the minimum proposed . It certainly has shown no lack of a full appreciation of all the new responsibilities devolved by the new condition of peace . The rapidity and order with which the mighty armies have been marched from their fields of service , paid off ; and returned to civil life , is something which the historian will comment upon with admiration . The same practical ability will wisely determine where the work of reduction should stop .                     