@@739689

txt Public sentiment is unanimous and emihatic in approbation of the action of the ) ommon Council on the subject of a railroad n Broadway . Under other circumstances he feeling would probably be different . But whatever may be the wishes of individuals , . he public understand perfectly that we are .0 have a railroad in Broadway . The Legisature will not adjourn until the right to build me has been conferred upon GEORGE LAW tnd his associates . The large majorities for : he measure in both Houses render it certain : hat the friends of the bill have the power to ? ass it over the Governor 's head  --  even if he should veto it , which he is not likely to do : tnd it is well understood at Albany that while ' ley may take a recess , they will not adjourn intil the success of this measure is put beyond a doubt . But for the interposition of the Common D'ouncil , therefore , it is certain that we ihould have a railroad in Broadway , owned ) y Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ style of the Eighth-avenue road , which is owned by the same parties , paying nothing to the City Treasury , and treating - vitli utter contempt the public and private interests to be affected by it . The public prefer infinitely that the road , if built at all , should le in other hands . The Harlem Railroad Directors arc substantial , respectable and responsible men Nand in their hands the road would be managed with due regard to the interests of the public , and the convenience of those who might wish to use it . The bill passed by the Common Council , moreover , secures a very large contribution to the City Treasury from the proceeds of this franchise ? quite as large a sum as Mr. A. T. STEWART and his associates propose to pay for the grant , if given to them . One-tenth , not ofthe profits , but of the gross earnings , of the road , are to be paid monthly into the treasury of the City . Beside this , each car is to pay a license annually of $25 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ repair at its own expense . These are substantial and valuable advantages , from which the tax-payers of the City will derive not less than ; i.200,000 annually in reduction of their burdens . The supporters of the Broadway Railroad in the Legislature will pass their bill without reference to the action of the Common Council . They rely on the law of 1860 , which , they claim , repeaks the grant previously made to the Harlem Railroad . That grant is embodied in an amendment made to the original charter of the Road in 1832 , the first section of the amendment reading as follows : SEcTrox 1 . The President and Directors of the New-York and Harlem Railroad Company are hereby authorized and empowered , with the permission of the Mayor , Aldermen , and Commonalty of the City of New-York , to extend their railroad along the Fourthavenue to Fourteenth-street in the said City . and through such other streets in the said City as the Mayor , Aldermen and Commonalty of said City may from time to time permit , subject to such prudential rules as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Haver , Aldermen and Commonalty in Common Council convened may prescribe . In 1860 a law was passed , of which the first section reads as follows : SECTION I. It shall not be lawful hereafter to lay , construct . or operate any railroad in , ' won , or along any or either of the streets of the City of New-York , wherever such railroad may commence on end , except under the authority and subject to the regulations and restrictions which the Legislature may hereafter grant and provide . This section shall not be deemed to affect the operation as far as laid of any railroad now constructed and duly authorized .. Nor shall it be held to inwair in any manner , any valid grant for , or relating to any railroad , in said City , existing on the 1st day of January , 1b60 . The grant to the Harlem Railroad , contained in the section quoted above , was certainly " valid , " and was also " in existence on the let of January , 1860 . " The only possible pretext for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the assumption that a conditional grant is not ? a grant at all . Whether it is or not , the Courts of law will decide when the case comes before them . We do not know whether the Mayor has yet signed the ordinance of the Common Council or not . We presume , however , that it has been or will be signed , as it conforms in all its essential features to the principles laid down in his recent Message on the subject . It gives adequate protection to the interests of the City , and contains in the character of the Harlem Railroad Directors ample security for the good management of the road . This is the only way , moreover , in which the City can be saved from the outrageous bill now pending in the Legislature . Under these circumstances , we presume , the Mayor will have no hesitation in signing the bill .                     