@@740113

txt Astounding discoveries have been made by the Government of intended frauds in regard to soldiers ' votes ; the grounds of the confidence of leading Democrats of being able to carry New York are nownn &Mood.; A systematic and wide-spread conspiracy las been brought to light , canted on by agents here and at Baltimore , Barperr Ferry and in the Army of the Potomac , under the immediate supervision and direction of the leaders of the party in that State . Several of these agents have been arrested and are now in jail , and others will be arrested ae fast as proof o.an be collected and proper provision can be made for their trial . A military commission has already been ordered , and will meet to-morrow morning in Baltimore , under the Presidency of Gen. DOUBLZDAT . In the trial of two of the leading actors in this conspiracy who are known to have been in direct and constant communication with leading officials and members of the Democratic State Committee in New-York , the testimony in their cases , whicn I have seen and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will leave not the slightest doubt that a gigantic conspiracy has been at work for months in maturing and executing a plan for defrauding the soldiers of their votes and for overwhelming the suffrage of citizens at home by the forged votes of thousands and tens of thousands of soldiers who have fallen in battle , or died in the hospitals , or who have never existed . In some cases sealed envelopes containing LINCOLN ballot , have been opened and MoCumax ballots have been substituted , but the main reliance of the conspirators has been on the forgery of signatures of pretended soldiers to papers , transmitting MoCuLLAN and SITMOL111 votes . Men now in custody have been actively engaged in this business for weeks , and , as one of the parties involved declares , forged ballots of this kind have been forwarded in dry goods boxes full , to the headquarters of the conspiracy , and New-York and Albany . Judge HOLT , the Judge Advocate General , las had the pacers laid before him , and has prepared a brief report on the subject . He pronounces @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ serious character , and it will be dealt with as such by the Government . The court-martial which meets tomorrow ( Thursday ) for the purpose of trying the parties already arrested , will make short work of the case , and the Government will not hesitate to carry into effect whatever sentence they may pronounce . Other parties implicated will be seat before them as rapidly as possible , and all the agents in the affair are under the vigilant surveillance of the Government . You must not be surprised if these disclosures and arrests should touch some persons high in official and political authority in New-York . Among other things discovered in this city was the headquarters of a set of gentlemen , busily engaged in filling up commissions of agents , signed in blank by GOV ' . Samoan , and some of the parries involved themselves hold commissions from them .                     