@@739742

txt The first call for militia was for three months , *but this was before the full magnitude of the struggle in which the country was embarking had become apparent . After Bull Run , when it was evident that " a long and bloody war " was in store for us , a call was made for men for three years . A year afterward , after our failure t , efore Richmond . another call was made for men for two years and for nine months . The latest call is for six months , and the number that can be got to volunteer even for this period does not seem to be overwhelmingly large . Most of the levies who have ? taken the field in Pennsylvania have taken every possible precaution to insure their discharge in thirty days , or when " the emergency " is over ; so that six months now seems to be rather more than the maximum period for which men will enlist in any great force , and this only under pressure of invasion . It remains to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ three months , as a call for that period has still to be made . But aside from their actual effectiveness in raising men , these calls for short periods are open to the very strong and very palpable objection that each of them is a sort of intimation to the South to hold out , and it will succeed . When we called an army into the field for three years , and made no arrangements for renewing it as it diminished , it was tantamount to telling the rebels that if they could protract the contest to the close of that period , we should leave them masters of the field . Since then , nothing we have done toward reinforcing it has had any tendency whatever to prolong its existence . In a year from this time , unless some steps are taken in the interval to avert it , the United States will not have a single soldier in the field , and yet he must be a very sanguine man who feels confident that there is not more than even this year 's work left at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ come when this matter must be looked in the face and settled . There is not a particle of use in being determined to fight on " to the bitter and . " unless some means is devised of raising men , for war can not be carried on with speeches and pamphlets . And we put it to any sane  --  man in the country to say whether he seriously believes . that thirty-day volunteers are capable of carrying us either to the " bitter end , " or any other end that is not humiliating and disgraceful . There is no question whatever , that if we can not get heavier material than this for continuing our military operations , we shall be discomfited , and compelled to give up the contest  --  and that under the most disadvantageous and infamous circumstances . We are at present sufficiently strong to get terms of some sort from the enemy . A campaign carried on with drafts of militia , however , could only end in placing us at JEFF . Mons ' feet , and force us to submit to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ might now give up the contest with nothing worse than the contempt of mankind and the loss of our nationality ; but after fighting razz two or three times with bands of new levies , we should owe even our property to Confederate pity . There is one other contingency which it behooves us just now to think of also . HOOKER will , we hope , be victorious in the battle or battles which are now impending . But he may not be . The fortune of war may turn against him , as it has a hundred times turned against abler and more successful leaders . He may be , in short , defeated , as armies in most wars are defeated , utterly and completely . leaving us without a regular trained corps in the field . The enemy would then have nothing betwcen him and Washington , and Baltimore and Philadelphia . What then ? We know the people of the North too well to suppose that they would not meet this crowning disaster  --  with just as much pluck and fortitude as they met the first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ confronted in the very first week ' of his victorious march by hundreds of thousands of volunteers who wonld make a rampart of their bodies for the protection of Northern homes . But we know also that we should stop his progress at a fearful cost of life and money ; that thousands of valuable lives would be sacrificed to want of discipline , want of preparation , and want of skill . A thousand men , raised , drilled and organized now , would be equal to ten thousand rushing to arms then . So that humanity and economy , as well as common prudence , imperatively require us all to aid the Government to substitute a real system of keeping the army effective for the present plan of making war by its wits , which it is now compelled to pursue .                     