@@740155

txt The remarkable quiet which has prevailed along our whole line for some days past , was broken this afternoon , by loud and continuous cannonading , apparently at our left centre , and which lasted for nearly an hour ; but what the nature of the engagement was I have not ascertained up to the moment of the mailboat leaving . With the exception of the gunboats in the James River , which , every now and then , wake up the midnight solitudes with their hoarse thunder , everything has remained perfectly still , and even the pickets , on DOM sloes , nave temporarily ceased from their nightly amusement of useless butchery . It would be well if this could continue ; for it is difficult to imagine what possible object can be gained , to one side or the other , by this mode of warfare . By it each day dawns , perhaps , upon two or three more helpless widows and orphans , or heart-broken mothers , brit neither side has won one particle of advantage . The fact is , that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enemy as well , are apparently spell-bound for the moment  --  like the rest of this whole continent , indeed , I may say , of the civilized world ? in watohing the result of SHEIRmAM 'S ' sublimely audacious march through Georgia . We can afford to pause and admire , for this is only one link in a vast chain of movements , all circling round this paint as a centre , and emanating from one prolific brain ; but what sort of spell it must bring upon the rebel leaders in Richmond is difficult to imagine . A feeling of almost awful grandeur creeps over any thoughtful man who stands in the shadow of Gen. GRANT 'S headquarters just now , and thinks of the historic glory that is settling upon that unpretending edifice with each passing moment . From the littli adjoining tents , where those mysterious wires all meet in a focus , and a perpetual clicking is:heard , one word from the mighty chief who controls it can shake this whole continent . Sped onward by this agency , THOMAS is hurling HOOD 'S scattered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ through Georgia , thunders at the gates of Savannah ; a fleet of 150 sail , with suitable land forces , has just left Fortress Monroe to strike a deadly blow somewhere ; while even from distant Louisiana and Mississippi come proofs of their forming part in one gigantic scheme , the remotest extremity of which vibrates in sympathy with this wonderful spot . But , however pleasant this may be for poetic speculation , it does not aid the labor of a correspondent . Indeed , no time can be considered more unpropitious for that useful and indispensable class of gentlemen than the present transitional one , between grand military local designs and their actual performance . We may see whole corps being moved from this point to that , gunboats performing this and that significantinanceuvre , accidentally hear of orders being issued that we suppose can only mean one thing , put . two and two together in the most ingenious manner , to please ourselves and an eager public ; but the moment we put pen to paper , the whole atmosphere is full of the awful wore @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " I am not grumbling at this ; on the contrary , nothing else could , would , or should do at such a time . f only mention the fact , ( in palliation not only of myself , but of all brother-scribblers about here just no w , ) if we should , for a little while to come , be aetected in the laudable attempt at making a readable letter out of absolutely nothing . But , in the absence of news , the goodnatured reader must be content with that sort of pleasurable surprise which the Irishman felt , when ho found that . his French cook had made him twelve different palatable dishes out of nothing but potatoes . I am glad to say that that awful foretaste of Winter has not since been followed up . The weather Is mild , genial ana beautiful , and the roads again in. good condition , Some vagabonds cut the telegraph-wires between this and Fortress Monroe , yesterday , but our active cavalry , under Capt . MASON , soon had it put to rights again . These @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these times , and , if so , they will have cause to regret having indulged in such pastime . A grand salute of one hundred guns was fired this morning . in honor of THOM SS ' grand success . I hardly know how we shall De : rule to express our feelings from the throats of duns , when we hear of StiEftaLitl'a holding Savannah . and this I fully expect to learn before this letter is posted .                     