@@740029

txt The immense reinforcements which will be secured to the National armies by the last Proclamation of the President , of course have ' a most important military bearing . They will make these armies irresistibly superior to any force which the " ' Confederates " can possibly bring against them . If LEE 'S and JOHNSTON 'S armies have not been able to prevent GRANT. , and SHERMAN from fighting their way through the most difficult and most defensible parts of the " Confederacy " with the old levies , it is a sound military conclusion that when the new levies are added to them , it will be in our power to penetrate to any part of the South , and to drive the rebellion to its last ditch . But we are too apt to assume that all this military work will have to be actually performed . It may indeed prove so . But the very fact that we are to have ' such a vast accession to our means of doing it correspondingly diminishes the probability that we shall be required to do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ responded to by the people , will have a most potent , and perhaps a controlling moral effect upon the rebellion . The fact is notorious that the Southern people have for mmths beptr told 12 , newspaper Organs ... Of = pent , that the battles of this Summer would close the war . It has been necessary for them to repeat this language , in order to reconcile their people to the universal conscription . The representation has been based upon a calculation that the North had become tired of the war , and could raise no more troops to maintain it . The Southern people have believed this , and have not grudged the utmost effort and the extremest sacrifice , to insure that the triumph of this decisive Summer should be theirs , and not ours . When it shall have been seen that the campaigns of the Summer have ended more in our favor than in theirs , and that the Northern people have put upon foot hundreds of thousands of fresh troops for the next year 's work , they can not help experiencing disappointment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nature of any people to keep up heart on the failure of expectations which - have stimulated extreme efforts . It would not be safe to say that this discouragement will certainly cause the Southern people to give up the war , but it is safe to say that it will have that tendency . Everything that goes to make fighting hopeless , goes to make peace more desired . No people ever maintained a war for any period in the face of certain ultimate defeat . Individuals may literally fight to the death in sheer desperation , but masses never do . Just as there has been no instance in this war where a body of rebel soldiers have accepted death sooner than make surrender  --  just as even the crew of desperadoes on the Alabama hoisted.the white flag so soon as they saw ' the ship doomed  --  just so will the mass of the Southern rebels show a disposition to return to the old flag the very day they become convinced that it must conquer . The draft is to take place on the 5th of September . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it will be fully met in advance by volunteer enlistments . In all , the draft , without serious difficulty , will supplement any deficiency in volunteering . There is little or no doubt that before the end of October the entire force called for will be under arms . From the time this result is attained  --  we may say , indeed , from the time when it becomes apparent to thet , rebels that it will be obtained  --  signs , we believe , will multiply of a new anxiety on their part for peace . We do not say that there are indications yet that they are getting into an inquiring frame of mind . Undoubtedly the informal manifestations just made are only a piece of deception , got up with an object to revive the desperate fortunes of the Democratic party . Of course , GEORGE SANDERS , JEFF.THOMPSON , and the other worthies over the border , and all rebeldom beside , are solicitous enough for the success of that party . They know , as well as any loyal . man in the country , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the " Confederacy " lies in the overthrow of the Union party , and that consideration is the sole motive of these approaches . But we shall , in due time , confidently look for symptoms among-the masses of the Southern people of a discontent with the war which has not hitherto been manifested . It is clearly for the interest of all who desire to see this war brought to an early close in the complete triumph of the Union cause , to uphold the new draft without a murmur . This draft is as much a peace measure as a war measure . It will have both a moral effect and a military effect against the rebellion . It is impossible now to say which will be the greater ; but it is certain that both combined will greatly hasten the end of . the war . .                     