@@740192

txt The least thoughtful observer that witnessed yesterday 's celebration must have been struck less by the vast aggregate of the population that turned out for the occasion , than by the preponderating numbers of hale , hearty and vigorous young men represented alike in the military and in the firemen 's part of the procession , and among the dense and countless multitude of onlookers . Looking to this salient feature of the celebration , it became difficult to realize that the country had passed through four years of warfare , ? warfare , in presence of which the greatest of modern conflicts become almost dwarfed by comparison . In and along side of the vast procession of yesterday  --  a procession which barely found room in seven miles of thoroughfare , there must have been gathered at least two hundred thousand men as fit  --  all but in discipline  --  far service with GRANT Or SIIERMAN Or SITERIDAN or CANDY , as the veterans of the Potomac , the Cumberland , the Tennessee , or the Missisalppi Armies . Contemplating such a demonstration , in these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ present to the ordinary class of outside observers a more tangible and appreciable proof than was offered yesterday , of the exhaustless material forces which , after a prolonged and stupendous war , the country has at its disposition . As a mere congregation of the masses  --  from among a city and suburban population of two millions ? there is nothing in the history of New York celebrations to compare with that of yesterday . And if every other element of success had been wanting , that grand and impressive feature  --  the outpouring of a vast community  --  would have made the demonstration memorable for at least a generation to come . But there was vastly more than the mere element of numbers to give character , emphasis and spirit to the celebration . The day was charmingly fine , breezy , bracing and cloudless . The cool dry air and the seasonable sunshine made even the wonted greasy thoroughfares ; passable for the occasion . There were no disagreements  --  thanks to the perfect arrangements of the committee ? either as to the time , the starting locality @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . And in this regard the celebration , and those iresponsible for Its conduct , must stand preeminent over any or all that we remember in former days . The esthetic features of the demonstration itself , and  --  still more  --  of its surroundings , moreover , invite all but unqualified admiration , If there were accidentally dispersed , here and there , along the line , some picture more grotesque than artistic , it could scarcely be said to mar the . impression which must have been universal among intelligent onlookers , that the arrangements showed admirable taste . The different regiments of State militia presented an appearance altogether handsome and attractive . The officers and nen alike bore themselves with excellent military precision . The different fire companies were equally admirable in their bearing , discipline and attractiveness . If there was , now and again , an interval of undesirable length in the musical accompaniments to both the military and firemen 's march , what music was rendered was , in the main , equally well selected and well performed . The extrinsic features  --  if we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , were almost everywhere in thorough keeping with the celebration itself . The private house and shop adornments , in flags alone , along all the main streets , especially in Fifth-avenue , Fourteenthstreet , Broadway and the Bowery , presented a picture such as , we believe , could be witnessed in no other city in the world . Paris , in mere military circumstance and parade , might excel us ; but in the thorough , earnest , spirited and universal cooperation of the vast body of the citizens , who work for the common enjoyment on such a day , from no perfunctory obligation , New-York may safely challenge the world . It is a still further matter of congratulation that the speeches delivered at the close of the day 's rejoicings were characterized by brevity , modesty , pertinence , and general good taste . They formed , what they were intended to form , an appropriate rounding-off at once to the circuit made by the procession , and to the whole demonstration in its essential desigqi .. as a tribute to the glorious services of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recognition of that series of military and naval achievements which have now at last brought us the full assurance of an early , a complete , and a final triumph for the national arms and the national cause . 