@@739888

txt There is a general exclamation of disappointment and disgust among the Opposition journals over the fact that the Opposition Congressmen can concentrate upon nothing . It was bad enough , they protest , that no rally could be made upon one common candidate for Speaker ; but this persistent refusal to combine more than sixty or seventy votes upon any Opposition measure or policy is really quite insufferable . What is opposition good for if it can only make such a shabby show as that ? The Democratic organ of Ohio in the State Capital gives it up , and without mincing the matter , says flatly : On the organization of the House , the unpleasant fact was developed that those elected as opponents of this reckless and tyrannical Administration had neither confidence in one another nor any common purpose in view , except the pitiful ambition of a distribution of the offices , and on that they could not agree ; it was natural that they should not while no higher motive governed them . " Our neighbor , the would-be Democratic organ of this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of higher motive , " but goes straight in for " the pitiful ambition " the other organ sneers at . It begs the Peace Democrats to throw their principles behind them , and turn in for the spoils . " We would ask them , " it says , " what , even in their own view , they can expect to gain by their present attitude ? They must know that the Democratic party can not elect a President on their platform . " It is unfortunate for those who make such an appeal that the men addressed have the advantage not only in brains but in backbone . They are the very men best qualified for the leadership of the party , and if any leadership be possible , are bound to have it . The vote which they obtained on the peace resolutions of last week shows that they can compel the open following of three-fourths of the party . It looks like the height of impudence for the other squad , on the heels of that vote , to demand that the peace men shall face @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sake of harmony . But these prints may as well spare their fretting . Spoils or no spoils , there will be no combination of the Opposition elements in this Congress . The thing is naturally impossible . A portion of that Opposition were elected as outspoken , thoroughpaced . Peace men . They distinctly proclaimed before the people that they believed in stopping this war , and trying negotiation . Another portion of that Opposition were the most vehement of all candidates in their protestations of undying hostility to the rebellion . The only fault they found with the war was that it was not prosecuted vigorously enough ; and they gained their seats solely by making the people agree to this ; and then widening the distance between them and the Administration candidates on other and minor issues . The professed war men can not go over to the peace men without political ruin , for their constituents trusted their original war professions , and in the late elections have shown themselves more than ever opposed to a peace policy . On the other hand , the avowed peace @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he any vitality at all in an opposition to the Administration , it must be in their principle that the true policy is not war but negotiation . They know that , in such an emergency as this , the people will never abandon the Government , or the Administration by which alone the Government can ? o1 be conducted , except on some issue striking to the bottorry ; that an organized opposition to this Adruinistrati ) 11 is perfectly hopeless on any of the minor issues touching the policy of the war , and can keep its feet only on the cardinal issue of opposition to the war itself . To oppose systematically any Administration while at war , is to weaken its power of maintaining the war , and . no true friend of the war can do it . The Opposition party at the period of the last war with England , opposed not simply Mr. MADISON 'S management of the war , but the war itself . The Opposition party , at the time of the Mexican war , did the same thing . Those Opposition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ present day doubtless will ; but their distinctive policy , as the party of the Opposition , was an anti-war policy . Their opposition , to be a living , consistent opposition , at all ; involved this logical necessity . It will be , found precisely so at the present epoch . So far as there is to be any solid substance to the opposition to the Administration it must rest on The broad issue of peace against war . All attempts to shift it to other ground6will be futile . 