@@739801

txt The little insignificant strip of land called Morris Island , with its uncongenial area of sand , relieved only now and then by a small patch of stunted Palmettoes , is already destined to receive attention , however slight it may be , from the pen of the hiatorical writer . That which has been accomplished in the way of military operations on its barren soil entitle it now to some degree of consideration : that which is to be accomplished will perhaps , hereafter , insure the outcast island a fame which will furnish a theme for many an eventful narrative . It is here the science and superiority of modern engineering have been and are now being tested , and as the important work progresses that branch of the service is making for itself a reputation , lasting as it will be brilliant . To the engineer officers and men of this Department is the country largely indebted for the successes thus far achieved . The rifle-pit. tile trench , the sap , the parallel , the breastwork ? all have been constructed by their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of other regiments . To derive a full comprehension of the work performed it is necessary to be on the spot and witness how completely the enemy is prevented from carrying out successfully any offensive movement . An unex versa enced observer would scarcely believe It possible for an invading army to hold , for any length of time , a position every point of which could be commanded by the enemy 's guns . Yet , the occupancy of this island by Gen. Gissmonres force affords an instance of that nature . As to being compelled to abandon it before the good time ap ; ousted by himself is an event not apprehended for a moment . An uninitiated individual having , the other day , expressed his surprise to Gen. GILLMORE that the enemy had not trained his guns so as to shell the entire island , was informed with much confidence that the enemy might open es soon as he saw fit , and if he did not receive fire for fire , pound for pound , together with a . few extra rounds , to make the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ short of ordnance or ammunition . Since sojourning on this island the men have not been idle . They have not teen exclusively engaged watching the course of shot and shell as they passed between the opposing batteries . Day and night have they been tolling  --  toiling on , slowly , but surely , until at last a chain of earthworks has been constructed so formidable that any attack by the enemy would be a failure , while at the same time they Offer a basis for a magnificent offensive movement . The contest at present is between the skill of engineers . How it will end can not be positively predicted ; but , if a man should assert that it would end unfavorably for us , and materially support his judgment . it might be considered a fine opportunity for some one to make a pretty safe investment . It may be a relief to untold numbers of anxious hearts at home to know that the hospitals continue to receive but comparatively little patronage . No fears are entertained of any great amount of sickness , and , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ equal care in future , the health of the troops will be as good as could possibly be expected . The wounded , which , fortunately . are few in number . considering the events we have Passed through , form the large majority of patients . Both the wounded and sick are provided for in the most comfortable manlier . Every attention that it is in the power of humane and skillful surgeons to bestow is unhesitatingly extended to the suffering and helpless soldiers in their charge . The medical system followed in this department is as complete as that of any other department . If the wounds are of a slight nature , the patient is taken to the hospital attactic d to Lis regiment . If it Is an aggravated case , he is transferred to the General Hospital . In either event he is attended by a surgeon possessing feeling as well as professional ability . Nurses are detailed to each hospital , who obey their instructions to the letter . Dr. Samuel . A. GItErN. the Post aledical Director , who has labored with unremitting zeal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ performance of his arduous duties , has deservedly won the respect of the profession , and elicited many a sentiment of sincere gratitude from the convalescent soldiers . Drs . M. S. KITTINGEN. of the First brigade , CHAS . M , Citee , of the Second brigade , and A. J. litzmr ? of the Third brigade , who have repeatedly shown their superior ability in surgical operations , and who have , in fact , in connection with Dr. GREEN , performed nearly all the operations thus far recorded , are entitled to the credit of having saved many a life that under less skillful management woutd have been In all probability lost . There are other surgeons in the department who are equally worthy of special mention , but the list embraces so many names , and would occupy so much space , that the present would not perhaps be the best time for presenting it . In this connection It would be unfair to overlook the good steamer Cosmopolitan , used expressly for a hospital transport . here she is this very moment , anchored not over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to transport patients to Hiltonllead , New-York , or any other point the commanding General may designate . With an inexhaustible supply of medical stores , and a courteous and proficient Surgeon , in the person of D r . BONTICKE , on board , a patient can not help doing well . I Know this paragraph , laudatory of the medical profession in the Southern army , could be greatly extended and would well bear the extension , but acting on the supposition that enough has been said to convince the public of their claim upon it for a just share of appreciative thanks , I will only add that as war can not be conducted without its attendant train of suffering , may he who suffers never fall into worse hands than those who administer to him here . It is presumed the intelligent portion of the community have read accounts descriptive of islands gradually becoming submerged by the sea , and again of the sea making way for the slow formation of islands , but perhaps it has not been the good fortune of every one to get @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nature for producing such a marvelous change . We people on Morris Island flatter ourselves that we have been somewhat favored in that respect . At any rate , where we saw land three weeks ago , we now see nothing but water . It is to be accounted for from the fact that this season has been remarkable for higher tides than has before occurred during a long series of years . A short time ago , officers ' tents were pitched to within about five yards of the water-line . The tides gradually  --  and not very gradually either  --  washed away the sand , so that at present those same tents are situated fifteen or twenty yards in the rear of their former position , with every prospect of undergoing another move still further to the rear . We are determined , however , to remain here until we get ready to leave , if the ocean does not deprive us of every inch of standing room . It Is true the island is small enough already , without any assistance from Neptune to reduce the limits and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the sand he can conveniently dispose of . As the surf beats up nearer and nearer to the officers ' quarters , it is curious to note the immense quantity of old logs and pieces of wood that are hourly exposed to view , and which indicate that this is not the first time water has flowed over the same surface . This is the condition of things at the south end of the island ; at the upper end the water setups to be making equal havoc . At high tide , the water in the trenches near the beach is two feet deep , and it was feared at one time that the approaches themselves would be partly washed away . A better beach for bathing can not be found . At most any hour in the day , but especially early morning and nightfall a crowd of soldiers may be seen indulging in the luxury of a good sea path . It is a privilege not to be lightly appreciated , and if all our armies could be as highly favored the sick list would be diminished to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ melte Oterseettnig the *Fat on the left are taken daily quantities of small fish , which afford delicious eating . The inlet , and in fact the entire harbor are infested with ravenous sharks , several of which have been captured . It is not an . uncommon occurrence to notice one ten or twelve leet in length . They sometimes forget their close proximity to the shore , and are left by the tide to twist and flounder on the beach . The presence of sharks , of course , precludes bathers from going out into too deep water . Sailors , proverbially noted as having the utmost detestation and extreme horror for anything in the shape of a shark , are very cautions when performing their ablutions not to leave the shore a great way in the rear . No accidents have occurred in the vicinity of Morris Island . At Steno Inlet , some time ago , a man was seized by a shark and thrown in the ar a height of twenty feet . Ile escaped with whole limbs and a few bruises . The result would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deep to enable the shark to turn himself readily . In passing Gen , GILLMORE 'S hradquarters one 's attention is attracted by the numerous variety of sho and shell piled up a little to the right of the entrance . The majority of them were sent over in rather a hasty manner by the rebels , and are looked upon as very fair specimens of foreign as well as rebel ingenuity . The collection embraces all kinds and sizes , from the little ** projectile to the Luse 300-pounder shot . Prominent among them are the We:legated Whitworth shot ; also , the kind adopted to the Brook 's ordnance , both of foreign manufacture . It affords an interesting study to carefully mark what the inventors call improvements claimed for their respective makes . Some are of wrought and otho rs of cast iron . The long . the short . the smooth . the rifled. the sharp , the blunt and a hundred other kinds of projectile are all piled up together . The Parrott shot , however , is considered to be the most effective of any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up with just what he can get in the way of ordnance , consequently having in use a conslderabte variety , Gen. G ( LLMOaE gives his preference to the Parrott . Instances have occurred during the siege where those guns have not neld out as long a time as claimed for them . They are supposed to stand the strain of one thousand rounds , but two or three have exploded after the firing of two hundred or five hundred rounds . made up wholly of artillery and infantry , with scarcely any cavalry , is not often met with yet such is the distribution in this army , for the reason , as will be readily perceived , that on Morris Island no chance whatever is afforded for cavalry operations . A detachment of the First Massachusetts cavalry , detailed as orderlies to the Generals 1 commanding , constitute the entire force of that branch of the service in Gen. TERRY 'S command . Other portions of the company and squadron are stationed at different points In the Department of the South . Lieut . CHARLES V. HOLT , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Major STEVENS proceeded North three weeks ago to taxe command of another cavalry organization , to serve with the Potomac army . The friends of Col. J. B. HOWELL will be glad to hear of hs almost complete recovery from wounds received while on duty one night at the front . His services as Acting General of the Second brigade nave been invaluable during the siege , and there is not a soldier to his command who has not looked anxigosly forward to the reappearance at the head of the column of their much beloved and gallant leader . Col , T. 0 Ostiorese , of the Thirty-ninth Illinois regiment , is suffering from a painful neuralgia , which has forced him to remain quietly in his quarters for the past week . His speedy restoration to health is looked forward to with much soticitude , as he is an officer whose experience and ability can not be well dispensed with in times of activity . The Thirtyninth is the only regiment in the Department representing the patriotic State of Illinois . Its friends at home may rest assured they could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and valor of the flag and State . It has always been conceded that the efficiency of an army may be judged by its discipline . That being the case , the Army of the South stands all right according to the popular standard . for discipline surrounds It on all sides . A square piece of board , large enough to cover a man 's back , and bearing the striking inscription : THIEF -- This man , Sours TOMPKINS , Company C , 55th regiment Massachusetts , stole money from a wounded friend , is being carried about to-day by the individual , JOHN Trimness . His head is closely shaved , and he is divested of his coat . His beat extends up and down the island as far as our lines admit , so that he may be viewed by all the regiments . In order to accelerate his movements , when occasion requires , a guard of ' two soldiers , with fixed bayonets , follow at his heels , and that the camp may receive due intimation of his approach a drummer and fifer , who accompany @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the " Rogue 's March " with a will . The ingrate receives not the slightest token of pity from any one , and looks , to all appearances , as if he considered the whistle dearly bought . The spectacle forcibly reminds one that " the way of the transgressor is hard . " Persons guilty of minor offenses are usually taken to the guard-house , where they are detained till night , and then marched up to do work in the trenches . Nothing has transpired in the way of actual news since the date of my last letter . It is understood , however , that an expedition will be sent out to-night which may possibly furnish items of importance . As the time for sending the mall North is not yet fixed , perhaps I shall be able to send an account of the adventure by the next steamer.                     