@@739135

txt ? Tile reply of the Chinese Government to the ultimatum of the British and French , which we published in the Tram of yesterday morning , renders it certain that the war will be renewed . The Chinese have made preparations for the most obstinate resistance , and rely with confidence on their ability to repel the invaders . It is evident , from the tone of their reply , that they cherish feelings of special aversion to the English , and that they will refuse to them commercial and political privileges which they would cheerfully grant to the Americans , and even the French . John Bull is clearly under the necessity of compelling their friendship by hard blows , if he ever enjoys it at all . Business correspondents write from China that the prospect of a new war has a very depressing effect upon commerce , and that merchants forbear entering upon new speculations of any kind . There is danger , too , that , with the renewal of the war , the rebel excitement may be renewed . A rebel force of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Imperialist troops of Shanghai are exercised with great assiduity for the purpose of meeting them . The Spring opens with a very gloomy prospect upon the Celestial Empire . ? It is proverbial that a pitcher may go to the well once too often ; a New-Jersey PITCHER seems to have gone to the bad . E. J. PITCHER had lately occupied the position of Engrossing Clerk in the House of Assembly ; had always been an active politician ; was well known in Con. ventions , and of influence in all primary meetings . After such unfortunate antecedents any common sybil might have predicted the termination of hi ; career . From bad he went to worse ; from poll tics he took to counterfeit money . The gradatior was easy . A warrant was issued for his arrest PITCHER was taken by his ears : but while ttu officer of the law was consoling himself by tin reflection that he had his prisoner by the hip anc by the handle , that prisoner suddenly capsized hi : captor ; the sea-beach was near , and for the nonce @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the PITCHER put himself into the water . Friends who were hovering near with a boat picked him up and brought him to New-York . In selecting this locality , they evinced great discrimination . The political bureaus of our City are deficient in furniture . Such a Pitcher will be a valuable acquisition . ? Mr. LINCOLN is unfortunate . If he ventures to whistle , the echo comes back to him from a thousand partisan journals , and his friends forthwith urge in his favor that he is a good whistler . The . most trivial actions of his life are made affairs of moment . He ' can not even sell a pair of steers without having the fact trumpeted through the land . For instance , a pair of oxen which once belonged to him were lately sold in this City . Placards stating their former ownership were displayed on their backs , and people gathered to gaze upon them as though they were bulls direct from Bnshan , or cattle celebrities from the thousand hills of scriptural mention . Yet there was nothing eminently remarkable about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ certainly , but there was better in market , though it sold for less price. , Within a very few days we expect to see some enterprising Republican butcher advertising " Steaks from LINCOLN 'S oxen . " A respectable journal of this City chronicles the sale editorially , and from the fact that they brought a good price argues favorably for Mr. LINCOLN 'S chances of election . ? Late information from Nova-Scotia represents the inhabitants of that part of the coast near which the Hungarian was wrecked as abounding in dry goods of all kinds , procured from the wreck . One person disposed of 175 pairs of kid gloves for a piece of bogus jewelry worth perhaps half a dollar , and a deacon of the Baptist Church , who had secured a large quantity of silks , velvets and vestings , after a long struggle with his concience as to his right to them , finally concluded to sell them as Providence had clearly thrown them in his way . It is pleasent to find such scruples among such men , and not at all surprising to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Their golden rule is from HOyLE , ? " when there 's a doubt , take the trick . " The wreck of the ship , as she lay below the surface , was sold to two Yar mouth men for $14,000 , and in about six weeks they had recovered , by diving , goods to the value of nearly $80,000 . They are still at work on her , and expect to make a fortune by their speculation . ? The Asia brought a rumor that the Emperor NAPOLEON was about to hold a private interview with the Prince Regent of Prussia . A letter from Frankfort , in the Indgpendance Beige , alludes to the matter , saying that the French Minister at Berlin had suggested such a meeting , as affording the best means for perpetuating friend ! y relations between the two countries . The Prince replied to this overture , that nothing would give him more pleasure than such an interview ; but that , in the present critical relations of Prussia towards certain German States . it was a matter of the first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ demonstration . It is quite certain that such a personal interview would be regarded with distrust by other European States .  - -  We respectfully suggest to the Editor of the Evening Post , that the fact of his being able to write good poetry himself affords no sort of excuse for the publication of the intensely stupid doggerel with which he is in the habit of garnishing his columns . Probably the worst verses of the age may be found in the Post , while certainly some of the best is in the volumes of its Editor . His readers have a right to complain of that excessive toleration which permits every would-be bard to take shelter under his wings at their expense . The will of the late Gen. Jesup was proved on the 16th ; in the Orphans ' Court of the District of Colulnbia . The estate consists . of . property in the , Dis-7 put Gf Golunphia arld lg Rentucky.                     