@@740108

txt The European journals have arrived at the most opposite conclusions touching the objects and probable2effects of this new and remarkable treaty , and yet its terms do not afford much scope for doubt . The FrancoItalian convention , the text of which has recently appeared in the Moniteur and in our own columns , Is evidently a compromise . The French Emperor , on certain conditions , agrees to withdraw his garrison from Rome within a fixed period , and the Italian King , in order to rid Italy of these foreign troops , assents to the condition ; specified . He promises to remove his Court and Government to Florence in six months from , the date of the convention ; he undertakes the liquidation of that portion of the Papal debt which belongs to those States of the Church lately annexed to his Kingdom ; and he binds himself to protect the " Patrimony of St. Peter " from all external aggression . These concessions have given great offence to the ultra-national party among the subjects of VICTOR EMANUEL , who regard them as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but , however objectionable , they had to be made , or NAPOLEON would have come to no terms cf any kind . Had the Italian monarch been a free agent , he would no more have yielded these points than the most uncompromising of his censurers ; yet if , by yielding them , he has insured the withdrawal of the French troops from the " Eternal City , " must it not be admitted that he has conferred a great benefit on Italy ? The stipulation which binds him to protect the Papal territory from invasion , precludes , of course , all idea of any attempt , on his part , to take forcible possession of Rome , since it would be preposterous to suppose that , while engaging to shield His Holiness from the aggression of others , the King had reserved the right of becoming his assailant himself . But it does not by any means follow from this that all chance of recovering Rome is lost to Italy . Though neither the Italian King nor the Italian people can undertake the enterprise , the Romans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in course of time very probably set about the work of recovering its capital to their country . VICTOR EMANUEL , if bound to defend the Papal territory from foreign invasion , will certainly not be bound to shield the Papal Government from its own subjects , and if the Romans have only the spirit to conquer and disarm the mercenaries , who will then be sole guardians of the Pontifical throne , the residue of the business will be easy of accomplishment . Hence it is evident that Italy will still have ground for hope , even should the provisions of the treaty be carried out . But this is somewhat problematical . Without the assent of the Pope that instrument must as- suredly remain a dead letter ; and we have the authority of the Gazette de France for asserting that he will not sanction it , and that Cardinal ? NTONELLI has already addressed a note to the French Government , in which he pronounces it " a violation of international law , " " at variance with the rights of the sovereign Pontiff , " and " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the protest of the Pontiff may seal the fate of the treaty , but it can hardly prove prejudicial to the interests of Italy ; for after the condemnation uttered against the intervention policy of France , in the recent dispatch of M. DROUYN ns LUUYS , NAPOLEON can not suffer his troops to remain much longer at Rome  --  and , when they are gone , the Italian monarch will be in a far better position to discharge his duties to Italy than he would be in were he fettered by the obligations of the convention . 