@@739615

txt " NAPOLNON never , in all his bloody career , fought a hostile army intrenched in front of a fortified city , as MCCLZLLAN did at Richmond ; or strongly fortified along a range of hills , with a non-fordable river a mile or so in front , like the position lately assailed by Burman:Is at Fredericksburgh . He always found means to turn such defences , and compel their evacuation , as our Generals doubtless will in time . " So says an exchange . It is all wrong . NAPOLEON never hesitated to attack an army wherever intrenched , and to try direct storm , if strategy were not available . In fact , the great battle of Bautzen was in most respects the exact counterpart of Fredericksburgh . The allies , some 125,000 strong , had intrenched themselves on the heights behind the town of Bautzen , with the Spree in front . If the Spree was somewhat narrower than the Rappahannock , the hills beyond were higher and more difficult than the Fredericksburgh Heights . The Emperor ? with a force , like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resolved to carry the position . He ordered NET to cross below , as BURNSIDE ordered FRANKLIN , and to outflank and get in the rear of the extreme right of . the Allies ; while he himself , with SouLT and OUDINOT , crossed in front and on the left , and charged again and again straight upon the works . For four hours these onsets were repeated with the most dreadful slaughter . NEY at length , having succeeded in getting into their rear , the Allies , no longer able to endure the terrible torrent , abandoned their intrenchments and lied ? leaving NAPOLEON complete master of the position . He succeeded , while Bunxforts failed  --  hut his operations did not vary materially from those of the latter , save in one particular . We mean the tremendous sacrifice of life . NAPOLEON lost 5,000 killed and 20,000 wounded ; BURNRIBE , 1,200 killed and about 7,000 wounded . It is known that Emmons was anxious to return to the attack , but yielded to the remonstrances of other Generals . Ile considers , as he stated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be nearly carried the Heights . A new general assault , he believed , would have been successful . There cannot be much doubt of this , if his soldiers in this second attempt should have fotight with the same desperation and recklessness of life exhibited by the young conscripts of France , fighting under the eye of their Emperor . It is absurd to pretend that Fredericksburgh was fought contrary to the Napoleonic method . Of all the battles of the war , it was the very one which , on our part , came nearest up to the imperial style , , , the chief characteristic of which was overpowering violence in attack . " The battle of NAPOLEON ; " says NAPIER , " was the swell and dash of a mighty wave , before which the barriers yielded , and the roaring flood poured onward , covering all . " It is the true system of winning victories . Though fearfully expensive in blood , it is yet the most humane plan in the end ; for if it makes the battle more sanguinary , it makes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . All high attempts in war are of a perilous nature . But all history testifies that the greatest Generals have been the most daring . They are often unfortunate . NAPOLEON himself made many failures . But , in the long run , success is almost sure to attend such generalship . BURNS/DE failed at Fredericksburgh ; but we are more certain than ever that the spirit and general style of.that attack are what alone can wrest Virginia from the dominion of the rebels . The spirit , however , needs to be yet more intensified , and the style to be made still more emphatic . BETIIND TIME. ? The World published OR Monday what it called the " suppressed " dispatches in the Porter Court-martial new being held in Washington , and censured those whoa it held guilty of the injustice to Gen. PORTER involved in the suppression . It happens , however , that the dispatches and letters of Gen. Parza were not suppressed a ; all in any public sense , but were mainly published in the Toms eleven days previous to their appearance in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ published three weeks since . They were also received in evidence by the Court-martial as soon as it was proper to do so . The Truss alone , of the City Press , has published full reports of all the evidence , and transcripts of all important documents in this most interesting trial , as well as in the no less interesting Court of Inquiry on the case of Gen. . THE RUMORS OF INTERVENTION. ? WO have reason to regard the statements made in our Washington correspondence yesterday in regard to the present relations between our Government and that of France , as entirely accurate . They contradict point blank the rumors which interested parties have been extremely diligent of late in putting in circulation . They assert in explicit terms that the very latest communications from the French Government , as made by it to Mr. DAYTON , and by him reported to the Secretary of State , are of the most friendly character ; and details are given on the subject which give assurances of the truth of this assertion . M. DROUYN DE L'Huvs , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the immediate presence of the Emperor , assures him that the offer of mediation is not to be renewed at present , ? that it was a purely friendly act , and that the French Government is not hostile to the Government of the United States , nor opposed to the perpetuity of the Union . Undoubtedly these expressions are so guarded as not to commit the French Government permanently to any specific course of action : but they show , beyond all reasonable doubt , the groundlessness of the rumors which impute to the Emperor a purpose of renewing his oflbr of mediation , or of doing anything else that may even look like favoring the rebel cause . Whatever may happen hereafter , up to the present time certainly we have nothing to fear from foreign intervention . England is every day becoming more and more thoroughly committed and compelled , by the sentiments of her people , as well as the necessities of her position , to a neutral policy . Russia has never shown the slightest disposition to interfere . And France , according to our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any unfriendly movement . The conduct of foreign Powers depends wholly on our own . All we have to do to secure their support , or their continued neutrality , is to win victories . As President LINCOLN said , the one thing needful is " military success . " We have just now good reason for hoping that we shall have it . Our armies in the West and South are beginning to move ,  --  and that with a degree of vigor and energy which promise the best results . Let this be continued , and we have nothing to fear , either at home or abroad . Gov . SEYMOUR AND Tux POLICS. ? We trust that Gov . SEYMOUR will lose no time in designating an " early day " for hearing the complaints against the Police Commissioners . If they have violated the laws and the Constitution , and have done anything worthy of dismissal , they should be held to answer for it as speedily as poissible . The language of their accusers implies that so long as they are retained in office , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their mercy . Many of our people , according to these representations , live in hourly apprehension of being sent to Fort Lafayette , or some other " bastile of despotism . " If there Is any foundation for these complaints , the Governor should lose no time in subjecting them to a rigid investigation . There is another ration la favor of prompt action . The State Senate is now in session , and can cooperate with the Governor in filling any vacancy which the necessary removal of unworthy officers may create . if the Governor postpones further action until after the adjournment of the Legislature , he will lose the benefit of the " advice and consent of the Senate , " and will expose himself to the suspicion of great indifference to the personal rights and liberties ' of the citizens of this State . We trust he will take no such risks . It is understood that Ex-Mayor WooD is very much alarmed on this subject of individual rights , and that he demands the most prompt and rigorous inquiry into the acts of the Police Commissioners @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gratify his wishes in this respect . We hope there will be no needless delay in ordering this investigation . PARTIES IN THE STATE . AssEntm.y. ? Immediately after the November election the Albany Atlas and Argus announced that five or six of those who had been elected to the Assembly as " Union Democrats " would undoubtedly act with the Democratic Party . Upon this anticipation that journal based its very confident prediction that the Democrats would have everything their own way this Winter at Albany . We can not congratulate our cotemporary on the fulfillment of its predictions : Every one of the Union men whom it ventured to name as likely to desert their political principles and friends has stood fast and true to both . Indeed , there was never the slightest reason to expect anything else at their hands . The political lines of division were clearly drawn at the last election , and there is no excuse this year for anybody 's mistaking them . When the Democrats nominate ExMayor Woon 's candidate for Speaker , and pledge themselves to Woon himself as their candidate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ difficulty for any Union man , whether Republican or Democrat , to define his position . There are in the Assembly sixty-four men who were elected exclusively as Republican and Union men . Not . one of them finds his position in the least doubt ful . Another , Mr Curr.Eu. ot " Alba , ny , a Republican in principle , w-d fruill the ustociations of his life , was nominated atoll Total ! On by the Democrats also . This in4 embarrass him temporarlly . But when he sees that the only effect of trying to conciliate the Democrats is to arrest all action , and prevent the organization of the Assembly , we have little fear that he , will fail to meet the full responsibility of his position , and act on the principles he has always professed.                     