@@739924

txt The Select Committee on freedmen has decided to report a bill legalizing the President 's Emanicipation Proclamation . Senator SUMNER submitted a portion of his draft of a report on the repeal on the Fugitive Slave Law , which will review the whole question . It is a stinging paper . THE ABOLITION OF SLAVERY . The silent passage of ARNOLD 'S resolution for an amendment of the Constitution to abolish Slavery throughout the United States , by a majority of sixteen in a thin house , presages the most important act of legislation in the history of the Government . A majority of over forty-five representatives can be commanded for the measure on a full vote . GEN . BUTLER 'S LIQUOR REGULATIONS . Gen. BUTLER has knocked drunkard-making and row-producing in his department sky high . He has issued an order forbidding the sale of liquor to be drank on the premises under the penalty of fine and imprisonment at hard labor . Liquors may be sold to be carried away by duly authorized druggists upon the prescription of licensed physicians and by duly authorized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or at meals . Also by duly authorized grocers to be carried away in quantities not less than a quart not more than bye gallons , or two cases bottled to any one person or family , within any period of ten days . Persons authorized to sell are required to keep a record to whom , with his residence and occupation , time when , quantity , price and kind of liquor sold at each sale . The record to be kept open to public inspection . The possession of liquor , . contrary to BUTLER 'S order , will be punished by confiscation of the stock in trade and imprisonment at hard tabor . No sale of liquor , to be carried away , will be permitted to enlisted men in the land or naval service , without an order from the Commander of the post . No sales will be allowed , on any pretext , on hoard of any transport vessel or boat in the service of the Government , under penalty of forfeiture of charter and earnings under it , and imprisonment of persons making the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vessel without a permit from headquarters , and ignorance of the master of the transport of the contents of the packages will not be an answer or excuse for violating the order . The provost guard is required to arrest ana put in the guard-house , and report to headquarters any officer , whatever may be his rank , who shall appear by day or night in the public streets or squares of any town in BUTLER 'S department , occupied by the United States troops , in a state of intoxication . REBEL ESTATES IN GEN . BUTLER 'S DEPARTMENT . Gen. BUTLER has ordered that all estates in his de ? partment abandoned or now occupied by rebels shall be turned over by the , military commanders to be taken possession of by the Superintendent of negro affairs or treasury agents . GEN . SLOUGH 'S COMMAND . A visit paid by the War Committee on Saturday to Gen. SLournes command at Alexandria , discovered among other things a fruitful system of imposing fines on wrong-doing Alexandri ans , but did not discover any application of the money thus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 'S government of contrabands . SCOTT 'S NINE HUNDRED . All the officers of SCOTT 'S nine hundred cavalry have united in an application to Goy . SEYMOUR of New-York to commission Maj. J. P. Sesasearse , of the regular infantry , as the Colonel of the regiment . THE TAX BILL . The Tax Bill will be voted-on in the House to-morrow . An effort will probably be made to amend ' the Whisky Clause by increasing the tax on stocks on hand to one dollar . The speeches to-day , Is favor of Senate amendments , were powerful and persuasive . The close of the debate left the impression that the House will accept the Senate 's tax of sixty cents on the gallon , by a majority as large as eight , and , perhaps , ten . THE SUPRME COURT . Judge WAINc announced to-day that the Supreme Court would end on the first of May . Amos KENDALL argued his claim against the United States in the Court of Claims with all the vigor of youth . ARREST OF THE PROVOST-MARSHAL AT WASHINGTON . Cdpt . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from duty and placed under arrest . There are various rumors afloat as to the cause of his arrest . DISPATCHES TO THE ASSOCIATED PRESS WASHINGTON , Monday , Feb. 15 . THE V ALLANDIGHAM CASE  --  A WRIT 02 ' CERTIORARI DENIED . WAsantoroN , Monday , Feb. 15 . The case of VAPLANDIOHAM , ex ports , was decided in the Supreme Court of the United States to-day . The petitioner asked that the writ of certiorari be directed to the Judge-Advocate-General for a revision of the proceedings of thee military commission which tried him , the jurisdiction of which was denied , as extending to the case of a civilian , the object being to have the sentence annulled on the ground of illegality . Judge-Advocate-General Hue had responded in a written argument that the court might with as much propriety be called upon to restrain by injunction the proceedings of Congress , as to revise by certiorari , and reverse the proceedings of the military authority in time ofiwar , in the punishment of all military offences according to the usage of civilized nations , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States for the common defence and public safety . Justice WAYNE to-day delivered the opinion of the Court , refusing the writ on the ground that even if the arrest , trial and punishment of VA , LypnenA4 were illegal , there was still no authority in the court to grant relief in this mode , sand there is no law by which any appeal , or proceedings in the nature of an appeal , from a military commission to the Supreme Covrt can be taken . CLAIMS AGAINST THE GOVERNMENT FOR DAMAGES DONE BY THE ARMY . Representative HALE , of Pennsylvania , and Senator Dem , of Kentucky , have severally introduced bills , similar in substance , and which are before the Committee on Claims in both Houses , to provide for ascertaining and adjusting claims against the Government for injury - for destruction of property by the Army of the United States , or by military authority , during the present rebellion . These bills provide for the appointment of one Commissioner and one Solicitor of Claims for the district composed of the States of Maryland , Pennsylvania @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and one Solicitor for the district composed of the States of West Virginia , Ohio and Indiana : one Commissioner and one Solicitor for the district composed of the States of Tennessee and Kentucky ; and one Commissioner and one Solicitor for the district composed of the States of Illinois , Missouri and Kansas ; and one Commissioner and one Solicitor for those States not included in the foregoing districts . The Commissioners are severally to have cognizance of all claims against the United States arising in their respective districts , and which shall be presented to them by any person . who during the present rebellion has sustained , or may sustain damages by injury to or destruction of any property which has been or may be injured or destroyed by the use or occupation of the army of the United States , or any division or portion thereof , or by any military authority ; provided , that all existing claims embraced in the provisions of this act not presented for adjustment within three years from the passage of this act , and all subsequent claims note presented for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or shall accrue , shall be forever barred . It is made the duty of the Commissioners also to inquire and take testimony as to the loyalty of every person who has sustained loss or damage to his or her property during the fretent rebellion , and who may present their claims under this act ; and as to whether the said persons in any manner supported or favored the rebellion against or resistance to the laws of the United States . And no person who has engaged , or shall at any time engage in the present rebellion against the Government of the United States , or been at any time hostile to such Government , or given aid and comfort to those engaged in the rebellion , shall derive any benefit under this act . THE TARIFF ACT . The bill reported from the Committee of Ways and Means to-day authorizes the entry for consumption , until June next , of any goods which have been in bonded warehouse more than one year , and which are required by the present law to be exported . The bill also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that registered vessels In the coasting trade may be placed on the same footing , in respect to tonnlige duty , as enrolled vessels . DEATH OF CAPT . A. RAMSAY . Capt . ALLAN RAMSAY , of the United States Marine Corps , son of Commodore ' WILLIAM RAMSAY , U. S. N. , died at the headquarters of the Marine Corps this morning . Capt . RAMSAY was on the famous Richmond during all her fights on the Mississippi , before and after the running of the forts , and was recommended for three brevets . His disease was confluent small-pox . He had been in fifteen engagements during the war . THE FRENCH OCCUPATION OF MEXICO . Rumors as to an intended protest by our Government against the French occupation of Mexico are certainly not well founded . The policy of the Government on this subject is fully explained In the lately published diplomatic correspondence . APPLICANTS FORT POSITIONS IN COLORED REGIMENTS . The Board of Examiners of officers for colored troops have examined 1,460 applicants , of whom 685 have been rejected . MR . MURDOCK 'S @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chamber for the benefit of the U. S. Christian Commission .                     