@@739457

txt our advices from Mexico , per steamer Roanoke , are of considerable importance in the continued exhibition they give of the plans of the Allies . The foisting of AL/dozers upon Mexico as President of the Republic , is one of the most transparent shams ever attempted upon the common intelligence of man . A cotemporary , which usually gets hold of the hot end of the poker , published in its issue of yesterday a strange jumble of statements about the condition of affairs in Mexico , and proceeded to indite a very grave comment upon the overthrow of the Juarez Government and the occ , pation of the Capital of the Republic by the French as accomplished facts . From our advises , which are more recent , direct and reliable , we learn that the French have actually taken up their line of march for the City of Mexico , but they had already met with serious reverses at the hands of the Mexican troops on the Cumbres de A cazing ? . We learn from private sources that the Mexicans have no idea @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the country without opposition ; and if the invaders arc not annihilated before they reach the vicinity of the City of 111 , . xico , they will meet with overpowering resistance there . JUAREZ had not lied from the capital , but , on the contrary , he vas making every preparation to resist the invaders , and with every prospect of success . Gen. ZAmteezi , instead of having been met and cut to pieces by the Freud ' , had encountered and defeated MARQUF.Z , the reactionary leader . It appears that the treaty with the English Minister , Sir ClIARLES WYRE , bad been ratified by the Mexican Congress . A messenger to our Government has also arrived , per Roan ' oke , with a treaty concluded by Mr. Conwis . From a private source in Mexico , we ascertain the purport of this latter treaty to be an engagement on the part of the United States to lend the Juarez Government eleven mil ' lions of dollars , to aid it in military resistance to the European invasion . Considering a preceding treaty to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is certainly hardy for Mr. Conw-sr to repeat the experiment , and that at a time when this practical defensive alliance with Mexico would involve us in deplorable complications with France and England . We venture the assertion that the American Minister acted without instructions from the State Department , and that the instrument will never be submitted to the Senate . We are exceedingly reluctant to believe that Mr. CORWIN has lent himself to any plan for plundering at once the American and the Mexican treasury ; and yet it is currently stated in diplomatic circles at the City of Mexico , that the major part of this loan , instead of going to repel the French invasion , would be used to indemnify a body of American speculators who have trumped up claims against the Mexican Government . There is another item in our advices which requires special attention . We refer to the report that 120 Texans had sacked the town of Piedras Negras , and burnt some of the buildings . Depredations , which would finally culminate in regular schemes of filibustering on the northern borders @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , is what we have felt very confident would take place sooner or later ; and this matter should have the early attention of our Government . At the present moment we ought to have a force on the Rio Grande to prevent raids from Texas into Mexico , and aid in the development of the Union sentiment which it is well known exists in Western Texas . The Territory of Arizona needs attention in this respect , even more , perhaps , than any other sers.tion of our Southern frontier , for it is into Arizona , and then into the Mexican States of Sonora and Chihuahua , that filibustering bands of Southerners will drift , and we shall have a state of dire confusion  --  nothing but murder and robbery on both sides of the line , throughout all that region of country . The House of Representatives recently passed a bill organizing a Territorial Government for Arizona . That bill now hangs in the Senate . It is of great importance that the government of the new Territory should be duly organized and put into operation . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , will he hazardous and arduous . IIe should be a man of nerve , energy and capacity , sufficient to grapple with and control the turbulent elements that for some time to come will compose society in that distant region . It is to be hoped that no old fogy or mere politician will be sent . to Arizona in any public capacity . The management of Secessionists and wild Indians , the maintenance of friendly relations with the Mexicans along the frontier , and the speedy development of that rich silver region , are matters of too much importance to be placed in incompetent hands .                     