@@739094

txt The Railroad Toll bill was received from the Assembly . Mr. PROSSER moved to recede from the amendments made by the Senate and non-concurred in by the Assembly . This motion was opposed by Messrs . HAMMOND , SESSIONS , LAPRAM , FIERO and GRANT . The latter denounced the course of the majority of the Assembly , who had without debate or examination non-concurred in amendments over the consideration of which the Senate had spent many days . Mr. Krirenem favored the tolling of railroads , but not for the purpose of helping private railroad schemes or squandering money on large speculations . He opposed the motion to recede . Mr. SPINOLA spoke against the motion , and a warm and protracted debate followed . Messrs . RAMSAY , WARNER and BELL advocated the motion to recede . Mr. PROSSER 'S motion to recede from the Senate 's amendments was lost-12 to 10 . The motion fur a Conference Committee was then adopted . The bill passed by the Assembly , relative to the sale of stamped bottles used for mineral water , was ordered to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to erect Conhocton County . The Committee of the Whole took up the bill to amend the act to establish regulations for the Port of New-York . On motion of Mr. SPINOLA the enacting clause was stricken out . The bill to atter the map of the City of New-York above One Hundred and T wenty-ilfth-street was then taken up . Mr. Mazer ) MURPHY moved to include JAMES GoaDON BENNETT , Jr. , as one of the Commissioners . Lost . Mr. SPINOLA moved to insert the name of FREDZILICK HUDSON . Lost . The bill was then ordered to a third reading . The bill relative to the sale of lands of non-residents for taxes was put forward to be reported complete ; also the bills to provide for the appointment of Deputy Gas-meter Inspectors , and to remove obstructions in the Harlem River . Adjourned . ASSEMBLY . ALBANY , Thursday , March 22 , Three of the City Railroad bills  --  the Seventhavenue bill , the Tenth-avenue and Forty-second street bill , and the Avenue D and East Broadway bill  --  were taken up as the special @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ section of the first bill , and asked for information from the Committee as to what testimony , if any , they had taken as to the necessity for a road on the proposed route . No person replying , Mr. CONING offered as a substitute the Senate bill , authorizing the Comptroller to dispose of the lease of the roads at public auction to the highest bidder . He had intended to give his reasons at length against the proposed bill , but the premonition of the predetermination of the House on the question rendered it useless . He explained the provisions of the substitute , showing how it would conduce to the interests of the City . The proposed bill gave away a perpetual franchise for nothing , while the substitute leased the franchise for a limited number of years , at a yearly rental to be paid to the City . Mr. JAQUES supported the substitute , and argued against the course of the Committee , who had not given opportunity to the parties interested to be heard . lie also drew attention to the loose manner in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lifeblood of the bill was in the clause empowering the nominal associates to assign . This was the secret of the bill 's power . The parties named only represented the interests of the parties to whom the franchises are to be assigned and who are concealed behind these names . lie again asked for information from the friends of the bill , but no one replied , and a motion to report progress on all the bills was carried . In the House Mr. MCQUADE moved to discharge the Committee from - further consideration of the bills , and to refer them to be reported complete . Mr. JAQUES said he had anticipated this motion ; and perhaps it was better , when robbing a man , to take him by the throat and strip him than to nick his pockets . If the Legislature designs robbing the City , it had better do it in this bold , jaunty manner . He denounced the action as more indecent than the late course of the Senate on similar bills . After an ineffectual effort to substitute the Senate bill , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the previous question . Mr. MCQUADE moved to take up the remaining batch of City Railroad bills in the next Committee of the Whole . Mr. CONELING suggested that as the intentions of the gentleman were so evidently pure and disinterested , and as one hour had been already wasted in the bestowal of franchises worth millions of dollars , we had better order the bills to be reported complete without going into Committee . Mr. 's motion prevailed , and the remaining bills were ordered to be reported complete . The bill to appropriate money to complete the drainage of the Cayuga marshes and improve the Seneca River was ordered to a third reading . The Personal Liberty bill , under the call for ayes and nays , was made the special order for Monday evening . The bill to preserve wild game-birds and fish was referred to be reported complete . A majority report was made in favor of the bill to incorporate the Hoboken and Willi amsburgh Railroad , The report of the Select Committee of nine , made yesterday , corning up for acceptance , Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the State Agricultural College . The bill proposed to release them from a mortgage of $40,000 given to the State for money loaned . He thought the State could not afford to be so liberal in the present condition of Its finances . Mr. PALMER explained that the bill did not release the mortgage , but made it a second mortgage for the purpose of enabling the College to make a loan of $30,000 on the first mortgage to finish the builaings . Mr. VAN ALSTINE stated that the security of the State would be even better after this $30,000 were expended , than now . This is the only institution belonging to the farmers of the State , and one they were desirous of cherishing , and he hoped there would be no delay on the bill . Mr. COOPER 'S motion was withdrawn . Mr. CONKLIN ? moved to strike out from the report of the Committee of nine the bill to authorize the sale by the State to the City of New-York of lands in and around that City . The bill involved large interests , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expressed surprise at the motion , stating that Mr. CONKLIN ? had asked the Committee to report the bUl . A somewhat personal debate between Messrs . CONKLIN ? , MILLER and ensued , when the motion4e strike out the bill was lost by 35 to 47 . The report of the Committee of nine was then agreed to . The bill to erect Highland County was taken up in Committee of the Whole , and debated at length by Messrs . RICAN , in favor , and Euswoarn , R. S. REUSE and MiLLIIERN , in opposition . A motion to strike out the enacting clause of the Highland County bill , was lost and the bill ordered to a third reading . The Grinding Committee reported another batch of bills . Among them : In reference to the University in the City of New York . To divide the Sixth Judicial District . To amend the Charter of the Juvenile Delinquent Society by extending its power over the State . To incorporate the Southwestern Mining and Land Company . To incorporate the New-York Down Town Club . Adjourned @ 