@@740400

txt The disaster occurred during the performance of Crispin ? e is Comm . " The house was crowded , and piece bad arrived at about the middle of the second act , when the scream of a woman was heard from behind the scenes , followed by the noise of hurried footsteps and a cry of " Keep your places , it is nothing , " The clothes of a female dancer had caught fire , and in her terror she had run about with her skirt in a blaze , and bad thus set light to some drapery at the wings ; she was , however , firmly enveloped in a linen cloth , and the flames of her dress were extinguished before she had suffered any injury . Tne alarm had , however , spread among the spectators , and a general rush was made for the doors ; for a moment there was great danger of loss of life from the pressure ; but some young men , wbp were ikthe gallery above , and could see what was going on near the stage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ half the spectators then returned to their seats , while those who were nearest the door left the building . The disaster had indeed for a moment appeared to be at an end , as the canvas on fire had been torn and tramples under foot . But the flames had found in the painted scenes and light woodwork an aliment too favorable , and the flames again appearing , the panic once more became general ; screams were heard on all sides , several women fainted , many persons jumped from the windows on the stair-case , and every one made for the street , leaving behind hats , shawls , umbrellas , Zre . For . tunately the theatre had been partly emiicied at the first alarm , and every one was able to get away in safety . The scene outside was most curious ; the spectators might be aeon , some need bare and others with clothes torn from their backs , hurrying to and fro in search of friends or relatives ; the actors and actresses were in their costumes , while some of the ballet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between two toilets , bait civil and half theatrical . The flames in the meantime bad gained the pit and galleries , and , as the interior of the house was constructed of wood and canvass only , any attempt to check the progress of the fire was useless ; all that could be done was to prevent the conflagration from extending to the adjoining houses , and in a short time nothing but the blackened walls remained .                     