@@739357

txt President LINCOLN raises the question , What is to be our future disposal of the ne groes whom the progress of the war throws on our hands ? There is , as we have already pointed out , a more pressing question as to the present disposal of such as have already fallen into our hands . Any theoretical solution . we might give the general problem would probably be falsified by the progress of events ; - but it is possible to deal wisely and energeti tally with that part of the problem practically presented to us . The slaveholders ' rebellion has left in the nation 's hands a legacy of several thousand unserfed blacks : present duty demands that these be brought under fit social and industrial organization . At the same time , it is entirely fitting that Congress ' should take the general question into consideration , as it probably will , now that it has been raised by the President in his Message . Mr. LINCOLN does not leave us in doubt as to his own views on this interesting and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that such blacks as be : come free , either through the general Confis cation act or through such special legislative measures as may be taken by individual States , be colonized " in some place or places in a climate congenial to them . " The deportation of the blacks from our soil and their colonization elsewhere , has been a favorite scheme with some of the most benevolent of American minds . It also perfectly responds to a dominant public sentiment , which aims to solve in this peremptory mode a problem it feels to be enveloped in seemingly inextricable difficulties . To get rid of a race whose bringing here was none of our work , and whose presence has always been a thorn in the side of the nation , is precisely the impromptu process which the public naturally applies to a perplexing problem . It generally happens , however , that an enlightened statesmanship dictates an entirely different course . Before we seek to initiate any such change as that contemplated , it will be necessary to inquire whether the deportation from our soil of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to that figure ? be an easier task than the establishing of such modifications in their social condition and relations as makes such a deportation needless . The result of such an inquiry will not , we conceive , be favorable to the proposed plan . The mere physical question of their removal , though per se not impossible , is top colossal ever to become a practical fact . The question of an acquisition of territory for the planting of the proposed black nation , at which the President hints , is not less embarrassing . Schemes of negro deportation have generally contemplated some region in Central or South America as affording the desired " congenial climate ; " but it is quite evident that there would be two parties here , and it remains to see whether any of those States arc prepared , any more than we are , for the absorption of four million black barbarians . If , however , all these difficulties could be overcome , it would remain to inquire whether the advantages we should gain in the riddance of the negroes would compensate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adaptation to the needs of Southern agriculture has never yet been matched . As to the utter prostration of Southern productive industry which would result from this violent measure , it is not incumbent to inquire into a consequence which would be but the just punishment of Southern guilt- . Nor is it necessary , in a purely economic view of the question , to consider how the dismissal of the negroes from our protection , under the circumstances , would affect the question of the moral obligations which the relations they have held lo our nation have established between us and them . It is not to be denied , on the other hand , that there are abundant embarrassments in the carving out of a just future , in our country , for the blacks , under the new conditions that spring inevitably out of the war . We must not expect to escape such embarrassments . The inevitable result of every revolution is a perturbation of all the social relations . A wise people welcomes such opportunities , when the elements of life are in solution , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The whole subject of the negro , his ethnology and capacities , has been enveloped in such clouds of falsities , that it is necessary to ex ercise the severest criticism toward current theories in reference to the blacks . That there is anything in the race to prevent its fulfilling , in freedom , the same duties that are exacted from it in bondage , no unprejudiced mind will assert . We have experiments enough to show that negroes are in this respect just like other races similarly situated , and that they are stimulated to labor by freedom and self-interest precisely like the rest of mankind . As to the assertion that , in the new order of things , no endurable relations could be established between the negroes and the whites , it is of a piece with the other fiction . It is not observed that , when the negro 's status is definitively settled as a slave , there is any difficulty in establishing perfectly harmonious relations . There will ultimately be no greater difficulty when his status is that of a free laborer . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ too many examples of how such sentiments disappear before the influence of time and reason , to see in it any insurmountable obstacle . Besides , it is not necessary to assume an immediate leap to absolute freedom . There may be intermediate stages of serfage or apprenticeship . That will be a matter for prudent consideration  --  through what provisional educational process they may pass . Fortunately for us , however , the problem is presenting itself , not in its overwhelming magnitude , but in such measure , as places it quite within our control . The Government through the circular of Mr. CHASE , has begun by subjecting to social and industrial : discipline the thousands that now find themselves thrown helpless into freedom . If this system marked at once by perfect justice and common sense be carried out , it may be applied indefinitely as the unserfing process goes on . A future so distant as that contemplated by the Presidential colonization scheme , may safely be left to take care of itself . In the meanwhile , if the Government Continues to do its obvious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the problem will have solved itself ' better than any wisdom of ours could have done .                     