@@740216

txt It is beyond question altogether proper . that the new President . sin , uld be assured of ! . e sympathy and support of the people in d.fferent sections of the country . Ills pozilion is one which calls for encouragement , and peradventure , for indulgence , from loyal men of all parties . And , probably , there is no better way of conveying to Mr. Joussox an expression of public sentiment than by means of addresses from representative bodies , formally delivered . The question , however , may cell be put , whether the range of representation in this case may not be inordinately extended . There must , we take it , be some limit set to the claims of the different varieties of organizations assuming a representative character , to participate in the formal presentation of these addresses . Good taste would surely dictate that there be no needless multiplying of formal resolutions , either hortatory or sympathetic . There is not a State in the Union but may be fitly and fully represented on such an occasion as the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . That number , carefully selected , would have done ample justice , at least , to pe common sentiments of this community , and would have sufficiently embraced the great financial , commercial , political and religious interests of the State . What is true of New-York , in this regard , we take it is true of Illinois , Pennsylvania , and every other State , great and small . We can conceive how the terrible calamity which has overtaken the nation should attract to the capital an excited crowd of deeply-moved but irresponsible onlookers ; but we can see no reason why Pennsylvaniaavenue and Jackson-square should be blocked up by an apparently endless procession of delegations , each more eager than the other to get , momentarily , the ear of the new President , for the repetition of a series of resolutions , only varying from . each other in the fullness of their verbiage and the pith of their phrases . There is , on the face of it , an untimeliness in all this fervor and demonstrativeness . The President , doubtless , desires to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the hands alike of party friends and party opponents ; that he himself will have the confidence of the financial supporters of the government , the prayers of the pious , and the support of the loyal generally . But we presume he sees , what every one else of ordinary reflection sees , that all these great auxiliaries may be pledged to him in a way which shall not leave the impression that the demonstrators are more concerned for their individual exaltation as patrons of the Executive , than for the imperiled interests of the republic . There are graver reasons , however , than those which are suggested by a regard to taste and delicacy , why President JOHNSON should not be immediately done to death by the repeated , and exhaustless , and overwhelming outpourings of consolation . These innumerable deputations drag Mr. JOHNSON into speech-making which had better be avoided . It is impossible for the President ? let him observe however much caution he may  --  to avoid in the excitement of receiving and acknowledging addresses by the thousand , the utterance of words which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ modify . Thus far , Mr. JOHNSON 'S native good sense and maturit ? - Itigment have saved him from the error ' Of giving ill-considered pledges as.to his future policy . But if he is to be made the victim , for weeks to come , of an organized scheme to thrust upon him unofficial and unsolicited advice , who can vouch or it that his discretion and his judgment shall permanently resist the assaults of those gushing and irrepressible friendships which invariably beset the possessor of power , and so often impair his usefulness and blast his reputation ?                     