@@739204

txt It is not mote than fifty years since Col .. VA LLAMEY urged on English officials the expeiency of studying the Old Irish language , since there Were . as he estimated , above two millions of persons who spoke no other tongue . Since that time it has become wellnigh dead , while even the " rich brogue " which flavors Hibernian English , is vanishing before the influence of schools and . of Intercourse with England . The constant stream of emigration to America and Australia ; drawn , in a great measure , from the Catholic element , which is synonyme us with the more purely Irish portion of the inhabitants of the Emerald Isle , was the first great measure of national diminution and of change . The passing of the Encumbered Estates act , and its important social results also caused a great stirring up of the depths . of Irish life . Capital was set free , and brought into active operation ; potatoe farms , which barely maintained starving peasants , became grazing farms ; schools were established , Anglicizing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was so rapid that within three years Irish Protestant clergymen confidently asserted that in - Ireland their party and friends held the balance of power . A recent examination of facts and figures by the Irish Times establishes in a startling manner the truth of this assertion . The ' old . stock have been swept out at a truly terrible rate . Between 1841 and 1851 the population of Ireland sunk from 8,175,124 to 6,551,970 , showing a decrease of 1,623,154 souls ! Of this number upwards of 400,000 died of fever , cholera , dysentery , and starvation , while more than a million emigrated . The more fearful causes of loss have diminished , but emigration still continues to thin out at a headlong rate the original population . " By the returns from the Irish ports it appears that from the 1st of May , 1851 , to the 1st of September , 1660 , no less than 1,140 982 emigrants went from Ireland ; and in the first eight months of 1660 , 62,185 persons emigrated , being- an excess of 2,776 on the same period @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . was less by 20,293 on the 31st of March , 1660 , than at the same period of the preceding year . There will be a corresponding diminution on the 31st of next March , and the population of Ireland on the first of this month could not have been more than $5,950,000 . " This emigration has been principally among the Roman Catholics . It is claimed , apparently with justice , that of this 5,950,000 at least 2,500,000 are Protestants , and that it is very possible that the census of the present year may establish a majority in favor of the latter . As the two parties represent to a certain degree the elements of manufacture , of education and of progress , against those of mere agriculture , and a very limited advance in elevating , social influences , it will be seen that the question of virtual supremacy is already settled  --  while that of mere numbers must very soon be to the disadvantage of Old Ireland . It is unquestionably melancholy to see a brave and once eminent race thus vanishing from the land @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ less because our own progress owes much to its extinction . But be it remembered that the real cause of its perishing is the inevitable action of those laws of capital and of industry which regulate labor . An examination of the condition and mortality of the Irish residents in this country , indicates clearly enough the reasons why they are defeated at home  --  reasons which may not be without their influence on those who be= 1 lieve that the population of our rising Southern Confederacy has as good a chance as the Northern in attaining numbers and power . From the present age , henceforth and forever , all power must inevitably tend to those races or subdivisions gyrates which excel in invention , and in its application to steady and exhaustive industry .                     