@@740158

txt At noon to-day Gov . FENTON , accompanied by his Staff , proceeded to the Capitol under escort of the Zairese Cadets . They were received in the Executis e Chamber by Gov . Sal-amen and Staff , and thence proceeded to the Assembly Chamber , where Gov. ** spoke as follows : FiLLow-CtTizans : Tne office of Governor of New York has assays been one of labor and care . To act upon every law touching the varied interests of four miitions of people ; to see that those laws are faithfully carries out ; to take care that the rights of the people are upheld ; to listen each year to a thousand pleas fur pardon , which are urged at all times and In all places wnere a hearing can be gained  --  for the sacred rights of misery and of suffering can not be restrained by rules or methods  --  has ever made the Position one of anxiety and of toll . The present war has added to these duties , until the ponton of Chief Magistrate of this State calls forth every @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ four years New-York ? Has sent nearly 440,000 men to the armies and navies of the country . More than 80,000 military commissions have been given out by the Executive Department during the same Period . 1 therefore ask for my successor a liberal support In the position which he is to hold for the next two years . This is due as a matter of justice , of wise economy and of generous patriotism . Whatever may be the course of the war , his labors will grow greater . In their nature they are accumulative . Each year adds to the use and the value of the records of the office , as they prove claims for pensions and bounties , show the quotas due from different towns and counties under the call for men , anti Will , in the end , be the proofs upon which the General Government must rely for vast sums of money . I should be untrue to the position which I have held and unjust to him , who now takes that place . if I did not urge upon our people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by liberal appropriations. watch will not only give to him a sufficient number of assistants , but which will 11150 enable him to call to his support , by liberal compensation , men of ability and of experience in public affairs . I know this policy is demanded by enlightened economy and justice . Mr. SEYMOUR then addressed GOY . FISTON : To you , Sir , who now enter upon the duties of Chief Magistrate of this great State , I tender my sincere 19:9OeB for your successful administration . You and 1 look upon public affairs from different standpoints , and we have held conflicting views and lave reached differing conclusions , with regard to the tnethods , by which our country can best be saved from Use perils which overhang it  --  but none the less , Sir , have you my best wishes for your personal welfare and success in all the affairs of public and private itfe . In these days , when we are called upon to confront problems , so great , so vital , and so far-reaching in their effects , he who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ And he who can not treat with respect and forbearance the convictions of others , lacks sense and patriotism . It is a source of pleasure to me that during the sharp political conflicts of the day , and the distinct antagoresins of our positions , our relations have been those of friendly courtesy . In the performance or your great and varied duties you will encounter much that is painful , and many misapprehensions with regard to your conduct and your motives ; but / do not doubt , Sir , that at Me end of your official term , although. ( as those who Dave gone before you have done , ) you may fall into errors , that you will be animated by the consciousness of having served your State with zeal , fidelity and Integrity . The great duties and questions of the day will lilt you above passing passions and prejudices , and you will be governed by the important objects of upholding the honor of New-York and saving the union of our States . The spot upon which we stand inspires us with patriotic pride @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ convention of delegates from the several colts. riles , at which , by FRANKLIN and others , was drawn tip a plan for colonial union against foreign hostility and savage warfare . Acting upon the motto of the Hollanders who planted the first settlement upon the banks of the Hudson , that " Unity makes might , " these delegates took here the first step , which ended in making these enfeebled and divided settlements into a great confederated power . The capital of New-York is the birthplace of our Union , and to-day New-York is the chief support of that Union , and w Time vital principles were here first set forth , and , beyond all other States , upholds by its armies and its treasures the power of its National Government which was inaugurated In He great emporium . There is no stain upon Its history . From the time when , at this point , and at the mouth of the Hudson , colonies were planted by the Netherlands , who understood better than other people of that day ' the principles of civil and religious liberty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ welcome to all nationalities and creeds , in its bold enterprises , its wise and comprehensase system of public education ; its generous charities for the relief of all forms of suffering , and its great works of internal improvements . which have buto un not only its own , but the national prosperity . 13y virtue of Its wise and generous policy , it has outstripped all other States , and now stands first in the Urot n , in wealth , in population and In power . In your keeping are now placed its honor , its interests and its rights . ishall not try to forecast the future . The events of the past four years have rebuked that pride of opinion which attempts to foretell results which rest with the wisdom of a power higher than that of man . But the duty of striving earnestly and hopefully to serve our country remains with us . In the future , as In the past , we may be led to follow different pathways. bo : may Almighty God grant that before the end of your term of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; over a return of peace and fraternal relationship throughout our land , and a renewal of that happiness and prosperity which heretofore marked us among the nations of the earth . In reply . Governor FENTON sa , d : Gov . Set-moue , in taking the oath to support the Constitution of the United States , and the Constitution of the State of New-York . I am deeply conscious of the sacred obligation Imposed , and I accept the Executive trust with a lively sensibility of the blear honor conferred . I am aware , Sir , that it is an honor not unmixed with grave responsibilities . Your testimony to the delicate , difficult and arduous duties of the station , as well as my own observation , admonishes me to invoke the best wishes of ail good men , to hope for their counsel and cooperation , and to seek strength and courage in the discharge of these duties from the fountain of Divine Wisdom . I shall steadily strive to advance the material interests of our great State , to promote the welfare and ho.mr of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ extent of my Executive autnoritv and influence , faithfully metros in the national freedom and unity , and perpetuate the liberties of the people . Tile progress-or our arms , the determined patriotism of the neoplesheir fidelity to the principles of free institutions , and their calm and heroic resolve to defend , at whatever cost , the inheritance left us by our fathers , is cause for heartfelt congratulation , and gives assurance that the unquestioned supremacy of the Government will soon be established o er every portion of the Republic . join you . Governor , in expressions of forbearance in political matters , and I thank you for assurances of friendly consideration and good wishes in coming to this ancient and renowned city of Albany , the capital of our noble commonwealth , to enter upon the duties of the position that the people have called me to occupy . Subsequently Gov , Fertaori returned to the Executive Chamber , and received the congratulations of crowds of citizens . 