@@739935

txt Our special correspondent with Gen. KILPATRICK 'S expedition sends us a full and reliable account of the late cavalry raid to the vicinity of Richmond , Virginia . Gen. KILPATRICK , it appears , left Stevensburgh on Sunday evening last , and went by the way of Chancellorsville and Spottsylvania Court-house to Beaver Dam , where he met the first armed resistance . The enemy were finally repulsed , and 32 prisoners taken . The railroad track for miles on the Central Road and several different stations were destroyed . when the command moved upon Richmond , airiving before that place early Tuesday morning . A fight was kept up within the defences of that place until near night , when Gen. KILPATRICK withdrew . That night he was attacked in camp , and again repulsed the enemy , and also on the following day , arriving Thursday at Williamsburgh with the loss of only about 150 men . Col. DAHLGREN , with a small command , destroyed the railroad at Frederick Rail and on the James River , below Goochland , destroyed the canal , six @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mines at Manikin 's Bend . The property destroyed is valued at millions of dollars , and is the heaviest loss that has yet been inflicted upon the rebels by a raiding party . Some 300 prisoners were captured , several hundred horses and a large number of negroes . The command lived on the country . Cols . Danlgren and LitchYIELD and Maj. Coos are missing . We also print this morning the rebel accounts of the expedition . It appears that within four hours after the Richmond papers had first announced the passage of the Rapidan by our forces , KILPATRICK 'S guns were pitching shell into the suburbs of the city . Our own account will be found very full and interesting , as ) well as being the only one prepared by a special correspondent with the expedition . The battle of Olustee , Florida , according to late Richmond papers , was fought by a rebel force of eleven regiments of infantry , four battalions of cavalry , and three batteries of artillery . Our own force , as is well known , did not equal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 2 , says : " A dispatch dated Lake City , Fla. , Feb. 24 , says that the enemy have abandoned their position on the St. Mary 's River , and are retreating to their gunhoats . Our loss in the late fight is put down at 35 killed and from 700 to 800 wounded . The enemy 's loss is estimated to have been between 2,500 and 3,000 . The enemy 's force is said to have numbered about 10,000 men of all arms , whilst ours would not exceed 4,000 . Two of their negro regiments were placed in front , and urged on at the point of the bayonet . At a distance they withstood our fire , but as our lines advanced they broke in confusion . More than one-half of the two negro regiments are reported to have been killed and left dead on the field . " The withdrawal of Gen. SHERMAN from Eastern Mississippi seems no longer to admit of any question . Advices from Vicksburgh , up to Feb. 27 , represent that Gen. MCPHERSON , with the Seventeenth Army Corps , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the present . Gen. SHERMAN , with the balance of the force , was en route for the same place . Late rebel papers give details of the damage done by SHERMAN to the railroads and country . The Mobile and Ohio Railroad is destroyed for forty-six miles , all the bridges and trestle work being destroyed , and the track torn up for miles . The Southern Road is completely destroyed from Meridian to Jackson . A large number of negroes were carried off . From Newbern we learn that the recent suspension of the Raleigh Standard was by order of JEFF . DAVIS . Its editor , Hon. W. W. HOLDEN , would be a candidate for Governor , and probably be elected . Particulars of the rams on the Neuse , Roanoke and Tar Rivers are given . They are represented as being very formidable , and almost ready for action . The belief of a renewed rebel demonstration against our posts in North Carolina is increasing at Newbern , and very plausible reasons are given therefor . A dispatch from Knoxville yesterday says that our scouts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ His transportation is said to be going by rail to Richmond , and his troops are being mounted upon the mules and horses thus released , and all that can be impressed , to hasten the march of his troops . The Richmond Examiner of March 1 says that on Feb. 29 four hundred more Federal prisoners were shipped for Americus , Ga . Nearly three thousand have thus far been sent , and there are accommodations for six thousand . A dispatch from Louisville says Gen. GRANT - arrived at that place Saturday en route for Washington .                     