@@740224

txt Such is the end of the great army which , organized by the extraordinary genius of one roan , aided by several other commanders of eminent ability , has done such wonders in this war . Not even the grand army of NLPOLEON himself could count a series of more brilliant victories than the force which , raised chiefly from the Idgb  --  splritril Population of Virginia , has aefeated so many invasions of the State , and crushed the hopes of so many Northern Generals . Chief and soldiers have now failed for the first and last time . They were victorious until victory was no longer to be achieved by human valor , and then they fell with honor . Theirs has been no gradual decay In courage and discipline , no demoralization the result of successive defeats . What they were at the Chickahominy and at Chanceilorsville they were on the day when the overpowering forces of GRANT and SHERIDAN forced them back from their defences at Petersourgh . If " Stonewall " JACKSON had been alive to witness the ruin of the army @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would have no reason to be ashamed of its conduct in its latest ootir . When the true history of these things is told it will probably he found that the campaign of It-f5 , fought by enfeebled and ill-found bands arealost all the power of the North , has shown a heroism unequaled ; In former and more successful campaigns . But while giving the Confederate army its due meed of praise iu the hour of its misfortune it is impossible to deny the Federal Generals and their troops the credit of a great achievement . Whether the Soutnerners have or have not fought better than in former years there can be no doubt that the Federate have surpassed all their preceding efforts . Slowly but surely they have brought their armies to perfee. ton . At first they suffered from the mistake of underrating the strength and determination of their opponents . They could not conceive now three or four millions of whites , shut out from foreign succor , and with a discordant if not hostile population within their borders , could resist the resources of the great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the South , they could hardly believe that the Confederates were actuated by such a hatred of the Union as would rouse them to long and strenuous efforts . These feelings had a great deal to do with the lack of energy with which the war was prosecuted in its earlier stager . The war has brought nut commanders of Rbility in the persons of GRANT , SHERIDAN and SHERMAN . These drilled and disciplined their mired forces until they were fit for every contingency of war , and when this was done the end of the Confederacy was plainly near . The superiority of the Federal armies enabled them to prevail in actual conflict : their progress in discipline enabled them to take advantage of victory . Two years ago Gen. Liz would probably have escaped to Lynchburgh , oven after such a defeat as that which he sustained the other day . fiat now the Federal Generals move with the rapidity and attack with the promptness of Napoleon 's Marshals . Their cavalry , which at the beginning of the war was the laughing-stock of the Confederates. is now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the plentiful appliances of warfare with which their government can furnish them . If the North has not gained in this struggle that reputation for desperate valor which has been achieved by the Confederates , they have shown a patience : a fortitude , and an energy which entitles them to rank among the very first of military nations . They have now sufficiently shown that the attempt to establish the Southern Confederacy must be abandoned .                     