@@739490

txt The Morgan raid in Kentucky has not been a success . Much was undoubtedly hoped for by the rebels . Their infatuation in regard to Kentucky , Missouri and Maryland has been marvelous . They have claimed those States all the time as their own , and kept up a pretence of Government for two of them , of the most absurd and ridiculous character . The rebel Governor and Lieutenant-Governor of Missouri have been for nearly twelve months wandering homeless , expelled from their State by the citizens whose confidence they had betrayed . In Kentucky a provisional rebel State Government was set up , on the Southern boundary line , that never exercised sway over a half dozen counties of the State , and that fiction of a Government is now lost . Yet , by virtue of such vagabond and paltry organizations , both Kentucky and Missouri were nominally united to the rebel Confederacy , and representatives were rulniitted from those States to the Richmond Convress . The rebel leaders continuitil. peak of the Border States as their own to rritorial appurlemees , Whe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ik an invikerv4nnda1 despotism . Thep pretend , or have pretended , to believe that : it . was only necessary for those States to be relieved of the presence of Northern troops , and the people would thereupon rise en masses ' and throw off their hated connection with the Union . They have strengthened their hearts on such hopes , and drawn largely upon the treasury of the future to support present discouragements and reverses . ? Undoubtedly , secret traitors in all the Border States have encouraged the delusion of the rebels on this subject . And they have advised the " partisan leaders " of the South when and where they might safely and perhaps successfully strike a blow for the enfranchisement of the Border States . The attempt has been made in Kentucky , and the result is a palpable and disheartening failure . Mon is entered that State with a high-sounding proclamation of military leadership and protection . The people did not rise to meet him . He advanced boldly toward the heart of the State , to give show of power and inspire confidence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deliverer , but avoided him as a scourge . He went still forward toward the Ohio , but found his force diminishing andabis foes increasing , and the voice of the Stare going up in one united call for his utter extermination . Perforce , he leaves the loyal State of Kentucky , and withdraws his scattered followers to the more congenial soil of the seceded States . What report will he make to the Confederate Government of the result of his exploit ? He can not say that Northern troops resisted his advance into Kentucky . He cannotisay that Northern troops overawed the people of Kentucky and prevented them from jolninghis standard . There was positively no military force in the State beyond what was absolutely necessary to guard , with reasonable care , the Government stores at Louisville , and other military posts of the State . But he met no sympathy , and obtained no recruits . Whole counties went under martial law , and organized under home officers to resist his advance .. Scattered detachments of State Volunteers began to gather in force , to swoop down @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his caution , if not of his fears , and retired from his enterprise with the poor glory of having pulled up a few bars of iron and interrupted railroad travel for one or two days , whereby his escape was secured . The raid of MORGAN into Kentucky is , therefore , not a success  --  it is a bad failure . It reveals the weakness of secession sentiment where the rebels have always believed II ready to flame out . They can not count in future on any damaging diversions against the Union cause in that quarter . When they invade Kentucky again it will be to punish the contumacious loyalty of her people , and to take , by robbery and plunder , what is not given as a freewill offering to treason . Kentucky will understand this , and be prepared for the fierce war of rebel revenge .                     