@@740016

txt What now is specially needed is patience on the part of the people . Let loyal men throughout the North but possess their souls with the resolute spirit of their great military leader , and it is certain that the rebellion can not hold out many months longer . We do n't say this with any prophesying disposition . Predictions lie like broken potsherds along the whole path of this war . All sensible men have long since ceased to value them , come from what quarter they may . But a mathematical calculation from settled data is not a prediction . The present situation admits of such calculation , and therein it differs from all that have preceded it . Hitherto , the future has been divined mainly from anticipated issues of particular baths , or particular strategic movements . If some great conflict were impending , the su ) eriority of our army in numbers would give navy minds an absolute confidence that the niemy must sustain a crushing defeat , which would end the rebellion . When the conflict Same , owing to some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other Dams% it would give us but a drawn battle , or , at most , an indecisive victory . The particular care of the rebel Generals always to keep open their line of retreat , has almost uniformly deprived even our positive successes of nearly all practical fruits . So far as mere strategy is concerned , it is always idle to prognosticate its results ; for in our necessarily imperfect knowledge of the enemy , it can never be fully known what counter-strategy may be brought to meet it . Thus predictions of decisive overthrows from particular movements or encounters have , a hundred times , failed . Fair as they have been on the surface , there has always been enough of the uncertain element in them as to make them worthless . There is now , we think , an essential change in the situation . Geographically , the two great armies have reversed their positions . The Army of the Potomac bears upon LEE from the south instead of the north . This of itself tells with consequence upon LEE 'S lines of supplies and of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ believe it can surely be calculated with fatal consequence . Let us look calmly . The business of the Army of the Potomac hitherto has been to be assailants . Its object was the rebel capital , and to secure that it had to maintain the aggressive . It had to give battle at the enemy 's intrenched positions ; and , if successful , it was only to find itself confronted with other positions yet more formidable . Such a mode of aggressive warfare must put any army , however brave or numerous , at an immense disadvantage . To declare positively that it will ever attain its object is unsafe ; to declare that it will attain it by a certain specified time is simple presumption . The change of position has ' made it no longer necessary for the Army of the Potomac , or at least its great body , to be assailants . ? Richmond is not now the immediate , but the ultimate object . The special purpose now is to destroy the communications leading into Richmond . That destruction is to be accomplished mainly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their present advanced positions as the base for cavalry expeditions . Their business is chiefly defensive ; and so long as it Is certain that their present intrenchments can not be carried either by stratagem or battle with any force the enemy can bring against them , an end is made of a whole class of contingencies that always threatened when they were on the aggressive . So far as regards that , then , the future may be counted upon with far less uncertainty than ever . It is certain that the resources of Virginia can not for any long period support LEE 'S great army , without taking into account at all , the fact that these resources are'certainly reduced by the great number of noncombatants within the State who are incapable of being removed . It is certain that there are but two railroad lines which can contribute supplies from without , and that the means for transportation by the common roads , for the seasons of the year when these roads are practicable , are too limited to be of any material rxvicR ? only politic% tbe4 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ We do n't see how it is possible for any one who has read of the work just done by Gene . WILSON and KAUTZ , to doubt it . It is officially stated that sixty miles of the railroads were so destroyed that it would be impossible to repair them in less than a month . This operation can be repeated as often as occasion demands . With our great superiority in cavalry , and with our acquired knowledge of the country , the enemy can not prevent these swoops . Had they five times their number of men , they could not effeetualty guard those long lines of railroad , located at no greater distance from our army base . A minutes ' work at any one point in the burning of bridges , or the blowing up of a culvert , prevents the transmission of troops from one threatenened point to another . And a day 's uninterrupted work of destruction on any part of the line is enough to necessitate a whole month 's incessant work of repairing . It is not within the limits of physical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gen. GRANT 'S continued attacks . That Gen. GRANT will continue these attacks as often as need be , no one who knows anything of his tenacity of purpose can doubt . It all , then , comes to this : The Army of the Potomac is now planted in a position which is secure against all attack  --  a position which relieves it from all the risks of delivering battle , and a position which gives it the command of means of communication absolutely necessary to the enemy 's subsistence . What else then is wanted for the capture of Richmond ? Nothing  --  absolutely nothing , but Time . As surely as LEE 'S army and the population of Virginia can not live on air , just so surely their means of subsistence must be continually diminishing from the time the present limited crop is gathered . That crop , so far from sufficient to carry them to the harvest of next year , can not subsist them , short of starvation rations , even to the end of the present year . But few months at furthest are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ isolated from the rest of the " Confederacy , " or to surrender . If he attempts to abandon it , without railroads to aid him , , it is hard to see how it will be possible for him to get the necessary transportation indispensable to any great army movement . The attempt even , at best , would be an exceedingly difficult and dangerous one . With such a ' General as GRANT on his flanks and in his rear , LEE could hardly get through to a new base of supplies without general disorganization . It is for the Northern people to maintain their patience , and confidence , and let Gen. GRANT manage this business in his own way . If he prefers to operate by slow S and sure methods , as at Vicksburgh , instead of by constant attacks of doubtful issue and involving great sacrifices of life , alrtrue men will cheerfully recognize its wisdom , and calmly await the final triumph , even though it comes not for many months yet . When it does come , it will be all the more @ @ @ @ 