@@739520

txt Yesterday our lines advanced toward the enemy , when the discovery was made that the entire rebel army had retreated during the night , leaving their pickets along the entire line , so as to prevent us ro ni gaining a knowledge of their movement until they had accomplished their purpose . Those left behind to perform this duty , generally surrendered as soon as our skirmishers appeared . It seems from statements of residents of Sharpsburgh and vicinity , that rebel reinforcements were expected on Friday , but they did not arrive , and consequently it was decided to cross the river , as they were in no condition for such a battle as that of the 17th inst . So they commenced leaving at dark on Thursday night , and the rear of the line passed through Sharpsburgh just before daylight yesterday morning . They crossed the river at different points in the vicinity of Sharpsburgh , as there are several fords within two miles of that place , although the contrary has been represented . Our cavalry started in pursuit as soon as the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stragglers , they succeeded in inflicting but littte injury upon the enemy . About a mile from the river quite a contest took place between a part of Gem . PORTER 'S corps , which were in the advance , and the enemy , for the possession of two guns , which they seemed unable to move fast enough . They were finally compelled to abandon them , one of which they spiked . Their trains have all got off , notwithstanding it is said their horses were completely worn out . They seem to have taken a position on the other side of the Potomac , but they did not reply to our guns this afternoon , with the exception of three or four shots . An attempt was made to cross and flank them , but they were in too good a position to be attacked with success . A Union man named HUGHES came in from Williamsport this afternoon , and reports that a large force of the enemy had crossed this morning at that place , but he eVuld not say how many . For fear he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ did not count them . He said about 2,000 cavalry and 1,000 infantry were on this side , and the column was still coining over , the rear not being visible . According to another report , it was only a small party sent over to forage and harass the inhabitants . With this exception , the soil of Maryland is free from the invader  --  a result which all expected at an early day , though few thought such a thing possible before another great battle . The retreat of an army so large as that of the rebels in the face ofEone like our own , was certainly creditable to its commanders , especially when it is considered they met with but slight loss while it was being consummated . One thing , however , was in its favor , which was , that they had Antietam Cress in their front about half the length of their line , over which our troops could not cross but at one point . It was at this midge that Gen. PnfAsANTesea Gamily made such a splendid dash across in the face @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from different points , and which rained a perfect shower of shell upon it , while our troops were crossing , most of which , fortunately , aid not explode . As soon as the cavalry crossed they were followed by Gen. LES ' Div ision of regulars , in support of three batteries ? T-im:in. ' s , GineoN 's and Rontssox 's ? which , after getting ii.to position , silenced the rebels at this point , and relieved Gen. Semssa 's corps from a Eire from which they would have otherwise been compelled to fall back . Some of the most desperate fighlint : ever recorded in history took place on this field . In passing over the ground to-day , the evidence was manifested where he most deadly contests occurred , the dead and dying tying thick , and in rows , where they had fallen , on the enemy 's centre . Three lines of battle had been formed from a mint west of the Hagerstown Turnpike across the rind and several fields , to near the Boonsboro Tut npikea distance of about half a mile @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the living masses still formed them , the dead lying so close as to be nearly within reach of one anotuer 's hands along the entire distance , while in many places they lay one upon another . The enemy at ibis point were attacked by ICING 'S , II-CKETT 'S and SEDOWICieS Divisions , and the rebels , although maintaining their ground for a time , were compelled to give way , their loss being frightfully large . MAUER 'S Brigade , which opened this attack , lost above half its force , but maintained its position until relieved by fresh troops . Its ' loss in officers was as follows : Capt . Kelly , of the One Hundred and Fourth New-York ; Lieut . Buckley , of the One Hundred and Fifth New-York  --  killed ; Lieut. - Col . Carroll , Capt . Bradley , Maj. Shedd and Lieut . Doolittle , of the One Hundred and Fifth , and Capt . Tuttle , Lieut . Dow and Lieut . Wilson , of the One Hundred and Fourth , and Lieut . Delano , of the Ninety-seventh , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , out of about 650 who went into action . The enemy 's loss in killed at this part of the field was at least two to our one , and many were of the opinion it would average the same all over the bat . tie-ground . This is accounted for by the fact that our men fire high , while the rebels seem to be particularly instructed to fire low . The prisoners say they always like to meet a regiment of Zonaves with red trowsers , as these serve as distinctive marks . In evidence of this , take the casualties of the Fourteenth Brooklyn and Fifth New-York Regiments  --  threefourths of the casualties among them in every battl e being in the lower limbs . At a piece of woods where they made a stand , after being driven back , GORN-AN 'S Brigade , of SEDOWICK 'S Division , suffered heavy loss , having SaJ4 killed and wounded , about half of their entire number . One regiment  --  the Fifteenth Massachusetts  --  had Guy on going into the fight , and were only able to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ officers killed and wounded in this regiment are Capt . C. S. Simonds , Dent . R. Derby , Lieut . F. S. Corbin , killed ; and Lieut . W. Gale , Lieut . L. B. Ellingwood , Capt . W , Fart:held , Limit . T. J. Spurr , Capt . Bartlett , Capt . Jocelyn , and Lieut . A. J. B raa ley , all slightly w Quieted . The division succeeded in driving the enemy from the uouds , and held it for more than an hour , but were finally compelled to abandon It and fall back . Tide is the only part of the field we gained hum ? vhicli our Tonne were compelled to retire . These who fell GI this spot were found stripped of their clothing by the rebels , some bodies being entirely naked . At a spot near the church , on the centre of the battle-field , a major , two lieutenants and three privates were found dead , having been torn to pieces by a shell . The church , in almost every part , was riddled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the enemy left above five hundred of their wounded at houses and barns , ss'Aere they had established hospitals , and very few a . their dead were burled , excepting officers , their grves being found in corn-fields in the rear of their tined : A large number of their wounded were brought off the field In our ambulances , and cared for by our Surgeons . At one of their hospitals some of our wounded had been taken , and the officers in charge having forgotten to parole them , a Brigadier-General returned on Friday morning to do so , and had gone but a few minutes when a cavalry soldier appeared , who gave chase , firing Iris revolver at the flying rebel , but without effect . An incident is related of a boy belonging to the Ninth New-York Regiment , whose name could not be ascertained , who stood in front of the regiment while it engaged the enemy at short range , in which position he fired all his cartridges , then took his dead comrade 's cartridge-box and fired the entire contents ? in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whole time , notwithstanding the ground was covered with dead and wounded all around him . The regiment was ordered to charge a rifle-pit where the rebels were concealed , and our young hero was the first who entered it , the enemy flying at the approach of the bayonet . The loss of the rebels in this battle was very heavy , and evioently exceeded ours . A wounded soldier of the Second North Carolina said his regiment left Richmond a month ago 700 strong , and on Thursday morning could muster only 200 . A. negro who was captured and who knows TA014 SoN well , states that he saw him with his arm in a sling on Friday upon the field . Gen. STARK was killed . One of the prisoners states that Gen. Joe JOHNSTON died recently at Richmond of wounds received at Fair Oaks .                     