@@740279

txt Hon. GEORDIE T. CURTIS , in a speech at Brooklyn , laat week , made the following statement of the relation of the two parties in this State to the President 's policy of reconstruction : " Now , with regard to the other question , which of the two parties is likely to be the one that will give him the moat important aid . That depends upon the nature of the questions at issue , and the manner in which the two parties respectively treat those questions . What are those questions ? Ur . JoEurBON 'S policy is understood to be Me immediate admission of the Southern States into Congress without exacting of them any surrender of their constitutional rights of local self-government , and without requiring them , with respect to the blacks , to do anything more than to acknowledge and respect the freedom which has resulted from the exercise of force during a condition of civil war . This policy the Democratic party , without a dissenting voice , adopts and upholds , fully and unequivocally . On the other hand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Republican party insists that the negroes of the Southern States shall be made voters , by a compulsory process , to be applied to those States by Congress , when their representatives present themselves to take their seats . " In this we believe Mr. Crams states , with substantial accuracy , what the Democrats mean by professing to support the President 's policy . But it seems to us they are entirely mistaken as to the real nature and scope of that policy , or else they are playing a dishonest game with the people in pretending to support it . President JOHNSON is not in favor of the " immediate admission " of the Southern representatives into Congress without certain conditions precedent ; and these conditions are just as much a part of his policy as the admission itself . No man and no party can support his policy who does not also support the conditions on which it rests . The President has repeatedly proclaimed to the Southern States that he can not favor their admission unless they 1 . Not only repeal their ordinances of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Not only abolish slavery within their own State limits , but ratify the Constitutional Amendment by which it is to be forever prohibited upon the soil or within the jurisdiction of the United States . 3 . Repudiate the debts , Confederate and State , incurred in the attempt to overthrow the National Government ; and , 4 . Guarantee to the enfranchised slaves such a status in civil tribunals , as witnesses and parties to suits , as shall secure to them , equally with all other citizens , the full enjoyment of their rights as free men . President Joiumoii lays special stress upon each one of these things as absolutely essential , so far as he is concerned , to the admission of Southern representatives into Congress . The Democrats do not . They either ignore or disparage them . They never , in their public speeches or their newspapers , insist on their necessity , or sustain the President in requiring them . On the contrary they misrepresent his policy by pretending that it is for the immediate and unconditional admission of the Southern States  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ denounce the President also , for resisting such an admission and for requiring conditions of any kind . Even Mr. Clams himself concurs in this misrepresentation . He has not one syllable to say in support of the fundamental principles of the policy which he professes to support . Now the Republicans do support this policy precisely as the President himself presents it . They regard these conditions as essential parts of it and as absolutely necessary to the successful working of the general plan . Nor do they attach any more importance to them than does the President himself . The Democrats seem quite conscious of this marked difference and try to make up for it by charging the Republicans with demanding another condition , namely , the admission of the negroes to the right of suffrage in the Southern States . But Mr. CURTIS , with greater fairness than is shown by the leaders of his party , admits it is only a " faction or section " of the Republicans who make this demand , and he knows , though he does not say , that it has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the Union party stands precisely with the President on this subject . With him , it advocates and favors the admission of the Southern representatives upon compliance with these conditions , and not otherwise ; while the Democrats dispense with the conditions altogether . Neither the President nor the people can be misled as to the real character of the support proffered by the two parties .                     