@@739673

txt I propose to give you to-day in brief what I understand to be the general opinion of the leading men of the Empire on the Mexican Expedition , and on the relations between France and the United States . A year ago or more I developed to you in this place what the Emperor 's designs then were in regard to the Latin race , and especially in regard to setting up a barrier in Mexico against the further extension south of the Anglo-American race . These developments have been amply verified since by many indications , but especially by the late letter of the Emperor to Gen. Poesy . This much , then , has been acquired to history , and I now propose to carry you forward another year , and indicate the probable sequel of the programme . It is an axiom of the political economists , as you know , that old States , like France ana England especially , can not live and prosper upon their own resources , and that they require colonies for the production of raw materials and as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ long ago saw the value of the English colonies to England , and resolved upon following their neighbor 's example . Algeria , after a long war with the natives , was acquired , hut Algeria has turned out a failure . As a military establishment there is no inducement to emigration , and the colony thus costs the treasury of France from eighty to a hundred millions of francs a year . If , on the other hand , the Government should adept ' for Algeria the only system which will ever develop its resources and make it a paying colony , that is to say , if the Government should make the colony a civil instead of a military establishment , ana leave to the settlers the initiative in their own affairs of every kind , which , in fact , is the only condition of prosperity , the example , on account of the proximity of the colony , would be too striking , and Frenchmen in France would demand the same privileges . France , therefore , is yet too much of a despotism , and Algeria @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and this morning the Moniseur publishes a Senalus Consultor ' ' , which is considered as a final renunciation by the Government of all hope of converting Algeria into the kind of colony France desires and.inust have . By this decree the land is given back to the natives unthr such regulations as will check at once all emigration , and hereafter Algeria will only be interesting to France as a school for her vast army . As regards the French colonies in the West Indies , they are mere naval stations , and can not enter into the present consideration . What France . with her growing manufactures and overflowing wealth , desires and must have , is an already developed colony , further away , and these conditions are exactly tilled in Mexico . The Emperor has , therefore , transferred his experiment from Algiers to Mexico , and he says to all his entourage that he considers the Mexican scheme the " big thing " of his reign . Why is it so ? Why is the little expedition of Gen. PORET a " bigger thing " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against Austria in 1859 ? Because it is going to open up to French commerce and industry a mine of wealth that will develop the greatness and the grandeur of the Empire beyond that of any previous retell. and in a proportionate degree exalt the name of the Bonapartes in history . The Emperor , therefore , is so shaping his policy as to finally fix himself in Mexico , and to make that country , by some sort of right tributary to France . Let us see then how this influences bib polio towattl the Vriitect Slates . From what I am able to gather from leading politicians likely to know , or at least most likely to be able to divine His Majesty 's policy , there will be no act on the part of the French Government designed . to provoke a war with the United States . But His Majesty desires a separation , and he desires the exhaustion of the two sections  --  in this particular having fallen entirely into the English line of policy . If a separation takes place , the North will not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being ruined for many years to come and unable to gather headway from the necessity of keeping up a standing army to resist the invasions of the North , will not be able to disturb her in her new possession . France . therefore , like . England , is going to do all in her power , short of war , to provoke a separation ; she will bully and persuade , she will offer mediation , and if she thinks it will not lead to hostilities , perhaps , later on , recognize the South . In fine she will do every thing which will render her Mexican policy more easy of accomplishment , short of a war with the United States  --  a contingency she does not for a moment dream of accepting , on account of its great cost and danger . I think I may tell you , without betraying any particular confidence , that these are the views of the directors of all the liberal journals at Paris . Lately the silence of the Press , with the exception of the Monitcor , on Mexican @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ remark , and naturally this silence has been attributed to an order from the Ministry ; but I happen to know that these officious orders to the Press , in regard to Mexico and the United States . have not been as frequent lately as they were six months and a year ago , and that if to a certain extent the journals abstain from these subjects from fear , they abstain also a little because they are beginning to be converted to His- Majesty 's Mexican policy . Thus they now comprehend , better than they did a year ago , M. DE PESSIONY 'S repeated eiclamation . " Oh , you do n't understand the true interests of France in this Mexican scheme ! " But we can not complain of this desertion of some of our ablest friends in the Press , for the miserable degradation in patriotism now exhibited in the North is fast convincing the last man that separation is final , and therefore , that if France has a brilliant held offered her in Mexico tor adding to her national- prosperity and grandeur , she @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ used two harsh words toward a portion of the people of the North , and here is the reason why . The official paper , which is the only journal , as mentioned above , that has printed anything of importance for some weeks on American or Mexican affairs , continues to copy daily all the leading speeches and propositions of the Northern Copperheads . It publishes regularly the articles of the New-York World , Express and Journal of Commerce , in favor of peace , In favor of French mediation , and abusive of Mr. SEWARD for not accepting the last proposition of . M. DROUTN DE Lauys ; it publishes the speech of Hon. Mr. Parseterort , of Ohio . because it favors peace , and shows that the philanthiopy of the North is false , since the people of the North hate the negro and will accord him no rights ; and it publishes also the speech of Hon. Mr. May , of Baltimore , for the same reasons . But the official journal is carefulnever to publish an article from the New-Yong Times , or , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , even by chance , quotes the sayings of any true patriot either in Congress or out of It . This studied programme of the Moniteur , in depreciation of the United States , hasgivetegreat hopesitothoSodediadtati  --  iiid ceorresponding despondency to ' our ' friends ; but I think I have given the true explanation of the affair in connection with the Emperor 's policy io Mexico . At any rate , a collection of the Monate= will serve hereafter in the United States as an excellent political " Black List , " by-which to remember those Northern men who deserted their country in the moment of peril , and devoted their time and talent to furnishing arguments to the enemy , native and foreign .                     