@@739523

txt There has been no more important and farreaching document ever issued since the foundation of this Government than the proclamation of President LINCOLN concerning Slavery and slaves , published this morning . The President opens up his proclamation by declaring that hereafter , as heretofore , the object of the war will be the restoration of the authority of the Constitution . Ile then observes that it is his purpose to again recommend to Congress , at its next meeting , the adoption of a scheme tendering aid to those Slave States which may adopt measures for the immediate or gradual abolishment of Slavery ; to which he adds a remark that the efforts to colonize negroes outside of the United States will be continued . Then , after these introductory and secondary declarations , comes the gist of the proclamation , which we here repeat : " That on the first day of January , in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and sixtythree , all persons held as slaves within any State ' or any designated part of a State , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States , shall be lien , thenceforward and former free . And the Executive Government of the United States , includ. ing the military and naval authority thereof , will recognize and maintain the freedom of such persons , and 11. , ; 11 do no act or acts to repress snh persons , or any of them , irk any e , prts they may make for their actual freedom . " The further paragraphs of the proclamation mention that the President will , on the 1st of January . designate the States actually in rebellion ; and the fact that any State shall then be fairly and legitimately represented in Congress , shall be taken as evidence of its loyalty . He closes by calling general attention to certain acts of Congress relating to Slavery , viz. : the act providing a new Article of War pro hibiting any military or naval officer from employing any of their forces to reclaim fugitive slaves ; that section of the Confiscation act which enacts that all fugitive slaves of rebels coming within the lines of the army , and all slaves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ free : and these laws the President orders all persons engaged in the military and naval service of the United States to observe , obey , and enforce . Such is the purport of the proclamation . The wisdom of the step taken  --  we refer at present to that clause in the document which declares free the slaves of rebel States after the 1st of January  --  is unquestionable ; its necessity , indisputable . It has been declared time and again by President LINCOLN that as soon as this step became a necessity , he should adopt it . Its adoption now is not a confession that the military means of suppressing the great re hellion have proved a failure ; but simply that there is a point at which any other legitimate appliances that can be called in , shall also be availed of . Slavery is an element of strength to the rebels if left untouched ; it will assuredly prove an element of weaknessit may be of total destruction ? to them and their cause , when we make such use of it and its victims @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1st of January  --  the day when this proclamation will take effect  --  is little over three months . What may happen between now and then , in the progress of the ' bar , it is hard to say . We earnestly hope , however , that by that time , the rebellion will be put down by the military hand , and.that the terrible element:of slave-insurrection may not be invoked . If , by that day , the rebel army be overthrown , and their Capital captured ; and , if the slaveholding rebels still prove malignant , irrepressible , and , as in the Southwest , disorganizers and marauders , then let that which Vice-President STEPHENS called the corner-stone of the . Southern Confederacy be knocked from under it , and see whether the whole fabric of rebellion will not necessarily tumble to the ground .                     