@@740172

txt There are now only three months it . the very most before the opening of what is called " the Spring campaign ; " that is before it becomes feasible for armies to move in Virginia , and until military operations on a great scale become possible throughout all the Border States ; until , in short , the period of the year at which the South has always hitherto found itself assailed at all points , and its strength subjected to the severest strain ; and yet we do not perceive the slightest sign of the adoption of any plan by the rebels for arming and enlisting the negroes . There are vague reports that Gen. LEE favors it , and that Davis and his Secretary of War are prepared to resort to it , whenever there is clearly no other mode of saving the Confederacy , but there must be and certainly is also a vast deal of opposition to it , latent as well as expressed , and of which we shall only know the full strength when an attempt is made to put @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ever to be resorted to , it ought to be done now ; and the fact that it is not being done , seems to prove pretty clearly that the idea is not seriously entertained by the Confederate leaders . Three months is too short a time in which to perfect the details of a measure involving nothing less than a social revolution , to secure first what is absolutely necessary  --  the approval or support of the planters , and to make arrangements for catching the slaves , after it has been decided that they are to be caught . We see by the Richmond papers that the mere talk of putting them in the army is causing a general panic amongst them in that city and the neighborhood , and that they are making their way North as fast as circumstances will permit . We may guess from this what the effect on them would be of the actual preparation of the measure In Congress . And it must not be forgotten that the difficulty of getting at them , even after it had been decided to arm them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ South Carolina . Communication with Georgia , or at least regular communication , may now be said to be at an end ; the mails only come in now and then ; SHERmAN 's cavalry and bands of Anti-Confederate guerrillas are swarming over the country , breaking the railroad lines and rendering the systematic execution of the orders of the Richmond Government impossible , The same thing may be said of the state of affairs In Alabama and Mississippi ; so that a regular conscription throughout the Confederacy is no longer possible . If it were possible , it Is certain that it would be useless to try to get together an army of negroes large enough to be worth anything , and arm , drill and organize them , and - issue the needful supply of cowhide to the officers between now and the first of May . So that it is fair to conclude that the plan is given up , and that the chiefs of the Con federacy intend to fight it out , with suol white men as they can lay their , hands on , o have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ma : be safely asserted that the contest will no be protracted far into the Summer , and tha by next Fall we shall have simply the grea " guerrilla " difficulty to deal with . The fat that the Confederate advocates in Londoi already begin to descant upon the magnitude and gravity of this , warrants the presumptim that the Confederate agents abroad are ex petting to see the conflict degenerate on thei side into a war of partizans and brigand at an early date . 