@@740038

txt Our Paris correspondent mentioned , yesterday , a pleasing circumstance connected , with a hasty visit he had just ' made to Germany . Going from Paris , where little or no sympathy is heard for the Union cause , where the imperialist journals teach the people that the American Government is on the verge of ruin , and where American stocks are unknown , it was like a sudded change from darkness into light to find himself in the midst of many hundreds of tankers and brokers screaming themselves hoarse over American stocks , in a place ( Frankfort-onthe-Maine ) where more American stocks are bought and sold in one day than of all the European stocks combined , and where such an interest is felt in the national cause that the agency of the ERLANGERS in the Confederate Loan is charged against that house as almost a crime I These Federal bonds were bought in most part by permanent holders , and not by speculators  --  by people who pay little attention to the fluctuations of war , because they have confidence in the future @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for their surplus funds . Nevertheless , the " bulls " and " bears " of the Frankfort Bourse speculate largely in these stocks on their own account , and appear to be quite as sensitive to small events as the same class of gentlemen on other Exchanges . Our correspondent went on to give the assurance that in the present situation of affairs at Frankfort , a loan of a hundred millions could be negotiated there by the American Government at a day 's notice . This is certainly gratifying . It but bears out what we have heard from many other sources , and what , indeed , appears by the demand , for American Stocks In this market on foreign account . Nearly the whole of the European demand is from Germany . Our correspondent said that the pains taken by out efficient Consul-General at Frankfort ( Mr , MURPHY ) " to keep the German public well-inloped on the progress of events in the United States , has contributed powerfully to this popularity of American stocks at the leading German Exchange , and we are taught by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well-directed and truthful publicity , to keep public opinion in the right track . " This compliment we believe to be justly paid ; but the popularity of our stocks among the middle-class people of Germany , is also due in a great measure , we fancy , to the favorable representations of the strength and resources of the United States sent from this country by the patriotic and true-hearted Germans who have a retidence and a home among us . While such a noble confidence in the future of this republic and its financial honor is exhibited in Germany , we are almost ashamed to think of the lack of manly faith exhibited by American-born people in our own midst .                     