@@740060

txt This war , like all wars , has abounded-with personal disgraces , but it would be , hard to name one more painful or scandalous than that now fastened upon Surgeon-General HAMMOND . - When raised to his high position , two years ago , he had high repute in his profession and a stainless name . There was universal confidence alike in his character and his abilities . His first stage of official duty was marked by what seemed to . be great faithfulness and efficiency . In time , whispers began to be heard about irregularities and abuses in his administration . They were imputed to jealousy and other sinister motives , and were not heeded . Even when these whispers had gradually grown into loud and strong accusations , the public continued incredulous . It finally became the duty of- the Government to investigate them , and for that purpose the President ordered a court-martial , last Winter , consisting of nine officers of high rank and character . A trial was had , lasting nearly four months , conducted with remarkable patience and thoroughness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was the public mind to think such a man guilty , that it , hardly imagined any other result than an honorable acquittal . The press almost universally , without distinction of party , abstained from all comment , and even surmise . The court weighed all the testimony , heard the defence of his able counsel , adjudged him guilty , and sentenced him to be dismissed the service , and to be forever disqualified from holding any office of honor , profit or trust under the Government of the United States . This decision underwent review by the Judge-Advocate-General , was sanctioned by the President , and is now promulgated . The guilt proved was of a very vile sort . He not only directly violated the law in order to indulge favoritism in giving out contracts for supplies , but he stooped to the level of the lowest shoddy knave in knowingly taking supplies of medicines and of blankets of an inferior and udsuitable quality for an exorbitant price . It is almost incredible that a man occupying the eminent position of Surgeon-General of the United States , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ degrade himself to the baseness , we may say indeed the utter villainy of bartering away the comforts , and perilling the lives of the sick and wounded soldiers committed to his charge , for a little paltry pelf in his own pocket and that of his friends . The . doctor , who was lately guillotined in France for poisoning his patients to get their life insurance , miscreant though he was , yet , in his cycle of iniquity was but a short remove from WILLIAM A. HAMMOND . The latter experiences no such punishment , because the fatal effects can not be so clearly proved , but in each case there was the murderously sordid disposition  --  the same in kind if not in ' degree . This man 's ruin is a fearful lesson upon the moral necessity of avoiding temptation . Undoubtedly Surgeon-General HAMMOND began with as honest aims as any public official . He had every encouragement to the loftiest ambition . He could have identified his name with this immortal struggle , so that itself should have ' flared in the same glorious1mmortality . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the result is that he will be remembered only to be loathed , and to serve as an example of the infatuation of betraying public trust for gold . He walks free , indeed , but to the eyes of every honest man the rags of the beggar shine like regalia when seen by the side of his rich apparel . It behooves every young man , whether in public trust or in private trust , to note this piece of human experience . The present generation is undoubtedly a very enlightened and smart one , but there are some homely old maxims about honesty it has not yet managed to undo . It still hdlns true that those who undertake to undo them are , sooner or later , undone themselves .                     