@@739478

txt The whole country has been puzzling itself with the inquiry as to what has become of BEAUREGARD 'S army , so lately at Corinth . The anxiety springs chiefly out of the fear that it may turn up at Richmond suddenly , to increase still further the numerical superiority of the enemy over the forces under Gen. MeCLELLAN . This anxiety would be relieved at once , if we knew that the Union army of the West was being employed in any way to operate as reinforcements to McCLELLax , by taking a part in the general programme of movements against Richmond . We propose calling attention to some facts which suggest the strong probability , at least , that such a movement is being made by Gen. HaLLEcir . Our news from Tennessee would seem to indicate the beginning of a combined movement between the troops under Gen. Moacus , moving southward from Cumberland Gap toward Knoxville , ? and the forces under Gen. MITCHEL moving eastward toward the same destination . Among the immediately valuable results flowing from the rebel evacuation of Corinth , was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such a demonstration . Prior to that period Mixer 's ' . was occupied principally in watching the right flank of the rebel army . Freed from BEAUREGARD 'S presence , and with , his railroad lines of communication and supply protected by the occupation of Memphis and a point on the Mobile and Ohio Railroad , HALLF.CK couid4at once spare Gen.Berm. ' s corps to retrace their steps and move toward East Tennessee . This seems so perfectly natural a movement , that we incline to accept the accuracy of the announcement made on the faith of a private letter received at Philadelphia , that " Gen. Bunt. has started with his whole army for East Tennessee , via Huntsville . " Here we have the initial points of a new campaign on the part of our army of the West . When Gen. ITALLEcx found that BEAUREGARD had abandoned Corinth without falling back upon Grand Junction , he doubtless saw at once that the rebel leaders had decided upon a complete change of policy , and were determined to unite their different armies , with a view to trying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at some weak point ; or , failing in that , to be in stronger position for defence , and for a prolongation of the war in South Carolina and Georgia . Except in obedience to the demands of some such policy , it was inconceivable that BEAUREGARD would have abandoned the Mississippi River altogether , which necessarily involved the abandonment of Missouri , Kentucky , Tennessee , Arkansas and Texas as members of the " Southern Confederacy , " as well as the most valuable parts of Louisiana , Mississippi and Alabama . This was quite clear to Gen. Hau.scE , who then saw , if we mistake not , that as BEAUREGARD had initiated a junction of his army with the rebel army of the Atlantic seaboard , the Union army of the West could be employed nowhere else so effectively as in a flank movement on Richmond , through Knoxville , East Tennessee and Southwestern Virginia . Such a movement as we have indicated would be of immense service to Gen. MCCLELLAN , because it would serve in part to equalize the reinforcements to the two armies , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ points of advantage gained by uniting his Western forces to those already on the Atlantic seaboard . Again , by operations vigorously pushed through the mountains of East Tennessee into Virginia , the Union forces there would form the extreme right of our extended line of operations , of which Norfolk would be the extreme left  --  said line embracing the army before Richmond , the forces in and about Washington , and the various bodies in the Valley of the Shenandoah . As Gen. BUELL 'S forces advance eastward , the troops now under FREMONT and SIGEL  --  leaving the threemonths ' men and a few sailors ' batteries to guard Harper 's Ferry  --  may push on to the occupation of Lynchburgh , while Gen. BANKS operates toward Gordonsville on the eastern side of the Blue Ridge . If Gen. McCLELLAN takes Richmond within a week from the present time , the combination of movements suggested above will be unnecessary , for the occupation of the rebel capital gives comparative quiet at once to all the country north of the system of railroads running east and west from Richmond @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ If , on the other hand , BEAUREGARD shall have had time to reinforce JEFF . DAVIS ' army so as to compel Gen. MCCLELLAN to dig his way into Richmond with pick and spade , then a strong column from BUELL 'S army , through East Tennessee and Southwest Virginia , becomes of every consequence , because it is a reinforcement from HALLECK 'S army to MeCLELLAN 's . We do not know what are the plans of our military leaders , but we think there are indications of such a movement as we have suggested .                     