@@739414

txt There is inherent probability in the news which comes from Mexico of the signing and ratification of a treaty of peace . The basis of the treaty had been arranged previously . It required modification in two or three points only , to make it acceptable to both parties , and as JIM= was inclined to yield almost anything that should rid Mexico of the abhorred presence of a foreign army , it is not likely any essential difficulty stood in the way of a perfect adjustment . That an Allied force remains for the present in Mexico may seem to contradict this view Of the Presidential disposition . But this force has been materially curtailed . The British contingent has been wholly withdrawn , and even the British fleet has left the waters of the Gulf . Two regiments of the Spanish army have returned to Havana , and the remaining troops only linger , we have reason to believe , until the treaty shall have gone to Europe , re . ceived the ratification of the several Courts interested , and been returned thus perfected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Generals to retire , until they had learned how far their diplomatic labors might prove acceptable to their respective Cabinets . Thus another of the disheartening war clouds which three months ago rested like a upon our people , has been dissipated . Three months ago , Western Europe seemed to be arming against us . All the preparations made by England , France and Spain against Mexico were understood by the most cautious observers to be ultimately ietended Car the discomfiture of the United States . The armada sent into the Gulf ; so disproportioned to the requirements of the Mexican quarrel , was regarded as a preliminary step to the forcible rupture of the blockade , and the abbtraction of cotton . The strongly-reinforced squadron of Admiral Mnizis , and the French war steamers which frequented our harbors , were evidently destined to the same hostile service , and Canada was prudently armed against the resentment our people would naturally feel at any interference in favor of the South . When our fears ceased to wear this particular guise , they donned others scarcely less discouraging . The threatened @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not view with indifference . The rebellion had not annulled the blonroe doctrine . That dogma might be in abeyance so long as our own intestine difficulties should last ; but when internal peace should have been conquered , it would be our duty and policy to unseat the usurper , and expel his military supporters kora Mexico . A foreign war had thus ceased to be a present , only to become a future evil of alarming proportions . But even this danger has disappeared . By the very prompt arrangement of the European difficulty , President JUABLZ has secured the permanent independence of his country , has provided fir the departure of the Allied army , and saved all necessity of that aid , which this t:overnment would have felt obliged to afford him in circumstances less fortunate . Thus are events better than our fears . Let us hereafter confide in them more implicitly .                     