@@740149

txt From Richmond papers of Monday . received here at the office of the Philadelphia inquirer , we make the following extracts : " The Charleston Mercury of the 15th has information that the enemy sti:1 holds his position at Coosawhatchie , about three-quarters of a mile from the Charleston and Savannan Railroad track . His batteries continue to shell every passing train . With this exception , all is quiet between Charleston and liardeeville , the present terminus of the roach The railroad bridge over the Savannah River has not been burned , as was reported . The structure burned was the long ? and important trestle-work on the Georgia side of the Savanpah River . " The Courier of same date says : " As to the fact or extent of " destruction of the railroad bridge and trestling over anti near the Savannah River , accounts are variant and contradictory . The shelling of the railroad at certain points and passing of cars Is continued so far without notable results . " Tne Savannah . Republican . of the 12th says that on Saturday and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , with more or less skirmishing . There is no change in the aspect of affairs at either of our points since our last Issue . Everytning goes on well , and all are In the best of spirits . The brightest prospects continue to present themselves . " The Charleston Courier , of the lltn , adds that ' ? a disabled soldier who was on a visit to Savannah , and left there on Monday morning , has reached this city and communicated some statements to the Courier He reports that on Saturday , the 10th inst. , three several and severe charges were made against our lines between the Central and Gulf Railroads and about five miles from the city , beginning at 1 P. M. These assaults were repulsed in good order and with good spirit and determination on our Mile . It was reported that the Ogeechee Bridge , on Gulf Road , near Savannah , had been burned by our forces , and this prevented the arrival of some forces who would and could have ' Whet ! Savannan . It is more thari probable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ however , on the south side of the Ogeechee , as things now go . At all events , they can work their way to and for good service . " The Charleston Mercury learns that " the bridge over the Ogeechee River had been destroyed by our troops . It Is believed that Gen. G. W. SMITH is well posted on the other side of the river , with about 8,000 troops . " Charleston was full of rumors of various kinds , which the Mercury could trace to no authentic source . The most trustworthy report came via Hardeeville , and was to the effect that heavy fighting was going on at noon on Monday , near the race course , - which is only a few miles from Savannah . but that our men had nobly maintained their position and repulsed the enemy . The Mercury of the 16th inst. , says : " Simmers seems for the present to have abandoned a direct attack on the city , and appears to be turning his attention to the reduction of our works . We regret to announce the fall @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by assault , in which a heavy column of SHERMAN 'S best troops participated . It is believed that the enemy will next make a desperate effort to gain possession of Genesis Point . The news given above is perfectly authentic , but we have heard no details of the assault or of the casualties . " DURBRIDGE 'S RAID . " An official dispatch received on Saturday nigh at the War Department stated that B UBBRIDOE ' 8 force , already announced as within a few miles of Wvtlieville. had prudently retired by the road over which they had advanced . A later dispatch says that Gen. VAUGHAN , with a consideraole force , is in close proximity to the retreating raiders . "                     