@@739330

txt : ) ur Washington dispatches report that yesterday was the most quiet Sunday which has been . experienced in that vicinity since the occupation ref the west bank of the Potomac by the National ; troops . The rebels did not show themselves at ! any point . On Saturday they brought some guns ' to within about a mile of Falls Church , and fired ; several shots at our troops , but the distance was Ptoo great for them to do any damage . Two shots kiaving been fired at them by CARLISLE 'S Battery , ! the rebels withdrew their guns and retired again over the hills . There is to be another grand re'view of cavalry and artillery Co-morrow , which is ' expected to surpass any which has preceded it . The fact is now sufficiently  --  well established that the story of Gen. FREMONT 'S removal was a pure fabrication . The pretence that the Cabinet decided upon it , but afterwards changed its purpose , is simply impudent and ridiculous . The subsequent statement , by which the Herald attempts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ WOOL : was going West with orders to supersede FREMONT , is proved to be equally false , by the fact that the General has returned to Fort Monroe , and there is not:the slightest reason to believe that he is going to St. Louis at all . What shape this invention will take next remains to be seen . We find in the Cincinnati Enquirer a number of important documents , which will command attention . They comprise Gen. FREMONT 'S charges and specifications against Col. FRANK BLAIR ; Dirs . FREMONT 'S letters to the President , demanding FRANK BLAIR 'S letter , which was laid before the Cabinet ; the President 's reply ; a letter from Gen. FRE3IONT , making the same demand ; a letter from Postmaster-General Meant to Gen. FREMONT , and FRANK BLAIR 'S letters to his brother . These documents possess much historical value , and will be perused with the interest which they deserve . Their publication , it appears , has been without the knowledge or consent of Gen. FREMONT . The bulk of testimony seems to warrant the belief that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ PRICE ; but whether the movement indicates a retreat on the part of PRICE , or whether he intends to retain Lexington as a base of operations , while he moves out to give battle to Gem FnEmwer , at Georgetown , or some other point convenient to the direct route to St. Louis , is not so clear . The impression at Jeererson City and St. Louis is that PRICE has permanently abandoned Lexington , but the accounts as to the direction he has taken are conflicting . One says to Rose Hill , in Johnson County , 18 miles west of Warrensbureh , and another to Baker 's Hill , a commanding eminence S miles southwest of Lexington , while a third is quite positive that the retreat will be continued to Southwest Missouri , or perivtps to Ai Kansas . The evacuetion of Lexineton seams to have cumineuced immediately after the defeat of the rebel General HARRIS , an account of which we published in a portion of our edition of yesterday morning . This afeiir , if rightly reported , was an important one . It appears @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Missouri River on Saturday , and when about six miles from Lexington they encountered a National force , said to have been commanded by Gen. STURGIS. when a battle ensued , which resulted in the rebel force being driven back to the river , with the loss of their transportation train and equipage . HARRIS reached the river about midnight , closely followed by the National force , and immediately commenced recrossing , under a galling fire by musketry . A large number of the rebels are said to have been killed and wounded , and one of the ferry-boats was sunk . There is some doubt about the identity of the National troops said to have been engaged in this affair . Subsequent reports place Gen. STURGIS at Kansas City on Thursday , with a force numbering 7,500 men , including the commands of MONTGOMERY and - JENNISON . It is hardlv.probable that , after gaining such a victory opposite Lexington , Gen. STURGIS would have retired to Kansas City , some sixty wiles distant , when he must have been aware of the fact that Lexington was being evacuated by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ untrue  --  is , that this reeert of a defeat of HARRIS is a bold fiction . Our advices from Gen. BANKS ' hear ? - quarters . are to the 4th , at which time rumors were Citiretit . that an advance across the Potomac would soon take place under the command of Gen. STONE , is-hose Brigade has been lately materially strengthened . The Potomac is now fordable at : several places between Great Falls and Point of ! locks , and it is quite probable that Gen. ' BANKS may embrace tire opportunity to make a permanent lodgment on the other side of that river . No apprehensions are now entertained that the rebels will manse an attempt to cross into tferylanti , though their forces have been largely augmented in the vicinity of Leesburgh . It is believed that , should any considerable force of the National troops make their appearance across the Potomac , the rebels . would immediately fall hack upon the Manassas Gap Railroad , and thence down to the Junction . We have received an intimation of the character and extent of the Spanish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by England and France in the movement , through advices received in Washington from Cuba by the Karnak , which recently arrived at this port . The Spanish Expedition , which is being fitted out at Havana , will consist of six batteries'of howitzers and ten thousand men , muck of the material being arranged in packages suitable for transportation on mules . It will be ready to set sail about the last of November , and will be commanded by Gens . GARSSETE and ECHENERIA . At last accounts from Spain , the war-steamer Leone was waiting for the result of the Cabinet Conference in reference to the coalition against Mexico , and it is understood that she will bring out the ultimatum of Spain . Considerable pains is taken to impress the public with the idea that Spain is taking those steps on her own responsibility , but it is well enough understood that the English and French Governments are to send their quota of men and means . On Tuesday last , as we learn by the arrival of the Pawnee at Fortress Monroe , the propeller Fanny @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on Pamlico Sound by the rebels . She was on her way from Hatteras Inlet to Chicomacornice , where the Twentieth Indiana Regiment is encamped , and was intercepted by three rebel tug-boats , which put out from Roanoke Island . She had on board twenty-five of the Indiana Regiment , several of HAwKINS ' Zouaves , and a cargo of commissary stores , and her armament consisted of two rifled cannon . It appears by the statement of the master of the Fanny , who , with his crew , succeeded in escaping , that some little resistance was made , but the odds against the Fanny was so great that it was thought best by the military officers on board to surrender , which was accordingly done after the propeller had been run ashore . The Captain 's statement is rather an incomprehensible one , and has led to suspicions that the loss of his vessel was not a legitimate accident of the war . No important movements are reported in Kentucky . It is conjectured in Louisville , however , that the rebel Gen. BUCKNER , with five @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the intention of making a joint attack on Paducah , in which enterprise they will hardly be successful . We have no confirmation of the , rumor , published a few days ago , that a National fleet was passing up the Belize to New-Orleans to attack the place , but we have sufficient testimony that such a thing is very much feared by the rebels of that city , and that its capture will be a task easy of accomplishment whenever it may be undertaken . Ship Island is positively in possession of our forces , as well as the Chandlier , and there is said to be lumber enough on Ship Island to build accommodations for ten or twelve thousand troops , which will , no doubt , soon be made available . The fight in Western Virginia , between five thousand of Gen. REYNOLDS ' command and a large , body of intrenched rebels , at Greenbrier River , twelve miles from Cheat Mountain , was a very brilliant affair . Although intended simply as a reconnoissance in force of the enemy 's position , the fighting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ toss of only ten killed and eleven wounded on the part of the National troops . Owing to the position of the enemy , it was impossible to ascertain the amount of damage inflicted upon them , but it is believed that their loss will not fall far short of five hundred killed and wounded , as ' our artillery did terrible execution among them . They also lost thirteen prisoners , and a lot of cattle and horses . It is a matter of congratulation that the objects of the reconnoissance were entirely accomplished with so little loss of life . We have , again repeated , the statement that Gen. MAGRUDER , commanding the rebels investing Fortress Monroe , has demanded the evacuation of Newport 's News  --  this time allowing only the short period of twelve hours for the National troops to remove , bag and baggage . There is , ne doent , as little truth in this report as in the former ones of a similar character . Newport 's News is well known to be in a condition to resist any attack which the rebels @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it can have the assistance of the powerful flotilla which is constantly stationed in the vicinity . It is likely , however , that MAGRUDER may make a demonstration against Newport 's News , to attract attention , while the rebel steamers Yorktown and Jamestown , with perhaps the steam-frigate Merrimac , attempt to run the blockade  --  which they have for Sometime heen threatening to do . This matter is no doubt perfectly well understood by the National officers at the Fortress . linedeleted                     