@@739466

txt Among the items in the late ' New-Orleans papers is the announcement that the Mississippi . extraordinarily high at the present season . had broken through the levee both above and below the city : diligent efforts were being used to stop the " crevassees . " On the surface this announcement bears the character simply of an isolated physical fact of purely local and temporary interest ; in reality , however , it involves a problem of vast and permanent importance , and one that has no small bearing on the highest political question of the day . It is well known that in the Valley of the Mississippi River , just above the mouth of the Ohio , begins a great alluvial plain , some fifty miles in width , which is mostly below the level of the floods . This fact has made the problem of protection against overflow the great practical question involving the prosperity of that entire region . The history of civilization in the Mississippi Valley , in fact , . is the history of river protection . From 1727 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New-Orleans ( a dyke 5,400 feet long and 18 feet wide at top ) was completed , down to the present time , when more than a thousand miles of levees line the banks , the constant object of legislation has been to restrain this-terrible friend within his proper bed . Now , vast as are the consequences involved in this question , the River States have never been able to agree upon the same policy , or to join in making the needed investigations and using their results . , Although these embankments have now been building for nearly one hundred and fifty years , want of concert and of that knowledge which could have been gained by concerted action alone , has rendered them ineffective . It was not until the United States Government undertook the investigation , that the first conditions of success were ascertained , or even the first step taken toward a correct solution of the problem . What better proof of the necessity of a great central Government and of Union among the States In 1850 the General Governrrient granted to the several States on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ limits remaining unsold . in order to provide a fund to reclaim the districts liable to inundation . From this movement the Delta Survey took its origin  --  a. vast task , which has lately been brought . to a close after many years of labor , and its fruits published in an elaborate Report by Capt . A. A. Humsuirxes and Lieut . II . L. Armor , of the Corps of Topographical Engineers . In this Report , which , aside from its practical value , has a Scientific merit of the highest order , the whole subject of the protection of the Mississippi Valley from inundation , and the improvement of navigation by deepening its mouths , is discussed in the most thorough and exhaustive mann ( r . For the attainment of these ends it projects a gigantic series of works , which were under way when the madness of secession put an ernd to them ; but which will peobably be resumed by the National Government when those States ( for which the issues of lite amid death hang upon such protection ) shall have come @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when we can return to this time-honored policy , and when our engineers shall again descend the Mississippi cliarged weith no more hostile errand than the duty of completing the work of protection , by building that magnificent system of levees which the Deita Report projects , There is one truth , however , which the Report conclusively proves : it . is a physical impossibility for the Valley of the Mississippi ever to be politically divided . The Power which rules at . its source must hold the channel , the Delta and the mouths . The enormous flues of continuous embank ment necessa.ry for the protection of its population can be built and OWlitid only by one Nation .                     