@@740100

txt The safe arrival at Rolla of Brig . Gen. EWING , with ble command , is simply told , but when the circumstances of the campaign are detailed , and the mind dwells upon them for a space , a feeling of admiration for the skill and bravery of that Commander must find place in every breast , and cause a glow of patriotism to thrill the heart that truly feels for the brave men who are sacrificing so much to restore peace to the nation . My communication of ' the 2nd inst .. gave you a general idea of the battle of Arcadia Valley . which events have proven to be the struggle for the possession of the Iron Mountain Railroad , and hence the temporary possession of St. Louis by the rebels . A few more details of that affair are necessary to complete the account , and these I am enabled to give from the highest and most reliable sources . ADVANCE OF PRICE . Gen. Etyma left the brigade of Major General A. J. Senn 's command at Mineral Point , on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thirty men reached Pilot Knob on Sunday morning , the 25th of September . He found the rebels In superior force . and the outposts of the Knob all driven in . He gathered these together and found that he had about one thousand men , viz : a battery of ten-pound Rodman guns , ten companies of infantry and three of cavalry . The greater part of this command were raw troops , but the best was made of the material , as events will show . Gen. EWING removed all the stores from Pilot Knob first , and sent them to St. Louis , and then commeneea to fall back slowly , but still presenting a bold front to the enemy . The latter soon discovered the actual state of affairs , and growing more bold as EWING felt back , soon compelled him to take one horn of a dilemma ? he must either leave the valley open to the rebel advance , and allow it to reach the Iron Mountain Railroad , or make a stand and take the chances of capture or destruction . Fort Davidson @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and a fight , as good as he could make it under the circumstances . Some account of the fight in the tort was given you , and it is only necessary to add that the mountains around it are nearly five hundred feet high , and their base not more than one thousand yards from the fort , to understand fully the advantage EWING had , as long as the enemy did not climb to the top witn artillery . The valley lies like a great letter 8 , between Cedar , Rock , Sheppard and Iron Mountains and Pilot KnoD , and the curve runs due North and South . The fort is in the upper curve of the 1.4 , and the rebels came into the valley through Frederlcktown , and entered the lower curve . The rest is known already ; they were literally mowed down before the sustained fire from the fort , and after several attempts during Tuesday , tell back and commenced clambering up the sides of the mountains . FAWN took possession of Iron Mountain and Marmaduke Sheppard Mountain . Gen. PRIcE was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ soon as the mountain sides were gained , Ewizio saw that there was no more safety in the fort , and lie resolved to evacuate rather than be captured , destroyed , or to surrender . The rebels may have suspected tips , for no sooner was he ready to depart than a tremenaous fire burst out in the furnaces of Pilot Knob . All the coal accumulated there for iron smelting for months was in a blaze at once , and the entire valley and mountain sides were lit up bright as day . EWING went on with his preparations , but more stealthily . In the meantime A PROPOSITION FOR SURRENDER name from Pince , by the hands of a refugee , for EWING had persistently resisted every attempt of the rebels to gain on him by a flag of truce , a favorite dodge of theirs . The proposition was that if EWING would surrender his command , he would be permitted to march slut of the fort , officers carrying their side arms , and private property of all held sacred from pillage . It Is needless @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for evacuation and retreat went on . At midnight these were completed and the garrison was withdrawn through a covered way , and-the artillery removed by muffling the wheels and moving stealthily until the shadows of the mountain concealed ail from view . The evacuation was a complete success , and the command moved rapidly out northward on the Caledonia road , as Gen. Swam hoped to reach Mineral Point , where he expected to find A. J. Seura 's brigade , but instead of this , he encountered in the streets of Caledonia the advance of SHELBY and drove it back . This circumstance was proof positive that the upper part of the road was in the hands of the rebels . He had little time to determine on his course , for SHELBY was now coming in force from Potosi , so EWINO decided to strike for Itolla by way of Webster and Osage . Piuca 's proposition was accompanied by a threat that Ir if was not agreed to , he would take the fort by assoult and kill every man foun4 in it . SHELBY Reproduced with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the purpose of malting the assault , and it became his apparent duty now to follow Etyma and either capture or demolish his command . SWING 'S RETREAT TO ROLLA . Weanesday night was very dark and stormy , succeeding a day of constant skirmishing with the enemy who seemed to spring from the ground on every side . The retreat was conducted under the most embarrassing circumstances , for a host of refugees , white and black , old men , women and children flocked to the Union banner ana sought protection under its bright and friendly folds . At every attack and fire of the enemy they stampeded and imparted alarm to the raw soldiery , now no longer protected by earthworks , but exposed in the open field to an experienced and overwhelmingly superior foe . Nothing could have saved the entire force from utter demolition but the unflagging energy , coolness and courage of Gen. Eyre ? and the battery of Rodman , guns . . Early on Thursday morning Ewnso took an unfrequented road to Lessburg oaHarrisop. a station on the South Pacific railroad about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ took this unfrequented route because it led to a sharp ridge dividing Dry Creek and Huzza ( small streams ) , which offered the best chance for defense and retreat . lie was closely pursued and well surrounded , move howsoever he would ; but his artillery kept the rebels at a tolerable aistance , and they had no artillery to lessen it , and let their cavalry scatter the heroic little army . At every turn , favorable to the enemy because unfaforable for the playlofEwma 's artillery , he had a terrible struggle . and kept his guns constantly charged with grape or canister , and in two or three instances fired them upon the advancing enemy without unlimbering the nieces . Leesburg was reached Thursday forenoon , and just In time to save the train from St. Louis . loaded with military stores for Rolla , These were timely , although not indispensable . EWING unloaded them rapidiy and had his command put aboard , and the train headed for St. Louis . when he discovered the stations above and below Leesburg to be on fire . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ THE LAST STRUGGLE FOR LIFE . No time was to be lost , After enduring so much , the commanaer determined the more luny to see it out , and he immediately set up a temporary breastwork of " ties , " cars , and such other material as the depot afforded , as a defence against cavalry and musketry . He disposed his guns so as to command his camp from all sides , and , metaphorically speaking , snapped his fingers under the nose of his pertinacious enemy . Through the night of Friday . the rebels menaced the camp , and fired repeated volleys into it , and on Saturday morning they appeared , several thousand strong , evidently intending to charge . EWING aid not give them time , but opened at once with shell . The rebels lost more horses than men by this operation , and , after making two or three attempts to re-form their lines , fell back , and did not appear until nextalayeSunday . In the meantime , EWING tried every possible means to : tend a messen ger to Rolla @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ completely surrounded . About 3 o'clock P. M. the rebels concentrated and . evidently determined to risk an assault . Their lines were drawn up in three baffles , and the devoted band , now almost ready to give no in despair , prepared to receive the shock , but lo ! at that moment a large body of Union cavalry was seen coming from the direction of Rolla , and In fifteen minutes it had Woken the posts and pickets of the enemy in that direction , and was alongside the little garrison . The joy of the latter can best be imagined , and when the lucky circumstance was explained by Col. BevSitleae of the Seventeenth Illinois Cavalry , at the head of those 500 men , and he told the garrison that he came , upon nearing of their peril from refugees , the men shouted until the rebels took alarm , thinking that these reinforcements were but the advance of an army . To push out a strong picket up and d own the road and move toward Rolla the same night , was the next thing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? uated , before the rebels knew which way the force went . Thirty miles were made that night , and in the morning St. James ' Station , on the South Pacific Road , was reached , where the entire command took the cars for Rolla and reached it in safety , seven hundred strong , after righting every mile of the way , and undergoing such hardships as such campaigning involves . Gen. Ewmo lost no property , save the ammunition for the sieee guns in Port Davidson , which was blown up ' - and his entire loss In killed and wounded will not exceed 150 . These estimates are made exclusive of the reinforcements from Rolla , of course . MOWER AT CAPE GIRARDEAU . Gen. Mowea reached Cape Girardeau yesterday . Gene , MCNISL and SANBORN , who were at Rolla , are ordered to Jefferson City , and are there before this time . The main body of Paten 's army is moving in that direction , and we look for news from that point next . Rebels on the Pacific Railroad  --  Burning of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Republican . Oct. 7 . At headquarters , last evening , information was received , of a positive nature , that the rebels , Wednesday afternoon , burned the large bridges of the Pacific Railroad over both the Osage and Gasconade Rivers . There was a guard of about seventy-five militia posted in a blockhouse at the Osage bridge , but . according to dispatches , they surrendered , without firing a gun , to an inferior force of the enemy . Their conduct is greatly deplored and denounced in military circles , though we confess to be unable to see upon what ground , as the rrbels were advancing in force , and the bridge guard had no assurance whatever that reinforcements would reach them , and , to say the least , no battle was expected to Mee place at the bridge . All but one span of the Osage bridge was burnt . The Gasconade bridge was totally destroyed . These are very large and expensive structures , and it will require considerable time to rebuild them . Both are at least 300 feet long . The bridge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ addition , the rebels captured a train of thirty cars , which , with two valuable locomotives , were put to the flames awl rendered worthless . From all information , we are inclined to believe the cars were empty . Every indication leads to the belief that the rebels are aiming for Jefferson City , where they intend to inaugurate " Gov , " REYNOLDS , to give a shade of color to the election of Senators and Representatives to the Southern Congress . as well , indeed , as to satisfy the long-Cherished desire of STERLING Perez to test the love and loyalty of the people of Missouri , for his cause , Supposed Murder of Mrs. Rather . Maim% Conn. , Sunday , Oct. 9 . In the case of the finding of the body of Mrs. HALFLER , a German lady who disappeared two weeks since , a second Coroner 's inquest has rendered a verdict that she came to her death at the hands of parties unknown . Efforts will be made for the detection of the murderers . Nothing from the Roanoke . Nothing has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , ( 9 P.M. ) Reading for Soldiers . is rat Editor of the New-York Tones : Funds are needed for the Soldiers ' Free Library , Battery Barracks . We are sure that those who acquaint themselves with the beneficial effects of the institution , and the comfort it affords our soldiers , will feel willing and desirous to aid in its support . Through the kindness of the public , the library is amply supplied with books , but money is needed for the purchase of stationery , the librarian 's salary , subscriptions to periodicals , and other incidental expenses . When we mention that in one day upward of six hundred letters were posted by the I ibrarian for the soldiers , the stationery for which is provided for them , some iaea of the expenses may be formed . Subscriptions are earnestly requested , and will be received by Mr. A. P. F. Randolph No. 770 Broadway .                     