@@740154

txt What shall I write ? I can not tell you that a battle has been fought , for no engagement has taken place . I can not say that " everything is quiet , " for our outer lines are anything but quiescent . Again , it will not do to say that the army has ' gone into winter quarters , for the very reverse is the fact ; and although we are either cosily ensconced in snug and comfortable huts and bomb-proofs , or busily engaged In building anew camps that have been destroyed or removed , we are prepared to " move on the enemy 's works at any moment , " as the orders have it . In fact , we are still besieging and working , and hoping and trusting in the goodness of our cause and the strength of our armies . We have implicit trust in our leaders , an abiding faith in our Government , and a determination to do our duty , and hope , by the help of Heaven and good dry powder , to ultimately destroy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hearts out here ; no , weak , vacillating minds in this army . All is hearty and healthful . At the proper time and the good right hour , this army will again shoulder the musket , and draw the sword for battle in defence of our flag and country , and against the mongrel banner that waves over Petersburgh . Let your readers trust us as of yore . The record of the past , carved by this army at the point of the bayonet and the muzzle of our cannon , stands a steadfast pledge for future success aria still more brilliant renown . Affairs just at present appear rather monotonous to a resident within army limits . To one who has listened to the grand and terrible sounds of out recent great battles , the monotone of our picket-fire , or the reverberations of our siege guns and mortars , are passed over with little comment or listless silence . A watchful picket-man catches sight of a bead peeping over the opposite work . He snaps a cap and sends a bullet after the venturesome owner of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ few more bullets . Our pickets get their blood up and rapidly reply . The whizzing balls disturb the equanimity of some listless or lolling artillery officer . He shakes himself and forthwith orders " Ten-inch shell , two-second fuze , " or in an angry tone cries out . " Case shot , four-second fuze , " as he may determine . His men spring to their positions , a few scientific flourishes , and away goes the deadly missile . Another and another quickly follow , each fast recurring shell dropping right among them , disperses a scattering crowd of frightened " Johnnies . " One of their forts reply . Forts of ours , to the right and left , take up the verse and continue it to the end of the chapter . Ten , twenty , thirty shrieking demons pierce the air , and the guns send their rolling thunders to the ears of all . The rebels give it up in despair and remain silent . A few more growls from our huge mortars , the thunder ceases , and we are once again left @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these episodes recur , and the ear becomes so accustomed to the sound that it fails to interrupt conversation , or disturb recumbent sleep . Sometimes the gunboats become ambitious , and with their wide-mouthed and ponderous pieces strive to rival the forts with their terrific discharges . Cannon and mortar and bell-mouthed howitzer , musket and rifle and long-range telescopic guns , all play well their alloted part , and although they " mouth " it terribly , still are awfully effective . They keep " LEE 'S miserables " on the constant rack , and compel them to remain fast locked in their ditch-bound traps . The rats are shaking with fear as they hear the bark of the dogs of war let slip by SHERMAN and his merrie men , and savagely gnaw at the iron gloves stretched forth to seize their recreant necks . Like the fabled chamber of torture , the walls of their den slowly but surely closes in upon them , and the pent-up cries will speedily cease . We have fired salutes in honor of Tr:tomes , end with glad hearts hear of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him " Crazy Bill . " Hereafter lunacy will be the fashion , if he is an exemplification of the disease . How grand and glorious seem the telegrams from the victorious and exultant army of Georgia . With generous envy this army reads the glowing record . The galaxy of brilliant names carved out in this gigantic war shine every day still brighter , and glow with increased lustre . I paid a hurried visit yesterday to City Point , and as usual with that bustling entrepot , found everything alive and moving . The crowds of laborers , never seem idle , and the trains of supplies for the front , follow one another as fast as the shells around Fort " Hell . " Bales of hay and sacks of oats for the teams and steeds , hard and soft bread for the men , backed up by long rows of pork barrels , and flanked by car loads of vegetables , In one never-ending stream go up on GRANT 'S successful railroad . As the trains push on , sweetly dipping into the hollows and wildly dashing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two armies now lying in deadly opposition to each other . The one under the Stars and Stripes luxuriate upon the very fat of the land , and feel themselves doubly fortified by a sound digestion and the apparent strength of their cause and Government . The one vainly fighting beneath the " bars " have nothing to cheer them on to further efforts . Bad grub , a poor cause , , and a scarcity alike of food and powder are but sorry chips with which to keep their rebellious not boiling . Even if they succeed in bringing its temperature up to the bubbling point , the effervescence generally puts out more of the celebrated Southern fire than is healthful or desirable . One of the most noticeable objects that meets the eye of the visitor to City Point , is the immense stacks of express boxes being dispatched to the different corps . Christmas is comtng , and so are the boxes . I learned from Mr. EDDY , the superintendent of Adams Express , that over three thousand boxes and packages arrive at his office daily . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ good wishes they stand the burly monument and evidence of . Just at present the contents of these boxes are of the digestible order , I wish I could say of the substantial . But truth compels me to say that the nose is offended by the smell thereof . When will our kind friends at the North learn that Express companies can but forward the goods intrusted to their charge by the regular channels , and can not be expected to fly . Turkeys and chickens ; cakes and sweet meats ; jellies , jams and syrups , all are good , very good . Commend me to them but everything has its limit , and such things will not keep forever , even if they survive the jostling and rack and tear of railroad travel . If you must send boxes to your soldier boys , pray let it be shoes and stockings , warm woolens , comfortable comforters , anti pleasant and instructive reading . Leave nuts add apples , cakes and such like gimcracks , for the sutler to furnish . lie is compelled to sell them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ How often have I seen a box , on being opened , prove to be a mass of Sickening corruption unfit for the sty , let alone for soldiers . The few really valuable articles in the package completely spoiled by being smeared with stickey jam , and soiled beyond belief by rotten poultry or decayed fruitAluchbetter the money thus uselessly wasted in furnishing an aptizing treat had been spent in buying some good and healthful books  --  not necessarily religious works ? but some sharp , keen and truthful story of real lite . No yellow covers , but sound , solid and feeling novels . Such works always circulate , and the more , we have of them the easier will seem the tedium of camp life , and the healthier and higher will be the morale of our gallant boys . As the joyous days of the Christmas holidays approacib the army feel their estrangement from the family hearth and festive board with double force , but like all true men , only shake off the regretful feelings , and set about enjoying the joyous season as best @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can with the traditional turkey . and the boys contrive to surprise themselves with the success of their cooking . Perhaps you may not credit the story when I say that good pies and passable puddings can be made by our " bayonets . " If they are not exactly au fait , the vigorous appetites of the feasters make up the difference . The weather now-a-days is neither fair nor foul . We endure rain and pass over cold , enjoy the transient sunshine and laugh at the howling winds . In our huts , and before our fires , who cares for the weather ; not the soldiers , verily . The roads suffer some , and the creeks assume a new dignity . Overcoats are handy and our shoes are good . Our health is splendid  --  remarkably so  --  and our eyes are fixed on the future . Grant us but a little patience , Mad reader , and we will GRANT you such a record of future glory and success as will amply repay your forbearance . Orders have been issued for a rigid inspection of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ drill and appearance , in each corps , division and brigade , will be given rich rewards of furloughs. in regular descending grade . Such polishing , furbishing and regulating never was seen before . Blacker boots , brighter accoutrements , or more glistening weapon. , have not been seen for a long time . The unfortunate regiments who are to be direly classed as the " worst , " will have no rewards , and will be compelled to console themselves with the reflection that somebody had to be at the bottom of the class . Let us hope that the task of the Inspectors will be a difficult one , and I may say that I believe it will prove so .                     