@@739704

txt The remoteness of Gen. BANKS ' depattment and infrequency of communications with him render it difficult to keep the public supplied with accurate and connected details of his operations , or to accompany the accounts we do publish with the requisite explanations of his plans and purposes . His late campaign from Berwick 's Bay to the Red River was , in many respects , a complete surprise to the country . The first movement of Gen. BANKS in field operations was his advance from Baton Rouge to cooperate with Admiral FARIZAGUT , as it appeared , in an attack upon Port Hudson . But , he speedily withdrew to Baton Rouge and to New-Orleans , foiled , as it , seemed to the public , and without military glory . his return to New-Orleans was an occasion not unimproved by raels for rejoicing over his supposed discomfiture . But Gen. BANKS bad not not withdrawn to New-Orleans to fortify and defend himself , as the Secessionists had begun to imagine . On the contrary , he returned to break the coil that the emboldened enemy was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ River , and leaving the gunboats to defend New-Orleans from the fabulous thousands that were to descend upon it from Mobile , Jackson and other strongholds on the East , Gen. BANKs set out to attend in person to the increasing bands that had begun to threaten his outposts at Berwick 's Bay , on the west . The hulk of the rebel forces in Lou islana had gathered about Pattersonville , Centreville and Franklin  --  the termer a town almost in sight of the Union picket at Berwick , and the two latter on Bayou Tcche , a few miles further west . They had become so bold as to meditate an advance in force upon New-Orleans from this direction , and by a gunboat fleet from the bayous into the Mississippi , and believed that Gen. BANKS had hurried back to New-Orleans to defend that city . But without waiting for their advance , Gen. BANKS suddenly appeared at Berwick 's Bay , with nearly his whole army . And , not pausing there to fortify or defend himself , he immediately sought the camps where the rebels were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rapid advance and skirmishing brought him to Camp Rea , sland , near Centreville , where the rebels in force were encountered , under . Gens . SIBLF.Y , TAYLOR and MOUTON . After a severe fight , on the 12th and 18th of April , the rebels evacuated their position at night , leaving two cannon and considerable small arms and ammunition , with all their sick and wounded , behind . This battle , called the battle of Bethel Place , was one of the most creditable engagements of the war . It was skillfully manoeuvred on the Union side by Gen. BANKS in person . Every arm of the service except cavalry was engaged ; six batteries of artillery having been in full play within rifle range of each other . The gunboat Clifton , closely beset by rebel torpedoes , did gallant work in the fight . The rebel defeat and demoralization was great , as exhibited by evidences of panic in their flight . On the 14th of April the enemy was again struck two miles west , , of Franklin , and after a brief @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gen. BANKS had reached New-Iberia , 20 miles west of Franklin , he had captured about 1,500 prisoners ; a rebel steamboat , the Cornie ; about 500 horses , mules , &c.; had caused the destruction by the rebels of their gunboats Hart and Diana , and the steamers Newsboy , Gossamer , Era No. 2 , Louisa , Derby , Uncle Tommy , Blue Hammock and Cricket  --  all of which were burned on the Teche to prevent them from falling into our hands . Seven miles from New-Iberia Gen. BANKS took possession of the celebrated island of rock salt in the middle of a mud lake , from which the rebels have been supplied by way of the Bayous connecting with the Red River , at Alexandria , and thence by Red River to Vicksburgh . The rebel works at this salt mine Gen. BANKS destroyed . Even at this point in his victorious march , the public in New-Orleans did not understand the intentions of Gen. BANK . and the papers were discussing the probability of his return . But be still moved on , fighting a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ above New-Iberia -- the gunboat fleet in the meantime reducing a strongly fortified place on his right flank , called Bute la Rose . The next place we hear of Gen. BANKS , he is 1 at Opelousas , still 80 miles further on , the chief town of the Attakapas country , the great sugar district , and one of the richest in all the South . This seemed a fit stopping-place for the victorious General . But no ? he pushes on , and does not stop until he reaches and occupies Alexandria , on the Red River , near 70 miles north of Opelousas . Here he finds a foundry and extensive machine shops of the rebels , one of the chief depots for the gathering of Texas and Western Louisiana supplies for the rebel armies at Port Hudson and Vicksburgh , and the headquarters for the time being of the rebel Government of the State of Louisiana . Gen. BANKS is now master of all , or nearly all , Vie bayous of Louisiana ; he is above Port Hudson , and ready to cooperate with FARRAOUT in clearing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reducing Port Hudson . The rebel forces at Pattersonvtlle , Franklin , Iberia , Opelousas and Alexandria numbered fully 20,000 men . These have been beaten in detail , and dispersed by the rapid marching of Gen. BANKS , who moved his army about 1160 miles in two weeks ' time , fighting battles on the way , and in all his fights not losing a total of two hundred men . His achievement is extraordinary , and his laurels may be proudly worn .                     