@@739686

txt The Planters ' Banner is now published at Franklin , La. , the headquarters of Gen. SIBLEY . The leading article of a recent number is devoted to a discussion of the dark prospects of the South , and the expression of fears of famine . It says : From the beginning of the civil war which now rages with such ferocity in the country . the South has been passing through alternate bright and dark periods . Hopes and fears , sunshine and storm , weal and woe , have succeeded each other as though ordered by Providence as Heaven 's programme of the revolution . Let no one fancy the South has seen her last dark period . The next part of the programme may be famine and its horrid accompaniments . The enemy are now at work endeavoring to produce these results . Too ninny of vur planters sleep on the in ink of die yawning precipice before them . The enemy are stealing all of the field hands they can from inside of the Confederate lines , and are pushing their armies to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as possible . Then they will attempt to cut off the beef trade of Texas . Wily will not every planter in the country open his eyes to these facts , anti do all in his power to increase the supply of corn and provisions , and help avert the evil that now threatens us ? We fear that we are about entering upon a terribly dark period of our national existence . The opposition to the Lincoln . Administration at the North can not avert this calamity . The planters of the South , aided by Providence , may save us . " Again it says : " if we have a drouth this season , and such a thing is probable , how can the South teed the Northern and Southern armies and her own people ? If they succeed in cutting off the supply of beef from Texas , and destroy the crops and demoralize the slaves as far as their armies extend their operations , what will be the condition of the South another Winter , if the planters and cultivators of the soil inside of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the raising of breadstuffs and provisions We learn that in some parts of Texas and Louisiana cotton planters , carried away with the nope of selling their cotton after the war for 50 or 75 cents per pound , are making arrangements to make all the cotton they possibly can , and are paying but little attention to corn . If such a spirit should prevail extensiveiy , the South will yet see such suffering as she bee never yet seen before . We may as well look these facts fairly in the face . The war is not vet over . We are not entirely safe . The vigilance , diabolical hate and desperation of the enemy may yet ruin the South , if our planters , as well as ourGenera% and soldiers , and statesmen , do not de their duty . " An order from Gen. SIBLEY , appoints officers to carry out Order No. 223 , to suppress the distilling of rum , on account of the want of barrels for the military service . The order which is to be carried out is as follows @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Commanding-General by the *gent of the Government employed at the Salt island , procuring salt under the instructions from Major If . B. Buda , Chief Commissary Trans-Mississlept Department , of the difficulty existing in carrying out their instructions , on account of the monopoly of barrels by the manufacturers of rum , and the consequently exorbitant prices , not only of barrels absolutely essential tor military purposes , but the destruction and injurious consumption of molasses -- Commanding General can see no other remedy than to direct the impressment of all empty barrels for the use of the Government , and to suppress , temporarily , the distiller of rum in the District on and and after the 10th March .                     