@@739375

txt Mayor Opdyke 's Inaugural Message . The Message with which Maydr OPDYKF has accompanied ' his accession to office is . quite the shrewd and practical paper the public had a right . to expect from a person of his thorough business qualifications . Mr. OPDYKE not only realizes the demands of the extraordinary occasion , but offers a variety of suggestions , many of them evidently sound and acceptable with which to meet them . A country engaged , in a deadly tinternal war , straining the resources and patriotism of the people to their utmost tension ; a City prostrated and diSheartened with misgovernment , and depleted by corruption ; a Mayor chosen to office because believed to be loyal and energetic in his support of the National Government , and to bring to his important place the intelligence that shall reform and the honesty that shall purify the administration of municipal affairs ; these are the unusual circumstances which attend the birth of this new political era , which is expected to relieve the people of burdens too weighty to be longer borne . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of his Message . He so licits the cooperation of the Common Council in devising and putting in operation a broad and comprehensive scheme of retrenchment . The details of his views are necessiirily excluded from a document so brief , but . he in vites instant attention to two points , which will serve as the vanguard of other more sweeping measures . One of these is a prohibition against the Legislature adding any items of appropriation to the Tax levy , a prac tice now constantly pursued at the instance of parties who , their exactions having been defeated at the City Hall , hasten to Albany , and induce the unadvised Legislature to do what the City Government has declined . These excrescences , sometimes startling in bulk , retard the passage of the levy to so late a period of the Winter , that the City authorities are obliged , by mere destitution , to accept the meashre , With all its perfections . Another still more valuable suggestion is the sale of the wharf , dock and market property , owned by the City . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and should pay into the treasury an annual contribution of half a million ; but so foully is it abused , that the net revenue does not at the best exceed a hundred and forty-five thousand dollars . Mr. OPDYKE recommends that this property be at once converted into cash , and applied to the reduction of the corporation debt . To the objection , that the present is an unfortunate time for disposing of real property , it is sufficient to say that this description of property is less depreciated than others , and that in no contingency can the selling price fall so low as not to exceed largely the principal of which the present by the Commission appointed by the Legislature at its last session , but which are not forthcoming . Mr. Oresxs has very decided opinions . His infallible specific is the adoption of the main features of the National Constitution . A Mayor with powers and responsibilities corresponding with those of the President ; a Common Council composed of two bodies originating with different constituencies ; these are the leading traits he proposes to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is one of those thus to be secured to the Mayor . ' he heads of all the departments ere to he nominated by hine and must of course he responsible to him and the Common Council . fn this way . one of the most importa nt local functions . the assumption of which by the Legislature has excited so much jealousy among the popular masses , will be restored to the Corporation , and a Whore effective supervision over the management of the several bureaus %%-ill he instituted . The great difficulty the Mayor encounters is to eiscriplinate between the modes of choosing the two branches of the Common Council . The popular chamber may be obtained by retaining the actual Board of Councilmen. lint in fol lowing out the National model , it ix essential to introduce some change into the constitution of the Board of Aldermen ; and two plans for this object , are suggested . One . which Mr. PDYK E. being of suit ml Mind and discretion ? wisely disapproves , vests the pew of appointing its members in a number of public bodies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the Board of Education . the Fire Department , a scheme which equity would extend indefinitely , so as to give every religious , charitable , banking and professional corporation or interest within the City limits equal powers of appointment . From this impracticable notion Mr. ON ) K turns to another , the defects of which are less striking . Ile suggests the choice of a Board of Aldermen , as the : Supervisors are now chosen . the functions of the latter merging in the newlyconstituted body . This idea is pla.usible , and it will only remain for tile Legislature to make sure that no other method will more sturdily guard against partisan and corrupt influences to give it a strong recommendation . But it is not yet time to enter upon a discussion of so much moment , and which threatens to be of so great length . It is enough that the general outline sketched by the new Mayor has merits so obvious that it will , doubtless , form the groundwork of whatever action the Legislature may take . The allusions of the Message @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we trust , secure immediate attention . It is not because a foreign war is irrirninent , but in order that no temptation to hostilities may present itself to a European Power , that it is all-important to make New-York Harbor impenetrable and impregnable. in the actual condition of Europe , financial and political , no Government there will venture upon any contest that is not sure to be short and successful . But no attack on America can be successful that does not include the capture of this City ; and if its defences be made what they should and easily may be , its reductionmust be the work of years , if not an impossibility ; and the first condition of a European attack will thus be removed . By all means let his Honor's. recommendation in this particular provoke at once the action of Congress . The matter is one of National importance .                     