@@740121

txt When such deaths as the recent one of the lamented Col. LOWELL , of Boston , are brought before the public , we can appreciate anew how vast have been the sacrifices of the free States in this war . It is not the refuse of our population  --  nor even that portion which is indifferently valuable , which has been offered during the last three years in devotion to our cause . Those who have gone were often those whom we least could spare . How many of the best young men of the country , can we all recall  --  many of'them the descendants of old and honored families , many on whom years of patient industry and culture had been spent to fit of character which pointed them out as " leaders of men , " beloved and respected through wide circles of friends ; others scholars and showing already marks of high intellect , and even of genius ; others again fitted for great success in practical branches , and with those talents which , in this country certainly , carry fortune with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and civic honors , and the refinements of wealth , for the hard life of camps , and at last sacrificing life willingly for the great cause of liberty and country . If the wealth of a country lies in its best men , then would our Union soon seem impoverished . Those who survive , and who follow the pursuits of peace , seem mean and ignoble compared with these heroic young men . We feel that in these losses have gone more than wealth or lands , or all other losses . But the nation is the richer for the heroic deaths of this war . Those young scholars and patriots , dying , leave behind to us all a richer legacy than would their services have been , if continued for many years . American history is a nobler record henceforth . To our old heroic Past , a Present of even purer patriotism and higher devotion to principle , is now added . Our children begin with the continual example before them  --  raising them out of the material and money-getting life about them  --  of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ great cause . But there is a possibility that all this devotion shall be in vain . It is among the things which may happen , that these priceless lives which were offered for Liberty and Union , may be offered in vain . These young heroes bled , and died with the inspiring hope that the great wrong of this age human slavery ? would be stricken down , and that the old Government of our Fathers might be extended over every acre of the original domain . They would not have sacrificed honors , and wealth , and comforts , and life , for anything less than such worldwide objects . They considered this a war for the rights of human nature , and for a long future of justice and freedom and peace fur posterity . They did not contend for a boundary or a party ; they struggled for great principles , and distant results . When a party deliberately calls the war " a failure , " and proposes to offer an armistice , which means a peace and a recognition of the Confederacy , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these brave men of the nation have done , and declare their noble lives and heroic deaths miserable failures . The Chicago platform is an insult to the nation 's dead . The election of Meanuar would be the destruction of all that the bravery and suffering and deaths of our young men have thus far won for us . Who , in voting , will venture to dishonor the graves of those heroes ? Who can bear to give in his testimony at the polls that all these have died vainly in a useless cause ? Who can say by his vote to the bereaved mothers and sisters , and the great multitude of afflicted friends of those sons of the republic , that they have been offered up foolishly , and that all they have done shall be lost , and that those who have never suffered in the war , now deliberately give up what those who lost all things , would never think of yielding ?                     