@@739843

txt The firing upon Sumter and other rebel works , has been continued day and night since the commencement on last Monday . Sumter is being rapidly subjected to a condition that will make it totally useless for defensive purposes  --  its power for operating offensively , having been knocked from it weeks ago . The sea-face wall is completely iiemolished , exposing to open view a large portion of the interior of the fort . A small body of men are occasionally seen running round the base of the southwest corner in order to , shield themselves from the flying missiles . The rebel flag was shot away Tuesday , but replaced sho : tip afterward . It is flying this morning from its usual position  --  the southwest corner . From time to time four monitors have participated in the assault . Yesterday afternoon a steady fire was maintained by two monitors . The Ironsides has not engaged as yet . During the day Admiral Daimeasn leaves his liar ship in the inlet and steps on board a tug which conveys him to a favorable position @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tuesday he made the Ironsides his temporary headquarters . Gen. GILLMORE visits the batteries on Morris Island ditity , and takes careful notice of every circumstance no matter how minute , thatis revealed in his presence . The three shells that were thrown into Charleston , Monday morning , have not been followed by others . It was designed to open a regular bombardment on the city during the afternoon of the same say , but for some reason the orders were countermanded . Our guns are directed mostly on Sumter , although Moultrie , Johnson and Simpkins receive some attention . The enemy replies irregularly , and apparently with considerable reluctance . A few shell have been picked uo which bear marks of not being over a week from the foundry . The enemy has not done us a particle of injury either in the way of wounding our men , or damaging our batteries . Monday afternoon the gunboat Pawnee ascended Stono River to a point nearly a mile above Legerevine . An earthwork , which the rebels had been constructing on James Island , was unmasked , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 10 A. M. , the firing on our part Is heavy and rapid . With such a continuous shower of metal raining upon it , it does , not seem possible that Sumter can afford even a nook for shelter . Whatever repairs the enemy may have made within the past two or three weeks , it is evident the new work is swallowed up in the common ruin . The length of time the bombardment is to be continued , and other important facts relating to future movements , are not divulged by the commanding officers . The primary object of the firing was to prevent the enemy mounting guns In Sumter , it having been reported ay deserters and fugitives that he was about to do so on the channel front . The following order speaks for Itself : DEPARTMENT OPTS 'S SOUTH , HEADQUARTERS IN THE FIELD , FOLLY ISLAND , S. C. , Oct. 28 , 1863 . GENERAL ORDERS No. 94. -1 . Medals of honor for gallant and meritorious conduct during the operations before Charleston , will be awarded by the Commanding General to a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exceeding three per cent . of the present aggregate strength of those regiments , companies and detachments that have been In action or on duty in the batteries or trenches . Candidates for these honors will be nominated by company officers , acting for their respective companies in the capacity of a Board . The recommendations of these Boards will be forwarded to the post commanders , through the usual channels , accompanied by remarks of approval or disapproval of the intermediate commanders , set opposite the name of each candidate . The list thus obtained will be examined and pronounced upon by Boards convened by post commanders , and composed exclusively of field officers . and will then be forwarded to these headquarters . H. la honor of some of the bravo men who bave Wien on Morris Island during the oretent campaign . the following names are adopted for the works herein  --  below designated , viz : The work at Cummings Point will be known as Fort Putnam ; that next to it , on Morris Island , as Battery Chatfield ; Fort Wagner , as Fort Strong @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Morrie Island , as Fort Shaw ; that on Oyster Point , as Battery Purviance ; and that on the north end of Folly Island , as Fort Green .                     