@@739738

txt The telegraph having been arbitrarily arrested by the Government I am obliged to rely on the mall and send you what notes I can by the afternoon mall . Harrisburgh has had a grand scare . Most of the people have sold or carried away their effects . Household furniture and all kinds of merchandise have been carried away by the wholesale , and it is almost impossible to buy the simplest thing . I could find but one shoe-store in the whole town that had not been stripped , and that was kept by a Philadelphia man who has to come and attend shop himself  --  all his clerks having gone off  --  some to the wars , and some to the , seclusion of private life . The State Library has been removed , and all the records . Every. - Mt- aeon- mss , itlaurt . Tim Daily Telegraph , the Republican newspaper , did not come out , as usual , this morning . The Patriot and Union did , and announced that its cotemporary had been suppressed by Gen. Las . A very good joke @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it contains a good deal M truth . All the compositors in the Telegraph office are returned nine months ' men . When they went out the proprietor promised to retain their situations . They had returned and got fairly at work when the present raid was commenced , and with one accord they rushed to the field , and are to-day across the river on duty . As there were ten in ail , the unfortunate Telegraph was left utterly helpless , and it is not further from the truth than Democratic newspapers generally get , to say that Gen. Lee has suppressed the . Harrlsburgh Telegraph . It is supposed that an edition will come out this afternoon , as some of the men have been allowed to return to their cases ; but they are genuine minute-men , and must leave at a moment 's warning . I can learn nothing new up to the present time ( noon ) about the position of the rebels . It is generorally conceded that they are intrenching at Chambersburgh , but no one can-make out that there are snore than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been brought in ? two yesterday and one to-day . The two were taken about Marysville and Chambersburgb . The one was taken just this side of Greencastle , and says he was in company with one of his Generals on a reconnoitring expedition . The place selected for fortifying at Chambersburgh is McClure 's Farm , which the rebels say is Government property . Whether they intend this as a joke or not I do not know , but they act very freely on the supposition , and have confiscated all his horses and such other property as then choose to use . The prisoners taken are not at all communicative , and will say nothing in regard to the force . MILROY 'S whole wagon train arrived here in safety last evening . He lost only two wagons , one of which broke down and had to be left . There seems to be no doubt that the force he met was greatly superior to his own . He had three hundred wagons , which is equivalent to ten thousand men  --  allowing ten wagons to a regiment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are said to have fought him i Are they scattered along the way from Chambersburgh back to where they crossed the Potomac , or have they withdrawn and joined Lsz 's army to fight How= ? A reconnoissance only can tell , and from what I can see I would think that a reconnoissance would be made very soon , perhaps to-day . Everything is on the our vice . Citizens in straw hats and linen coats are parading the streets with muskets , and learning the manual of arms , hundreds of officers are rushing to and fro , and , to my great grief , occupying all the rooms at the hotels . The railroad trains , both arriving and departing , are loaded down , and the whole town is in such a state of excitement that even Pennsylvania Dutch phlegm can not resist the contagion . What will become of liarrisburgh when it relapses into its usual stupor the oldest inhabitant can not Imagine . I can not with propriety say anything about our forces , thelr number or position . I have , however , no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by to-night there may be something reliable that will not be contraband . The New-York Seventh has not arrived , though several very enthusiastic individuals sat up all night to welcome it . The Democratic Convention met in the Capitol at 11 o'clock . The members are very nervous . They are much disposed to hurry things , not liking much the probable proximity of the rebels . Nothing has been yet done that can indicate the character of the Convention . It was organized by the selection of Grams NEBINOCR as Chairman , and WILLIAM H. BurLea as Secretary . A Committee on Permanent Organization was appointed , and then a lively debate sprang up as to whether the Committee on Resolutions should be appointed , and report after the Committee on Organization , which is the usual course , or before . Iu the latter case , everybody would have something to say , and I think the object of the mottle : is to gig e sundry and divers ambitt-ms pol ; Iltians an iii'ortunitynay of defining themselves , . : 111d splitting hairs . Every member wants @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to love your country and the Democratic party equally well . A verbatim report of the speeches would probably be very amusing in a comic almanac , but hardly worthy a place in the records of the State . The Committee on Organization was appointed and the meeting adjourned over until 2 o'clock without fixing any time for them to report . The debate will therefore continue on tire opening , and the question is not settled . The nominees for President of the Convention are : Plumose , the temporary Chairman , Wu . Kama and R. Brume Perristoza . No passengers have yet arrived by the Cumberland Valley Railroad , though the train is due at 11 o'clock . When it does arrive we may get some information as to the condition of things in the vanquished territory .                     