@@739920

txt A special dispatch from Fortress Monroe to the Baltimore American , from Mr. C. C. FULTON. who is at City Point , says : The rebel flag of truce steamer Shultz , with Commissioner OULD and Capt . Hem , the truce officer , arrived on Sunday at City Point . Two citizen prisoners , brought down by the Steitz were sent on board the New-York . They were both Marylanders ; one of them , Mr. A. BUNGLE , of Frederick , Md. , was captured at Middletownion the 20th of June last , whilst acting as volunteerassistant to the Sanitary Commission , and the other , Gronos W. laxounr , of Baltimore County , was captured whilst driving 's wagon of the Sanitary Commission , near Chancellorsville , on the 27th of November . They were released through the intercession of the Rev. Mr. PETRIEEN . They brought exciting news from Richmond , which they represent was in a state of the most feverish excitement from midnight on Saturaay up to the time they left , on Sunday afternoon . At midnight on Saturday the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rushing through the streets crying " To arms ! to arms ! ! the Yankees are coming ! the Yankees are coming ! " During the remainder of the night there was an Intense commotion everywhere visible . The Home Guard was called out , and the tramp of armed men could be heard in all directions . Cannon were hauled through the streets ; women and children were hurrying to and fro , and there were all the evidences of such a panic as has seldom been witnessed in Richmond . On Sunday there was no abatement in the excitement . The Guards were all marched out of the city to defences , and the armed citizens were placed on guard over the prisoners . Horsemen were dashing to and fro . and the excitement among the prisoners to know the cause of all this excitement , became intense . It leas sooJearned that a large cavalry and infantry force , with artillery , had made their appearance en the Peninsula at Bottom 's Bridge , within ten miles of the city , and that Richmond was actually threatened by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of citizens , and excitement among the women and children continued during the miming , and at about 2 o'clock , when the two released prisoners were about to leave in the truce-boat , the alarm bells were again rung with great fury . The prisoners left in a scene of the greatest tut moil and confusion , such as they had never before witnessed in the city . The rumors that prevailed were conflicting ant wild . It was their Impression that from 8,000 to 10,000 cavalry would have little difficulty in entering the city and liberating the Union prisoners , destroying the forte and public property , and retiring by the Peninsula before any sufficient force to resist them could be brought to the aid of the small garrison left to defend it . For several days previous to this alarm , the troops in and around the city , to the number of four or live thousand , had been sent off to join Les'e army with great dispatch  --  the impressicn prevailing that a movement was contemplated by Gen. MRADE . In this they were right , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , intelligence was received that Gen. MEADE had crossed the Rapidan . On Monday morning , about 10 o'clock , a courier arrived at City Point , bringing copies of the morning papers , with the intelligence that the excitement had abated , and that it had been ascertained that the Yankees were falling back from the Chickahominy and had abandoned the attack . Some days ago a report was obtained by the authorities here from a Yankee deserter , that the enemy was contemplating a raid , at considerable force , on Rietbnond . The report obtained consistency front a number of circumstances , and impressed the authorities to such a degree that a disposition of faeces was made So anticipate the supposed designs of the enemy . At 0 o'clock Saturday night , a force of the enemy , numbers not known . but consisting of cavalry with some artillery , made a demonstration at Bottom 's Bridge , and drove in our pickets . This news was not generally communicated to the public until Sunday morning : the first signal of excitement being the tap of the alarm-bell @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lorces In Capitol-square , and at other places of rendezvous . A dispatch was also received early yesterday morning from Gen. WADE HAMPTON , at Hamilton 's Crossing , stating that the enemy was threatening an advance . A train was dispatched to his relief . In the meantime , out of the excitement in Richmond had been suddenly produced the most : wild and extravagant rumors , the enurneraM of which would be idle and teuious. lit the progress of the day these reports assumed a. ore definite form . It appeared that the enemy rug 9 another demonstration on Col. SititiaLaa 's lines yesteirday morning , and , in this instance , were repulses ' , some two or three companies being engaged on our ' side . The force of the enemy was not uncovered , . tiett as far as it could be perceived Consisted of five regiments , mostly cavalry ; it being doubtful , of course , whether they were only an advance guard or the ehrire force . ville . which is about eight miles from Bottom 's Bridge . At a late hour @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a large force of the enemy , which had been massed at Barkamsville in the morning , had moved forward to Taileysville , and was then advancing . The entire force of the enemy is distinctly stated as follows : 3 brigades of infantry , 4 regiments of cavalry , and 12 pieces of artillery . This is reliable . It is probable that the demonstration of the enemy yesterday was merely intended as a reconnoissance , and is preliminary to an important collision to-day . Certainly the enemy has come in numbers which preclude the Idea that he only meditates a raid . We have no report of any casualties in the fire at Bottom 's Bridge . But it is supposed that we used our artillery with effect . After the enemy abandoned his position , there were found nine dead horses , six Yankee caps and a fresh grave . ONE HUNDREDTH ADVANCE ON RICHMOND . 4.6 From the Richmond Enquirer , Feb. 8 . At eight o'clock yesterday morning , the signal was unexpectedly given for the assembling of the forces Intended for " Local Defence , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , were seen hurrying towards the City Hall , the appointed place of rendezvous . ft was evident that the Yankees had commenced their one hundredth " On to Richmond . " On inquiring into the cause of the alarm , we learned that the enemy had , at an early hour , crossed the York River Railroad near Dispatch Sta ? tion , twelve miles east of Richmond , with the intention of crossing the Chickahomtuy at McClellan 's Bridge , but finding that mode of procedure impracticable/ they recrossed the railroad track , and passed the ChIckahominy below White Oak Swamp , which is about three miles southeast of the railroad . They were reported to be drawn up in line of battle southeast of White Oak Swamp . Theydid no damage to any private property or the railroad , so far as heard from . Report gave their numbers at over 6,000 men . They may have had half of that number . Of the disposition made on our part to receive the raiders it is useless to speak . Subsequent information , received late yesterday evening , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two regiments of cavalry , and three or more . of infantry .. They were shelled , after getting in line of battle , by a portion of Gen. IluNTores men , and very soon afterward decamped in the direction of Williamsburgh , from which they advanced . If their object was to create a diversion , make a raid a /a Brandon , or get up a scare in Richmond , they signally failed . The . forces for local defence are under marching orders . The Yankees , some 800 of whom are encamped on Belle Isle , could not restrain the exhibition of their diabolical joy on hearing the alarm-bell ringing . The City Battalion were marched to the island , when the manifestations ceased .                     