@@739595

txt Louis Napoleon 's Designs and Dangers . According to the late news from Paris , a serious plot against the life of Louis NAPOLEON has been discovered . No less than one hundred and twenty persons , it is alleged , mostly Italians , had banded themselves together to take their stations along a new Boulevard about to be opened by the Emperor , and assail him with bombs , one after the other , as he passed , until he should certainly be slain . The story was narrated by our Paris correspondent yesterday , and is also given with entire positiveness in the Paris correspondence of the London Star , while a similar report in certain German States has created no little uneasiness among the bankers and stock operators . The plot , according to our Paris correspondent , was frustrated by its being revealed to the French Government by an American Captain . The opening of the Boulevard , for which the Emperor had made the grandest preparations , was postponed ; the conspirators were placed under arrest , and the life of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ safe . It is a matter of prime necessity with despots to keep from the people all knowledge of such affairs . Especially would this necessity be felt in France , where revolutions ant conspiracies are consecrated , and the spirit o assassination exists as an inherited humor it the blood . The truth of the story seems to be undis ? puted , and the circumstantiality of the de . tails , and the respectable sources from which our information comes , renders it very probs. his . The like has happened in Paris before . The world has not forgotten Onsrer , who attempted the Emperor 's life some years back , and strewed the street with dead around the imperial carriage , which was itself shattered by the terrible torpedo . OnsiNi gave political reasons for his conduct , declaring that Louis NAPOLEON had proved false to Italy and to liberty , and deserved no longer to live . It was alleged that ORSINI before his execution made a communication to the Emperor , warning him of continued danger , and assuring him that a league had been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of them should perish before the deed was consummated . The present attempt , our correspondent asserts , was also wholly of a political character , though he does not state specifically that it had relation to the Italian question . Whether or not there was truth in the revelation of OASIS/ is not known . But it has always been believed that ORSINI 'S attempt on the Emperor 's life , and the dread of Italian vengeance , profoundly affected his policy , and drove him to the war upon Austria , in behalf of Italy . It is certain that his action in this direction greatly modified the Italian view of his character and for some years , if not positively popular , he was at least held in respect by Italians . Latterly , the sympathy between the parties has utterly died out . The Emperor still stands over Italy , but , it is felt , not as a friend , but as a jailor . He denies to Italy her national Capital . Ile abhors and persecutes GARIBALDI as an enemy to the public peace . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ventures to say that he is following therein the " permanent and traditional interests of France . " A more significant and alarming declaration could not have been made . All Italians will understand what this means  --  that Italy must serve the ambition of the BONAPARTE . It is therefore easy to credit the present story , when we take the history of the Emperor and his recent action into account . There are those wh o believe that it is not Italy alone that LOUIS NAPOLEON is playing false toward , but that the United States are doomed to experience his hostility , if his life be not prematurely terminated . It is believed by such that the Emperor has resolved to recognize the independence of the rebel States , on his own account , without regard to the refusal of England and Russia to cooperate with him ; and that an alliance , offensive and defensive , is to be made with the Confederates , in view of the Emperor 's designs in Mexico . It is held that the Emperor owes the Union a grudge for having @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by helping the South to its independence he can get for France a mo . nopoly of cotton , and thus bankrupt England , and destroy her power . If so great a scheme as this latter is seriously entertained by LOUIS NAPOLEON , it does credit to the magnificence of his ideas , but will destroy , in a very short time . his reputation for sagacity . The roan who should plant qwq destroy the commercial supremacy of a thin ( ( England , ) and aim a blow at the life of fourth ( the United States , ) all at the same time , and wheifhis own power is a usurpation , which plants daggers in the dark about his path , would be a madman , whom the gods must soon destroy .                     