@@740185

txt The condition of the streets is simply horrible . We have had four or five days of as fine February weather as the present generation has seen . Yesterday , as far as a genial sunshine , and a healthy breeze go to constitute a luxury for holiday-makers , was one of the most charming days that imagination could well paint . And yet here , in New York , with its expenditure of fifteen millions a year for cleanliness , safety , health and comfort , all that the smiling season had so bountifully contributed to the enjoyment of the day was marred and blurred by the foul surgings of corporation filth in every thoroughfare and alley-way of the city . Along the street-gutters , from river to river , and from the South Ferry to thirlem , composite piles of ice and muck , alternated with a blubbery stagnant St ? . of liquid mud . On the widest of the streets , a roadway barely wide enough for a single carriage was flanked on either side by an escarpment of glaciers , in different @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ perilous pathway , creatures rational , irrational and brute toiled and waded , and splashed and stumbled  --  a patient , persistent , but desperate and bewildered mass of animated nature , the like whereof has probably not been known to the memory of man . ? Around and above the scene , there floated at midday the exuding vapors from ten thousand heaps of essential dung , piled promiscuously on sidewalk and roadway , as domestic expediency or municipal convenience had ordained . That rank exuberance of filth which has held so long an undisputed sway in these corporate precincts , was not to he driven yesterday from its local heritage . And in the interest of city inspection and sanitary science , we hereby make toe record that it reigned supreme on WASHINGTON 'S anniversary . There may be those who question the expediency of even admitting the existence of local abominations in connection with what is most properly one of our most cherished national celebrations . Those who see  --  and there are many thoughtful citizens who do see ? in the present condition of the streets of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hold , that any and every occasion must now be sought to force upon the attention of the authorities the absolute necessity of immediate action in the matter of our sanitary standing . The question is not one to be trifled with even for a day . It is not one that will bear the dallying of investigating committees . It is here before our senses , glaring , palpable , irrepressibly foul . It is a nuisance , moreover , which the Legislature has happily provided us with a means of reaching through the Health Board , if other means shall fail . A few more such days , and the blessings of a genial sun will be turned into a curse , by our municipal sloth and corruption .                     