@@739359

txt The steamship Baltimore , from Havana OD the 30th ult. , arrived at Baltimore on Friday afternoon ) bringing news of considerable importance . The Diario de la Marina takes a view of the seizure of MASON and SLIDELL decidedly hostile to the United States . It says the seizure was made not on the high seas , but in a neutral sea . The Trent , when first made out from the San Jacinto , was five miles to the north of Cayo Coco , but from that time to the time she was boarded , at least an hoUr and a hale must have elapsed , and supposing that the ships ' speed was equal to ten miles an hour , this would have brought them to the vicinity of Cayo Paredon and Guinehas , qn the narrowest part of the old Bahama channel . For this reason the Mario doubts that the San Jacinto had the legal right to board the Trent , even in time of war , she being in a neutral sea . For the sake of argument , however , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the part of the San Jacinto , the Diario contends that no power exIAed to authorize the arrest of the two passengers . MASON and SLIDELL , with their families , went aboard of the Trent at Havana . The Captain . received them as he did the other passengers . It was not his business to inquire whether or not they were on a diplomatic nah-sion from the Confederacy of the South  --  recognized by his Government and by the rest of Europe as a belligerent power in the war with the Federal Union . They , like all the rest of the passengers , were from the commencement of the voyage under the protection of the British flag ; and by taking them on board the Captain violated none of the privileges of neutrals , which the Diario says may be summed up in the maxim that " the neutral shall not lend to one belligerent party any aid that he is not equally disposed to render to his antagonist . " The Captain of the Trent was equally willing to take Federal agents as passengers ; so , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a neutral . The Mario quotes Kent 's Commentaries , vol i. , p. 11 6 , to the effect that by a fiction of law vessels are considered part of the territories of the nation to which they belong , and , page 122 , that the character of neutral extends to the protection , not only of neutral property , but also such property of the belligerent powers as may be within neutral jurisdiction . The Diario argues therefore that according to American law , the seizure of MASON and SLIDELL was an unjustifiable. outrage , and hopes that the American Government will hasten to disavow the act , and place the prisoners on British soil as soon as possible . ? 