@@739107

txt The Assembly took up the veto of the Governor on the West Washington Market bill , and passed the bill over the veto of the Governor by a vote of 73 to 29 . The bill in relation to the new County of Canisteo was taken from the table . Mr. Cansicoe would not undertake to sustain all the points of the veto , but as a faithful representative of one of the most populous counties in the State , he found it his-duty to vote against erecting a County out of Steuben . He argued to show the injustice to New-York and Kings in making these , new counties . The House then sustained the veto , and the bill was lost . BILLS PASSED . To incorporate the City Library Association . To provide for opening Sylvan-street , New-York . Mr. VAN Hoax , from the Select Committee appointed to examine into the State Prison contracts for convicts labor , reported the testimony , coupled with a resolution recommending the attorney-General to examine the contracts and see if they needed reforming . Nothing that reflects @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the State Prison Inspectors is intended . The matter is simply one of technicality . Mr. FISHER moved a vote of thanks to the officers of the House , which was adopted unanimously . The bill to establish a Nautical School in New York was lost by 45 to 38 , and a motion to reconsider tabled . The Assembly sustained the Governor 's veto on the Albany and Susquehanna Railroad bill by a vote of 55 to 48 ; so the bill is dead . An attempt was made to reconsider the vote on the new County of Canesteo , but the motion was ruled out of order . The House receded from its amendment , striking out from the New-York Tax Levy the items relative to the Record Commissioners . The amendment agreed to directs the payment of the contractors if the Court decide in their favor . The New-York Police Court bill was passed . The House concurred in the Senate 's amendment allowing the City of New-York to sell part of the Park to the United States . The Steuben Monument Association bill was passed . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Flatbush-avenue grade bill was passed . The bill to amend the act to suppress intemperance was lost . The House amended the Senate 's resolution so as to adjourn at 10 o'clock to-night . Mr. moved to lay the pending order on the table , so as to take up reports . Ms object , and he wished Republicans to understand it , was to get in the New-York Almshouse bill . A recess to 93 o'clock was moved . Lost , by 40 to 59 . Mr. VAN HonN them moved a recess till 9 o'clock . Carried . Tne House met- at 9 o'clock . After a bill was passed correcting several clerical errors in the Supply bill , the several orders of business were laid upon the table , the Democrats calling the Yeas and Nays on each question , with the purpose of preveating the order of reports to be reached , when it was known it was the purpose of the Republicans to report the bill to reorganise the New-York Almshouse Department . It was near 10 o'clock before reports were reached , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of final adjournment to 11 o'clock . This gave a lull hour to accomplish the arranged . work of the evening . Mr. Penn reported the bill . It was sent to the Committee of the Whole , passed through ; ordered to a third reading , sad after various fruitless efforts on the part of the minority , the bill was passed by 75 to 32 ? several Democrats voting for the bill . The usual Committees to inform tee Senate and the Governor that the House was ready to adjourn , were appointed , and the Speaker addressed the House in a feeling manner , and declared the House adjourned sine die . 