@@739901

txt An important victory has just been added to the list which has crowned the army of the Cumberland with glory . True , the fight was upon a comparatively small scale ; but victories are not always to be valued by the numbers engaged , nor the list of the slain . The importance of an achievement must be estimated by results ; and in this instance , it would be impossible to compute the magnitude of the interests at stake , and the advantage , gained by the defeat of our adversary . Although it has hitherto been contraband , I deem it so no longer , to state that the divisions of SHERIDAN and WOOD were left at or near Knoxville , when SHERMAN withdrew from that point , and they will probably remain there during the Winter ; and of course it is necessary that their supply trains , lert behind at the first march , should be forwarded to them . Accordingly , a few days since , the Quartermasters received orders to move their vehicles to their respective commands , and in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ guarded by the cavalry brigade commanded by Col. LONG , of the Eleventh Ohio . They met with no traces of the enemy or several days  --  only hearing of small guerrilla parties , at different points , which were by no means formidable ? and finally arrived at the very natural conclusion that the route was unobstructed , and that the train was not threatened . Night before last ( 27th ) the wagons were all thrown across the Hiwasse , and parked , with but a small guard , under Col. SIEBERT , in the front , the main force , 1,200 in number , remaining on the south side of the stream . During the night no alarms occurred , and in the morning the mules were hitched up , as usual , to proceed on the journey , when the small guard was suddenly attacked by WHEELER , at the head of 1,500 men . The charge was sudden and unexpected , and resulted in a hasty retreat on Col. SIEBERT 'S part , leaving the train in the hands of the rebels . lie had but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been impossible to have resisted the progress of the erre. my ; but he had scarcely reached the river bank , when reinforcements to the number of 150 crossed to his aid , when a counter charge was made , resulting in the recapture of the wagon. , mules and horses . which had not been injured , so brief was the rebel possession of the prize . After retaking the train , Col. SIEBERT , with his handful of men , was unable to continue the pursuit , but keeping his force in line , he so far terrified his adversary that no effort was made to repossess the lost plunder , until Col. LONG , with the whole force , reached the north bank and wheeled into line , ready for work . But a moment is required to prepare for an onset ; sabres were drawn , and the soldiers stood waiting for the command ? ' it was given , and in a moment , without even making a show of resistance , the rebels broke and ran , Pell mell , down the Dalton Road , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hoof had never before trodden them . Many jumped from their animals and sought safety among the rocks ; others , ! n dismay , leaved fences , while yet more surrendered themselves prisoners of war . The loss to the rebels in this engagement was fortyseven killed and wounded , and 123 prisoners . But this was not the most important result of the achievement . The wagon route from here to Knoxville has been rendered secure , and the courier lines saved from further annoyance . The old cavalry coops of this department of the rebel army , once the terror of Kentucky and Tennessee , has dwindled down to almost nothing . It can no longer effect anything . It has been defeated so often of late that it and its commanders have fallen into disrepute , and are no longer loosed upon as of importance to the army . Our loss in the engagement is variously estimated at from nne to ten wounded , all agreeing that none of our gallant men were killed , though one was taken prisoner . To the Fourth Ohio cavalry and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this last important achievement , which resulted in securing a connection of the highest importance to the country . Here and at Bridgeport , and in the Lookout Valley , everything is monotony . Preparations for activity continue , but everything moves slowly ; but , with the opening of Spring , look out for a vigorous prosecution of the campaign . Gen. GRANT never sleeps when anything is to be done , and there is a possibility of doing it .                     