@@739493

txt A few more such fulminations as have been recently issued by our new Pops , if properly carried out , will not only excommunicate but exterminate this rebellion . They are hailed by every one here with the mostintense delight , and the universal hope is that , in the present critical condition of affairs , we shall see similar orders issued in these latitudes , in lieu of the " conciliatory " policy which has been so long weighed in the balance and found wanting , however plausible and excellent the reasons for its observance hitherto . There is no mistake whatever about the telegram announcing that Gen. Dix has made an arrangement with the rebels for an immediate and general exchange of prisoners , as I learnt it from the lips of Gen. Dix himself , with permission to give it publicity . That the arrangement is being faithfully carried out is best proved by the vessels constantly arriving here , and bringing large freights of our gallant . fellows from the clutches of the enemy . And indeed it was time to enter into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be witnessed on board one of these transports , filled with men from the pestilential dungeons of that city , and the tales of suffering to be heard from those who have undergone them , are enough to make one shudder . It would not be fair to lay the sufferings of our men entirely to the vindictive and cruel spirit of the rebels , but partly from that cause , and partly from the paucity among them of medicines , stores and medical knowledge  --  there can be no doubt that our poor soldiers among them undergo the terrors of purgatory . This is not stated only on the assertion of the various sick and wounded men with whom I have conversed on board our transports , but on the authority of Dr. BURGESS , of the S. R. Spaulding  --  who , by the way , deserves honorable mention for the kindness and unremitting attentions which all the helpless receive who are fortunate enough to full into his hands . Dr. Buitugss asserts that the wounded soldiers who were given over to him at City Point were most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wounds were in so dreadful a state , that many of them had maggots enough to fill a wine-glass ! Ills description was perfectly horrifying of the mode in which the poor fellows w ere sent to him . Men packed together in open freight cars  --  many so weak as to be unable to turn themselves  --  with their wounds putrefying , and jogged along the dusty road , with their upturned faces to tiv , ? bui ning : Ain , without even a cheap awning to save them from its intolerable rags . In spite of their weakness and exhaustion , he says it was pitiful , but grand , to see the eagerness with which they welcomed the boat that came to their relief . Men without legs and arms , mutilated in every conceivable shape  --  many wasted away to mere skeletons by disease  --  found strength enough to hobble in such numbers to the friendly deck , that guards were actually necessary to restrain their impetuosity , so eager were the heart-broken boys to find themselves once more under that glorious old flag for which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hope , not in vain . Many on the Spaulding told me that their food was not only poor , but insufficient ; that they were shut up in close , ill-ventilated rooms , from which they were not permitted to stirdand that after taking all the good bandages they could find for their own men , they pretended to dress the wounds of ours with the same old bandages they had removed , all covered with putrefied matter , " or if they gave us new ones , ' , said one soldier , " it was like this , " showing apiece of rough sackcloth . How different an example of humanity is the North setting ! When Gen. MCCLELLAN heard of the sufferings of our soldiers in Richmond , he proposed to the rebel authorities to send them lemons , oranges , jellies and otter articles needed by the sick . The rebel officers refused , stating that as their men had none , ours could not be permitted to enjoy such distinction . Gen. MCCLELLAN was not to be deterred from doing good to our men , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and sent on abundant supplies fur the sick and wounded in their hospitals ? Union or rebel . And yet it is our section . f the country which the London Tinirs had the audacious impudence to say is fast becoming " brutalized by this war . " Gen. IIALLECK 'S appointment as Commanding General gives unbounded satisfaction to the army . Some disappointment was felt and openly expressed at the first rumors of such a change , because it was looked upon as a slur cast upon Gen. MCCLELLAN ; but a very little reflection sufficed to show every one that it was the very reverse . It was easily surmised , and very correctly , that one main object of President LINcotrt 's visit to Gen. MCCLELLAN was to consult him respecting so delicate and important a change . Under any other circumstances MCCLELLAN must , unquestionably , have been the man selected for such a position ; but , as matters now stand , to have accepted it would have placed him in a very false position . Ile had publicly declared that he would drive the rebels @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the determination just now would have been disastrous to his fame . On the contrary , sticking to his post , bending his energies to fulfill all he has promised , and forgetting self-aggrandisement in his efforts for his country , will only make him more admired and beloved than ever among his countrymen . I am sorry to say that our chances for having some terrific disaster here , from the explosion of gunpowder , instead of diminishing , are increasing . Tney have now five men employed pouring gunpowder into shells at the narrowest part of the wharf , where the railway track runs within two feet , and hundreds of people are constantly passing and repassing with lighted pipes and cigars in their mouths . Not only this , but men are always there hammering iron nails out of poxes immediately adjoining the open gunpowder  --  quantities of which are stacked there , with loaded shells , grapeshot , canister and all kinds of ex. plosive and deadly material . The lives of hundreds of people and millions of property are kept in perpetual jeopardy by the idiots @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from a cigar or pipe , a hammer driven against a nail , a horse 's shoe striking the rail , in galloping past , may at any moment electrify the nation with one of the most terrible disasters on record . I am no alarmist , but I say somebody is playing with our lives . Who it is I know not ; but if , after so many notices , this outrage continues , and a disaster should result , it will be a case not of manslaughter , but of willful murder .                     