@@740285

txt The Montreal Gazette says that militia of that city is to be recruited to the full strength of the battalions . The English Workingmen 's Benefit Society purpose organizing themselves into two strong companies . It is also purposed to organize an engineer battalion , tie nucleus of which will be the two flue companies now commanded by Capts . Fonsrrn and KENNEDY , and the other companies of which will be raised from the Grand Trunk workmen . Mr. BRYDGES has taken the matter in hand , and some of the finest " bone and sinew " in the Province will probably soon be added to the effective strength of the militia garrison . Col. COunsof. has been requested by the department to resume the command of the Chasseurs Canadiens . This revival is mainly due to the presence of the AdjutantGeneral and his effective staff , whose office by right should be permanently established hero  --  the largest militia centre in the Province . We may add that , by way of enabling the volunteers to get their " Prentice hands " in , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ different armories every night . The Memphis Bulletin of the 17th prints the decision of Judge TRIGG in the McCann case . It assumes that the rebels were belligerents , entitled to all the rights of civilized warfare , to the same extent as the United States . Consequently , MCCANN can not be punished for an act done in the line of his duty as a Confederate officer . But as Congress has prohibited the Judges of Federal courts from interference in such caeca , he declines to issue the writ of habeas corpus prayed for . The Confederacy , be says , was not a government de facto . This decision averts a conflict of jurisdiction which might have been unpleasant . The Sheriff of Knox County was instructed to disregard the writ , and if necessary to call out the military to resist it . McCANN 's friends applied some time since to Gen. THOmAs . forces to aid in the execution of the writ , which they felt sure would be used . Gen. Tames , however , declined furnishing the assistance requested , assuming that his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , of Kingston , N. Y. , was beset by two stout highwaymen in a lonely part of the road a few nights since , and his money demanded . The doctor said : " Well , if I must give up my money , I had better do it . " So he quietly took off his glove , and putting his hand into his side pocket , he drew out  --  not his pocket-book  --  but a neat revolver , and bringing it to bear in an instant , he shot one of the robbers dead . The other ruffian then fired at the doctor , but the ball went harmlessly through his hat . The doctor then took his turn again and wounded the fellow severely . He then rode back to Kingston and made known the facts , but on returning the wounded man had escaped . The Nashville Press of Nov. 17 has this paragraph in its editorial columns ; " A private letter received from an entirely trustworthy Bourse in Washington , says that President JOHNSON , in a private interview with the writer , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senate , adopting the negro testimony bill , and added that he earnestly hoped that the House of Representatives would take similar action and make the bill a law . We intreat the House to come bravely up to the work . Sustain the President . and the right , by deeds , not by empty words . " The oil-wells of Canada West are said to be an established fact . They are situated near the Thames River , in the vicinity of Bothwell . The Toronto papers state that seven are already giving oil at the rate of from thirty to forty barrels a day , and the region has every indication of being well stocked with the article . So Prof. HALL , the geologist , and the experienced oil-prospecter , says . Bothwell is rapidly becoming a thriving town  --  buildings of various kinds going up , the Great Western Railway is enlarging its accommodations , laud sales and high prices the order a the day . At the late siege of Matamoros by the Liberal forces , quite a number of the officers and men of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the gallantry of the charge , of which they were witnesses from the American side , and of which an account has been given , to give vent to enthusiastic cheers , whereupon four shots were deliberately fired at the assembled group from the Imperial steamer Piscine , through whose agency alone the attack of the Liberals was defeated . We have no information as to casualties consequent upon this strange procedure . The summary of the crops of 1865 , published by the Department of Agriculture . presents several interesting features . The wheat crop is very deficient both in quantity and quality , the decrease in quantity alone from 1864 , being estimated at 12,172,944 bushels . On the other hand , the corn crop was never surpassed in any respect . In quantity alone the excess over the crop of lsf , 4 , is more than 143,000,000 bushels . The quality of other crops is equal to the general average of former Lars ; and the total excess for 1865 over 1864. is 215,071,411 bushels , The Fenian Sisterhood gave a grand ball in Buffalo on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Flag of Erin and the Stars and Stripes , were freely displayed in ail parts of the ballroom . A splendid Irish flag was displayed over the English flag , with the British cross turned downward , and the red of the flag concealed . On this was the following motto : " The Red Cross of England shall fall beneath the Eagle and the Harp . " Major-Gen . CANnit has issued an order announcing the formation of a commission for the purpose o : selecting such portions of the wharf and levee space , in the port of New-Orleans , as may be needed for the use of the War , Navy and Treasury Departments . The City Surveyor was invited to attend the sessions of the commission , the hour and place of holding which are to be determined by the commission . Rev. E. SrnAur DODGE delivered an extremely interesting lecture on " Syria , " last evening , before the Young Men 's Christian Association . He has lately returned from the Holy Land , and is well informed on all the matters relating to his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beyrout . The weather did not hinder a very large number of persons from being most amusingly and instructively entertained . A private letter from Jacksonville , Fla. , states that the missing steamer D. H. Mount , was seen by the Captain of a schooner on the 24th of October , in the very height of the great gale , about two hundred miles below Hatteras . The Captain says the steamer did not seem to be disabled at that time , and he thinks that she may have been blown to the Bahamas , whence it would be difficult to hear from her . Nashville papers give returns from nineteen counties in Alabama , which show for PATTON , 8,963 ; for BuLtiEn. 6,758 ; for SMITH , 154 . Parrost is a naive of Huntsville , Ala. , au experienced legislator , and one of the wealthiest citizens of the State . All of the candidates are competent men . Buxom was a Colonel in the rebel service . The Pensacola Observer , a handsome weekly journal , made its reappearance on the 4th inst . Col. W. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and entered upon the discharge of his duties in July list . The Observer says such arrangements have been made that there is a fair prospect of the Alabama and Florida Railroad being completed in six months . WILLIAM RASE , a claim agent ; BARTHoLD DREssEjt , late clerk in the Second Auditor 's office , and Heamox Gossmax , who were confederated fur the purpose of defrauding the government by the abstraction of papers in the cases of deceased and die charged soldiers , have been committed for trial at Washington . Canadian papers are hard pressed to keep up the Fenian excitement ; in fact , ' there is no excitement at all . Beyond a general order to get the usual military bodies into working trim and the sending of half a dozen companies on brief excursions , there has been really nothing done thus far . A Macon paper contradicts , upon the authority of Hon. A. H. STEPHENS himself , the report that he said that Hon. HENRY Wilsok , Senator from Massachusetts , had declared he would vote for the admission of the Southern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ statement . The Houston Telegraph of the 10th inst. says " We learn that orders have been received in this State from Washington not to muster out any more troops nor to sell any government property until further orders . Consequently , several sales advertised to take place will be abandoned . " The Magdalen Asylum at Syracuse has been closed , and the project is acknowledged to be a failure . But three of the class for whom it was specially designed have ever found shelter there . Two of the number , it is hoped , were reformed . Livingston County is doing more than its share in filling the criminal record of the State . Murders , robberies and burglaries are frequent . On Friday lase Mrs. Gen. WADSWORTH 'S mansion at Goneseo was entered by burglars . The bark Thomas Pope , of NeW-York , bound for Monrovia , ( Africa , ) cleared at the Boston Customhouse on Tuesday . She has seven missionaries engaged as passengers , and twenty-nine thousand /gallons of New-England rum as part of her ( largo. ' rho Confederate ram Stonewall @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on Sunday . The Stonewall will arrive at Washington in time to be examined by the court-martial.now trying Com . CRAVEN for not attacking her at Ferrol in March last . After an interregnum of four years , the citizens of Eastern Arkansas are about to be restored to the blessings of regularly organized courts , which will afford them the most significant evidence of the real pacification of the whole country . In the Maryland United States Circuit Court , Chief-Justice CHASE has decided a railroad company has no right to retain from its coupon-holders the government income tax . At Widder , Canada , a few days ago , a man named WAGER split one Scorr 's head open with an iron square , The victim died ; the victor is locked up . The first contract for British army supplies ever awarded to Canadian bidders has just gone to an extensive pork-packing establishment in Hamilton . The cold weather of ten days since was severely felt on the St. John River and the Upper Aroostook . It closed up the river , and laid an embargo on a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The supply steamer Memphis , from New-York for Philadelphia , saw considerable cotton floating in the sea , supposed to have been lost from decks during the storm of Tuesday . A large meeting was held at Knoxville , Tenn. , a few days since , to favor the immediate building of railroad connection with Cincinnati . The latest additions of the vote for Governor in North Carolina show 20,184 for HOLDEN and 26,962 for WORTH . Gov . FENTON has postponed the execution of WILLis ( at Kingston ) until Dec. 15 . Ho was convicted of murdering a Mrs. Roc WELL . The New-York State canals will be closed for the season on Tuesoay , the 12th of December .                     