@@739499

txt It is no fault of Lord Pal.mensenir that intervention has not long ago become the policy of the British Government . Some shortsighted persons in Europe , as in this country . may have been induced to believe , front the English Premier 's speech on Mr. LINDSAY 'S motion fOr Southern recognition , that his Lordship 's opinions have undergone a change ; but it must not be overlooked that in temporarily shelving that motion , Mr. FORSTER 'S amendment was purposely overslaughed ? an amendment , in fact , pledging the GO% eraiment to an honest and strict neutrality . During the remainder of the Parliamentary session , we may be safe from the assaults of such Southern sympathizers as LINDSAY and GREoony , but . we are perfectly justified in fearing the worst when the adjournment shall have left the question in the hands of Her Majesty 's advisers , uncontrolcd , as they will then he , by their Parliamentary supporters . The Cabinet . of which Lord l'aemeaseos is the head Ls simply a coalition , and not likely , therefore , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as the American difficulty . lion . MILNER GIBSON , representing the party of Messrs . COBDEN and BRIORT , has made no secret of his opinions relative to this contest , and Earl RUSSELL and the Duke of Nowcastle are understood to wish success to the United States , from respect to Constitutional Government . Still , Lord PALMERSTON wields the main power in tile Cabinet , and it is not an impossibility that his Lordship , during the re cess. shall succeed in finding a pretext for interference , depending upon the majority in the House of Commons to support him , when war has become an actual fact . P ALMERSTON 'S action , since the outbreak of our troubles , has been an enigma to most men , and yet is of a piece with his entire career . Since his first appearance in public life , he has never allied himself with progress in any form , nor assisted the struggling nationalities of Europe in their aspirations after freedom . His foreign policy has been founded upon the foolish maxim , " divises- pour regtier , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out of office , during nearly half a century , until he vainly imagines it has become , as it were , part of the fundamental law of his country . We can easily understand what his Lordship 's feelings must be as he nears the close of his career . MarrxeetcH , dying with Italy wrenched from his grasp , suffered no such colossal disappointment as that now preying on the mind of PALMERSTON . For fifty long years he has stemmed the current of European diplomacy , balanced the chances of this or that policy , and , in fine , so remodeled the face of European affairs , that a Palmerstonian hue pervades everything . In his old age , when nigh fourscore , he sees a young and crsGant Fewer stepping into the arena , claiming . - its position us sliltt Best of military nations , and threatening to revolutionize his labors of half a century . No wonder that his Lordship hates a Power which he has so much cause to fear  --  a Power , too , armed with the most ? teedb/e , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  the Democratic principle . But while admitting the hostility of Lord PALMERSTON and other English statesmen to this country , we need not ignore the various powerful interests in our favor  --  all the reore powerful for their being founded in selfishness . We have , tier instance , a strong body of . upporters in Great Britaiii in the persons of the manufacturers , not merely of textile fabrics , such as cotton , wool , silk and flax , but of the hardware and other interests . True is it , that the former regret the loss of their cotton supply , but what value would any quantity of raw material be to them without the market to make it valuable ? Their manufacturers say , and with great show of reason , " We may and we shall obtain cotton from other sources than the Southern States , but we never can obtain such a market as that opening up to us in the North and West . " What these men regret is the lose . of their market , and they are scarce likely to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the future by closing up the avenues of their trade . There is another , and , perhaps , greater consideration in favor of peace ? namely , the question of fond .... Tor the past fifteen years , England has been mainly dependent upon foreign nations for her grain supply , and this is particularly the ease this year , when the harvests , both in England and France , threaten to fall far below the average . Odessa and the Danubian Principalities no longer compete with this country in grain exportations , and without the teeming riches of our Northern and Western States , Europe would be at a loss to feed her millions . According to Mr. CARD , a high agricultural authority in the House of Commons , all the countries in Europe do not send as much grain to England as the United States ; and the same gentleman assured his hearers that while America , exclusive of Canada , forwarded to Great Britain , in 1861 , no less than 3,591,991 quarters , the Russian supply only amounted to 1,047,743 quarters . It would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hands in consequence of the teeming riches of our soil ; and certain is it that , with such a lever , we may move almost any Government in Europe in our favor . Much has been said of late in regard to the Emperor NAPOLEON and his Intentions relative to this country . It must be borne in mind , however , that no aristocracy exists in France , pledged by its very essence to hatred of the democratic principle ; the Emperor himself , the child of revolution , has much in common with ourselves , and the democratic party in France  --  the genuine , trrue Republicans  --  his chief supporters , would not permit any assault whatever upon the democratic principle here or elsewhere . It is the policy of the Napoleonic dynasty to do away with small principalities and to erect great Powers , and France would be false to her entire history were she to attempt aught against the unity of this country , or to seek to break uo a nation which has ever , been a , counterpoise to England . But our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inspire in the nations of Europe . A people who can put a million of men into the teld without hindrance to the ordinary operations of trade and commerce ; who can build an iron navy more numerous and powerful Ethan those of the principal Governments of Europe ; and who can find the means to carry on a gigantic war without recourse to foreign capitalists , can take care of themselves , spite of all threats of intervention . France would only damage herself in damaging us , and England , as the price of her interference , would not only lose her best market , but add at least a hundred millions sterling to her National debt .                     