@@739690

txt A messenger , direct from Gen. STONE-AN 'S headquarters , arrived here last evening , with news of the movements of the cavalry up to the evening before . Gen. STONEMAN 'S headquarters were then at Bealeton Station , and he was about starting toward ? . Tuesday night . the 14th , the corps encampect in the vicinity of " Spotted Tavern , " 334 miles west of Hartwood . The river had become so swollen by the recent rains that it was found impracticable to attempt to ford near Kellyaville , and therefore the corps was pushed forward to Rappahannock Station , on the Orange and Alexandria Railroad . Here the enemy had a small earthwork and rifle-pits , with a small picket to protect the bridge , and another small force at the fording place just below the bridge . A brigade of cavalry was sent across by the ford  --  the most serious obstacle to their passage being a telegraph wire stretched across poles under water near the opposite bank , in the meshes of which several of the foremost horses were caught @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the current ; and one or , more of them , thus summarily unhorsed , have not since been seen , and it is supposed they were drowned . The rebel picket fired a few scattering shots during the crossing , but were easily dispersed by the covering party . The immediate object of this movement was to reconnoiter the country for rebels , food and forage . At first only a few rebels were to be seen , and these kept at a very respectable distance . As for food or forage , that whole country has been cleaned out , and only a little wheat could be found . After scouring the country for miles around , a force of cavalry made its appearance , closely followed by a train of cars , ( from Culpepper , ) bringing a small body of infantry and three pieces of artillery . In obedience to orders , our cavalry recrossed the river , when the rebels commenced pelting the railroad bridge , but two of our 3-inch young ladies soon made them fall out of range . In this skirmish Lieut @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , was captured , a private belonging to the Sixth Regulars was killed , and six or eight of our men were wounded . Ten rebels were captured . Their loss in killed and wounded was not ascertained . Since Wednesday detachments have visited Fox 's Ford , Freeman 's Ford  --  both above the railroad bridge  --  Warrenton , and other points in that vicinity . The only rebel troops found were a remnant of the once famous Black Horse cavalry . Small parties were sent across the river at several places , and three or four unimportant skirmishes toot place . There is a brigade of infantry in supporting distance of the cavalry . Workmen are engaged repairing the track of the Orange and Alexandria Railroad near Bealeton . The railroad bridge is now under the protection of our own guns . Half-past 9 o'clock A. M. , Wednesday. ? A messenger , just arrived , reports that Gen. STONEMAN was still north of the Rappahannock . A council of war , composed of all the commanders of corps , was held last night . Assistant Adiutant-General Dicxxasers left @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , for Washington , with dispatches from Gen. HOOKER to the President The Army Yet North of the Rappahannock ? Heavy Falls of Rain  --  The Effect of One Fair Day  --  Sufferings of the Inhabitants in rho Vicinity of Fredericksburgh , tkc ? HEADQUARTERS ARMY OF THE POTOMAC , OPPOSITE PREDBEICILSBURGH , April 23,1863 . By the above it will be seen that this army is yet north of the Rappahannock . The weather thus far during the present month  --  true to its ancient prestige  --  has been very capricious . One Summer-like day only has been vouchsafed us , and that created a magic change . The green grass which for weeks has been struggling for an existence above the surface , suddenly sprang up to a respectable height , covering the country with a rich green carpet ; the fruit trees shook out their blossoms , and the worshipers of Flora were gratified with the fragrance of a thousand flowers . This gushing out of nature in a country in every other respect barren and cheerless , is like finding flowers In a Golgotha . The only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of this army , to be seen in this vicinity , is occasionally a small plowed field , in which are planted a few of the actual necessaries of life . No one ventures to put into the ground more seed than they require for their own use , because of the possibility that others may reap where they have Sown . One of the largest landholders in this vicinity has not yet plowed an acre , and does not propose to do so . He still resides at his old homestead , his sons are in the rebel army , and his lands are a barren waste . Two years ago he was the owner of several hundred slaves . reckoned his income by thousands of barrels , and was surrounded by every luxury that money could buy . One decrepit " mammy " is all that remains with him of all his " chattels , " nis broad acres are uncultivated , and , with illy-concealed repugnance , he takes the oath of allegiance , that he may be permitted to purchase a Lew of the necessaries of life @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a miserable existence . Such is the effect of that fatal illusion called " State Rights . " This man represents a whole class to be seen in every Slave State . The last batch of rebel prisoners brought in are much better dressed than any soldiers of the rebel army that hare been within our lines for a long time . They represent affairs in a very flourishing condition across the river . but 1 opine these fellows have been got up without regard to expense , to produce an effect , and counteract , it possible , the damaging effect of the numerous reports of the destitution existing in rebeldom . It is certain , however , that the wayward citizens of the rebel kingdom have recently spruced up a good deal . They have lately exposed to view some very fine camps , wagons , and other paraphernalia of an army , which have the appearance of being something a little better than they have heretofore been accustomed to use . They are getting to be very industrious again , also , and are daily engaged digging rifle-pits @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many miles up and Gown the river , on the opposite bank . This may also be all for effect . The bright light seen across the river a few nights ago was caused by the burning of the Bernard mansion . This was an old structure . two miles below Fredericksburgh . In the grove of stately oaks on the premises Gen. FRANKLIN made his headquarters during the memorable battle of the 13th of December . Here , too , Gen. BAYARD was mortally wounded by a chance shot ; and , stretched upon the grass under one of the large shade trees . Gen. BURNSIDE had his last Interview with Gen. FRANKLIN on the night of the 14th of D ecember . The Governor of Delaware is on a short visit to these camps , to look after the interests of the troops from that State . All is quiet in camp to-day . We are laboring under the depressing effects of a rain storm .                     