@@739789

txt The Emperor FRANCIS JOSEPH is evidently disgusted with the arrogance of the Western Powers , and determined to abate it . In order to accomplish this , he is laboring to bring about a more perfect federal union between the German States . Divided , those States are utterly incapable of resisting the aggression of any of the great Powers ; united , they would control the destinies of Europe . The Kaiser commenced operations by addressing autograph letters to all the Princes of the Germanic Confederation and the Syndics of the Free Cities , inviting them to meet him at Frankfort , on the 16th inst. , to discuss the question of a federal reorganization . He also invited the Prussian King to an interview at Gastein , an obscure little watering-place in Salzburg , that he might ascertain the Brandenburgher 's ideas on the subject . Now , of all the German States , none has so deep an interest in this matter as Prussia , for not one of them is so ill calculated for defensive war , and in the event of hostilities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quickly have to succumb to France , if unsupported , and would have to purchase peace by the surrender of her Rhenish provinces . Yet such are the perversity and infatuation of the Prussian King , and so excessive is his jealousy of Austria that , though the formation of the contemplated confederation would impart stability to his throne , and serve as a bulwark to his realm , he nevertheless refused to sanction it , and declined to attend the proposed conference of Teutonic sovereigns at Frankfort to consider it . The monarch , however , who has forfeited the affections of his own subjects , and destroyed the prestige of Prussia abroad , can no longer compete successfully with the Kaiser for the hegemony of Germany , and , notwithstanding WiLmard 's opposition , twenty-seven German princes have responded to the Emperor 's invitation , and consented to meet him at the federal capital for the purpose indicated . The proposition of FRANCIS JOSEPH has in fact met with favor throughout the length and breadth of Germany . All the States feel how helpless they are in their present @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ probably be that a federal union will be organized more effective and formidable than any which has yet existed in Fatherland . With a territory so magnificent , and a population so vast , warlike , and intelligent , Germany  --  were its various kingdoms and principalities bound together by a strong federal constitution  --  need not dread a conflict with any nation in the East or the West of Europe  --  need dread aggression neither from Russia nor from France ; for then her own power would be an object of apprehension and anxiety to all . And if Austria can succeed in forming a new confederation which will obey her in peace and sustain her in war , she may rely on not being any more annoyed or insulted by her overhearing neighbors . As for Prussia , which used to be styled the Teutonic Piedmont , and whose special mission , it used to he said , was the creation of German unity  --  if she persists in refusing to join the league , and prefers to remain apart , she will have to stand alone , isolated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and the storm of battle rages on her soil . The Prussian people are assuredly under obligations of Fi very peculiar character to Hang . Having violated the rights of their le - esentatives , gagged their Press , their rep% their constitution , and stripped them outraged the . of their libertkes , he now caps the climax of t. delinquenei scheme that by opposing the most etfi-cient his t could be devised for securing their country from foreign invasion and conquest . But should they suffer disaster hereafter , because of WILLIAM 'S perversity and folly , he and ) iris dynasty also may pay their share of the penalty by being expelled from the throne and kingdom , mad driven to share the bitter portion of those uncrowned tyrants , BosteAmmo and Orno. 