@@739244

txt The vital qualities necessary in cannonmetals are strength to resist the explosion of the charge , and hardness to endure the bounding of the projectile along the bore , and in case of the rifle bore , to resist the excessive wear of the projectile in the grooves . All the metals employed have their defects . Cast iron is quite tenacious , if a sufficient weight is employed , and tolerably hard ,  --  but its comparative elasticity ( an important element of strength ) is se small that its tenacity is invariably destroyed after a certain number of applications of the straining force . The difficulty of obtaining sound castings , by reason of the unequal shrinkage of the metal , is unfavorablee-eso much so that the strongest " high " iron , by its superior contraction , does not , as a rule , make so strong a gun as a metal in itself weaker . The great weight of cast-iron , for a givenstrength , has confined its use generally to heavy cannon for siege and sea-coast purposes . Bronze  --  a more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this , in turn , has its serious defects . Its density ( an element of strength in cannon-metals ) and tenacity are considerable , but its softness unfits it , for reasons already stated , for long service , particularly when rifled . And its cost is considerably greater than that of cast or wrought iron , or semi-steel  --  that is. steel made directly from the pig iron . Wrought iron has a tensile strength double that of the best cast-iron , and is much more elastic , but somewhat softer . Authorities generally unite in stating that it was , when most in use , an provement on cast-iron , but the difficulty of producing large masses sound and homogeneous , has prevented its extensive introduction . The celebrated Armstrong gun , and other modern " built-up " cannon are , perhaps , more durable , and certainly stronger than any solid piece can be made , owing to the difficulty of forging or casting large masses of uniform strength , in the present state of the art ; but it is generally conceded that the same expense @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more effective in the long run . Steel possesses , in a higher degree than any other compound , the leading qualities required for cannon . It is tenacious , elastic and hard , in a much greater degree than either of the other materials . There are two principal kinds of steel , adapted to making cannon , which , indeed , vary in value , with reference to the sizes and uses required . Caststeel is practically homogeneous , in small masses , and for this reason , is superior for cutlery , the fire-plates of boilers , etc . In the latter case , not strength to resist pressure , but soundness to resist blistering are required . But it can be no more soundly worked , in very large masses , than steel made directly from the pig-iron ie the puddling furnace , and called semi or puddled steel , while its tensile strength and hardness are little if at all greater . Semi-steel , then , is probably as good a material fur guns as caststeel , intrinsically , while its cost is very much less @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that of bronze . In the present state of the art , it is not probable that the largest classes of cannon car be well wade solid , from steel , by reason of the difficulty , before meationed , of making such masses sound . This detect , however , noes not apply to light artillery and howitzers . Forgings for such pieces can be made sound enough tor all practical purposes . Indeed , the Albany Iron Works ' semi-steel has been invariably proved sound enough in such large forgings as locomotive tires . The experience with it , under this peculiarly severe test , show it to wear twice as long as iron , and to wear evenly , and not to fracture under its severe hammering over bad roads , like iron  --  while the smaller masses , such as boiler-plate , are not so uniformly numogeneous . There seems to be greater facility in making moderately heavy forgings in steel than in wrought iron . Tools for working heavy masses , also , have been greatly improved during the last year er two , and it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them would be far superior to those made trader the light hammers and rolls of the last decade . The public is aware that this semi or puddled steel , is being made into light guns , in England and in Germany ; and the question is generally asked , " Why are we not importing such guns ? " The question should be : why are we not ieveloping our own greater resources , and preparing to turn out any quantity of better guns at home , rather than depending for a limited supply from an unfriendly Power ? The Albany Iron Works ' steel is , in the first place , made chiefly from Salisbury iron  --  a more tenacious material than England can produce , as their own authorities concede . The steel , by Government tests , has stood a strain of 107,000 pounds to the square inch , and averages between 90,000 and 100,000 , ' Which is higher than the average of the best European puddled steel . The highest test of cast-iron , by the way , is 45,000 pounds , and ? its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is about 72,000 pounds , and the highest of bronze , 60,000 pounds . The Albany Iron Works ' steel has not only proved more successful here than the English there , but it can be furnished in any quantity , in the shape of guns , to our Government , at a less cost , all things considered , than that of foreign steel . If , therefore , there is any virtue in steel cannon , there is every reason why they should be furnished at home . We learn that this steel , already tested and approved by Government for other purposes , will be offered to our military authorities for thorough trial in this department of service . We have no fear as to the result , only let our manufacturers have the chance  --  the guarantee that their work ; if good , will be bought in preference to English work , and we shall be able to cope with any transatlantic Power in the arts of peace , and in the arts of war , if it comes to that . Already the best rifled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , to be effective , must be light ; cast-iron is too heavy , bronze too expensive , and not durable ; while steel , at the cost of iron , seems to be the only material upon which we can depend to throw these shells and shot of ours . By all means let this question be tested at once . The necessity for a ' plenty of artilleryiarendered. no less imperative by the present aspect of transatlantioinitters ... Everything ; may depend , on being ready .                     