@@739729

txt It is generally supposed that the Americans , as a people , are keenly alive to the ludicrous , and that a party which , in this country , lays itself open to the shafts of ridicule , is already as good as dead , if not buried . If this be true , the Fernando Wood faction must be in a parlous state ; for the recent peace meeting was certainly the most notable farce ever played in this City . The presence of that fighting apostle of peace , Capt . RYNDERS , was in itself a capital joke ; and not less happy was the hoarse applause which repeatedly greeted the mild proposition to revolutionize the Government by force of arms ! To judge from the appearance of the audience , an uninitiated person might have been led to congratulate the City upon the recent conversion of a very large proportion of her rowdies and red-mugs to the Quaker faith ; and this , it must be confessed , was another capital stroke on the part of the peace-mongers . It would have moved @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to see such an audience vociferously applauding the pacific sentiments of FERNANDO WOOD , and hi-hiing when the angelic prophecy of " Peace on earth and good will to men " was alluded to . We have always known WOOD to be a man of daring genius . We are not accustomed to be startled at what he says or does ; but we never expected that even he would have the temerity to present a crowd of New-York roughs as the harbingers of the Millenium ! It was a dangerous experiment , but it was a successful one . The performance on the platform was in excellent keeping . For six speakers to declare , in one evening , that freedom of speech no longer existed in the North , was an exceedingly good joke ; as was also the oftrepeated assertion that personal liberty in America , outside of Canada and the dominions of JEFF . Devis , " had become a dream of the past ! " This would have been considered a little exaggerated , perhaps , for comedy , but the license of broad farce is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It might have somewhat bewildered a foreigner , unused to the eccentricities of our politics , to observe the singular contradictions presented by the meeting . A Russian , say , would probably have been dumbfounded to hear a dozen loud-mouthed demagogues denouncing President Li:scour as a bloody tyrant , a vile despot , a monster of arbitrary devices , who would not allow his trampled , trembling subjects to hold , still less to utter , opinions contrary to his own . He would , no doubt , suppose that every one of the speakers stood in momentary fear of death , Siberia , or the knout ; that they had crawled there in disguise , in order to avoid the sleepless vigilance of the tyrant 's emissaries . Perhaps he would imagine that they barricaded their houses day and night , slept with armed attendants on the watch , and were ready , at the first alarm , to take refuge in some hiding-place under the cellar floor , or behind the chimney . there to lie perdue until the danger was past . But Mr. WooD is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ground . " Five or six long ferocious speeches in one evening , to prove that freedom of speech has no existence at the North , is rather stupendous , even for farce , and might prove tedious , if too frequently repeated . And besides , if a man can talk for four or five hours to prove that he is gagged , the public might reasonably dread the consequences of larger liberty . To what lengths might not WOOD have extended his remarks , had he not felt somehow restrained by LiecoLres " iron grasp upon the throat of free speech ? " Really , the joke is already stale . Several of the speakers , including Mr. WooD , expressed their willingness to suffer the bastile , and even death , for free speech . Their resignation to imaginary political martyrdom was quite affecting , if not sublime . Fancy them ( if it be not too great an effort of the fancy , ) to be in earnest about it , we think we could suggest a method by which they might obtain the object of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , by their own showing , there is less tyranny than here , and there attempt to get up a peace meeting on the basis of submission and surrender . We opine that a short shrift , and an unenviable elevation above the heads of the common crowd , would speedily cause them to utter quite another sort of " groans for the Lincoln despotism " than those which their treasonable denunciations evoked the other night .                     