@@739755

txt There Is a man here from Salem who says he was taken prisoner and paroled by MORGAN this morning . He says they burned the bridge and depot at Salem , and then marched cast from there , the last of them leaving about 3 o'clock , with six pieces of artillery . They said they were going to burn Mitchell and Seymour . and all the bridges on the Ohio and Mississippi Railroad . He says MORGAN 'S force is 5,000 strong . It is supposed that MORGAR 's move toward Paoli is merely a ruse , and that nis intention is to make the Ohio River at Westport , when lie will attempt to secure some passing steamer or flatboats to effect a crossing . Another and a later dispatch from Mitchell states that a portion of NIORCIAN 'S force was within four miles of that place , and that they were crossing a small river near by . Gen. Monson , who is in command of the cavalry and mounted infantry in pursuit of MoRGAN , had to take a circuit , while MORGAN @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of his overtaking him as soon as was expected . We learn , however , that he was catching up with him rapidly last evening , and that MoRGAN can not remain long in the neighborhood where he is now reported to be . From the fact that our cavalry are southwest of him and of his knowledge of their pursuit of him , he will not probably co as far west as Paoli. but will most likely strike out toward Westport. after having destroyed such bridges on the New-Albany , Jeffersonville and Ohio and Mississippi Roads , as he can reach . If he is advised of our movements from Indianapolis down , he will not go north of the Ohio and Mississippi Road , and he can not go to either New-Albany or Jeffersonville with any hope of escape through these cities . Mom:sx generally moves at night , and we should not be at all surprised to hear of his presence on the Ohio this morning , at some point above Loirsvil ie. A dispatch from Louisville to headquarters , last evening , reports that a band of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Frankfort Railroad , and the trains were stopped in consequence . Westport , on the Ohio River , is just about opposite a point midway between Lagrange and Eminence , and It might be possible that the rebels reported between these points were destroying the road there while MORGAN passes through that section to return to Kentucky , and on down the route he came in by . It seems to be the impression . so far as we can learn , that the object of atomise 's raid into Indiana was to cause a withdrawal of our forces in Kentucky , he believing that we had no sufficient force in Indiana to repel him before he should have succeeded in destroying roads , bridges and depots , exchanging his horses , and perhaps obtaining some plunder , while a portion of his force left behind in Kentucky would overrun that State in like manner . This seems plausible , for another dispatch from Stanford , Ky. , to headquarters last evenine , states 1 that the rebels in that vicinity were stealing horses . Our forces in that section @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are looking after these horse thieves . The report that Bucxima 's division or any other large force of rebels is coming into Kentucky . is entirely discredited at headquarters . Communications were received last evening from Danville , Somerset , Stanford , Lexington , and other points on the southern border of Kentucky , which make no mention of the approach of any rebel force . A number of gunboats are now on the river be . tween this city and Louisville , and other arrangements are in progress that will bring this raid of MORLuc to a speedy end . 