@@739870

txt Congress meets to-day , and will unquestionably proceed at once to the transaction of business . SUMMER COLFAX will be elected Speaker with the general acquiescence of the House . His position as one of the most experienced members , his familiarity with the rules and proceedings of the body over which he is to preside , his personal intelligence , courtesy , and popularity , have made him by general consent the candidate of the Union men . The first thing to be done will be the appointment of the Committees of the House , and in this delicate and important task we have no doubt Mr. COLFAX. will meet the general expectations of the country . We do not believe he will surrender the control of the public business to extremists of any kind , or favor in his selections the efforts of any faction to advance the Presidential aspirations of any man or of any party . He will recognize unquestionably the paramount claims of the loyal men of Congress and the country to direct the general course of public affairs : but he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shades of the loyal sentiment of the Union full and fair representation in the public councils . There does not seem to be a great deal of public business which demands the immediate action of Congress . But there are many questions of great interest and importance which will unquestionably engage the earnest and active attention of that body . The rebellion is drawing near enough to its close to turn public attention to measures for the reconstruction of the Union ; and we have very little doubt that parties will be formed very promptly upon this question . It is reported that the President will discuss the point at some length in his forthcoming message ; but he will depart from his usual practice if he does . Hitherto he has been content to meet questions as they arose and presented themselves for practical action ,  --  and we see no reason to suppose that he will do other wise now . But when this question does thus come up , we have no doubt he will be prepared to meet it by wise , timely and practical measures . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Congress and the schemes of its members . Personal preferences will largely influence Congressional sentiment on questions of policy , and before the session is over we shall doubtless find the canvass of next Fall very thoroughly and actively inaugurated . We should deprecate such an agitation as premature and unwise . We need for the next four years a President whose action shall be marked by practical wisdom and by ardent devotion to the permanent welfare of the whole country , rather than attachment to special theories or subserviency to any party or any clique . His task will he one of infinite delicacy and of considerable difficulty ; and his action ought not to be prejudged or circumscribed by heated partisan controversies so long in advance of the time for its performance .                     