@@740269

txt Colorado , as well as Connecticut , has just given its decision against negro suffrage . This circumstance has led a cotemporary , possessed of very extreme views on the question of negro voting , to take ground against the admission of Colorado into the Union , for which application will be made at the forthcoming session of Congress . " The admission of Colorado , " we are told , " now becomes analafirms to that rf airy of the rthel Males ; and , however desirable it may be for her prosperity , or for the balance of loyal power in the United States Senate , that she should ho received into the Union , it is of infinitely greater consequence for the nation to determine its political creed and rule of action . " The issue has been made ; we hope it will not be dodged by Congress , and that the Territory will remain as it is ( a Territory ) until it is ready to execute justice among all its citizens . " The above is a strictly correct application of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Southern States resuming their places in the councils of the nation until they shall have established negro suffrage . It the Representatives of Mississippi may be excluded from Congress because she does not give the ballot to the blacks , then the same discipline should be applied to Colorado on the same ground ; and the same arguments by which Mr. SI'MNER has urged this course toward the States of the South , will apply with equal force to the new States of the West . If the constitutional provision , which requires that a republican form of government shall be guaranteed to all the States , implies universal suffrage as a necessary incident , then every State which has been admitted into the Union since the formation of the constitution , has been unconstitutionally admitted . The last Congress admitted the Representatives of the new State of Nevada  --  which adjoins Colorado ? to the House and the Senate , though Nevada absolutely denies the right of suffrage to the large Asiatic clement of her population . On the grounds now urged , Nevada should have been kept out till @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been kept out till she allowed the Indians to vote ; and thus we might multiply illustrations . It is quite certain that Congress will take no such novel position , nor sanction such untenable doctrines , in their application to any part of the country .                     