@@740184

txt GENERAL NEWS . The celebration of WASHINGTON 'S Birthday was observed in this city yesterday with unusually imposing demonstrations . The fall of Charleston added to the enthusiasm of the people , which was expressed by one of the finest displays of bunting ever witnessed in this city . Flags were displayed from public and private buildings , and from the shipping in the harbor . Several regiments paraded , and in the evening fireworks were exhibited in several parts of the city . The streets were thronged by citizens , who congratulated each other upon the fall of charleston , ? ind spent the day in social enjoyments . Gov . FENTON will review the Metropolitan Police to-day , at noon , at the Fifth-avenue Hotel . Eight hundred policemen are to appear . Gen. HOOKER writes to the lady managers of a fair organized in Chicago for the benefit of the Sanitary Commission Soldier 's Aid Society : " The Briarean arms of these generous associations have been stretched out to the uttermost parts of the land wherever a sick or wounded soldier needed help @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ down , and have nursed with tenderest care , those who were dying that a nation might live . In this work the women of our land have been the first and most earnest . God bless them . While Europe during the Crimean war produced but one FLORENCE NIGHTINGALE , we of the Young Republic have such a goddess enshrined in almost every household . I can only urge the loyal and the true everywhere to renewed efforts in this good work . " A case of astonishing juvenile depravity has just been developed in Louisville , Ky . CAROLINE 11ILLK.n. a girl thirteen years old , deliberately poisoned her father with arsenic , after having made an unsuccessful attempt to kill him with ratpoison , the principal ingredient of which was phosphorus . The only excuse she made was that she thought she might have a better home and less work to do if her father was dead . KATE G0RMAN , of No. 104 Prince-street , an attradtive female , who has been a pickpocket ever since her eleventh birthday , and realized $35,000 from her operations , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bench-warrant from Recorder HOFFMAN , and committed , yesterday , by Justice DOWLING . A large meeting of prominent citizens was held at the Custom-house yesterday , for the purpose of making arrangements for the celebration of our late victories . Mr. MOSES TAYLOR presided . Resolutions were adopted ! appointing a committee of citizens to draw up a programme and to report at a subsequent meeting . A resolution was also adopted requesting the President of the United States to send Gen. ANDERSON to Fort Sumter in a national steamer to replace the old flag on the fort . The meeting then adjourned . The Toronto Globe states that BURLEY will be tried at Port Clinton , Ottowa County , Ohio , on the charge upon which he was extradited , namely , robbery . If acquitted , he will have a safe convoy out of the United States , Mr. SEWARD having written to that effect to Mr. RUSSELL , the United States District-Attorney at Detroit , who will conduct the prosecution . It is not yet known when the trial will commence . LAMBERT states that BURLEY is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not look so well as when confined in the Toronto Jail . An Indiana exchange states that only about one in six of the . rebels confined in Camp Morton are willing to be exchanged . Therefore only about one thousand will be sent on , unless , to get our men out of rebel hands , the Government makes the felons go home . Evidently the ma ? jority of the rebels in the North are not sanguine of success , nor are they languishing to die in the last ditch . This is not because they are so delightfully situated in Camp Morton ; for although our military authorities avoid everything that approaches cruelty , the location is not a desirable one for a this-skinned man . The Senate Committee continued its investigation of the City Inspector 's Department yesterday . W. R. C. CHAMBERS , CHAS . G. SISSON and DANIEL E. DELAVAN were examined . Mr. DELAVAN said the streets of the city could be cleaned for $400,000 a year , and he would like to take a contract at that price for five years . From @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it appears ( says the Alexandria Gazette ) that , notwithstanding the interruptions , the shipments during 1863 and 1664 were greater than at any time since 1860 , or before the commencement of the war . Of the gross amount sent to market last year , 258,612 tons were brought by the canal . The tunnel under the lake at . Chicago is making very rapid progress . The estimate for the tunnel was fixed at the rate of three and a half feet a day , but they are actually making as much as twelve feet every twenty-four hours . A Lower Canada journal says : Le Courier de St. Hyacinthe states that the trendier of Canadians who have enlisted since the beginning of the war is placed at 43,000 . Of this number 35.000 were French Canadians , no less than 14,000 of whom have d:e t on the battle-field . Though business at the Stock and Produce Exchanges , and other commercial centres , was formally suspended yesterday , there were a few irregular Street transactions in Stocks and Gold , the latter ranging from 2002011 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The subscriptions to the 7-30 Loan , through the Ninth National Bank , yesterday reached $908 , - 330 . Capt . BEALL will be executed on Friday next at Governor 's Island . The draft in the Third District , Brooklyn , was suspended yesterday in order that the day might be properly observed . The Twenty-eighth , Seventh and Thirteenth Wards will be drawn today . Several boats are advertised in St. Louis for the Upper Missouri . The river is now open and in navigable condition from here down .                     