@@739602

txt Early yesterday morning intelligence was received in this city that the ball had opened in earnest atyredericksburgh , and that , from the fight , there was little room to doubt a general engagement would ensue . Throughout the day anxiety was evinced to hear from the conflict , and as usual , rumors of every variety were most industriously circuiatea . Passengers by the Fredericksburgh train last night report that the enemy attempted simultaneously to cross the Rappahannock at three different points  --  the railroad bridge at the town , Knox 's Mill , and Deep Run . The attempt was made about 5 o'clock A. M. At the two former places they were repulsed with great slaughter by our sharpshooters , who , from the defences of their rifle-pits , poured a galling fire into the ranks of the enemy , who fell back in confusion , after having sustained a heavy loss . Our loss is reported to be only five killed and seventy-five wounded . At Deep ltun the enemy were more successful . Under the protection of their heavy batteries they succeeded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ascertain . Our men fell back in good order . It is stated that our batteries completely sweep the plateau at this point , and that so far from having secured any advantage by the passage of the river , they have placed themselves in exactly the position our commanding General wishes them . Exasperated at their warm reception , the enemy wantonly shelled the town , killing a Mr. GROSS , an old citizen , and mortally wounded his brother . The residences of Messrs . Geo . P. Knee and ? Vat:rause were fired by the snelis and totally destroyed . We understand that the troops composing the corns of Gen. LONOSTREET were mainly engaged in the fights of yesterday , and that nearly all the loss sustained was in that corps . The latest advices received are contained in a dispatch dated 6 o'clock , which states that a large force of the enemy had succeeded in effecting a erodsing , and that it was expected that the fight would be renewed again this morning . From the Examiner of Friday . At an early hour yesterday morning-the.important @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ action at Fredericksburgh had at last commenced , and that we were engaged with the enemy in force . The authorities were , as usual , both costive and dilatory in giving out anything to gratify public curiosity ; and it was intimated at the War Department , with obvious propriety , that it would be advisable for the newspapers to await the official dispatches , and not plaster their bulletin boards with hasty and sensational reports . The following is an epitome of all the intelligence received at the Wer Department in the shape of official dispatches up to a late hour last night . The dispatches of Gen. LW relate that the fight began at Fredericksburgh at 5 o'clock in the morning . At that hour the enemy attempted the passage of the Rappahannock at three different points by means of pontoon , ridges . At two points they were repulsed . At the third it is presumed that they effected a passage , as the disparches stated that they had got under , cover of their guns and could not be interrupted in their construction of a bridge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fight was progressing on the southern side of the itappahannock . FURTHER PARTICULARS , INCIDENTS , ETC . It is understood that the point at which the enemy effected a passage of the Rappahannock was at Deep Run , about two miles below Fredericksburgh . The Yankees are said to have secured a landing there on a low cape , and our guns were in a position to sweep their ranks on their reaching the table land extending toward Fredericksburgh . The passenger train which reached here last evening left its station , three miles this side of Fredericksburgh , about 134 o'clock in the afternoon , and brought a number of persons who profess to have had close and minute observation of the morning 's part of the action . The description of the carnage which we have from these sources are frightful . At one point we are said to have cut the line of the enemy 's pontoon bridges , and pouring in deadly showers of grape , to have filled theiair with the legs , arms and disjointed members of the Yankees . When the fire was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ remaining within the limits of Fredericksburgh , and their consternation is aatd to have been most pitiful . We have , from different sources , the report that two women were certainly killed by the enemy 's fire . We could not obtain the names of the unhappy victims . From the best information we can obtain it appears that LOMOBTRZST Division was the portion of our force actively engaged yesterday . The rumor was circulated in the streets last night that the town had been fired by the incendiary shots of the enemy . The rumor up to a late hour had obtained no confirmation in anything received at the War Department . The general conclusions from what we learn up to the hour of writing are , that the enemy had effected a passage of the Rappahannock , probably in considerable force ; that the action of yesterday was without any important fruits or prefatory to a more important action now impending ; and that to-day will witness a large and important , but , perhaps , indecisive battle on the disputed lines of Fredericksburgh . As confirmatory col @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Medical Purveyor 's onfce , for all the ambulances and stretchers that could possibly be sent from this city . These are the gloomy indications of the work to-day . LATER ACCOUNTSBy through passengers who arrived here last night from Fredericksburgh , we learn that simultaneously with his attempt to throw his pontoon bridges across the Rappahannock , the enemy bombarded the town . The few inhabitants still remaining there began to leave immediately and make their way toward Hamilton Station on the railroad . A number of the houses In the town were struck , and two of them , Mr. Jens C. Kum 's , near the depet , and a Mr. Scores , were burned . One of the church steeples was also struck , and some say knocked down . The number of casualties to citizens are variously stated . Some accounts say that only one man , Jacon GEOTs , was killed , and another wounded . But persons , who were among the last to leave the town report that there were six citizens killed , among whom were Mr. J. GAO= and his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Heavy cannonading and the occasional fire of skirmishers was heard at the depot from 5 o'clock A. M. until 11 , when a perfect silence ensued all along the lines , and continued unbroken until 1 o'clock . P. M. , the hour of the departure of the train for Richmond . At last accounts our artillery had been brought into a post . tion covering and completely commanding the open space upon which the enemy 's troops would deploy in crossing . 