@@739944

txt It is said that a committee is about to report favorably on the bill admitting the heads of the various departments to seats in the House , and giving each the right of speaking on any subject connected with their branch of the public service . Such a measure would remedy a great defect in our national system of legislation . There is no good reasoq , why our Congress should be the only representative body of any nation that is deprived of personal communication with those to whom is intrusted the administration of the affairs upon which the body legislates , ' This system , which is peculiar to ourselves , sprang from a jealousy of the Executive power . It was fancied that the personal participation of the cabinet officers in the debates of Congress would give the President undue influence . We do not believe that any such effect would follow . The assumption implies that the representatives of the people either have not understanding , to save them from being cajoled , er have not firmness to save them from being intimidated . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fools or cravens , who have to be specially guarded , lest they be deceived or daunted , the sooner we give up the t epresentative system altogether , and take an autocrat for a ruler , the better . The representation that has no more character than that would indicate , is worse than nothing . The change would , in fact , reduce Executive influence , because it would make the Executive power more directly accountable . Everybody who knows anything of foreign parliamentary bodies , knows the effective use made by the opposition of interpellation . Any member , after notice , has a right to ask an explanation from a minister on any point connected with the discharge of ministerial duties ; and , if he is skillful and pressing enough , he is very likely to uncover the malfeasance , if it really exists . This power of interpellation is really the most formidable of all weapons against a corrupt or incompetent Government . Our resolutions of inquiry are but a miserable substitute for it . The head of the department sends in such a reply @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so evasive or insufficient , it almost always ends the matter , and nothing more is heard of it . Nobody thinks of following up the investigation , as would almost certainly be done if it could be prosecuted by personal questions addressed to the Secretary on the spot , instead ofrequiring new resolutions of inquiry . Imputations are constantly made in both branches of Congress against this or that department , which elicit a great deal of excited talk on both sides of the Chamber , without result , and which might yet be settled by a mere word from the head of the department , if he were present to answer . We had an instance , a day or two since , in the House debate on the Army Appropriation Bill . The sitting was mainly taken up in bandying words to and fro on a charge by an opposition member , Mr. KERNAN , of this State , that the War Department used its funds to transport Washington clerks and other civilians , in large numbers , to Pennsylvania , to vote at the last election . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the Transportation Bureau , whose name he would not communicate . The statement was denied by the Administration leader , Teennses STEVENS , and denounced as a calumny . Yet he could not , any more than Mr. KERNAN , assert anything of his personal knowledge , and the long war of words which ensued amounted to nothing . Had Secretary STANTON a seat in the House , he might have been questioned , and the whole point would have been settled complcrely in two minutes , instead of not being settled at all in two hours . But the proposed ' change would have a higher value yet . It would not only greatly facilitate the holding of our Administrative chiefs to a strict account , but would greatly promote the enlightenment of Congress upon the subject-matter of its legislation . If the heads of the various departments are - worthy of their places , they know more of the affairs of their departments , and of the demands of the public service , than any other men do or can . They ' ire better able to make a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sphere of ? cluty , and to meet all doubts and objections , than any other persons . The Secretary , under the present system , if an Administration Bill is before the liaise or Senate , has to make some committeeman his spokesman  --  a committeeman who is apt to be very imperfectly informed , and who perhaps lacks the natural ability or the education to do justice to the topic . This deficiency is particularly liable to manifest itself , and most injuriously , too , on financial questions . We do not think we shall be wronging the House in saying that there are not twenty men in it , who are even tolerably versed in financial principles . The late debate in the House on the Gold Bill , and its first vote thereon , which so convulsed our market , followed soon afterward by a ? vote directly contrary to that first given , is a striking illustration of the crude financial notions which determine the action of the House .. The mass of its members are not to be blamed for this . They have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a study , and their former pursuits were not of a nature to acquaint them with it by practical experience . They might as well be censuredd for not understanding theology or surgery . But they know enough to understand a financial principle and financial facts , when . clea'rly set forth ; and we contend that the public advantage requires that the public servant who is best qualified shall do this . The same necessity exists , in greater or less force , in respect to every denartnaarit of the Cloysratp , en ) Aft 9431. g all of them are supposed to have special facilities and qualifications for shedding light upon every subject that appertains to their branch of the public service . In the isolation of the heads of the departments , the House frequently is left without even the slightest knowledge whether a bill before it is or is not in harmony with the views of those who have the responsibility of administering the Government . In the debate on the Gold Bill , it was positively asserted , by some of its opponents , that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the bill accorded ; and it was not for days afterward that it transpired that the measure was specially desired by Mr. CHASE , that he might baffle the gold speculators . It is time that this groping in the- dark , or in the uncertain light reflected at second-hand , should cease . It is the business of Congress , which legislates upon such tremendous interests , to avail itself of every means of understanding all the facts and . principles involved . It can not , do this without putting itself in more immediate relations with the public officials who have the best knowledge of the subject . When it has thus faithfully used these means of information , then its duty is to discuss and decide , without fear or favor , as its enlightened judgment shall dictate .                     