@@739968

txt It can have escaped no one 's memory that on the occasion of nearly every great battle since the war commenced , one of the first appeals to public feeling and sympathy has taken the shape of an urgent request for sup- : plies of material for bandages for the wounded . It was so at the close of all , the great engagements from Shiloh to Antietam . Admitting the vast improvements , effected in every detail of the army hospital arrangements within the last two years , and assuming that the supplementary labors of the Sanitary Commission have aided greatly as auxiliaries of the surgical department of the army , it would be well not to forget that at no period of the war have there been such gigantic operations as the present simultaneously in progress . ' Of the three-quarters of a million men that ' compose the national army , it ' is no excessive estimate ' to reckon that a half million will be either in the very blaze and shock of battle , or marching thitherward with eager and impatient step @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ elapsed . For the contingencies of battles in which a host so enormous will be engaged , it is no disparagement to the forethought , judgment and ability , either of the Medical Department or the Sanitary Commission , to suggest that even further volunteer effort may possibly be needed . Whether the pending campaigns shall take the ' shape of open contests in the field , or of prolonged sieges in front of Richmond in the East and Atlanta in the West , it would be childish to disguise the certainty of bloodier work in prospect than bassyet markedlhe progress of the conflict . In view of this , every sympathizing  --  household may at once prepare to become a practical ministrant to ' the wounded soldiers . Linen and cotton rags , thoroughly clean and sweet , ' Can hardly be placed.within reach of the hospital . department in the field in superabundant quantities . And to become contributors in this way to the holy purpose of mitigating the ' sufferings of the patriotic soldier , will prove not only a welcome tribute to the Sanitary Commission , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ act of giving , itself , will stimulate feelings of direct and personal interest In the soldier and the cause he fights for . It does not need much sacrifice to be a participant in such work ; it needs but devotion of purpose , and a rational sense of the vast and yet uncom puted sum ' of physical suffering which the pending conflict brings in its appalling train .                     