@@739880

txt We have aready acknowledged the receipt of Richmond papers as late as Wednesday last . The following extracts , in addition to those we have already made , will be found of interest : SPIRIT OF THE PRESS . THE PRESIDENT 'S MESSAGE . From the Richmond Examiner . Dec. 10 . One-tenth of the repentant criminals are suth. cleat to redeem a State and to restore its franchises . Toe reasons oy Which this action is justified are worthy of the , r author . It inign-t appear to a superficial observer that a provision of this character would be tantamount to erecting an oligarchy , in which the tenth part of a peoplelwould be not only invested with the supreme power , but be protected by the military force of a conqueror In the exercise of it . It might appear that this minority , so reauy to submit to the conqueror , would be not only the vilest part of the people , hut . by the hatred with which it would be regarded by the rest of the population , least capable of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vanish before the great necessity of " reconstructing and diseethrallieg and regenerating freedom , " which just now seems to be the peculiar mission of the Yankees . In the declaration of this desire to restore Republiran Government to the seceded States , there is a suolimity of impudence . One-tenth of the population arc to be made the masters of the country , if they can be found willing to play the part ; if not , the farce will be performed oy the importation of foreign actors . It is absurd , in the opinion of LINCOLN , to base the reorganization of the Government upon the consent of an element which is hostile to it . The Republican Government which:he proposes to guarantee must be protected by the General Government , both against Internal and external violence . Has it never occurred to him that what ne calls internal violence is the real expression of the sentiment of the people ? Does it not strike him that this form of guaranteeing a Republican Government is the forcible establishment of a hated despotism ; and precisely the opposite of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ muddy reasoning , of course , does not conceal this truth from him . He knows well that the utter subjugation or extermination of a people are necessary to the accomplishment of his purposes , and to the empty name of freedom he is prepared to sacrifice the reality . It is a cheering ground of hope that the same head which invents this justification of his course , must devise the measures necessary to carry It into effect . If we can foil his attempt at conquest as easily as we can ' elute his Reasoning , the cause is safe . From the RichmondExaminer , Dec. 14 . Such are the first terms of peace offered by the /Jolted States to the people of the Confederate States . These terms are joined with many vague intimations that they may be withdrawn or modified as occasion requires . ? ' Those laws and proclamations are enacted and put forth , " says the shallow knave , " for the purpose of aiding in the suppression of the rebellion . " But in vain is the trap set in sight of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which it is baited , and shun the snare which skows the noose on the surface . The Proclamation of Pardon will have as much , and no more effect than the Proclamation of Emancipation , and the Proclamation " to disperse , " which began the war . This document has , however , one trait of real Importance . It reveals the decline of the mania for war in the United States . LINCOLN represents his people now as he did two years ago . Then . all was bloody . Confiscation , subjugation , extermination were the only measures he arid they thought or spoke of . Great is the distance between those days and these . Instead of " crushing the rebellion " in " sixty days , " by a gigantic " Union army . " the chief hope now rests in a juggle . There is a time for all things  --  a time for fighting , and that time is nearly past ; a time for cheating , and that time is nearly come . From the Richmond Enquirer , Dec. 14 , We @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Message of AHR.AHAM LoicoLl.r . Recovering 3ut recently from an attack of the smallpox , some excuse may be made for the Message . It is but another exhibition of his weakness and folly . Why his Cabinet will permit him to make such a fool of himself , and render their country an object of contempt and ridicule throughout the world , can only be accounted for on the supposition that it is the easiest way to get rid of him . They , therefore , permit him to have the freest and fullest use of his pen . To his proclamation of amnesty and reconstruction we especially invite the attention of our readers , and when the " one-tenth " are ready to succumb , we ask the privilege of announcing it to their Father ABRAHAM , At present we have not the space to review the Message , and do not know that we shall hereafter find the time ; but as there are some features in it so characteristic of a Yankee , we may on future ocoe'ions recur to this Message . BUPEDIOR DIPLOMACY OF THE @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The President treats at great length of our foreign relations . He discusses with boldness the conduct of England , and proves conclusively that her strict " neutrality " is one-sided , and inimical to us . Re gibbets her Minister of Foreign Affairs as the pusillanimous instrument of our enemies , exposing his base subterfuges , his unblushing disregard of treaty stipulations , and the ungenerous advantages taken of our present situation , The Onfriendly action of the British Administration is Droved strongly  --  perhaps , unfortunately , too strongly . lie shows that Lord Joan Resseen is decidedly hostile to us . The tendency of this information , so presented , is to discourage our people . Argument on this line , too , tends to soothe the antagonism of the North toward Great Britain  --  for so well sustained an accusation of the English Ministry by the Confederate States is the acquittal of England by the North . Just doubts may be entertained if they are the true exponents , of the majority of intelligent Englishmen , or even of Parliament . What policy does the President disclose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to conciliate foreign nations ? Two measures of retaliation for their broken laths were suggested , but deprecated on moral grounds . We wish favors from foreign nations . Can we reasonably expect them to be offered gratuitously to us , or even upon merely signifying a desire for them ? Sentiment may influence the action of men . Interest only influences the action of nations . On the mere plausibility of our claim to be recognized , European nations promptly accorded to us the position of belligerents , though the sentiment of Europe was adverse to us because of our peculiar institutions . Why is the attitude of European Powers  --  England especially ? now inimical to us ? Because the suverior diplomacy of the United States has made it appear that it is to their interest to be so .. What the argument or the inducement offered , time will disclose ; out it has been efficacious to the extent of securing to her a full privilege to obtain men , munitions ana credit to an unlimited extent . Perhaps the reckoning is anticipated at our expense . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to meet it . We have , though each day of the continuance of the war is deepening the embarrassment that overlies , if not seriously exhausting them . Let us then confer on our present Commissioner , or new ones , plenary powers to confer with Yankee diplomatists . The House , at a former session , passed a resolution looking forward to such action . Remove the restrictions under which our Commissioners have been acting . Let them not appeal simply as the representatives of a just cause , and an oppressed people , but as the representatives of a brave , united , powerful and unconquerable people , whose policy is peace , possessing almost boundless territory , vast wealth , and incalculable resources . A judicious resort to the almoat inimitable system of Yankee diplomacy , can not fall to speedily reverse the onesided neutrality to which we are now so much the victim . Nor even now is it to be despaired of that a similar policy toward our lieihbors , and neutral allies of the Northwest , will he productive of good results . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is strange that he should not have done so , at ! east when ice ordered Gen. Beauregard to open on Fort Sumsir . Perhaps the country at large may lie charged with g ? same want of foresight . Congress , at least , does riot appear to have foreseen from the provisions it reede . But the Constitution of the Provisional Gov. ernment prohibited any expenditures of money except on estimates sent in by a department . Hence , if the paper expenditures were not made , the fault must rest on the Administration . Yet war seems not to have been anticipated . Larger appropriations and a more comprehensive financial system would of course have been entered upon . It was only during the second session of the Provisional Congress that war was declared to exist between the Confederacy and the United States . Many excellent suggestions are made for maintaining the efficiency of the army . We have heretofore expressed our views upon the repeal of the substitute law , and the bringing of exempts into service . Every man within the present military nee should be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out of it . Congress should act cautiously in extending that age , or in passing a sweeping conscription , and providing that those more useful to the material and political interests of the country , be exempt by a " detail . " We remonstrate against this proceeding as an infringement of the constitutional duty of the representative branch to " raise armies , " which we understand to mean armtes for the field ; and as placing an arbitrary power in the bands of creatures of the Executive liable to the most corrupting and dangerous abuse . 