@@739732

txt " Peace and Reunion ! " These were the dulcet words which lined the blank walls and guttersides of New-York and Brooklyn , heading the call for the Grand Mass Convention of " those opposed to the war and its continuance . " Peace and Reunion ! What a delightful combination . Read it again . " It hath a dying fall . " Do not all manner of visions at once come over the mind , of millennial glories  --  visions of lions and lambs , of Southern chivalry and Northern hyenas , of Copperheads and Butternuts , and Abolitionists , and all manner of opposing elements , au joined together in one grand Happy Family ? Did not every one instinctively picture to himself the mild and gentle faces sure to be found at this meeting of the Peace and Reunion seekers ?  --  the intellectual and honest phiz of FERNANDO , the calm and philanthropic countenance of ISAIAH , the ambrosial curls of Enmos. and the general halo of meekness and serenity which would glorify the walls of Cooper Institute ? And then the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and sweetness and piety , such as beseems those who come forth at the heavenly call of Peace and Reunion . They would all of course be earnestly in favor of free speech , so much so that it would not be very safe for any one to undertake to discuss the other side of the question in the hearing of the audience . They would be strong for the Union , so strong that not a word should be said against those who have armed themselves to overthrow it . They would be strenuous for the rights of the citizen and for a constitutional Government , so much so as to show plainly their sympathy with those who have based their rebellion upon a denial of those rights , and have striven to set up a despotism instead of a Constitution . And through all their outcry about the liberty of the citizen , about Free Speech and a Free Press , it would appear plainly enough that it is only because they have not the power that those who differ from them are not crushed under their feet by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out even the thoughts of those who love freedom and would elevate the oppressed . Peace and Reunion ! Well ! we all would like to accomplish that . There is something of a difference , however , in the ways by which we would pursue it . We wish these gentry would be explicit as to the means by which they propose to attain both of these objects . We can understand how one who is " opposed to the war and its continuance " might go to work to obtain peace . He might say let the Army of the Potomac lie down , while LEE rushes over it , and burns Washington . Let GRANT retire from before Vicksburgh , and send back the hundred cannon which he has captured . Let ROSECRANS send a flag of truce to BRAGG , asking permission for his army to lay down their arms at the feet of the rebels whom they whipped at Stone 's River . Let BANKS evacuate New - Orleans  --  Scnoirmn St.LOUiS  --  BURNSIDE Louisville , and MITCHELL Nashville . A vigorous prosecution of such measures might @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , how about Reunion ? For our own part we do not see how any sane man can , under present circumstances , look for peace except by disunion . If the progress of the war has decided anything , it has rendered it absolutely certain that so long as the Southern armies remain unbroken , and the rebel Government retains actual authority over the Southern people , the integrity of the Union can not be restored . They are fighting for separation ,  --  and nothing but their defeat can prevent it . The first thing , therefore , which every man who desires " reunion " has to do , is to insist on the defeat of the Southern armies . When that has been accomplished we can have " peace and reunion : " until then we can have neither .                     