@@740256

txt The great development of the growth and manufacture of wool in this country during the four years of war , has not only benefited a special interest , but the general public . The largely increased extent to which woolen garments , exterior as well as interior , are now worn by our citizens , is frequent subiect of remark . Cotton also we have not only been in the habit of supplying ourselves with , but furnishing to half the world beside . Rut the article of silk , so largely used by the other sex , is all imported from abroad , though there is no reason why all the silk we require should . not be raised and manufactured in our own country . Our French correspondent , in a recent letter , mentioned that there had been quite a panic in the southern part of France about the development of silk manufacture in the United States . It was reported that American agents had lately been making arrangements with a number of the best silk-workers of Lyons to go to the United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " we are told , " shook the empire , to use a strong phrase , to its very centre , for if there be any one industry more than another on which the French pride themselves , and on which reposes the wealth of the country , it is on the manufacture of silk . To touch this manufacture is to touch a vital point ; and if the nation which buys the largest proportion of silk of any other should enter successfully into competition in this important industry , the blow would be a most fatal one . " In consequence of these reports the French journals attempted , by all sorts of stories , to discourage the silk-workers from leaving France ; and in order to do so did not hesitate to tell the most unheard of things as having happened to other French workmen who have gone to the United States on contracts signed in France . We have understood that there have been some projects of late , by Frenchmen resident here , and by others who are familiar with silk culture , to introduce the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , for silk , in small quantity , has been raised and manufactured here for two centuries ; but to establish it on a large scale , and in a skillful fashion . Their plan is to bring from France a small colony of those who are familiar with the culture , and commence operations in one of the Southern States , Virginia , Georgia , or South Carolina . These States , as a considerable experience during the last century , and a small experience in this , have proved , are extremely well adapted to the production of silk . The soil is especially favorable ; the mulberry is indigenous ; and the climate is particularly well adapted for rearing the worms . All that is needed is the right kind of labor . With this the business might grow to great magnitude in the mere supplying of our own wants , and would assuredly prove immensely profitable .                     