@@739882

txt A very important meeting of the Tobacco Exchange was held In the rooms of the association , at the Shockoe warehouse , at Tuesday , at 10 o'clock A. M. The meeting was in response to a call , circulated among the members , for action in relation to the removal from Richmond of the tobacco said to have been purchased by the French Gqymmenkt , preliminary to the consummation of whfileMbbject a French vessel-of-war has appeared in the James River . Mr .. Temze K. CASKIE , President of the Tobacco Exchange , was in the chair , and called the meeting to order . There was a large attendance of the members of the Exchange , and others , uninterested in the Tobacco trade . Upon calling the meeting to order , the President made a few remarks , explanatory of the object of the meeting . He characterized the application of the French Government for the removal of the tobacco as but one of those flagrant insults which the nations of Europe were heaping upon us . The Confederate Government , by giving its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the principle of an independent government , and set aside the sentiment of this community and the people of the Confederate States at large . It was the opinion of the speaker , and he believed it was shared by the members of the Exchange , that the tobacce claimed by the French Government ought not and should not be delivered , except in the regular way of trade and commerce . If the French Government had purchased the tobacco and wanted it delivered through our port , let them proceed in the way establisned by international law , and not supplicate and approach us through the courtesy of the Lumout Government at Washington , with whom we are at war . There was a pretty general expression of opinion among the members of the Exchange , and a very decided feeling was manifested derogatory to the supposed action of the Confederate Government in acquiescing to the delivery of the tobacco under the regulations laid down by the Government at Washington . The question involved ' , the delivery of all tobacco purchased by the French agents prior to March , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It was a of very grave doubt whether any of the tobacco sought to be delivered under cover of the LINCOLN Government was purchased or contracted for prior to that date . A committee of five was appointed to thoroughly subject and report at a future meeting . In the meantime , the Confederate Government will be made acquainted with the spirit of the meeting , and the protest there entered against the delivery of the tobacco to the French Government .                     