@@740069

txt The political skies begin to brighten . The clouds that lowered over the Union cause a month ago are breaking away . The most careless observers can not fail to notice a marked change in the tone of public sentiment within that time . It was not to be denied , and we did not attempt to conceal , that a profound despondency had taken possession of the public mind . Distrust and dissatisfaction pervaded the Union ranks ; the Union candidates seemed to be losing their hold on the public confidence ; and the enemies of the Administration were open and loud in their exultant predictions of disaster to the Union cause . Now all this is changed . The public temper is buoyant and hopeful . The friends of the Government , the defenders of the Constitution , the supporters of the Union ticket , are full of courage and of confidence . Their faith in the flag has revived , and they are ready and eager to do battle under its starry folds for the Union and the Constitution in any field which their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ manifest enough . For nearly three months our candidates had been exposed to the assaults and denunciations of the Opposition ,  --  and Union men , having no opponent in the field to unite their censures and their efforts , had begun to quarrel among themselves . Military successes , moreover , were lacking : the disaster at Petersburgh had fallen heavily upon the public heart : the impending draft carried gloom and dread to the public mind , and the Democratic party . being responsible for neither candidates nor platform , seemed to present a united front against the Administration . These influences no longer prevail . The Petersburgh disaster has been more than redeemed by GRANT 'S bold seizure and firm grasp of the Weldon road . The glorious victories of FARRAGIIT in capturing Forts Gaines and Morgan , and the splendid triumphs of SHERMAN , in the capture of Atlanta and the defeat of loon 's great army , have revived the national courage and aroused the hope of a speedy close of this great rebellion . The action of the Chicago Convention has unmasked the unpatriotic purposes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sympathy and cooperation with the rebels in the Southern States . Every man now feels and knows that the success of that ticket is equivalent to the virtual triumph of the rebel cause . The rebel journals disclose the profound interest which they feel in the result of the Presidential contest , and the reliance which they place in the overthrow of the Union party , as their last and only hope . The great contest is now to be closed , as it was begun , at the ballot-box . The war draws near its end . Nothing but the hope of success at the polls prevents the surrender of the rebels in the field . The open demand of the MCCLELLAN party for a " suspension of hostilities , " in the very midst of our most glorious victories  --  the clamor for a hollow truce just when victorious war is giving us the basis of a solid and lasting peace , betray either a craven and unmanly spirit , or an eager and ardent sympathy with the rebel cause . There is no mistaking the temper of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ candidates  --  or of the press by which they are sustained , from one end of the land to the other . These men have no rejoicings for our victories , Their cannon , which are so prompt to proclaim the action of a party conclave , are sullenly silent over the glorious triumphs which carry the Stars and Stripes over the field of rebellion , and proclaim anew the supremacy of the Constitution and the near integrity of the American Union . The heart of the nation revolts at such a spectacle . Such flagrant sympathy with the rebel cause paralyses the party which tries in vain to conceal it . The party which , in these days of national peril , dare not avow its love for the Union , its hatred of rebellion , or3d its firm determin- ation to preserve the one by crushing tin other , can never command the confidence am support of the American people . Under this improved condition of the public mind , we hope for a cordial and hearty union oj Union men in support of the Union candidates Whatever differences @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now be laic aside . ' the time has come when they can nt longer be indulged without peril and guilt ? the peril of ruining the country , and the gun so great a crime involves . Nothing can bE more certain than that LINCOLN or Mean ... LAN must be President for the next four years , ? that the spirit of the Baltimore plat. form or the spirit of the Chicago platform must rule the public councils , and shape the destinies of this great Republic . No other choice is possible . We hear talk of new con ? ventions , and a change of candidates . 2114 this is folly , or worse . Mr. LINCOLN has been regularly and fairly nominated , with great unanimity , by a full convention of the Union party , in which all shades of sentiment and opinion were duly represented . That con. vention has dissolved , and no man or body of men has the power to repeal or change its action . Any attempt to do so , whatever may be its motive , can only check @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Union men , and thus aid directly the election of the opposing candidate . Nor can any change be made by the Opposition , either in their candidate or platform , that will not damage their chances of success . The stakes are set . The issues are made up . The candidates are regularly and duly in nomination . All that remains for every citizen is to choose his side , take his place , and fight manfully fox the cause he decides to espouse . We hope to hear no further talk of shifts or changes in the Union ranks . We trust all thought of Buffalo or Cincinnati Conventions will be abandoned . The issues as they stand are broad enough and clear enough for everybody 's action , and the respective candidates are true and fair exponents of the parties they represent . Let the contest go on !                     