@@740409

txt The dedication of the Cornell University has been a success In every particular . The weather was fine , and the city crowded with visitors . Over 300 students have arrived , and will find rooms . In the address of the founder , Ems Cm/NELL , he said : " I fear that those who come expecting to finds finished institution will be disappointed . We did not invite you to such an entertainment ; nor did we expect or desire to have a single thing finished . We expected only to commence an institution which in the future will mature to a great degree of usefulness ; which will place at the disposal of the industrial classes such facilities for acquiring practical knowledge and high mental culture as the limited means of the humble can command . I trust that we have made the beginning of an institution which will prove highly beneficial to the poor young men and the poor young women of our country . This is one thing we have not finished ; but more and more we hope to perfect until @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon whom fortune Lae omitted to smile , shall be able to secure to themselves a thoroughly practical and useful educatiort , thus making better the individual , the State . and society itself . I trust that we have made the beginning of an institution which shall bring science to the aid of agriculture . Chemis ? ry has the same great store of wealth in reserve for agriculture that it has lavished upon the arts , and we must instruct the young farmer how to obtain the hidden treasure . The farmer needs more light ; and this we are preparing to sunray . We also hope to strengthen the arm of the mechanic , that he may multiply ills productions by means of a mind of higher culture . Millions have been wasted for the want of thorough scientific and practical training among our mechanice . The great wealth of our nation has been derived from mechanism applied to agriculture . We must labor earnestly in this invi:ing field . I hone we have made a beginning toward a condition in which men shall have enlarged culture , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and be better qualified to servo their fellow-men , their families and their Clod . It shall be our atm to make true Christian man , without dwarfing or paring them down to fit the narrow gauge of sect . Finally . I trust that we have laid the foundation of a university where every person can find instruction in any study . "                     