@@740199

txt There are signs of motion and action in the Army of the Potomac . The indications of the telegraph will convey the facts to the public , so far as it is judicious to do so . Those who suppose the Army of the Potomac has been idle since SHERMAN set out on his march from Savannah , know little of the circumstances ; and those who talk about GRANT " looking to his laurels , " or being jealnus of those of SHERMAN , SHERIDAN , OT THOMAS , know as little of the conduct of the war as of the character of the Lieutenant-General . SHERMAN 'S army itself has not had harder duties during the last two months than the aiiny before Petersburgh . Ceaseless demonstrations , ceaseless preparations , frequent movements , constant manceuvering , perpetual activity , there have been in the Army of the Potomac . This has been the cooperation that GRANT has been keeping up with SHERMAN , and it has been of vast value ; indeed , it has been in great part owing to this that SHERMAN @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Columbia , Wilmington , Fayetteville , Kinston and Goldsboro are no less the triumphs of the Army of the East than they are those of the Army of the West . The time may now have come when GRANT intends to put the Army of the Potomac into more direct contact with the chief army of the rebellion . Heretofore there have been many reasons why , instead of precipitating the conflict with LEE , he should refrain from it . Now , even observers at this distance can see strong reasons for the assault . The position of Gen. SHERMAN , the position of Gen. SCHOFIELD , the location of Admiral FARRAGIIT , the military situation around Petersburgh , the moral condition of the rebel army , the political status in Richmond  --  these are matters which have assumed new phases in the last few weeks . It may be that , on the whole , GRANT will consider it proper to take advantage of these things . The Army of the Potomac is now of great strength , in excellent military and moral condition , and is as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Its heroism , its courage , its deathless endurance , its unconquerability have been attested on a score of historical fields ; in battles foughtin Virginia ; In Maryland , in Pennsylvania , from the plains of Manassas to the fortifications of Petersburgh ; fought under most inauspicious circumstances , against the greatest army of the Confederacy , led by its best General . During the year it has been under the command of Gen. GRANT , it has accomplished marvelous and terrible feats of arms ; and it would be a proud ending to the great history of this veteran army to behold the chief rebel force broken by its power , and surrendering their arms at its feet . 