@@740040

txt Again the cession of Sardinia to France is spoken of . This question was first broached in the columns of an Italian journal ? it is now revived in those of a French cotemporary , and some of the leading Transalpine journals have become , not unnaturally , alarmed at so very suspicious a circumstance . They do not hesitate , indeed , to declare their belief in the existence of a plot between the oracle at the Tuileries and the Government at Turin for the carrying out of the project . Even CAvoun , they assert , was at one time favorable to the sale of Sardinia , provided a good price could be got for it , and the men who disposed of Savoy and Nice can hardly be trusted in such a matter . Under some pretext or other , too , all the Italian soldiers and officials are being removed from the island , and everything indicates that an act of treachery is in contemplation . But it is not exactly for the sale and purchase of Sardinia that NAPOLEON and the Turin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ according to our authorities , having eschewed the aid of revolution , and the instrumentality of arms , for the reco'very of Rome , has no alternative save to let things remain in statu quo , or to offer some equivalent to the French Emperor which might induce him to withdraw his troops from the " Eternal City . " The possession of Rome being indispensable to the maintenance of VICTOR Ehtertun 's prestige , and the integrity of his Kingdom , he has determined to ' embrace the latter horn of the dilemma rather than the former , and so Sardinia is to be transferred to NAPOLEON in consideration of his recalling the French garrison from Italy , and leaving the old Pope to his tate . Now , it is possible that all these surmises touching the existence and objects of the plot in question may be well founded , but it , is also possible that the contrary may be the case . The French Emperor would be doubtless most anxious to acquire possession of the great island of Sardinia , because of the commanding position which it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hardly consent to stipulate to abandon the Pontiff in order to obtain it . The Italian Government might be willing enough to exchange Sardinia for the Papal capital , but would it not be fairer to offer the quid pro quo to Pius himself , rather than to Louis NAPOLEON ? His Holiness is , in fact , the proper party to whom the offer should be made . He would be , certainly , entitled to compensation for the surrender of Rome , and the large and fertile island of Sardinia would fully indemnify him for the sacrifice . Would it not then be worth the while of the Cabinet of King VICTOR to tempt him with this alluring bait ? Could they but induce the Pope to accept their terms , and to make an exchange of the " Eternal City " for the Mediterranean isle , the Roman difficulty would le set at rest forever , and the Italian Kingdom would be complete and consolidated from the Alps to ape Spartivento . From such a com- promise , not only would these advantages accrue , to Italy , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ got rid of , since ; were the Pope once willing to abandon Rome , NAPOLEON would no ' longer have a pretext for retaining possession of it . Instead , therefore , of seeking to propitiate the French Emperor by giving him a bargain of Sardinia , the Cabinet of Turin should hold a hard grip of that island , and lose no opportunity of pressing its acceptance on the Pope , in lieu of Rome . For if they can only induce His Holiness to make the exchange , they will obtain deliverance from Pope ' and Emperor together , which is , of course , the great desideratum . Even if the Pope rejected , the bargain ? as he probably would  --  there would be no harm in making him the offer .                     