@@740042

txt The last battle before Atlanta , fought on Thursday , the 28th of July , appears to have been , in its results upon the combatants , almost a repetition of the famous 8th of January , when Juno:ma 's riflemen so murderously repulsed Paciutsnem 's army . Gen. SHERMAN , after a long series of flanking movements , at last marched down into the plains before Atlanta , and here , in an open and level country , he has fortified himself , daily strengthening as well as advancing his lines , which invest the city . Hoon , who received JOHNSTON 'S command on the condition that he should defend Atlanta , has made three grand attacks upon SFMRMAN end has failed in each . wilh dreadful losses , Each of his failures has been worse than that wnicit preceded it ; and in sixteen days , from the 15th of July to the let of August , he is reported to have lost in killed , wounded and prisoners , twenty-four thousand men  --  very nearly if not quite half of the army which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the 28th he flung MS whole army against Lcamtes corps , watch had been moved from the right to the extreme left , and held , therefore , the most important part of our line . The Western troops handle the shovel and pick as skillfully as the rifle , and throw up defences with almost incredible rapidity . LOAN had already , fortunately , raised works in his front , and had his cannon and riflemen in place when the attacking columns were discovered . A writer who describes the scene says the nature of the ground was such that the enemy 's movements could be perceived from the tope of trees ; feints were , therefore , out of the question , and Loam ( was able to post his troops so as to meet full in the face the columns which Hoop massed against him . The measures he and Gen. HOWARD took were much the same as JACKSON 'S before New Orleans . The men were ordered to lie oehind their works until the batteries opened fire ; the cannon were loaded and pointed for short range @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ began firing , and take deliberate aim , " each picking his man and firing as if at a deer . " The two rebel columns , commanded by LORING and STzwART , advanced simultaneously . Our troops lay quiet till they got within short range . Then the whole of our line blazed ; the . fire of grape , canister and musketry laid prostrate the heads of the rebel columns , ploughed them through , and broke and shattered their formation . The enemy recoiled before the fire at once . Gen. LORING was borne off the field with a bullet through his shoulder ; and Gen. STRWART was only able to rally his men and reform the lines when they had fallen back out of range . LORING 'S command could not be rallied at all . STEWART charged a second time at the head of what remained of his own column , and was killed almost immediately . Gen. STEPHEN D. LEE is also said to have been wounded in this second charge , which resulted only in increasing the enemy 's loss , and in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the enemy did not show themselves again . They left nine hundred and twenty-five dead and twelve hundred badly wounded in front of our works . beside several thousand firearms , and a number of colors . Their slightly wounded walked or were carried off to the rear ; our forces captured but few unhurt prisoners . The rebel lose is estimated by Gene . Howie ) and Loam " at 5,625 , distributed as follows : Killed . Wounded . Loring 's corps 200 1,500 Stewart 's corps 700 3,000 Abbott 's corps 25 200 Total 925 4,700 Our own loss was ninety killed and less than five hundred wounded ; ' in all less than six hundred . This battle and the two which preceded it show the immense advantage which SHERMAN has gained by the masterly anddaring strategy which carried our army over the mountains down into the plains of Georgia . He has completely turned the tables upon the rebel Commander , who must now attack instead of sustaining our assaults . It must have been a gratifying circumstance to the gallant fellows who had so long @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ find themselves at last receiving the attack . No doubt SHERMAN will push his advantage ; his skill is as great as the bravery of his troops . Our cavalry , in the meanwhile , nave destroyed the railroads in HOOD 'S rear , and the rebel General , whose resistance appears to have been of the greatest advantage to us , it he escapes at all , will have to sneak away with an army diminished by half since he took command , and dispirited by a series of bloody defeats . The battle of the 28th is a fair offset against the mischance before Petersburgh , which occurred three days later . The rebels have lost more men in the three attacks made by Hoon , in fifteen days , than we have lost in Virginia in the last month ; and while HOOD 'S case has grown more desperate with each battle , and he has lost position after position till he has nothing left to lose but Atlanta  --  Gamo , on the othechand , has lost fewer men , and holds with an iron grasp all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we were pot given to looking at the dark side of our affairs , if there were not so many in the Free States ready to magnify every rebel success and to diminish every rebel disaster , this contrast would suggest itself to every one who reads the newspapers ; and it would be seen that in the latter half of the present campaign the rebels have suffered greater losses in men and material than we over the whole field , and have besides this lost position fatally in one part of the field , without gaining anywhere .                     