@@739391

txt Our advices from Kentucky still leave the National forces within four miles of Fort Henry on the Tennessee River , while Gem GRANT had returned to Paducah for SMITH 'S Brigade of seven thousand men , which together with the eight thousand under Gen. MeCrataNaND , would make a sufficient force to insure success . Reconnoissances have established the fact that the rebel forces behind the Fort have recently been heavily reinforced , and a rumor puts BEAUREGARD himself in command . Our land force will be assisted by seven gunboats . It is now stated that the Virginia and South Carolina regiments which were under HUMPHREY MARSHALL in Kentucky , went back to Virginia after the recent rout from Prestonburgh , and that the rest of his forces went to Pound Gap , the most eastern pass through the Cumberland Mountains , where they were disbanded by him . His whereabouts is now unknown . A report has reached Louisville that a party of rebel cavalry were surprised , on Monday night , between Lebanon an l Grcen River , and that . orty of them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ news from the rebels or by dispatch boat , of the operations of Gen. BURNSIDE . It is twenty-six days since the expedition sailed from Hampton Roads ; and nine days since , from our special correspondent , we learned that a large part of the fleet had passed into Pamlico Sound ; yet we have rebel newspapers of three days ago from Richmond which state that no vessels belonging to the expedition were then in the Sound ? that some of them had been there , but they had all left . It hardly seems possible that the rebels could conceal its existence and operations in this way if it had operated . It is well known , however , that Gen. BURNSIDE had considerable latitude as to the point or points at which he should operate . If he found it impracticable to achieve fully his purposes at this moment on that point of the North Carolina coast , he may either have delayed operations for a short time , or he may have gone southward to startle the rebels at one of the very feasible points for operation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The arrangements for the sailing of the last part of the Butler Expedition are now nearly completed , and the vessels now being loaded in Boston with troops and stores will probably sail within the week . The Maine Fourteenth Regiment , the First Maine Battery , the Second Ver mont Battery , and the Fourth Massachusetts Battery , of the New-England Division , are now going on shipboard . The entire command of Gen. BUTLER will number 10,000 men . The steamship Constitution , having on board a portion of the Butler Expedition , returned to Fortress Monroe , on Wednesday , with the gunboat Miami in tow , having found her forty miles north of Hatteras , in a sinking condition . Our advices from Rolla , Missouri , warn us not to expect a movement of the National army forward from Lebanon , at present , the roads being still in a bad condition . The divisions of Germs . SIGEL and ASBOTH have gone forward , however , and will form a junction with those " of CURTIS , PRENTISS and Davis , soon . PRICE , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eight miles this sine of Springfield , where he had determined to bide the issue of a battle . According to the testimony of an Englishman who has just arrived in Washington from the South , having left Richmond on Teusday last , the rebel authorities expect a recognition of the Southern Confederacy by England and France early during the coming Spring . Members of the rebel cabinet profess to have intelligence from Europe which render the recognition a certainty , and JEFF . DAMS , it is said , will foreshadow it im his Inaugural Address on the 22d inst . A special dispatch to the Chicago Tribune , from Leavenworth , states that Gen. LANE intends to go with Gen. HUNTER 'S Expedition to the Indian Territory , if he has to become a private . The steamer Commodore Perry arrived at Cincinnati on Tuesday , bringing with her twenty pieces of ordnance , twelve of which are 6-pounders , and six of the celebrated Parrott guns , with all the carriages , etc . The Perry also brought about ninety tons of shot and shell , for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bridge has been constructed over the Gauley River , in place of the structure which Gov . WISE burned while retreating froth ' the National forces .                     