@@739837

txt Our readers may recollect a letter which we recently published , written from Richmond by the Southern correspondent of the London Times , in which the position and prospects or the uomeaeracy were aepictea with a glowing pen . Of arms and money they had all they wanted ; and there was " another element in the Confederate future so full of hope and promise " that the enthusiastic letter-writer could not pass it by , and that was " the bountiful and redundant harvest of the current year in the Confederate States . " He declared " the abundance of cereals to be such that it would supply the whole population for three years to come . " We dislike , of course , to throw discredit upon anything which any correspondent of the Times from this country , whether at the North or South , may write ; but we have found it rather difficult to reconcile this statement with the prices in the Richmond markets , with the intimations from the South that they were threatened with famine , and with the frequent news @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ then , still further to increase our disbelief , comes the Chattanooga Rebel , now published at Atlanta , which has notoriously been as truculent , as defiant , as confident as a rebel could be , which declares that ROSECRANS must be driven out of Chattanooga , because , as it says , " food and raiment are our needs . We must have them . Kentucky and Middle Tennessee can only supply them . Better give up the sea coast , better give up the Southwest ; aye , better to give up Richmond without a struggle , and win these , than lose the golden fields whose grain and wool are our sole hope . " It would seem , then , that the cereal " element in the Confederate future so full of hope and promise , " was only to be found on the fields of Middle Tennessee and Kentucky . The Times correspondent doubtless fell into the trifling blunder of thinking that these were permanently in the power of the Confederates , but the Rebel , banished from Chattanooga by the presence of ROSECRANW army @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fertile fields there was a fearful barrier , in that wall of bayonets . And hence his frenzied outcries for help to make Rosemots a " victim , " to " defeat him , pulverize him , run him to the Ohio River . " We must say that we are compelled to think the Chattanooga man the more trustworthy of the two on this point . His imagination , however , is fully equal to that of the correspondent , as witness his programme for " closing the war with the next Summer . " RosaCRANg once defeated , and then , says he , " our triumphs and legions have a clear road before them . Fed sumptuously through the Winter , well shod and clad , they have only to meet a dispirited foe , retake the Valley of the Mississippi , secure the election of a Peace Democrat to the Presidency in the Fall , and arrange the terms of treaty and independence . " It seems a pity to intimate even a doubt of the feasibility of this beautiful programme . But our army still hokls @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the sole hope " of the rebels are still inaccessible , and Gen. GRANT still holds the Valley of the Mississippi , and the recent elections would seem to indicate that that crowning rebel success , " the election of a Peace Democrat to the Presidency , " is likely to be indefinitely postponed . The Rebel 's programme , though simple , is difficult . Jim .. Days has gone South to help carry out its first step , and drive our army from Chattanooga . We are confident that our Government will leave no means untried to prevent his succeeding . And unless he does succeed , not even the imagination of the Times ' correspondent can save him from knowing as a fact what the Rebel now predicts , that if ROSECRANS ' army holds its own , " the Spring of 18G4 will see the Confederacy near to the verge of destruction . " 