@@740179

txt We trust that Senator WADE will sleep better now that the attempt to negotiate a peace has utterly failed . His general temper , never , perhaps , too sweet and gentle , ought to be considerably mollified by the assurance that the war must , still go on . In common with a good many other opponents of the Administration , he seems to have been greatly exasperated of late by the efforts of the President to ascertain whether peace was possible without sacrificing the object for which the war is waged  --  the integrity of the Union . We do not suppose that the result of these endeavors will soften his indignation against Mr. LINCOLN for having made them , but it may do something toward healing the wound which the possibility of peace was likely to make incurable . Mr. WADE , and those who sympathize with him , can rest easy in their minds . There is no immediate danger of peace . It is now quite certain that the rebels are not prepared to surrender . They are preparing to fight with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to destroy  --  the Union . We shall have more battles , more taxes , more drafts , ? quite enough of all , we are sorry to believe , to satisfy the patriotic rapacity even of those who have come to love war for its own sake , because it gratifies certain resentments and hatreds in their natures , which have long since overborne their love of the Union and their regard for the Constitution of our common country . We saw nothing to approve in the volunteer mission of Mr. BLAIR to Richmond . We objected to that on precisely the grounds which have led us to object to all the volunteer diplomacy which meddlesome busybodies have , from time to time , set on foot . All such negotiations , carried On without authority and involving no responsibility , are simply mischievous and discreditable . If there is ever any reason why our Government should make suggestions , invite conferences , or hint at negotiations with the rebel authorities , there is every reason why it should do so through its own agents , acting under its instructions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ less , and nothing more . Any other mode of action subjects the Government to the chances of serious misconstruction , and may lead all parties into very damaging complications . That we have escaped them in this case , is due far more to the practical good sense of President LINCOLN than to the intervention of Mr. BLAIR , who went to Richmond with full liberty apparently to talk just as he pleased , ? to promise , solicit and assert whatever he might deem wise , ? it being understood all the time that he could only talk for himself , and not at all for the President . But the fact of his being in Richmond carried with it a certain presumption that whatever he might promise , the Government would feel , to a certain extent , bound in honor to fulfill . We had an instance of this at the very outset of the conference . The rebel commissioners insisted on going to Washington , ? claiming the fulfillment of Mr. BLAin 's promise , that they should treat directly with the President . It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ DAVIS in consenting to the appointment of commissioners at all was to secure what was really a tempting opportunity to do a little missionary work at the National Capital . The commissioners selected were precisely the men best fitted to impress favorably the men they counted on meeting . They were men of ability , of large experience , personally acquainted from long residence at Washington with all the prominent politicians of the North , and quite certain to go back thoroughly advised upon all our weak points , and bearing with them renewed assurances of distinguished consideration from the whole brood of sympathizers with the rebel cause . But for Mr. BLAIR 'S promise on this point we should probably have had no commissioners from the rebel President , and we are indebted to the sagacity of Mr. LiNcoLri for our deliverance from the manifold mischiefs which their appearance in Washington would have involved . After Mr. BLAIR 'S volunteer diplomacy had , to a certain extent , committed the Government to a conference , nothing could be wiser , more patriotic , or more satisfactory , than the course @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proof of his desire for peace , by meeting personally the rebel commissioners , and by giving the fullest and most liberal consideration to every proposition and suggestion they had to offer . Yet he did not permit them for a single moment to believe , or even suppose , that peace was possible at cost of separation . The integrity of the Union must be preserved , the authority of the Government must be restored . Upon that point he was immovable and inflexible . And that was precisely the point upon which they were not authorized to make any concessions whatever . With them recognition of the independence of the Confederate States was indispensable as a preliminary condition to any negotiation for a close of hostilities . The conference has had this good result : it has defined anew and made unmistakably clear the exact position of the contending parties . True , it has told us nothing new ; but it has told us again , with fresh emphasis and authority , what special efforts at deception were leading many men to doubt , that the South is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on our part can the Union be maintained . The demonstration thus afforded of this fact ought to unite all Caen , without distinction of party in a cor- dial support of the Government and a vigorous prosecution of the war .                     