@@739176

txt The bears of Wall-street are evidently a variety undescribed by , naturalists . The bear of fable and the books is a stolid brute of honest proclivities , and of wit too clumsy to be expert in contests with those Solomons of the forest . the fox and the wolf : The bear of the Street is on the contrary the summation of all that is ingenious and acute in animal life . He not only reads the present with superhuman sagacity , . but penetrating the future , lays before our amazed vision vistas of events to come , which but . for their uniform gloom and ' sadnesS , . might wellgratify the attentive spectator , and prepare him for long tissues of calamity . There is , indeed , much reason to identify the prophets who disgusted the king , and the bears who avenged the prophet of Israel , as mere representatives of this . despondent type of humanity the most striking realizations of which frequent the dens and recesses of our financial thoroughfare , and impress upon the I unaccustomed visitors of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Eblis . The song of these four-footed syrens , for the last two months , has been the ruin of the country . The Union is pronounced to be in a moribund condition , irremediable by known appliances ; and those of the community- , who are supposed to roll in shares , and bonds , and scrip , are invited to sell at sacrificial prices , and invest in specie , productive of 0 per cent . per annum . Against this unhappy representation the holder raises his voice in vain . He points to the fact that never have the producers and transporters of the Northwest been so overladen with- products and business ; crops are unexampled ; to forward them , the railways of the country , so long comparatively idle , are overtasked , even to the extent of shocking the religious sendmerit of the nation , by refusing to pause upon the Sabbath-day . The market for this cereal surplus abroad is exacting ; and cotton , without which British labor perishes , has suddenly so - risen in demand . that all our energies in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But , alas , all these evidences of material prosperity fail to impress the bear . He is equally insensible to the fact that . while his efforts have succeeded in depressing the securities of individual States and Western railroads , which habitually rule below par , the stocks of the United States , which are always above par , - have never been brought below that crucial line . His cry is , " The Union is in danger . "  - -  But does the capitalist. , whose judgment is infinitely more trustworthy than the stock-broker , believe the Union to be in danger ? If so , why is not the market flooded with Federal securities , to be sold at . any price ? Why do United . States Stocks rate higher in every market of the world than British Consols , although a revolution in England has never been prophesied by the bears of Capel-court and ' Change-alley ? And , to bring the question to an immediate and unmistakable test , why is it that the confidence of the moneyed classes in the perpetuity o the Union @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ additional loan of $1.0,000,000 at Washington , premiums to the amount of $500,000 were offered . Nor is this the only evidence that the vaticinations of Wall-street have no relation to fact . It is plainly observable from an inspection of the bids , that where the influence of Wall-street has been most direct the bids were the weakest .. As we depart from that centre , and approach the quarter from which danger to the Union is said to be imminent. , the bids increase , and the largest . premium is offered at Washington , where real apprehension may naturally be supposed to prevail most actively . In fact , the offers of Messrs . RIGGS &; Co .. of Washington , which ran highest on the list , are known to represent Southern capital ; and , of course , to express the extent of Southern confidence in the actual order of things . No more decisive judgment than this upon the futility of Wallstreet clamor could be desired . Hereafter , therefore , when we witness the subordination of politics to the uses of reckless speculation , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as the criterion of what capitalists think . Men who have money are willing to stake their fortunes on the stability of the Government ; men - who have nothing have no hesitation in staking that upon its downfall . Remote from the threatened seat . of secession the senseless clamor of alarmists obtains influence ; as we approach the scene of predicted revolution the sound fades away , and we find people willing to imperil all upon the certainty of quiet and order . No happier . commentary upon the wisdom of stock-jobbers could be solicited . The country- is unprecedentedly prosperous ; the Federal Government has a firmer hold upon public credit than any other Government , in the world ; and if these cheerful evidences of commercial and - financial confidence are not sufficient to counteract the melancholy of the Bears , we have room to suspect their gloom to be very much less than real ..                     