@@739772

txt England is likely to have enough of her " excellent ally , - France . Amiable John Bull is led into every imaginable quarrel by his restless , scheming neighbor , and must either fight and increase taxes to advance " French glory , " or back out and lose prestige as a great power . Look how the unnatural " alliance " has worked so far . England was drawn into the Crimean war by it , furnished money and material without stint to prosecute that war , but gained from it no advantages whatever . France carried off the glory and gained actually most of the good will of Russia at the conclusion of peace . England was next drawn to the very verge of the Italian war , and was only saved through the hereditary respect of the English Government for the Imperial family of Austria . But the French " alliance " prevented any " interference " in the quarrel , and the French Emperor was left unembarrassed to fortify his throne by the military success of Solferino and the establishment of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the " alliance , " England was drawn into the Mexican imbroglio and led a good way into trouble on the American continent . But good luck or good sense delivered her from that complication , and France carries off the glory and the gold resulting from the unaided conquest of Mexico . England is left in the background . Provoked , perhaps , by a success in which she failed to share , England was more willing to follow her " ally " in the exertions he determined to make for the " struggling Poles . " Austria was drawn into the same scheme , and an ultimatum agreed on . John Bull , credulous soul , never doubted the assurance of his dear " ally " that Russia , having been so recently flogged by England and France , would yield in a moment to any demand made jointly by England , France , and Austria . He is deceived . Russia refuses the ultimatum , insults France , and prepares for immediate war . Perhaps ALEXANDER has dreams of wiping out the memory of Sebastopol ! What @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and ready to bully and bluster , but he does not wish to fight . But how can he submit an ultimatum and pocket its scornful rejection ? His " ally " has him in his toils , and it looks as if Bull must be disgraced or driven again to war in the interest of France . The English people are good commercial accountants , and we shall be glad to see an early balance sheet , showing the " profit and loss of the French alliance , from the commencement of the joint operations down to the present time .                     