@@740130

txt still remains in Hampton Roads , although it was expected she would be sent North some weeks ago . Since her arrival she has been visited by numerous parties , including officers of high rank . The commanding officer strictly forbids any one taking any article of value from the vessel , hence not a few meet with disappointment . The other day I was shown several photographs of Northern ladies which the pirates stole from the passengers of the Electric Spark . There is also a large collection of books and maps , obtained through the same source . There is much speculation among the officers of the fleet as to the probable result of the capture , some maintaining that it is not at all impossible that Government will deem it advisable to restore the prize , while others believe that such a course would be inconsistent and dal ? . ulous . THE EXCHANGE ON PRISONERS . An arrival from Port Royal yesterday brought us the first intelligence we had received of Col. Mut , - FORD 'S flag-of -- truce fleet since its departure from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ harbor , three steamers having rebel prisoners on board were proceeding toward Savannah River , which they undoubtedly reached that afternoon . We learn through rebel sources that the exchange proceedings were to commence on the 11th inSt. , so it Is very likely that by this time a goody number of our brave boys are on board our vessels partaking of hospitalities and receiving congratulations . We are looking ' hourly for additional news from the fleet . PRIZES . At different times within the past month our eyes have been greeted with the pleasing sight of captured blockade-runners sailing up the roads . One day last week there were no less than four of this craft that could be seen at anchor . As a general thing they do not differ materially in shape , although in color we observe a variety of hues and shades ? some painted a light or dark green , some a blue , ana others a deep black . They are sent , for the most part , to Boston , a few only to New-York . It is understood the preference is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coat of adjudication in the latter oftentimes nearly equals the value of the ship and Cargo , and , in fact , I have been informed that in one Instance the cost was so enormous as to bring the officers and crew of the captor in debt , No better proof of the efficiency of the blockading fleet under Admiral PoaTsa can be furnished , than that conveyed ill the statement that within twelve days six captures were made off Wilmington . During the same period the Tallahassee was sighted and chased by the Sassacus and the Montgomery and two or three other vessels of the fleet . The moonless nights of last month , of course , account for the great activity of the blockade-runners . At present the moon is brightly visible and the chances of making captures are greatly reduced . 1 CELEBRATION , consisting of illuminations , bonfires , parades , and terminating in a ball , came off at Norfolk last evening , in honor of the success of the Union party at the recent election . It was positively a great treat to the residents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to see an inroad made into the ruling monotony of this quiet place . It is surprising to all new-corners that a city numbering over twenty thousand inhabitants can preserve , month in and month out , such a state of profound quietude . Save a theatre , which is ably and excellently managed by Mr. S. G. GLasn , nothing exists in the way of public amusement . To be sure , the place is under military discipline , and it is no doubt well for the country that such is the case . REBEL PRISONERS . Nearly every day the boat from City . Point leaves us a squad of rebel prisoners and deserters . They are kept here for a certain length of time and then sent to Baltimore or Washington . It is useless to place any great reliance on their statements , for In truth they have few facilities for ascertaining the real condition of affairs beyond a limited district .                     