@@740085

txt FERNANDO WOOD on Saturday evening , in his speech of full adhesion to the Chicago nominees , gave just and conclusive reasons for the course he has decided to adopt . " If elected , " said he , " I am satisfied that he Gen. MCCLELLAN will entertain the views and execute the principles of the great party he will represent , without regard to those he may himself possess . He will then be our agent and the creature of our voice . " This is perfectly true and the sequel will show it . Ho w , indeed , can he be anything else ? He is nom inated solely and exclusively because he is the representative of the party which adopts him . He is made their candidate only because he is to be their agent . Mr. WOOD stated the simplest and most unquestionable maxim of practical politics , when he asserted that the nominee of a party becomes the representative of that party when , with his own consent , be becomes its candidate . When BUCHANAN was nominated , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he was the representative of the principles and purposes of the party which had put him in nomination . This was true of him  --  and it must be true of every man who permits himself to be made the candidate of a political party . WOOD is perfectly right in counting on the perfect and complete loyalty of the Chicago nominee to the purposes and sentiments of the Chicago Convention . He would be right , and his faith would be just , even if that nominee had indicated any wish or purpose to depart from the platform on which he has been nominated : for the will of a great party . deliberately expressed , is infinitely stronger than the will of any man in it . But Gen. MCCLELLAN has not indicated the slightest dissatisfaction with the Chicago platform . He has neither written nor spoken a single syllable in repudiation of it , or in opposition to its views . No man doubts his acquiescence in it . No man doubts that he concurs in pronouncing the war a failure , or that he will , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cessation of hostilities . " He says not a syllable in condemnation of the rebellion , ? nor a word on the necessity of crushing it by force of arms . Ile is for the Union , and so is FERNANDO WOOD ; and the latter is perfectly right in supporting him because of the identity of their views as to the proper means for saving the Union and as to the hind of Union we shall have after it has been " saved . "                     