@@739724

txt The Richmond Examiner of Monday contains the following : " All that can be considered certain In the confused jargon of telegrams from Jackson Is , that two points of the land defences of VIcksburgh have been assaulted , and that the assaults were repulsed . Similar attempts were often made last Summer , with the same result . Indeed , nothing could excuse or explain a want of success on the part of the defence . Vicksburgh is a mountain in the bend of the river . On all sides are high bluffs , crowned with breastworks and batteries . We arc Informed that an attack can nowhere be made with a force equal to the garrison , and that on no side can moms than 6,000 men be deployed in line for an assault . The character of the ground renders regular approaches difficult , while the heat and malaria of the country during six months of the year wouie make its siege at the present season one of the most murderous ones on record . Only treachery or cowardice could explain the capture of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other means seems daily less and less probable . If the Yankee army had swept down the valley in such overwhelming force as not only tobeat off the Confederate forces in Northern Mississippi , but to take permanent possession of the whole country , and establish themselves there , as they have done in Northern Tennessee and Kentucky , the fall of Vicksburgh could , with difficulty , be prevented . Isolated in the midst of territory possessed by the enemy , its reduction by blockade would be but a question of time ; but GRANT 'S army is not an army of conquest  --  still less of occupation . His advance on Jackson , however intended , has been converted into a very ordinary raid . II is true that he gained rapid and repeated advantages from the time he captured Grand Gulf till lately , because the Confederate forces under PEMBERTON had been scattered over half the State of Mississippi , and were therefore unable to defend any point . In the moment of danger , however , Gen. JOHNSON was ordered to go there and take command of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all the losses which have been suffered by the Confederates remain to be seen ; but we have little reason to fear the loss of the State of Mississippi , and the consequent fall of Vicksburgh , while he can keep the field there . A disgraceful attempt is maue here in Richmond to fix upon him the responsibility of the disasters of the Lieutenant-General by favor , who was intrusted with the command of the most important army of the Confederacy without having put a squadron in the field of battle ; but it is the duty of every honest man to see that this detestable manoeuvre shall fail .                     