@@739246

txt One of the most fantastic dreams indulged in by the Secessionists has been that California would undoubtedly unite her fortunes and her destiny with theirs  --  that they had but to shake the tree , and the golden apple of the Pacific would drop into their hungry mouths . Thus , with the possession of New-Mexico , Arizona and the Indian Territory , all of which the Confederate " Committee on Territories " seem to regard as now under their jurisdiction , they flattered themselves that their domain would extend from ocean to ocean along its whole breadth , and their " institution " fled ample scope and verge enough for expansion for centuries to come . The splendor of the prize , both in a geographical , political , commercial , and above all , in a monetary ( Coon comprehends that ) point of view , certainly rendered it worthy of a long and desperate effort to win it . Hence , failing to clutch the whole of California ten years ago , a persistent effort has been making ever since to secure the division @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Southern half . Being foiled in this also by the Californians , the disunion conspirators have latterly tried to make use of certain local broils of bygone feuds , of party affinities , and also of the disaffection engendered by the neglect of California interests by the General Government ; and hoped that by suddenly precipitating the State into confusion , and proclaiming a Pacific Reeuhlic , either the whole of the State , or , at all events , the Southern half of it , would gently but surely glide into their hands . California , moreover , had been so long represented , both in the Senate and House , by politicians of the ultra Pro-Slavery school , who considered themselves as possessed of an absolute control of the State , that it was supposed the secession scheme Lad only to be boldly attempted to secure its success . The latest advices from the Pacific coast , however , show that California has been as much misunderstood as was New-York city . Both were overwhelmingly Democratic , both bad their subterranean traitors plotting for their ruin , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  but both also have shown themselves to be devoted to the Union with an enthusiasm as deep as it is demonstrative . Tae miners of California  --  those most splendid illustrations of the elastic energy and unconquerable daring of the American character , are for the Union forever and to a man ; the Douglas Democracy , with true California - Pluck , go for the Union , the laws and the Fourth of July , and for " as much coercion and civil war as is necessary to put down secession . " San Francisco goes for the Union ; men , women , and children , " together with thousands of men on horseback , in carriages , and on foot , " all the military and civic organizations , and all political parties , march is ? r and d procession to the music of the Union . Every town , every hamlet , and every man is for the Union , and if a single ranche in the gallant Grizzly Bear State harbors a traitor , the rascal had better vamoose at once . So hot and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sweeps in everlasting gallop from the golden banks of the Sacramento over the mountains , through the canons and across the prairies to the muddy Missouri , seems incapable of conveying any conception of it , and can only say that " nothing like it was ever seen before . " In the language of Mr. SEWARD in 7850 : " All hail , California ! All hail , Union and Freedom ! "                     