@@739902

txt On motion of Mr. WASELBURNE. of Illinois , ( Union , ) the Committee on Commerce were instruct ed to inquire into the expediency of amending the act of 1799in regard to the admeaaurement of vessels ; and of a law in punishment of masters and owners for changing the names of their vessels , and for similar fraudulent practices ; and also as to amending other acts on the same subject . PERTAINING TO COURTS . Mr. WILSON of Iowa , ( Union , ) reported from the Judiciary Committee a bill ; to change the places of holding the Circuit and District Courts of East Tennessee , which was passed . Mr. WILSON also reported a bill defining the jurisdiction of the Court of Claims . He said there is some danger of thisCourt assuming to act unon claims for property destroyed or appropriated by the military or naval authorities during the present war . The bill is to restrain them from acting on such subjects ; reserving these matters to the future course of Congress . Mr. SCHENcit , of Ohia , ( Union @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as to enable the Court to act upon all cases where material , food , forage and other property has actually been taken and used for Government purposes , under contract or agreement . He understood a bill was to be introduced creating a departmental court or tribunal which shall take into consideration all questions of cost and damages sustained during the present war , in order to make proper allowance . Mr. KERNAN , of New-York , ( Dem. , ) said the present war leaves to the Court of Claims decisions of questions arising under the contract . The bill now pending was right and proper . but another , which was to be reported , would provide indemnity for property taken for the benefit of the army . Mr. SMITH , of Kentucky , ( Union , ) said it was the duty of Congress to pass a law by which every man who shall have been injured in any way shall know and feel that the Government intends to pay its debt . When the war began it was understood that everything procured for the subsistence and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ army advances , He had the fullest confidence in the ability of the Government to discharge every obligation . Justice should be accorded to the poor as to the rich  --  to the man in the hovel as well the roan in the palace . Mr. DAVIS , of Maryland , ( Unkind said the Court of Claims now has jurisdiction in cases - arising under contract , either express or implied . He would vote for both the pending propositions . FERNANDO WOOD . Or New-York , ( Dem. , ) remarked that under the Constitution no private property can be taken for public uses without just compensation . This was equally applicable to every claim against the Government with reference to the nature of the circumstances under which they originated . Claims , whether large or small , are entitled to prompt settlement . The bill before the House was to make an unjust discrimination agatnst the citizens . As the pending bill involved grave considerations the whole subject should be deliberately investigated , so that while prosecuting the war against our enemies in the South , we do no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , of Vermont , ( Union , ) said the proposition of Mr. Scnanca went a very little further than the present laW , and he advocated the passage of the pending bill . Remarks were made by other gentlemen , when a further consideration of the bill was postponed until Thursday week . TEE UNITED STATES STATUTES . Mr. WILSON , from the Judiciary Committee , reported a bill providing for the revision and consolidation of the  --  laws of the United States . THE INTERNAL REVENUE . Mr. STEVENS , of Pennsylvania , ( Union , ) from the Committee of Ways and Means , reported a bill to increase the Internal Revenue , and for other purposes , which was made the special order for Thursday next . CLAIMS AGAINST THE UNITED STATESMr . THOMAS , of Maryland , ( Union , ; from the Judiciary Committee , reported a bill supplemental to the one relating to the War Department , and authorizing the settlement of ct.rtain claims against the United States . REIMBURSEMENT OF THE STATE OF PENNSYLVANIA . The House went into Committee of the Whble @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the consideration of the bill to reimburse the State of Pennsylvania for calling out the militia for repelling the invasion . and appropriating $700,000 for that purpose , FERNANDO WOOD , of New-York , ( Dem.0 moved an amendment , so as to reimburse New-1 ork , which should be placed on an equal footing with Pennsylvania or any other State . The alacrity with which New-York came to the aid of Pennsylvania should induce Pennsylvania to practice the most liberal spirit , toward New-York . New-York alone had absolutely disbursed five millions for the suppression of the rebellson , outfit of troops , bounties to volunteers . etc . Mr. ROVERS . of New-Jersey , ( Debi. , ) wanted to include New Jersey . Mr. STEVENS explained that an act cf Congress provided for the settlement of such claims as these of Pennsylvania , " which , when audited , shall be paid . " Mr. BLAINE. of Maine , S ( Union , ) said : As long as eighteen months ago , the State of Maine filed her vouchers . and it was only last week he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Among the items excluded were some for money expended for State de ; ence . Mr. Cox , of Ohio . ( Demo said : The'State of Pennsylvania was happy in having a leader here , while Ohio , ( occasionally overrun by such raids as Mon.o.te 's , ) and other Slates , had none . fie offered an amendment , that whenever expenditures for calling out the militia , either to repel invasion or suspress insurrection in any State , shall be audited by the proper department , and if the same is ascertained to ue due , they shall be paid ; and the sum of $10,000.000 is hereby appropriated for the purpose . Mr. THAYER , of Pennsylvania , ( Unkind earnestly advocated the bill , and said in reply to others , the titlo of the law of 1861 showed that it was an act of indemnity to the States for raising troops , provided the troops were used for the suppression of rebellion . It was illiberal to oppose this claim of Pennsylvania , because other States have not brought forward their accounts . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he hoped that they would act without quibbling and act with a reference only to their proper dues . Mr. Lov1JOY , of Illinois , ( Union , ) said this was an attempt to legislate and appropriate money , at the Same time there was no authority of law for the payment of Pennsylvania 's claim , consequently it would be illegal . Mr. KELLEY. of Pennsylvania , ( Union. ) reminded Mr. LOVEJOY of the fact that the Pennsylvania troops were ordered out by the proclamation of the President , for six months , and though raw militia , they united with the regular army in several engagements . Mr. LOVEJOY said , even if/the cielms were just , old Pennsylvania might have waited a little while before presenting her claims . Mr. STEVENS replied , saying , in defending Pennsylvania , the Union was defended . He deprecated all narrow sectional feelings ; so far from there being any swift haste in bringing forward this bill , he stated that the proper department of Government had sent to the Committee on Ways and Means the estimates , requesting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Union ) did not impugn the patriotism of the great State of Pennsylvania. , hat the Treasury is now on the verge of bankruptcy , and it was difficult to find money to pay the bounties of volunteers , and if these claims are paid other Staten will present theirs ; hence , we had better postpone this class of claims till we are better able to pay them . Mr. LEONARD MUMS , of Pennsylvania , ( Union , ) thought we should settle our debts as we go along ; he would not admit that our country was bankrupt , but In the enjoyment of the greatest national prosperity . FERNANDO WOOD said that New-York bad a JOSS claim for defending Pennsylvania , but she presented no claim here . No question being taken the Committee rote , and the House adjourned of 11 o'clock .                     