@@740240

txt Gov . JOHNSON arrived in this city this morning , and gave notice that he would address the citizens of Augusta this evening at 8 o'clock , from the Court-house steps . At the appointed hour , some two thousand people assembled . The Governor arrived , and began by saying that the State of Georgia was in a singular position . At this time she is without civil law , without an executive , without legislators , without judges , without magistrates , and under strict military rule . This had been brought about in consequence of the rebellion . The Southern States had banded together and asserted their independence of the United States ; had formally declared and waged war against the North , and after four years of fighting , in which the South had shown great energy and gallantry , had been beaten , the armies disarmed and scattered , and she had been subdued and conquered . The South is now powerless and at the mercy of the North . It was not the object of the administration at Washington to further @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their former position in the Union , in accordance with the genius of the old form of government . To bring about this result he had been appointed Provisional Governor of Georgia . The Governor then proceeded to unfold with minuteness the mode of procedure under the President 's proclamation of May 29 , 1865 , for restoration to political rights to those who were not among the excepted classes , and those who had not actually taken up arms against the Government . He next spoke of the action necessary by those among the excepted class.es , and assured them that it was not the purpose of the Executive to degrade and annoy them , but to deal with them in the spirit of maananimity , and hinted that , as their case had to be submitted t o the President , he might , and in most cases probaNy would . refer them to the Provisional Governor , in which case he pledged himself that he would deal with them in a cordial and liberal manner . This portion of the speech was the only one heartily cli  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 1 taken the oath of allegiance that was not enough , and they must now take the amnesty oath . And those vhf had taken the oath , under the proclamation of President LINCOLN , would be required to take the oath prescribed by the proclamatim of May The Governor then touched upon the slavery question . He showed that , as the Southern Staie:i had rebelled , and been reeoptized by the natiohs of the earth , as well as by the United States , as a beiliserent power , they possess , in common with the latter , certain rights . Among these was the right to invade Um territory of their enemy ; to forage : to levy contributions upon the cities and times of the invaded ; to burn , destroy and devastate , all of which rights they had availed themselves of to the fullest extent . The government had also the same right . Tiley coeld take the slaves and use them ; they could arm thsie and cause them to tight in their ranks . In war , individuals of all nations can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Africans and Indians , and we , said the speaker , enlisted Indians , though to a limited extent , to the disaster of our enemy . When the Government of the United States seized the negro . it had the power and the right to destroy him as property , and consequently proceeded to arm him against us . However some may object to the legality of the proclamation of the President freeing the negro , it is net worth their while to try to prolong the existence as ' slavery , as it is likely to come to an end very shorts from another cause . The Constitution or the Unites ? States contains within itself certain provisions for it alteration or amendment , Congress eau propose the amendment by a two-thirds vote , and if ratified I ? y two-thirds of the States through their Legislatures. the amendment becomes part and parcel of the Constitution . This it has done , declaring that hereafier there shall not be involuntary servitude , except for crime , in any of the States . This amenclent has already been adopted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ complete it . The speaker apprehended that Kentucky , New Jersey and Delaware , three States that had already voted adversely to the amendment , would , at the coming election , as this question was in controversy , elect legislatures that would adopt it . And Virginia would also probably adopt it , and thus the question would forever be put to rest . The speaker believed that the people of the North and the South were one  --  one in mountains , one in lakes , one in rivers , one in language , and one in la common destiny . God , when he divided the people into nations , did not resort to war to do it , but confounded their speech , and caused them to speak different languages . As long as we continue to speak the same language , we must be one people , under the same government . He further said that the Governments of the United States and Great Britain , as well as France , were in accord on the slave-trade . They are the leading nations of the earth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ question , he believed the abolition of slavery in this country would be the cause of its ultimate extinction in Cuba and Brazil , and that their rich agricultural and mineral resources would be greatly benefited thereby , and that benighted Africa would feel its influences , for the various chiefs and rulers would he forbidden to sell their subjects into slavery . In conclusion , Gov . Jomasois exhorted the people , not to despond , though depressed and disheartened now . He assured them that a better day wes dawning , and counseled them to take hold and to build themselves up by industry and energy . He exhorted the men , women and clergymen to abate their hostility , and abide by what they could not possibly avert ; to cultivate a spirit of friendship toward those whom they lately looked upon as eueuies , and ended speech with a touching allusion to the Allwise One in His dealings toward His people .                     