@@739554

txt English Cotton Famine Ended . While the United States are happily emancipated from the political dogma that " Cotton is King " ? by virtue of which the Cotton States were wont to practice much arrogance toward the rest of the Union ? it must not be understood that the people of the North do not consider cotton an element of vast importance in their future political and commercial relations . We wish to destroy the infatuated belief of the Gulf States that in them only , of all lands of the world , cotton can be profitably produced . But we do not wish to lose cotton from the list of American products . From that source has been drawn many millions of the wealth that , in its suddenness and vastness , has made the United States a marvel of material prosperity . It has furnished the bulk of foreign exchange to us for over a quarter of a century . It has freighted American bottoms ? set running millions of American spindles ? clothed and fed millions of American laborers , and shall we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because , in the downfall of slave cotton culture in America , the rebel States get an annihilating blow ? We are sorry to have to sound a note of alarm on this subject , and to say that Great Britain is , too rapidly for our welfare , hecom ing independent of the American supply of cotton . The loud lamentation in the manufacturing dist.riets , and the noi : , , y concern of the Britii , h public en the : athieet has been deceiving The distress among operatives no doubt eeists , but the rise in the price of cotton ow ; : ed in Engiand at the beginning of the war , and the advance of the value of cotton manufactures , amount in the aggregate to many millions of dollars more than the profit Enaland would have made by running her mills on hill time . England can , therefore , well afford to relieve the distress of her idle hands , for her increase of wealth will be great , in spite of it all . But the ostenta Lions anxiety ofBritish legislators and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ insincere , and exaegerated to some extent , we apprehend , with the net very worthy motive of destroying the sympathy of British working men with the - United States , whose insane war , it was held , brought such ruin on their industry . We are now startled by the extraordinary declaration from England that the worst days of the cotton famine are past , and that nonceforth , independently of the American supply , the English spinners will find employment . We publish in the Tins to-day an extract from the London il7civs of Oct . C , in which this important fact is set forth and fully explained . Arid we take this occasion , in view of the vital interest of the people of the United States in the subject , to urge our Government to the most vigorous measures for the encouragement of cotton culture on lands under the National control . Texas , Florida and Ai. ' kansas are magnificent fields for cotton-growing , and they might all he made available for this purpose . We are soon to have thousands of enfranchised Africans on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ perishing for lack of homes and honest ernrioyment . All their energies Sh6111 ( 1 be directed on American soil , to save to the nation the vast advantage it has always held , by reason of the vastness and value of its cotton prodect . Will the Administration , look to lit ; duty in the premises ? 