@@739343

txt A copy of the Norfolk Day Book , of Nov. 11 , which has fallen into good hands , has the following items in relation to the Fleet , taken from the Charleston Mercury , of Friday , Nov. 8 : Fortytwo vessels appeared before the batteries at the entrance of Broad River between 9 and 10 o'clock Thursday morning . Under cover of a tremendous fire , seven steamers ( one account says fifteen ) passed the batteries , and gained a point out of range of the guns at Bay Point and Hilton Head . One gunboat was burned and several steamers crippled . Twelve men wounded in the batteries The steamers once passed closed the creeks run : ning into Broad River , driving up the streams Commodore TATNALL 'S " Mosquito Fleet " towards Savannah , and cutting off water communication with Charleston . The forces had not landed . Another dispatch dated Hendersonville , Nov. 7 , 9 P. M. , says : " The practice of the Confederate artillerists was bad , while the firing of the Yen ' kee vessels @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ failed to sink any vessels passing the batteries . " Still another dispatch , dated Beaufort , Nov. 7 , 5 P. M. , says : " Four ships are seen near Beaufort , cutting off all lines of communication . It is supposed a landing would be made that night or the next morning . " From the editorial we infer that the batteries were disabled , for it is stated that the guns were dismounted ; and as the recoil was given as the cause , the editor thinks some one was greatly to blame for mounting guns in suck a manner as to permit the recoil so to affect them , and thinks it strange that batteries containing from thirty to thirty-six guns should all be so easily dismounted . From the same paper we gather the following telegraphic items : Several bridges on the East Tennessee Railroad have recently been fired and burned , as well as the wires of the telegraph cut . It was supposed to be a general design to cut off communications of all kinds . The papers of South Carolina regret having @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that State , but accepting the necessity , they call upon the people of the State to rally and drive the invaders out . In many parts of the country provisions were very high . In Jackson , Miss. , bacon was 30c. a pound . The Confederate steamer Winslow , formerly the Coffee , was wrecked off Ocracoke Inlet ; the crew escaping .                     