@@740128

txt Last Thursday morning , Nov. 3 , the Island City , Capt . Hamm. , left our wharf to meet the label officers of exchange , at a Oven polka in the Savannah River , midway between the city and Fort Pulaski . We reached the latter place about 10 A. M. , and feeling our way up cautiously past the fort , and obstructions that were put down in the ship channel some three years ago , we proceeded as far as it was considered prudent , and came to an anchorage . The rebel craft soon made her appearance in the mist , and all eyes were anxiously looking to see what species of vessel they could command after being penned up three years . Coming slowly down , probably feeling her way , they rounded an island in the middle of the river , and after describing a very sinuous route , succeeded in coming alongside and making fast . Tie vessel was a fair-looking one , somewhat antiquated in her model , not intended for speed , and named after BleuazoAan . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ several staff officers came on board , and after the usual interchange of civilities , the officers withdrew to arrange matters . The meeting was simply preliminary , and related to the general exchange of about eight thousand Union and rebel invalid prisoners , that will soon arrive here from the North . We delivered to them not far from 350 boxes for Union prisoners , sent by Adams Express , and in addttion the Sanitary Commission sent over clothing and blankets to the value of $26,000 , which will be safely delivered to our men , and receipted for In detail , when the receipts will be passed over to Lieut. - Col. BENNETT . About 150 packages were then transferred to the Island City , for rebel prisoners at Pulaski . Dr. CLYMSR and Dr. RAMSEY accompanied the flag , and met rebel surgeons , who assured them that no thinker need be anticipated from yellow lever . Mr. and Mrs. HODGE188 , aliens , from Savannah , were permitted to enter our lines , from which point they go North , on their way to Scotland . Another @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at 12 M. , in the Savannah River . Col. BENNETT conducted the negotiations on our side , and Cot . WADDY for the rebels . No exchanges were made . A few boxes were delivered to ? them , and a few mere recetved , and letters were also transmitted . An amicable asrangement has been effected , by which the rebel aethorities are to deliver blankets to our prisoners , and we , in return , are to furnish the rebel prisoners with the same material . Four women entered our lines whose husbands are at our port .                     