@@740236

txt We do not know that the plan of air-line railroads for the accommodation of city travel , has all the merit claimed for it by its author , Mr. RICHARD MONTGOMERY . But the apparent simplicity , cheapness and facility of construction . invite at least examination . This we invite the practical engineers of the city to give it , that we may know if the scheme can be made available . Our own view , at the first blush , is , that such an elevated viaduct -- light as the structure is  --  would be objectionable on Broadway . But if the feasibility of the enterprise were made otherwise certain , there would be means of finding right-of-way on less thronged and important thoroughfares . It is claimed by the author of the present device , that a road such as he proposes  --  extending from Madison-square to Bowling-greencan be built in four months , and built without disturbing the traffic ou any portion of the streets through which the line passes . It is also claimed that the construction will cost not more than $13,000 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and were made durable and thoroughly safe , it would be a were bagatelle . Such elevated tracks are now used for nearly all the railroads entering London on the east side . The principle of construction is doubtless very different , but the elevation is in many cases very much greater even than that here , and the safety , convenience , and facility for working these Loudon terrmintillines , are all undisputed . This may not be the right idea that Mr. MONTGOMERY has struck , but it is feasible enough to force the subject , in its broad aspect , on the immediate attention of every intelligent citizen . For this reason , we urge the matter upon public notice . We must find relief for the intramural travel of the city in some way . All the roads leading longitudinally through the island are now crammed , and at every hour of the day , by a weary , sweltering crowd , that find the accommodation which is usually given to dumb animals . Remonstrance is utterly vain . And perhaps the companies are not altogether @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for their carrying capacity . If so , let them countenance and support , or take a leading part in establishing air lines . These latter could never compete with the street roads for the way traffic . They would be mainly serviceable to the through traffic , say to and from half-a-dozen great centres .                     