@@739196

txt Our dispatches from Washington indicate t hat the difficulty of fixing upon any plan for adjusting the national difficulties has not yet been overcome , though the efforts to that end are continued , and strong hopes are entertained in influential quarters that these efforts will finally be crowned with success . The Committee appointed by the caucus of the Border States , slave and free , agreed on Saturday , with but one dissenting voice , to a proposition very similar in its details to that of Mr. CRITTENDEN . This gentleman has expressed the belief that a satisfactory adjustment will yet be made through the mediation of the Border States , notwithstanding the fact that several of the most ultra Republicans express their opposition to any plan of compromise , believing that now is the time to test the strength of the Government . A caucus of Southern Senators was held on Saturday evening , to take into consideration the subject of secession , and the interests of those States proposing to secede . It is understood to have been the unanimous opinion , with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the States should secede separately . All tears of any attempt on the part of the Disunionists to seize the capital are now at an end , the promptness of Capt . STONE , the new Inspector-General for the District , having ulaced their success out of the range of possibility . Congressional proccedlngs on Saturday were confined to the Senate , the House having adjourned over until Monday . Mr. MASON , of Virginia , offered a resolution , which was laid over , calling upon the Secretary of War for a copy of any orders issued to the officers in command of the fortifications in Charleston harbor . and for information relative to any proposed increase of the army forces in the Southern States . Mr. SF.WARD presented a petition of citizens of New-York for a Pacific Railroad , and Mr. GwiN having called up the Howse bill , Mr. SEWARD proceeded to make a speech in its favor . He preferred a more northerly route than was provided for in the bill , but he declared his intention to vote for it as the only measure of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ free from objection . Mr. RICE , of Minnesota , although the great Northwest would not in his opinion be benefited by it , also declared his intention to vote for it . An amendment , proposed by Mr. POLK , of Missouri , providing that the road shall run from the mouth of the Kansas River , was adopted , and the debate was continued until the adjournment . The temper of the discussion indicates that the bill will pass at an early day . The steamer Star of the West , Capt . JOHN MCGOWAN , left this port on Saturday afternoon , the vessel being cleared for Havana and New-Orleans , but it is currently reported that she stopped in the lower bay , and during the night received on board , from a steam-tug , some three hundred marines - which are intended for the reinforcement of Major ANDERSON at Fort Sumter . The South Carolina " Sovereign " Convention having probably become hopelessly involved in the mazes of their new Government , concluded , on Saturday , to turn over all the unfinished business , as well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accordingly adjourned , subject to the call of the Governor . An ordinance was passed providing that all power necessary to make postal arrangements and enact postal laws should be vested in the General Assembly . A resolution was adopted , that the late Commissioners to Washington be requested to prepare a written statement of the results of their mission , to be deposited with the President of the Convention , under an injunction of secrecy . It is stated that the correspondence between the Commissioners and President BUCHANAN has already been published in the Charleston papers in advance of its transmission to Congress . There seems to be disposition on the part of the Florida Convention to hesitate somewhat before lackting the desperate step of secession . The Convention organized on Saturday , Judge MeGitima being chosen President . Resolutions were offered declaring the right of the State to secede ; but they were made the special order for to-day , after considerable discussion as to the propriety of passing them immediately . Gov . Hicxs , of Maryland , has issued another address , in which hepersistently refuses to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before given , and for various others in addition . He declines peremptorily to commit any act looking in the remotest degree to a disruption of the Confederacy , believing that such an event would inevitably produce civil war . Gov . Melee intimates that he is in full possession of all the plans of the Disunionists in the State , and gives them plainly to understand that they can never be carried out with his consent . The , inauguration of the new Governor of Massachusetts took place on Saturday , and he delivered his inaugural address to the Legislature . Gov . ANDREW leaves the entire subject of- the Personal Liberty law with the Legislature , but does flat indicate his course in case , of its repeal. - He denies vigorously the right of secession , and advises an expression of opinion on the subject by the Legislature . Massachusetts , he contends , is not in any way responsible for the present troubles in the country , and will always be . true to the Constitution and the Union .. Gov . WASHBURN , of Maine , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He recommends conciliation - and forbearance towards the South , but opposes - any compromises not warranted by the spirit of the Constitution ; and while recommending the repeal of any statute which may be either unconstitutional or justly regarded as offensive , indicates his conviction that Maine is not really a transgressor . We give this morning an interesting batch of correspondence from Mexico , embracing all of interest which has transpired since the date of our correspondent 's previous letters . It will be seen that the accounts which have reached us by telegraph of the surprise and capture of DEGOLLADO and his command at Toluca , are confirmed . ' Minister came passenger from Vera Cruz to New-Orleans in the ' . Tennessee . - The probable loss of the United States sloop-ofwar ' Levant , with all on board , is reported , The Levant , at last accounts , . had been for some time at Honolulu , from which port she sailed for Panama . Her non-arrival , after the lapse of sufficient time , gives rise to the fear that some disaster may have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relative to her movements . The steamship City of Manchester left this port on Saturday for Liverpool , vid . Queenstown , with 28 cabin , and 96 steerage passengers , and the Fulton for Southampton and Havre with 51 passengers . We have advices from Utah to the 14th ult . The Territorial Legislature was in session , having- as : sembled on Monday , the 9th . The Governor 's Message was read on Tuesday , and proved to be the same one which he sent to the Legislature at the extra session held during the previous month . His Excellency was not much pleased with the acts passed at that session , especially those relative to the Judiciary , and consequently never approved them . There was a prospect that a compromise would be effected , and that the Governor would be allowed to have the Judges disposed to his liking . The schooner J. L. Bowman , Capt . Noon , arrived at this port on Saturday morning from Bonaires , and brings advices to the 14th ult . The stock of salt at that place when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Supreme Court , Justice SUTHERLAND , on Saturday morning adjourned until Monday , out of respect for the memory of ExJudge KENT , who died at Fishkill on Friday last . The Stock Market continued strong on Saturday to near the close of the day , when prices partially receded , and the dealings left off dull . New-York Central , 784-ea . Money easy . Exchange steady . A very brisk demand prevailed for Cotton , about 10,000 bales of which were sold , ? two-thirds in transitu  --  at prices indicative of a further important rise  --  Middling- Upland bringing ** ifY lb . The transactions in Breadstuffs were restricted , partly by the firmness of holders of desirable lots of Flour and Wheat . Groceries , Provisions , Whisky , Hay , Tallow , Hides and new Hops were in moderate request . The movement in other branches of trade were limited . There were 477 vessels of all classes in port .                     