@@740391

txt From Overton County comes to us a strange story , which we sunpcse has few parallels in the an nets of difficulties settled after the code . The affair happened two weeks ago . Where the bold spurs of a wild range deflect a trifle as they cross the boundary line of Fentress and Overton , lived for many years two families named WALDRON and JAnvis . A feud had marred their intercourse for time out of mind until about a year ago , when the head of the last-mentioned family died . After this occurrence old troubles were apparently buried , and a friendly intercourse was established . This continued for many months , and until one of the JARVISES , a young man of twenty-two , while intoxicated , made some sneering remark about one of the WALDRON% impeaching his courage . Two days after the latter sent a friend to young JARVIS , that as he did not consider him a courageous man lie might have the pleasure of testing his bravery with any weapon he might choose . Young JARVIS was too proud @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the influence of liquor , and he accordingly sent back word to the other that lie would meet him four days from that time in what is known as the Run , where they could settle the matter with rifles at 160 yards , Both men had been in the rebel army , and were accounted splendid marksmen . It was on a damp , cold , dreary morning that the two young men , each accompanied by a friend , took their way to the Bun . A drizzling rain had fallen for hours , and the scene through the valley and out over the surrounding hills with their wooden sides , was dismal with clinging mist and pattering rain . The seconds paced off the distance , the two men were placed with their buss toward each other , the pieces were loaded , and to the shouted one , two , three , given by one of the seconds , they turned and fired . JARvis was wounded through the 113shy part of the lett arm , while his bullet whistled savagely just above his antagonist 's head . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's second to the other 's friend . " WALDRoN wants another shot , " was the reply , A stern , savage smile lighted up the features of young JARVIS as his arm was bound up to staunch the blood , but he said not a word . The rifles were loaded again , and once more to the shouted signal the two men wheeled and fired . The reports were almost simultaneous . WALDRON ran forward a few steps , staggered , reeled , and fell into the arms of his friend bleeding and senseless . Ho was shot through the heart . Jamie went slowly home , sad . died his horse , and , telling his family that he was going to Mon ticelly , left the country .                     