@@739364

txt The more detailed telegraphic news , that comes to us by the Arago and Edinburgh , is as favorable as could ? be . desired for a pacific . solution of our differences with England . Cotton is firm , with an upward tendency , which would hardly be the case were there the least reliance placed upon the story that England was meditating the opening of the ports . By previous arrivals , cotton was re ported dull and declining , in consequence of the story referred to . By the Arago and Edinburgh , turpentine and naval stores are reported to be higher and breadstuffs ( lull . Consols had advanced within a few days 1 per cent . In other words , commercial matters , the true index of the political horizon , unmistakably assure us that this is as clear of clouds as it kas been since our troubles commenced . Were there any danger of a collision between this country and England the com mercial news would be the exact reverse of what now comes to us . As already stated , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the price of Consols , of cotton , or breadstuffs . These facts must be literally slated . But the mcment we come to the opinions or statements of newspapers or correspondents , we are all afloat , as these may be not only incorrect , but may be made up to give a view of a case entirely different from that warranted by the facts . We had a striking illustration of this on Saturday . The day opened with the best feeling prevaiL jag among all classes . The share market , the index of this feeling , was most buoyant . A few hours later in the day the America 's news was telegraphed from Halifax , and among other items was an announcement that England had signified to the Manchester manufacturers that she was about to proceed to open the Cotton ports , which work was to he completed in February . This report sent a shock through the City , gave the banks the chills , and knocked down the market from 1 to a per cent . The more detailed reports that came to us @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and showed a decidedly improved tone of feeling in England , and that . nothingunusual or unexpected was transpiring there . We know of no way in which the evil cornplained of can be remedied . It can be corrected to a. considerable extent , however , by receiving with many grains of allowance all expressions of . opinion , or reports , not fully verified in the dispatches themselves . No more reliance should be placed in the stories with which our foreign dispatches often come loaded , than those which sometimes reach us from distant parts of our own country . The markets . as a general rule , give the correct version of the condition of political affairs . When these are all right , expressions of opinions , or newspaper correspondence , may he put down as intending to mislead . A strict adherence to the rule laid down will save the public much annoyance. and often great loss .                     