@@740257

txt Without the least purpose of intervening in the quarrel between Mr. MAX MhatzrzEff and a city cotemporary , we are interested in seeing such a relationship should be established between managers and the press as would not only prevent the imposition which is charged by Mr. MARETZEIC , but which would make such charges impossible . It is abominably degrading to New-York journalism that it should be in the power of an operatic manager or any other manager to denounce a leading newspaper for the extortion of black mail to the tune of thousands of dollars . Whether in the form in which the indictment is laid in this instance the charge can be sustained , is a question which we shall not presume even to conjecture . The mere fact that the indictment is laid shows that the relations of the parties ? which we believe are altogether exceptional ? have had the tendency at least to reflect grave dishonor upon journalism on the one hand , and on the other , to cast a certain discredit upon operatic management in New-York . By the very @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it is clear that their relations have not been those simply of artist and critic  --  relations in which the public had its interests , either represented or consulted . The relationship , profitable as it may possibly be shown to have been to the one , and unprofitable as it may have been to the other , was evidently , in its very nature , one of mutual accommodation . This fact may not bar the right of the aggrieved party to complaint , but it certainly does not fully relieve the aggrieved party from the charge of consenting to a league which , to a certain degree , was aimed against the honest expression of public opinion . It is probably the best atonement Bin MARETZEK can make to his patrons to confess that he spent thousands of dollars to pro- pitiate the favors of a powerful journal ; and to bribe the hordes of scoundrels that hang on ? often without the knowledge of the proprietors or responsible managers  --  to nearly every great daily journal . But we think  --  putting the most kindly interpretation possible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has undertaken to fight  --  that if he was drawn unwittingly into these relations , he should have rebelled at an earlier date against the confederacy . The feature in the quarrel which relates to free admissions , or " dead-heading , " ought to force upon the attention of the leading journals , at least , the absolute necessity for a revision of the whole system ? or , rather , for its complete abolition . In a newspaper business , where from three-quarters of a million to a million dollars are turned over yearly , the payment of the regular admission charge for the editors or reporters , whose business is to look after amusements , would be but the merest bagatelle . And we see no more reason why it should not be a regular charge upon the expenses of a journal than any other item in the weekly or daily bills . The advantages of paying are manifold . The manager and the journalist need be brought into no professional  --  or rather unprofessional ? communion at all . They would each sustain their proper independent relation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ respect for the other . Both would be vastly the gainers in ridding themselves to some extent of the grand army of impostors that vagabondize over the country and crowd into places of public amusement , assuming a connection with leading newspapers , and stoin , dling right and left upon the credit they thus obtain . The " dead-head " system should be speedily and utterly abolished .                     