@@739132

txt The Court of General Sessions presents a contrast to the Civil Courts of the City , often not particularly favorable to itself either in the character of parties interested in trials , or the judges and counsel who conduct them . In one respect , however , it must be confessed that it suffers nothing by comparison with even the highest civil tribunal in the City : ? Recorder BARNARD seems disposed to exact at least an outward respect for the Court over which he presides . We mentioned with commendation last week his prompt commitment for contempt of a gross offender , and we are happy to be confirmed in the belief that this was not the result of a sudden spasm of judicial dignity , by the equal promptness with which on Tuesday last he punished a similar offender . The action of the Supreme Court contrasts unfavorably with this . Twice during the last ten days has it been subjected to the grossest indignities , and in neither instance has it shown anything like a becoming regard for its own character and reputation . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon one of the parties to a suit , in the courtroom , and was suffered to go unpunished , has been already commented upon in our columns . The other was scarcely less flagrant . A peremptory mandamus having been issued by one of the Supreme Judges , to compel the Aldermen to take action in a particular matter , and they having refused to execute the mandate , or , indeed , take any notice whatever of it , Justice INGRAHAM was asked for an attachment against them for contempt , but reserved his decision upon the request until it was subsequently withdrawn . Thus , again , the authority of the Court was contemptuously set at defiance with utter impunity . In the progress of a trial in the Superior Court , on Wednesday , one of the two eminent counsel engaged struck the other in the face , whereupon Judge ROBERTSON promptly imposed a fine . The alacrity with which the dignity of the Court was sustained furnishes an example which must be imitated by other judges if they expect to preserve the Bench from sinking into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gain a seat upon the Bench , , under the elective system , has done much toward lowering it in public esteem . Unless those who occupy it manifest some disposition to exercise the authority vested in them for the suppression of open conternt in its presence , it will soon come to be of as , littie AUthority as-any bar-room caucus .                     