@@739090

txt The Legislature seems inclined to made provision for the wants of the City in the matter of ** of the Assembly- ; has : - reported g for jive new lines of Railroad . from the upper part of the City to the lower . The grants are made to certain persons named in the bills : the routes which the roads shall follow are prescribed : the consent of the Common Council is not asked , but that honorable body is required to furnish all needed aid for the construction of these roads , and never to grant permission for the construction of any others . Naturally enough , our City Government resents being thus summarily squelched , and measures have already been taken in the two Boards to protest energetically against the menaced action of the Legislature . Our City certainly needs more railroads , and must have them . The existing facilities for City travel are utterly inadequate to the demand . Although our railroad and omnibus proprietors cram their carriages to suffocation , and pack away their passengers like herrings  --  not onefifth of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or go up town at night , can possibly ride . We need new and greatly increased facilities for City locomotion . We ought to have steam used upon these roads , as it might be with perfect safety , with increased economy and greatly to the accommodation of the public . But in default of the spirit and enterprise to enter upon so bold an experiment as this , we must have new roads ,  --  and the routes marked out by the Legislative Committee are those which demand most imperatively new facilities of transit . That these grants are jobs is undoubtedly true . But we should like to know how we are to have anything done for the public welfare without a job ? We are learning something from current experience in this matter . We have ceased to look for disinterested public spirit ; we shall be quite content now with interested patriotism , ? with measures which really benefit the public , no matter how dearly the public may be compelled to pay for them . The Legislative Report seems to overlook entirely , however , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regulation of these roads . They commit their supervision to nobody , ? they prescribe no rules for their management ; they require no security for their good conduct ,  --  but tell the grantees to take the public streets and use them at their own discretion , and with exclusive regard to their own profit . This is all wrong . The roads should be compelled to lay down a rail that will not incommode the ordinary traffic of the City . They should be compelled to furnish comfortable accommodations , including seats , to all who pay their fare . And whenever their profits pass a certain point , they should be required to reduce their fare , ? in order that those who use the road may reap some advantage from the value of the franchises thus granted to the corporations . And to render these regulations effective , some proper officer should be clothed with the power of enforcing them . By their charters , the supervision of the roads now in existence is committed to the Common Council ;  --  but such a body can not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Why should not the Mayor , or better still , the . Comptroller , be made Railroad Commissioner for the City , with power to enforce all the rules and regulations that may be made for their conduct ? Let him have authority to examine all the books of the several companies , ? to insist upon due attention to the rights and necessities of passengers , and generally to represent and enforce the just claims of the public as involved in the conduct of these roads . We certainly need something much more effective than the present system , which is better than nothing , undoubtedly , but utterly unworthy of a civilized City , pretending to be under the control of laws made and administered for the public good .                     