@@739540

txt Mr. CHAMBERS , from the Military Committee , reported a bill entitled " An act to encourage the manufacture of clothing and shoes for the army of the Confededate States . " The bill provides for the bringing into the country , export duty free , cards , card-cloth , machinery and other articles necessary to the manufacture of clothing and shoes for the army . The bill was passed . FILLING UP EXISTING REGIMENTS . Mr. MILES , from the same Committee , reported a bill supplementary to the act further to provide for the public defence , so as to admit of the filling up of existing regiments , battalions , ( km . Passed . TAX BILL . The House , having resolved itself into Committee of the Whole , took up for consideration the bill to raise revenue , known as the Tax bill . Mr. LYON , of Alabama , addressed the House in favor of the bill of the Committee . Something must evidently be done  --  some scheme adopted , to save our Government . He was startled , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the gentleman from Tennessee , ( Mr. IS 00TE , ) as much as if he had discovered the law of perpetual motion  --  viz. : the fact that vie could prevent the paper currency from depreciating. and sustain our enormous circulation . lie was opposed , utterly , to making Treasury notes a legal tender , both on the ground ot unconstitutionality and inexpediency . Mr. BOYCE , of South Carolina , opposed the bill . It was not constitutional nor expedient . It was a proposal for a forced loan . He should move , at the proper time , to recommit the bill to the Committee on Ways and Means , with instructions to prepare and report to this House a system of comprehensive taxation . Mr. JOHNSON , of Virginia , favored this bill until he could get a better one . The people , during the fervor and excitement of the war , would willingly submit to taxation , especially when the Government furnished the means of paying the tax . The profits of labor never were so great in this country as now , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supposed . This scheme was decidedly better than military impressment , which would alienate the affections of the people . THE PROCLAMATION IN THE LEGISLATURE . In the Virginia Legislature , Mr. COLLIN , of Petersburgh , offered the following : Whereas , ABRAHAM Liticor , N , President of the United States , by his recent proclamation , is acting in stolid contempt of the principles of property in slaves , which is no less conservative in the National Constitution than in ours , and is aiming by raid proclamation to excite servile insurrection in our midst . Resolved therefore , That no person within this State shall be held to have committed any offence against the criminal laws thereof , or shall be tried or imprisoned . or be required to answer at any time for an act done in driving from the State , or putting to death any person with or without arms , who may be found on our soil aiding in any way to give effect to the fiendish purpose of said proclamation . 