@@739810

txt Important details respecting the battle of Sunday near Chattanooga , reached us yesterday morning , but at so late an hour that we could publish it only in a small portion of our morning issue . The information entirely disproves the brief dispatch from Louisville on Sunday night announcing that Gen. ROSECRANS had been badly beaten . The battle on Saturday ended in a clear advantage to our army , we having captured most of the artillery and sustained less loss in men than the enemy . On Sunday , at 9 o'clock , the engagement was renewed by the rebels , who massed their forces and attempted to carry the left of our position by a series of fierce onslaughts . These assaults were gallantly and successively repelled , and the carnage on both sides was appalling . Foiled in their object , the enemy a few hours later threw themselves against our right and centre , and succeeded in piercing our line , exposing Gen. THOMAS on the left to a terrible flank attack . This advantage was not long held , however , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ columns again rallying , with united front they dashed upon the enemy , driving them back , and punishing them severely . Throughout the day Gen. THOMAS ' corps gallantly held its ground , repulsing the enemy in every attack , but at 5 o'clock , in order to reestablish our lines in a new position , he fell back to Rossville , in the direction of Chattanooga . Our losses in prisoners and wounded are estimated at 3,000 . Gen. ROSECRANS has determined to concentrate his entire army at Chattanooga . There were indications that the fight would be renewed on Monday night , the date of our last dispatch . By arrivals from Charleston Bar we have news from that quarter to Saturday last . Active hostile operations had entirely ceased , except in the way of preparation on the part of Gen. GILLMORE for future telling blows , although progress in this work was necessarily slow . The navy had not attempted anything since the failure of the storming party at Fort Sumter , and it is reported that the enemy had busily availed himself of this period @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Expectation that our forces on Folly Island were threatened by the enemy on James Island had occasioned extraordinary watchfulness at that post . The equinoctial gales visited the Carolina coast with great severity , but , fortunately , without serious damage either to the shipping or the troops . Our correspondent sends us an extract from the Charleston Courier , which graphically describes the destructiveness of our artillery upon Fort Sumter . Gen. GRANT had so far recovered from the injury which he received on the 5th instant at NewOrleans by his horse coming in contact with a carriage , that he was enabled on the 14th to take passage for Vicksburgh , accompanied ov Gen. Thomas and their respective staffs .                     