@@739173

txt The measure of the civilization of a people is said to be " the interest which the powerful take in the weak . " When the upper classes of a community are found providing for the benefit of the lower classes , affording them education or opportunities of improvement , and even pujting themselves to trouble for the sake-of those less fortunate , we at once know what degree of culture and humanity those things indicate . This journal has often had occasion to corn , ment-on the lax morality of the lower classes of Germans in our City , and the loose theology of some of the higher , but we always take pleasure in making known any of - their movements wherein they show their sense of the high duties which civilization imposes at this day on every people . It is a misfortune of exiles ' that it breaks bonds of responsibility as well as of citizenship . The foreigner in every country is proverbially selfish and indifferent to the interests of humanity . Many of our German fellow . citizens were formerly no exception @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  have become rich , without feeling any of the duties of wealth , or any attachment to the soil ; and the name ; till within a few years , of . " German Importer , " or " German Jobber , " has been - almost synonymous with that of a man who drove a. very hard bargain in his business , and . had very good wine on his table , and who - cared little for anything else . The noble burdens of civilization  --  the care for the unfortunate and the criminal ; or the duties of wealth  --  the cherishing of art and learning  --  were very seldom ever thought of by them . We are certain that we do not exaggerate , when we say that , till within a few years , not onetenth as much was given by wealthy Germans , . for objects of charity or education , as by our native citizens . This has been much changed of late , as various facts which we could mention might - show . One evidence of it is in a circular which has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ entirely supported by Germans , during the last year . It ; ? ppears from this statement that both magistrates and-citizens in the Eastern part of our City had become alarmed at the large number ' ? of young German girls of the poorest classes led away to haunts of vicious amusement . ' With the quick sense of a German for what is the great attraction to vice , these gentlemen - saw that such a class as the rag-pickers and factory-girls , living in dreary or dirty rooms , - are simply seeking society and pastime in those vile places . They wisely judged that a - warm , light and cheerful room , with some . means , of improvement and of sociality , would do more to save these young creatures than any quantity of tracts or exhortations . They saw clearly , what so many of our native moralists have failed to see , that love of amusement and change , is the cause of more than half of the . vice of young persons . In this view , a school , : called a " Social @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ part of Grand-street , amid a vast population of poor and industrious Germans . German taste , we are told , decked the walls with pictures , and gave an attractive air to the room , so that in the evenings large numbers of young girls were glad to come . Here regular school instruction was given them , and songs - and games attracted those whom more sober pursuits would nut induce to enter . By these devices a streeg moral awl intellectual influence has epee rro inert over a class for whom hitherto little had been done . These bard-working young girls find it as pleasant ? to spend the evenings after their day 's labor , in this " social school " as in the lager-beer saloons , or dance-rdoms , while their ambition to improve themselves and to become educated , is stimulated . by what they study , and . what they hear from their teachers . The only thing needed , we are informed by the circular , to make the enterprise complete , is a better children 's library ; to loan out among @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the public-spirited . German gentlemen who have charge of the school . An original feature of the plan , and one eminently practical , is the devoting Saturday evening  --  that on which this class is exposed to most temptation  --  entirely to games and amusement . A moralist who hereafter shall speculate on the causes of our well-being and morality , will no doubt find them in great part in just such quiet , unobtrusive measures of humanity as these . Such efforts show an enlightened tone - of public sentiment among the Germans , and need no commendation . We can only wish them a full success .                     