@@739110

txt It is highly probable that the local Government of this City has a right to pave its streets without the interference of the Albany log rollers ; at least , this time-honored custom . will not probably be made illegal before the next session of our valuable Legislature . Such being the case , it is not only possible , but convenient and feasible , for our local Government so to pave our streets , and for our omnibus owners so to modify their vehicles , as to reduce the cost and increase the comfort of City travel , irrespective and independent of the City railroads . Let us relieve our minds once for all , of the common and absurd error that a flanged car wheel runs with less power and cost than an ordinary flat tire . On the contrary , it is wholly a question of ' surface and diameter of wheel , with the exception of the abnormal flange friction , which largely increases the resistance to car wheels . The great fact , however , is this : so narrow is the gauge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ either side ; hence , either the wheels must be very small , or the car-body must be so high as to be top-heavy and unsafe . The omnibus body , on the contrary , is between the wheels , and the latter may be of even larger diameter than at present . The effect of this is that the power required to draw an omnibus , with wheels of twice the average diameter of car wheels , on a given surface , is about onehalf that required to draw a car of equal weight , since the resistance at the axles is as the diameter of the axle multiplied by the number of turns , or divided by the diameter of the wheel . idomx , HARDING and Scorr RusSELL agree that the resistance to rolling on pavements , good common roads and ordinary railways , is inversely as the diameter of the wheel . Now if our streets were paved with double lines of flat trams , say nine inches wide , level with the pavement , and offering no resistance to any variety or direction of traffic , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than that required for twenty-four passenger cars on a City railroad . Again , the omnibus , by reason of its outside wheel connection , is susceptible of a most convenient , elastic , and even sensi ? tive system of springs . These greatly de . crease the rolling resistance . lioain fount that at nine miles an hour , a vehicle on goo ( 1 pavements ran with one-half the power re quired without springs , when the ordinal wagon-springs were applied . Whether Cit1 cars have any springs or not , may be deter . mined by passengers while passing joints and crossings . Again , the wheels of cars being fast on the axles , slide and grind upon curves , and the flange friction is also greatly augmented , But an omnibus , with loose wheels all round , runs as easily on a curve as on a straight line .. 4% , . nd , lastly , on a good track , the omnibus could be lightened at least a quarter . In short , as a vehicle , the City car is a century @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ known , except , perhaps , the steam railway car on friction rollers . It is , therefore , certain that one horse could manage a twenty-four passenger omnibus on a good tram-way . The vehicle itself could be made more convenient by hanging the body a foot lower between the wheels . Now , were such omnibuses well upholstered and ventilated , and divided into distinct seats by partitions or arms , the very fact of their being more elastic and steady than a city car can be , would attract the bulk of city travel . And , since their working expenses would be less , the fare could always be kept lower . than those of the railways , and at a paying rate withaL It may be said that horses will slip on the trams . The engineers of the new Westminster bridge report that horses do not slip on the flat trams laid there and elsewhere in London . A curved surface like a gutter rail is more likely to cause slipping . If the way is kept clean there is no danger of slipping , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ less than twisting their feet in the troughs of New York rails . So much for the streets not yet stolen by the Legislature . It has , indeed , stolen the right to lay railroads in some of them , but we very much doubt its power to authorize any nuisance not strictly necessary to the purposes and requirements of railroads . And since it can be mathematically proved that the ordinary form of rail is a nuisance , and that a flat tram-rail , which can be laid at the same cost , - is not a nuisance , but rather a general convenience , it is probable that all the railway companies can be compelled to lay the flat rail . Now , a flat rail is the best kind of tram for the improved omnibuses , and it is almost unnecessary to say that they should be permitted and encouraged to run on the gridiron so generously provided by our indulgent Albany fathers . There is another fact about City traffic , that would be of the highest importance were we speaking of any other city than this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are successfully working , and are highly and generally approved . Their total expenses are $5 per day , against horse-cars at $10 per day , and they make no smoke or other Ile . ) . To be sure , they do not deposit manure to blow about the streets and into people 's mouths and houses , but the Philadelphians are learning to dispense with this refinement of the old-fashioned traffic . Another generation may see steam in our streets , and when it does , the improved tram-road and omnibus mentioned , will possess far greater advantages than they now have over the railcars . Trey can turn out when necessary , not persistently damming up the streets with their inevitable straight lines , and they can leave passengers at the curb-stone instead of depositing them in puddles in the middle of the street.od " It is an ill wind that blows nobody p. " 