@@739164

txt We begin to fear that we have ' done more than justice to the New-York Aldermen . Indeed , it may even prove in the end that the extraordinary aureole of absurdity which now invests the brows of the Gothamite City father should be attributed rather to the superior civilization of his fellow-citizens than to his own preeminence in Aldermanic incapacity . The people of New-York are themselves so orderly , intelligent and honest , that the average Alderman shines by contrast among them with preternatural lustre . Transferred to another community , and matched with his fellows of another origin , who knows that the immortal BOOLE himself might not lose something of his glory ? BARRY , for example , has become with us the type of Aldermanic pngnacity , merely through his feats in the pugilistic line at Jones ' Wood and in the City Hall , But What distinction could BARRY hope for in a city . like New-Orleans , where the Municipal surgeons leave a patient in a gig at the hospital door and exchange shots in the street for the right @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Committees ever done that could be compared with the conduct of certain Canadian municipalities towards the Prince of Wales ? To feed the Turkish Pasha with barn , and make the Japanese tipsy with champagne , remarkable as these achievements have hitherto seemed , were but poor flights of fancy by the side of the devices of our loyal neighbors . The debate of the Aldermen of Kingston , C. W. , over the Prince and the Orangernen has never been approached . The Prince very properly declines to land at Kingston because he is to be received by partisans with partisan emblems . The Aldermen meet to discuss the crisis . One of these worthies . a PIGEON by name , but surely rather a serpent than a dove by nature , proposes that the Prince should he lured ashore by the promise of a levee without a procession . The Mayor objects that there will be a procession , as everybody knew , and that he can not make false statements to the Duke of Newcastle . This Mayoral repugnance to telling a fib excites great indignation . Several @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ indifference to the glorious cause of Protestantism . In Lower Canada the poor Prince had been reviled for putting slights on Roman Catholic prelates . In Upper Canada he is blasphemed for hesitating to countenance an open insult to the Roman Catholic population . We are sorry for the Prince , thus caught between two fires , but we can console him with the experience of independent journalism , which fares no better than he , being abused by Paul to-day for supporting Peter , and assailed by Peter to-morrow for speaking the truth of Paul . Threats of " bringing down " the proud Duke of Newcastle . and , we regret . to add , impertinences alike disloyal and indecent toward the.Prince himself , diversify the municipal session which finally ends in a resolution , asserting the regret of the Council for unpleasantnesses which a word of just and gallant remonstrance for themselves , pronounced in time , would have obviated ; and requesting his Royal Highness to come on shore and hear the fine sen timents of this motley and impotent official conclave . In other words , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ permitting knots of fanatics to force upon him political difficulties and passions , with which he has and can have as yet nothing whatever to do , and then vote that he ought not to mind such trifles , hut land at once , and allow their honors to make the little speeches and show the little shows they have been so long preparing , with a " single eye " to the Prince 's pleasure , and several pairs of eyes to their own amusement and glory . The Prince , well advised , very properly declined to have anything toed() with these people or their petty squabbles , and at the last advices was sailing on past one and another town of his mother 's dominions , in the hope of finding somewhere a rational population before reaching the American frontier . We fear His Royal Highness will be disappointed . Nevertheless , as one after another of the Canadian municipalities reveals its true qualities , our own Aldermen will take on a brighter hue , and we shouldn't. be surprised if the revulsion of feeling among the decent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are really but pale reflections of more stupendous originals , should go so far , that . some of the Aldermen may- be invited to the Prince 's ball at the Academy .                     