@@739506

txt Yesterday will probably ever remain memorable to the Irish population of this vicinity , as haying been signalized by the grandest popular ovation ever extended in this or any other land to one of their countrymen . Gen. MICHAEL CORCORAN , in whose long captivity and recent release from a Southern military prison the whole North has taken so deep an interest , arrived in this City yesterday afternoon . His whole passage from Washington hither has been a triumph . At Baltimore , at Philadelphia , at Trenton , Princeton and Newark , not to mention the many minor towns along the route , he was surrounded by eager multitudes of both sexes . % . ho offered him heartfelt congratulations with that warmth which characterizes the Celtic race . When he reached Jersey City , Committees of our City Councils , and delegations from many military and civic organizations , were waiting to receive him . Landing at the Battery he was formally welcomed by the Mayor of New-York , and thence conducted in grand procession along Broadway and other principal thoroughfares to the St. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an enthusiastic multitude . The aspect of the entire City was of the most festive awl imposing cast . The vast masses of people grouped in the streets and on the public squares ,  --  the display of banners and devices ,  --  the immense military and civic parade , the . booming of cannon ,  --  the cheering of myriads of human beings , and the beauty of the closing hours of the day , combined to make this welcoming demonstration a festival of the highest note among the many magnificent celebrations which have rendered New-York famous . We have given in otter columns a complete narrative of the day . Our account follows Gen. CORCORAN from his hotel in Philadelphia to his hotel in this City , and includes all the incidents of morning and afternoon , as well as the parting ceremonies of the evening . We understand that the General has de ( - lined the banquet tendered to him by the City Authorities . We have no later intelligence from our armies in Virginia , this morning . According to a dispatch from Fortress Monroe yesterday , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ probably be occupied at present as an outpost , while Yorktown will be strongly garrisoned . The latter can , of course , be easily held with the aid of the gunboats . The Commercial Advertiser , of last evening , says : " We learn from a private and perfectly authentic source that a portion of the rebel forces have occupied Gen. McCLELLAres late entrenchments at Harrison 's Landing , which , of course , was to be anticipated . Our friend 's communication is dated James River , August 19 , ' and at that time the rebel pickets extended down as far as the right hank of the Chickahominy River . A large portion of our gunboat flotilla , with the flagship , was at tkat date up the James River . above Harrison 's Landing and Bar . They would probably give the rebels a taste of their quality before they had been long in their new quarters . " In answer to a dispatch sent to him yesterday , Adit. - Gen . Ilteertouse telegraphed that the State bounties to volunteers will be continued until further notice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ greatest possible rapidity , as will be seen by our reports of military matters . We learn from Cincinnati that two bridges on the Marietta and Cincinnati Railroad , cast of Loveland , were burnt Thursday morning , it is supposed by rebel sympathizers . The probable motive for the outrage was the hope that it would delay the forwarding of troops into Kentucky , which are pouring into that State at the most rapid rate . Indiana has sent ? in about fifteen thousand during the past week , and Ohio has done about as well . The Louisville Democrat of Wednesday , in ref . Isrence to the reports of the new invasion of Kentucky , says : " We received by last night 's mail business letters mailed at Burkaville on the 18th , Glasgow on the 19th , and Albany on the Pah , and as the writers make no mention of rebels appearing in those localities , we presume there have been none . Nor do we believe that any rebels have entered the State at Big Creek Gap , or anywhere else . What they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pretend to guess . As for the mews sent to Gen. MORGAN , that 15,000 had come bshind him , we do not conceive it to be at all probable . The rebels have never had more than 20,000 men at Knoxville , and about 30,000 at Chattanooga ; and to move the forces from Knoxville opens up to Gen. MORGAN the road to that point , and the possession of the railroad line to Virginia , while at the same time he can threaten Chattanooga on one side , while Bend . attacks it on the other . The rebels are great at exaggerating their numbers , and always have succeeded in magnifying their forces at four one point to fou or five times the truth . the 14,000 at ; Nowlin ( Green magnified to 100 , 000 it lawmen 8,000 at Baton Rouge magnified to 30,000 , lend many other instances we might mention if we had time . " Lieut . SOHNZLL , with one company of Schofield I:tuggers and two hundred Home Guards , left St , Buis a few dais since to break ug a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They were completely successful , capturing ali but one of tile guerrillas , who numbered fifty . The United States steam transport Honduras , Capt . Crarroen , from Key West in seven days , arrived at this port yesterday morning . The health of the city is improving . The following naval vessels were lying there : Flagship St. Lawrence , steamers Santiaao de Cuba , R. R. Cuyier and Penguin . The transport Delaware sailed on the 14th inst. for St. Augustine , Fla. , with Gen. TbatitY and Staff on board . The steamer Ho.zel arrived at this port last evening , from Newborn , N. C. She reports everything quiet there .                     