@@740242

txt It appears by the latest advices from Europe that the apprehensions are very wave in France of difficulties with this country about Mexico . Our well-informed correspondent at Paris wrote to this journal under date of the 21st ult . : " The accumulation of American soldiers along the line of the Rio Grande is beginning to create another panic about Mexico . So long as there appeared to be rebels in arms in Texas , the sending of Federal troops seemed to be natural enough ; but now that there are no longer any rebels in arms , and that the Federal troops on the frontier continue to increase in numbers , the fears of the people as to the object of these troops are awakened , and it would not bo surprising to see the French Government demanding at Washington information as to the object of this large display of force . " The French journals being all under close control of the government , do not say a great deal about the matter , but what they do say is very significant . Opinions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prevail largely in England and in Germany , and also to some extent in the official circles of Spain , and these four nations are really the only ones in Europe where there is interest or discussion about the question . While France is interested as the Power that will be primarily involved in the difficulty , if there should be one , England is interested as the great ally of France for the last twelve years in enterprises of peace and war ; Germany is interested as a heavy holder of our government bonds , and Spain feels interested from the fact that her hold upon Cuba would be endangered in case of the breaking out of a war for the enforcement of the Monroe doctrine . The apprehension in these countries of difficulty with our government about Mexico is not a new thing ; but its recent increase arises from reports widely spread in Europe of a certain development of circumstance and opinion in the United States since the close of the late war  --  these reports being either pure inventions , gross exaggerations , or malevolent misstatements . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ army of the North , or perhaps the armies of North and South combined , would , on getting through the Confederate war , rush frenziedly into another war with whatever enemy was found most convenient . And this , of course , would be the foreign intruder into Mexico . But latterly they have learned something more definite . They have heard of Mexican " emigration " enterprises in the United States ; they have learned that many Northern and Southern Generals have expressed themselves in favor of the armed liberation of Mexico ; and , horridest of all , it has been proclaimed aloud in their hearing that one hundred thousand Federal troops have been stationed on the Rio Grande , as an " army of observation , " and that this army has been placed under control of the most impetuous of our officers , Gen. PHIL SHERIDAN . When , in addition to this , they learn ( as they will shortly ) that this very officer , in a letter which was last week injudiciously published by one of his friends , has proclaimed himself favorable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may well believe that their apprehensions will assume the gravest character . At the very time , however , when we learn that these French apprehensions have become definite and serious , the War ' Department at Washington has quietly issued a military order which dispels a cloud of falsehoods , and which will be a damper upon those hotheads who would take it into their own hands to embroil our country in foreign war for their own purposes . Before quoting from the order , however , we may state , ou the best authority , that the oft-repeated statement that one hundred thousand or eighty thousand troops had been sent by the government to the line of the Rio lrande or to the State of Texas , since the close of the war , is purely fictitious . The black and white troops altogether in Texas do not count a half of the least of these numbers ; and the War Department order shows that instead of being enlarged , nearly the entire force is to be at once disbanded , and sent home . It must be remembered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been sent there before the surrender of the rebel army in that vicinity was announced . When this order is carried out , we suppose that the entire Federal army in Texas will consist of the Twenty-fifth Corps ( Colored , ) and a few detachments of white cavalry . We quote the principal part of this newly issued and highly important order . It will be observed that it is addressed to Gen. SHERIDAN : WAR DEPARTMENT , ADJUTANT-GENERAL 'S OFFICE , WASHINGTON , Aug. 1 , 1865 . Maj.-Gen . P. H. Sheridan , U. S. A. , Commanding tory Division of the Gulf , New-Orleans , La. : You are authorized by the Secretary of War to cause all volunteer white troops . cavalry , infantry and artillery , serving in the Department of Texas , that you think can be dispensed with , to be mustered out of service . The musters will be by entire organizations , including all additions thereto by recruits or from other sources . * * 