@@754941

txt //eneracy of the Legions  - -  General Imbecility and Cowardice  --  Great public Misfortunes  --  General Union of the Germanic Nations  --  Their Leaders  --  Noble but vain Efforts of a Succession of warlike Emperors  --  The rising Tide of Barbarians  --  Their irresistible Advance  --  The Siege and Sack of Rome  --  The Fall of Cities  - -  Miseries of all Classes  --  Universal Despair and Ruin  --  The Greatness of the Catastrophe  --  Reflections on the Fall of Rome CHAPTER XII . THE REASONS WHY THE CONSERVATIVE INFLUENCES OF PAGAN CIVILIZATION DID NOT ARREST THE RUIN OF THE ROMAN WORLD . Necessary Corruption of all Institutions under Paganism  --  Glory succeeded by Shame  --  The Army a worn-out Mechanism  --  The low Aims of Government  - -  Difficulties of the Emperors  --  Laws perverted or unenforced  --  The Degeneracy of Art  --  The Frivolity of Literature  --  The imperfect Triumph of Philosophy  --  Nothing Conservative in human Creations  --  Necessity of Aid from foreign and Divine Sources CHAPTER XIII . WHY CHRISTIANITY DID NOT ARREST THE RUIN OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE . The Victories of Christianity came too late  --  Small @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Their comparative Unimportance in a political and social View for three Centuries  --  The Church constructs a Polity for Itself rather than seeks to change established Institutions  --  Rapid Corruption of Christianity when established , and Adoption of Pagan Ideas and Influences  --  No Renovation of worn-out Races  - -  No Material on which Christianity could work  --  Not the Mission of the Church to save Empires , but the Race  --  A diseased Body must die CHAPTER XIV . THE LEGACY OF THE EARLY CHURCH TO FUTURE GENERATIONS . The great Ideas which the Fathers propounded  --  The Principle of Self-sacrifice , seen especially in early Martyrdoms  --  The Idea of Benevolence in connection with public and private Charities  --  Importance of public Preaching  --  Pulpit Oratory  --  The Elaboration of Christian Doctrine  --  Its Connection with Philosophy  --  Church Psalmody  --  The Principle of Christian Equality  --  Its Effects on Slavery and the Elevation of the People  --  The Social Equality of the Sexes  --  Superiority in the condition of the modern over the ancient Woman  --  The Idea of Popular Education  --  The Unity of the Church INTRODUCTION . I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ old Roman world ; nor is there any thing in history more suggestive and instructive . A little city , founded by robbers on the banks of the Tiber , rises gradually into importance , although the great cities of the East are scarcely conscious of its existence . Its early struggles simply arrest the attention , and excite the jealousy , of the neighboring nations . The citizens of this little state are warriors , and , either for defense or glory , they subdue one after another the cities of Latium and Etruria , then the whole of Italy , and finally the old monarchies and empires of the world . In two hundred and fifty years the citizens have become nobles , and a great aristocracy is founded , which lasts eight hundred years . Their aggressive policy and unbounded ambition involve the whole world in war , which does not cease until all the nations known to the Greeks acknowledge their sway . Everywhere Roman laws , language , and institutions spread . A vast empire arises , larger than the Assyrian and the Macedonian combined , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mystery , having all the grandeur of a providential event . It becomes too great to be governed by an oligarchy of nobles . Civil wars create an imperator , who , uniting in himself all the great offices of state , and sustained by the conquering legions , rules from East to West and from North to South , with absolute and undivided sovereignty . The Caesars reach the summit of human greatness and power , and the city of Romulus becomes the haughty mistress of the world . The emperor is worshiped as a deity , and the proud metropolis calls herself eternal . An empire is established by force of arms and by a uniform policy , such as this world has not seen before or since . Early Roman history is chiefly the detail of successful wars , aggressive and uncompromising , in which we see a fierce and selfish patriotism , an indomitable will , a hard unpitying temper , great practical sagacity , patience , and perseverance , superiority to adverse fortune , faith in national destinies , heroic sentiments , and grand ambition . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ race of conquerors , bent on conquest , on glory , on self-exaltation , attaching but little value to the individual man , but exalting the integrity and unity of the state . We see no fitful policy , no abandonment to the enjoyment of the fruits of victory , no rest , no repose , no love of art or literature , but an unbounded passion for domination . The Romans toiled , and suffered , and died ,  --  never wearied , never discouraged , never satisfied , until their mission was accomplished and the world lay bleeding and prostrate at their feet . In the latter days of the Republic , the Roman citizen , originally contented with a few acres in the plains and valleys through which the Tiber flowed , becomes a great landed proprietor , owning extensive estates in the conquered territories , an aristocrat , a knight , a senator , a noble , while his dependents disdained to labor and were fed at the public expense . The state could afford to give them corn , oil , and wine , for it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Asia Minor , of Syria , of Spain , of Gaul , of Africa ,  --  a belt of territory around the Mediterranean Sea one thousand miles in breadth , embracing the whole temperate zone , from the Atlantic Ocean to the wilds of Scythia . The Romans revel in the spoils of the nations they have conquered , adorn their capital with the wonders of Grecian art , and abandon themselves to pleasure and money-making . The Roman grandees divide among themselves the lands and riches of the world , and this dwelling-place of princes looms up the proud centre of mundane glory and power . In the great success of the Romans , we notice not only their own heroic qualities , but the hopeless degeneracy of the older nations and the reckless turbulence of the western barbarians , both of whom needed masters . The conquered world must be governed . The Romans had a genius for administration as well as for war . While war was reduced to a science , government became an art . Seven hundred years of war and administration gave experience and skill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ future civilizations . It was well , both for enervated orientals and wild barbarians , to be ruled by such iron masters . The nations at last enjoyed peace and prosperity , and Christianity was born and spread . A new power silently arose , which was destined to change government , and science , and all the relations of social life , and lay a foundation for a new and more glorious structure of society than what Paganism could possibly create . We see the hand of Providence in all these mighty changes , and it is equally august in overruling the glories and the shame of a vast empire for the ultimate good of the human race . If we more minutely examine the history of either Republican or Imperial Rome , we read lessons of great significance . In the Republic we see a constant war of classes and interests ,  --  plebeians arrayed against patricians ; the poor opposed to the rich ; the struggle between capital and labor , between an aristocracy and democracy . Although the favored classes on the whole retained ascendancy , yet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enabled , by throwing their influence into the hands of demagogues , to overturn the constitution . Julius Caesar , the greatest name in ancient history , himself a patrician , by courting the people triumphed over the aristocratical oligarchy and introduced a new regime . His dictatorship was the consummation of the victories of the people over nobles as signally as the submission of all classes to fortunate and unscrupulous generals . We err , however , in supposing that the Republic was ever a democracy , as we understand the term , or as it was understood in Athens . Power was always in the hands of senators , nobles , and rich men , as it still is in England , and was in Venice . Popular liberty was a name , and democratic institutions were feeble and shackled . The citizen-noble was free , not the proletarian . The latter had the redress of laws , but only such as the former gave . How exclusive must have been an aristocracy when the Claudian family boasted that , for five hundred years , it had never received @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Emperor Nero was the first who received its privileges ! It is with the senatorial families , who contrived to retain all the great offices of the state , that everything interesting in the history of Republican Rome is identified ,  --  whether political quarrels , or private feuds , or legislation , or the control of armies , or the improvements of the city , or the government of provinces . It was they , as senators , governors , consuls , generals , quaestors , who gave the people baths , theatres , and temples . They headed factions as well as armies . They were the state . The main object to which the reigning classes gave their attention was war ,  --  the extension of the empire . " Ubi castra , ibi respublica . " Republican Rome was a camp , controlled by aristocratic generals . Dominion and conquest were their great ideas , their aim , their ambition . To these were sacrificed pleasure , gain , ease , luxury , learning , and art . And when they had conquered they sought to rule @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conquest and government there is nothing peculiarly impressive in Roman history , except the struggles of political leaders and the war of classes . But in these there is wonderful fascination . The mythic period under kings ; the contests with Latins , Etruscans , Volscians , Samnites , and Gauls ; the legends of Porsenna , of Cincinnatus , of Coriolanus , of Virginia ; the heroism of Camillus , of Fabius , of Decius , of Scipio ; the great struggle with Pyrrhus and Hannibal ; the wars with Carthage , Macedonia , and Asia Minor ; the rivalries between patrician and plebeian families ; the rise of tribunes ; the Maenian , Hortensian , and Agrarian laws ; the noble efforts of the Gracchi ; the censorship of Cato ; the civil wars of Marius and Sulla , and their exploits , followed by the still greater conquests of Pompey and Julius ; these , and other feats of heroism and strength , are full of interest which can never be exhausted . We ponder on them in youth ; we return to them in old age . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the emperors . With their accession there is a change in the policy of the state from war to peace . There is a greater desire to preserve than extend the limits of the empire . The passion for war is succeeded by a passion for government and laws . Labor and toil give place to leisure and enjoyment . Great works of art appear , and these become historical ,  --  the Pantheon , the Forum Augusti , the Flavian Amphitheatre , the Column of Trajan , the Baths of Caracalla , the Aqua Claudia , the golden house of Nero , the Mausoleum of Hadrian , the Temple of Venus and Rome , the Arch of Septimus Severus . The city is changed from brick to marble , and palaces and theatres and temples become colossal . Painting and sculpture ornament every part of the city . There are more marble busts than living men . Life becomes more complicated and factitious . Enormous fortunes are accumulated . A liberal patronage is extended to artists . Literature declines , but great masterpieces of genius are still produced . Medicine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ life is seen on all the hills , while gardens and villas are the object of perpetual panegyric . From all corners of the earth strangers flock to see the wonders of the mighty metropolis , more crowded than London , more magnificent than Paris , more luxurious than New York . Fetes , shows , processions , gladiatorial combats , chariot races , form the amusement of the vast populace . A majestic centralized power controls all kingdoms , and races , and peoples . The highest state of prosperity is reached that the ancient world knew , and all bow down to Caesar and behold in him the representative of divine providence , from whose will there is no appeal , and from whose arm it is impossible to fly . But mene , mene , tekel , upharsin , is written on the walls of the banqueting chambers of the palace of the Caesars . The dream of omnipotence is disturbed by the invasion of , Germanic barbarians . They press toward the old seats of power and riches to improve their condition . They are warlike , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are urged onward by the lust of rapine and military zeal . The old legions , which penetrated the Macedonian phalanx and withstood the Gauls , can not resist the shock of their undisciplined armies ; for martial glory has fled , and the people prefer their pleasures to the empire . Great emperors are raised up , but they are unequal to the task of preserving the crumbling empire . The people , enervated and egotistical , are scattered like sheep or are made slaves . The proud capitals of the world fall before the ruthless invaders . Desolation is everywhere . The barbarians trample beneath their heavy feet the proud trophies of ancient art and power . The glimmering life-sparks of the old civilization disappear . The world is abandoned to fear , misery , and despair , and there is no help , for retributive justice marches on with impressive solemnity . Imperial despotism , disproportionate fortunes , unequal divisions of society , the degradation of woman , slavery , Epicurean pleasures , practical atheism , bring forth their wretched fruits . The vices and miseries of society @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; all strength is in mechanism , and that wears out ; vitality passes away ; the empire is weak from internal decay , and falls easily into the hands of the new races . " Violence was only a secondary cause of the ruin ; the vices of self-interest were the primary causes . A world , as fair and glorious as our own , crumbles away . " Our admiration is changed to sadness and awe . The majesty of man is rebuked by the majesty of God . Such a history is suggestive . Why was such an empire permitted to rise over the bleeding surface of the world , and what was its influence on the general destiny of the race ? How far has its civilization perished , and how far has it entered into new combinations ? Was its strength material , or moral , or intellectual ? How far did literature , art , science , laws , philosophy , prove conservative forces ? Why did Christianity fail to arrest so total an eclipse of the glory of man ? Why did a magnificent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? Why was the world to be involved in such universal gloom and wretchedness as followed the great catastrophe ? Could nothing arrest the stupendous downfall ? And when we pass from the great facts of Roman history to the questions which it suggests to a contemplative mind in reference to the state of society among ourselves , on which history ought to shed light , what enigmas remain to be solved . Does moral worth necessarily keep pace with aesthetic culture , or intellectual triumphs , or material strength ? Do the boasted triumphs of civilization create those holy certitudes on which happiness is based ? Can vitality in states be preserved by mechanical inventions ? Does society expand from inherent laws of development , or from influences altogether foreign to man ? Is it the settled destiny of nations to rise to a certain height in wisdom and power , and then pass away in ignominy and gloom ? Is there permanence in any human institutions ? Will society move round in perpetual circles , incapable of progression and incapable of rest , or will it indefinitely improve ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ literature , and science , where the mainsprings of society are sensuality and egotism ? Is the tendency of society to democratic , or aristocratic , or despotic governments ? Does Christianity , in this dispensation , merely furnish witnesses of truth , or will it achieve successive conquests over human degeneracy till the race is emancipated and saved ? Can it arrest the downward tendency of society , when it is undermined by vices which blunt the conscience of mankind , and which are sustained by all that is proud in rank , brilliant in fashion , and powerful in wealth ? These are inquiries on which Roman history sheds light . If history is a guide or oracle , they are full of impressive significance . Can we afford to reject all the examples of the past in our sanguine hopes for the future ? Human nature is the same in any age , and human experiences point to some great elemental truths , which the Bible confirms . We may be unmoved by them , but they remain in solemn dignity for all generations ; " and foremost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said , " stands a law which man has been trying in all ages , as now , to deny , or at least to ignore , and that is ,  --  that as the fruit of righteousness is wealth and peace , strength and honor , the fruit of unrighteousness is poverty and anarchy , weakness and shame ; for not upon mind , but upon morals , is human welfare founded . Science is indeed great ; but she is not the greatest . She is an instrument , and not a power . But her lawful mistress , the only one under whom she can truly grow , and prosper , and prove her divine descent , is Virtue , the likeness of Almighty God ,  --  an ancient doctrine , yet one ever young , and which no discoveries in science will ever abrogate . " Hence the great aim of history should be a dispassionate inquiry into the genius of past civilizations , especially in a moral point of view . Wherein were they weak or strong , vital or mechanical , permanent or transient ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our own , and learn lessons of wisdom . The rise and fall of the Roman Empire is especially rich in the facts which bear on our own development . Nor can modern history be comprehended without a survey of the civilization which has entered into our own , and forms the basis of many of our own institutions . Rome perished , but not wholly her civilization . So far as it was founded on the immutable principles of justice , or beauty , or love , it will never die , but will remain a precious legacy to all generations . So far as it was founded on pride , injustice , and selfishness , it ignobly disappeared . Men die , and their trophies of pride are buried in the dust , but their truths live . All truth is indestructible , and survives both names and marbles . Roman history , so grand and so mournful , on the whole suggests cheering views for humanity , since out of the ruins , amid the storms , aloft above the conflagration , there came certain indestructible forces , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and more glorious condition of humanity . Creation succeeded destruction . All that was valuable in art , in science , in literature , in philosophy , in laws , has been preserved . The useless alone has perished with the worn-out races themselves . The light which scholars , and artists , and poets , and philosophers , and lawgivers kindled , illuminated the path of the future guides of mankind . And especially the great ideas which the persecuted Christians unfolded , projected themselves into the shadows of mediaeval Europe , and gave a new direction to human thought and life . New sentiments arose , more poetic and majestic than ever existed in the ancient world , giving radiance to homes , peace to families , elevation to woman , liberty to the slave , compassion for the miserable , self-respect , to the man of toil , exultation to the martyr , patience to the poor , and glorious hopes to all ; so that in rudeness , in poverty , in discomfort , in slavery , in isolation , in obloquy , peace and happiness were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of character , arose in the majesty of renovated strength to achieve still grander victories , and confer higher blessings on mankind . Thus the Roman Empire , whose fall was so inglorious , and whose chastisement was so severe , was made by Providence to favor the ultimate progress of society , since its civilization entered into new combinations , and still remains one of the proudest monuments of human genius . It is this civilization , in its varied aspects , both good and evil , lofty and degraded , which in the following chapters I seek to show . This is the real point of interest in Roman history . Let us see what the Romans really accomplished  --  the results of their great enterprises ; the systems they matured with so much thought ; the institutions they bequeathed to our times ; yea , even those vices and follies which they originally despised , and which , if allowed to become dominant , must , according to all those laws of which we have cognizance , ultimately overwhelm any land in misery , shame , and ruin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the most important facts , leaving the reader to examine at his leisure recondite authorities , in which , too often , the argument is obscured by minute details , and art is buried in learning . CHAPTER I. THE CONQUESTS OF THE ROMANS . One of the features of Roman greatness , which preeminently arrests attention , is military genius and strength . The Romans surpassed all the nations of antiquity in the brilliancy and solidity of their conquests . They conquered the world , and held it in subjection . For many centuries they stamped their iron heel on the necks of prostrate and suppliant kings , from the Atlantic Ocean to the Caspian Sea . Nothing could impede , except for a time , their irresistible progress from conquering to conquer . They were warriors from the earliest period of their history , and all their energies were concentrated upon conquest . Their aggressive policy never changed so long as there was a field for its development . They commenced as a band of robbers ; they ended by becoming masters of all the countries and kingdoms which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was universal ,  --  the only universal empire which ever existed on this earth ,  --  and it was won with the sword . It was not a rapid conquest , but it was systematic and irresistible , evincing great genius , perseverance , and fortitude . Sidenote : The Romans fight from a fixed purpose . The successive and fortunate conquests of the Romans were the admiration , the envy , and the fear of all nations  --  so marvelous and successful that they have the majesty of a providential event . They can not be called a mystery , since we see the persistent adaptation of means to an end . But no other nation ever evinced this uniform military policy , except for a limited period , or under the stimulus of a temporary enthusiasm , such as characterized the Saracens and the Germanic barbarians . The Romans fought when there was no apparent need of fighting , when their empire already embraced most of the countries known to the ancients . The Egyptians , the Assyrians , the Persians , and the Greeks made magnificent conquests , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ passed away . The Greeks evinced great military genius , and the enterprises of Alexander have been regarded as a wonder . But the Greeks did not fight , as the Romans did , from a fixed purpose to bring all nations under their sway , and they yielded , in turn , to the Romans . The Romans were never subdued , but all nations were subdued by them  - -  even superior races . They erected a universal monarchy , which fell to pieces by its own weight , when the vices of self-interest had accomplished their work . They became the prey of barbarians in a very different sense from that which reduced the ancient empires . They did not yield to any powerful , warlike neighbor , as the Persians yielded to the Greeks , but to successive waves of unknown warriors who came in quest of settlement , and then only when all Roman vigor had fled , and the whole policy of the empire was changed  --  when it was the aim of emperors to conserve old conquests , not make new ones . Sidenote : War @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , for a thousand years , war was a passion ; and , while it lasted , it consumed all other passions . It animated statesmen , rulers , generals , and citizens alike , ever burning , never at rest ,  --  a passion unscrupulous , resistless , all-pervading , all-absorbing , all-conquering . Success in war gave consideration , dignity , honor beyond all other successes . It always has called out popular admiration , and its glory has ever been highly prized , and it always will be so , but it has not monopolized all offices and dignities as among the Romans . The Greeks thought of art , of literature , and of philosophy as well as of war , and gave their crowns of glory for civic and artistic excellence as well as for military success . The Greeks fought to preserve or extend their civilization ; the Romans , in order to rule . They had very little respect for any thing beyond military genius . The successful warrior alone was the founder of a great family . The Roman aristocracy , so proud @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the glory of battle-fields . Every citizen was trained to arms , and senators and statesmen commanded armies . The whole fabric of the State was built up on war , and for many centuries it was the leading occupation of the people . How insignificant was a poet , or a painter , or a philosopher by the side of a warrior ! Rome was a city of generals , and they preoccupied the public mind . Sidenote : Value placed by the Romans on military art . To a Roman , military art was the highest of all . It was constantly being improved , until it reached absolute perfection , with the old weapons and implements of war . To its perfection the whole genius of the people was consecrated ; it was to them what the fine arts were to the Greeks , what priestly domination was to the Middle Ages , and what material inventions to abridge human labor are to us . The Romans despised literature , art , philosophy , commerce , agriculture , and even luxury , when they were making their grand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there was no great encouragement to genius or ambition in any other field ; but in this field , the horizon perpetually expanded . Every new conquest prepared the way for successive conquests ; ambition here was untrammeled , energy was unbounded , visions of glory were most dazzling , warlike schemes were most fertile , until the whole world lay bleeding and prostrate . Sidenote : Lawfulness of war . Military genius , however , does not present man in the highest state of wisdom or beauty . It is very attractive , but " there is a greater than the warrior 's excellence , " at least to a contemplative or religious eye . When men save nations , in fearful crises , by their military genius , as Napoleon did France when surrounded with hostile armies , or Gustavus Adolphus did Germany when it was struggling for religious rights , then they render the greatest possible services , and receive no unmerited honors . The heart of the world cherishes the fame of Miltiades , of Charlemagne , of Henry IV. , of Washington ; for they were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ occasional necessities of our world . No nation can live , or is worthy to live , without military virtues . They rescue nations on the verge of ruin , and establish great rights , without which life is nothing . War , however much to be lamented as an evil , is the last appeal and resource of nations , and settles what can not be settled without it ; and it will probably continue so long as there are blindness , ambition , and avarice among men . Nor , under certain circumstances , of which nations can only be the proper judges , is it inconsistent with the law of love . Hence , as it is a great necessity , it will ever be valued as a great science . Civilization accepts it and claims it . It calls into exercise great qualities , and these intoxicate the people , who bow down to them as godlike . Sidenote : Those who are most successful in war . Still , military genius , however lauded and honored , is too often allied with ambition and selfishness to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ does not reveal the soul in its loftiest aspirations . Men of a coarser type are often most successful ,  --  men insensible to pity and to reproach , whose greatest merit is in will , nerve , energy , and power of making rapid combinations . We revere the intellect of the Greeks more than that of the Romans , though they were inferior to the latter in military success . We have more respect for those qualities which add to the domain of truth than those which secure power . A wise man elevates the Bacons , the Newtons , and the Shakespeares above all the Marlboroughs and Wellingtons . Plato is surrounded with a brighter halo than Themistocles , and Cicero than Marius . Sidenote : The general evils of war . War as a trade is unscrupulous , hard , rapacious , destructive . It foments all the evil passions ; it is allied with all the vices ; it is antagonistic to human welfare . It glories merely in strength ; it worships only success . It raises wicked men to power ; it prostrates and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and spurns what is most exalted . It makes a pandemonium of earth , and drags to its triumphal car the venerated relics of ages . It is an awful crime , making slaves of the helpless , and spreading consternation , misery , and death wherever it goes  --  marking its progress with a trail of blood , and filling the earth with imprecations and curses . It is the greatest scourge which God uses to chastise enervated nations , and can not be contemplated with ; any satisfaction except as the wrath , which is made to praise the Sovereign Ruler who employs what means He chooses to punish or exalt . Sidenote : Spirit of the Romans in their wars . Now the Romans , in a general sense , pursued war as a trade , to gratify a thirst for power , to raise themselves on the ruins of ancient monarchies , to enrich themselves with the spoils of the world , and to govern it for selfish purposes . There were many Roman wars which were exceptions , when an exalted patriotism was the animating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Rome . Her citizens did not generally fight to preserve liberties or rights or national existence , but for self-aggrandizement . Incessant campaigns for a thousand years brought out military science , courage , energy , and a grasping and selfish patriotism . They gave power , skill to rule , executive talents ; and these qualities , eminently adapted to worldly greatness , made the Romans universal masters , even if they do not make them interesting . They developed great strength , resource , will , and even made them wise in administration , possibly great civilizers , since centralized power is better than anarchies ; yet these traits do not make us love them , or revere them . Providence doubtless ordered the universal monarchy , which only universal war could establish , for the good of the world at that time , for the advancement of civilization itself . Universal dominion must be succeeded by universal peace , and in such a peace the higher qualities and virtues and talents can only be manifested , so that the Roman rule was not a calamity , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  cold , remorseless , self-seeking . War made the Romans practical , calculating , overbearing , proud , scornful , imperious . Sidenote : Success of the Romans in war . But war made them a great people , and made them eminent in certain great qualities . Their success in war is tantamount to saying that in one great field of genius , which civilization honors , they not merely distinguished themselves , and gained a proud fame which will never die out of the memory of man , but that they have had no equals in any age . War enabled them to build up a vast empire , which empire gave a great impulse to ancient civilization . Sidenote : Providence seen in the ascendency of great nations . There is something very singular and mysterious in the results of wars which are caused and carried on by unprincipled and unscrupulous men . They are made to end in substantial benefits to the human race . The wrath of man , in other words , is made to praise God , showing that He is the Sovereign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pleases to carry out his great and benevolent designs . However atrocious the causes of wars , and execrable the spirit in which they are carried out , they are ever made to subserve the benefit of future ages , and the great cause of civilization in its vast connections . Men may be guilty , and may be punished for their wickedness , and execrated through all time by enlightened nations ; still they are but tools of the higher power . I do not say that God is the author of wars any more than He is of sin ; but wars are yet sent as a punishment to those whom they directly and immediately affect , while they unbind the cords of slavery , and relax the hold of tyrants . They are like storms in the natural world : they create a healthier moral life , after the disasters are past . Those ambitious men , who seek to add province to province and kingdom to kingdom , and for whom no maledictions are too severe , since they shed innocent blood , rarely succeed unless they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fell before Cyrus when her day had come , and she could do no more for civilization . Thus Persia , in her turn , yielded to the Grecian heroes when she became enervated with the luxuries of the conquered kingdoms . Thus Greece again succumbed to Rome when she had degenerated into a land where every vice was rampant . The passions which inflamed Cyrus , and Alexander , and Pompey were alike imperious , and their policy was alike unscrupulous . They simply were bent on conquest , and on establishing powerful empires , which conquests doubtless resulted in the improvement of the condition of mankind . There is also something hard and forbidding in the policy of successful statesmen . We are shocked at their injustice , cruelty , and rapaciousness ; but they are often used by Providence to raise nations to preeminence , when their ascendency is , on the whole , a benefit to the world . There is nothing amiable or benign in the characters of such men as Oxenstiern , Richelieu , or Bismarck , but who can doubt the wisdom of their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to have a great ascendency over other nations unless the general influence of the dominant State is favorable to civilization ; and when this influence is perverted the ascendency passes away . This is remarkably seen in the history of the Persian , the Greek , and the Roman Empires , and still more forcibly in the empire of the popes in the Middle Ages , and of the vast influence of France and England during the last hundred years . This is both a mystery and a fact . It is mysterious that bad men should be allowed to succeed so often , but it is one of the sternest facts of life , only to be explained on the principle that they are instruments in the hands of the Great Moral Governor whose designs we are not able to fathom , yet the wisdom of which is subsequently , though imperfectly , made known . It was wicked in the sons of Jacob to sell Joseph to the Ishmaelites ; their craft and lies were successful : they deceived their father and accomplished their purposes ; yet his bondage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ famine . The rise and fall of empires are to be explained on the same principles as the rise and fall of families . A coarse , unscrupulous but enterprising man gets rich , but his wealth is made to subserve interests far greater than that of his children . Hospitals , colleges , and libraries are endowed as monasteries were in the Middle Ages . If vice , selfishness , and pride were not overruled , what would become of our world ? The whole history of civilization is the good which is made to spring out of evil . Men are nothing in comparison with Omnipotence . What are human plans ? Yet enterprise and virtue and talent are rewarded . In the affairs of life we see that goodness does not lose its recompense , and that vice is punished ; but beyond , what more impressively do we behold than this , that the instruments of punishment are often the wicked themselves . Sidenote : The results of the crusades . Sidenote : Their immediate consequences are disastrous ; their ultimate , beneficial . Among the worst @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  - -  were the Crusades . And when were wars more unfortunate , more unsuccessful ? Five millions of Crusaders perished miserably in those mad expeditions stimulated by hatred of Mohammedanism . No trophies consoled Europe for its enormous losses , extended over two hundred years . But those wars developed the resources of Europe ; they broke the power of feudal barons ; they promoted commerce and the arts of life ; they led to greater liberality of mind ; they opened the horizon of knowledge ; they introduced learned men into rising universities ; they centralized the power of kings ; they weakened the temporal jurisdiction of the popes ; they improved architecture , sculpture , and painting ; they built free cities ; they gave a new stimulus to all the energies of the European nations . Their benefits to civilization were not the legitimate result of destructive passions . The natural penalty of folly and crime was paid in hardship , sorrow , disease , captivity , disappointment , poverty , and death . But out of the ashes a new creation arose , not what any of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the thoughts of Bernard , Urban , Philip , and Richard , great men as they were , far-sighted statesmen , who expected other results . The hand which guided that warfare between Europe and Asia was the hand that led the Israelites out of Egypt across the Red Sea . Moreover , quem deus vult perdere prius dementat . What uprising more foolish , insane , disastrous , than the great Southern rebellion ! Its result was never dreamed of for a moment by those Southern leaders . They hoped to see the establishment of a great empire based on slavery ; they saw the utter destruction of slavery itself . The course by which they anticipated dominion and riches ended in their temporal ruin . They were made the destroyers of their own pet system , when it could not have been destroyed in any other way . It was only by a great war that the fetters of the slave could be removed , and God sent war so soon as it pleased Him to bring the wicked bondage to an end . If any thing shows the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . They are sent like the famine and the pestilence . All human wisdom and power sink into insignificance when they are put forth to stop these scourges of the Almighty . It is against all reason that they ever come ; yet they do come , and then crimes are avenged ; evil punishes evil , and succeeding generations are made to see that the progress of the race is through sorrow and suffering . No great empire is built up but with the will of God . No empire falls without deserving the chastisement and the ruin . But God has promised to save and to redeem , and the world moves on in accordance with natural laws , and each successive century witnesses somehow or other a great advance in the general condition of mankind . It is not the great rulers who plan this improvement . It comes from Heaven . It comes in spite of human degeneracy , which , if left to itself , would doubtless soon produce a state of society like that which is attributed to the nations " before the flood came @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the good of nations . With this view of war  --  always aggressive with one party , always a calamity to both ; the greatest calamity known to the nations , exhausting , bloody , cruel , sweeping every thing before it ; a moral conflagration , bringing every kind of suffering and sorrow in its train , yet made to result as a retribution to worn-out and degenerate races , and a means of vast development of resources among those peoples which have life and energy ,  --  we see the providence of God in the Roman Conquests . The gradual growth of Rome as a warlike state is a most impressive example of the agency of a great Moral Governor in breaking up states that deserved to perish , and in building up a power such as the world needed in order to facilitate both a magnificent civilization and the peaceful spread of a new religion . The Greeks created art and literature ; the Romans , laws and government , by which society everywhere was made more secure and tranquil , until the good which arose from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rome under the kings . Under the kingly rule Rome becomes the most important and powerful of the cities of Latium , and a foundation is laid of social , religious , and political institutions which are destined to achieve a magnificent triumph . The kings of Rome are all great men  --  wise and statesmanlike , patrons of civilization among a rude and primitive people . No state for more than two hundred years was ever ruled by more enlightened princes , ambitious indeed , sometimes unscrupulous , but fortunate and successful . The benefits derived from the conquests and ascendency of the city of Romulus were seen in the union of several petty states , and the fusion of their customs and manners . Before the foundation of the city , Italy was of no account with the older empires . In less than two hundred and fifty years a great Italian power grows up on the banks of the Tiber , imbued to some extent with the civilization of Greece , which it receives through Etruria and the Tarquins . Sidenote : Effect of the expulsion of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was too rapid for its moral health . A series of disasters produced by the expulsion of the Tarquins , during which the Roman state dwindles into a small territory on the left bank of the Tiber , develops strength and martial virtue . It takes Rome one hundred and fifty years to recover what it had lost . Moreover its great prosperity has provoked envy , and all the small neighboring nations are leagued against it . These must be subdued , or Italy will remain divided and subdivided , with no central power . The heroic period of Roman history begins really with the expulsion of the kings ; also the growth of aristocratical power . It is not under kings nor democratic influences and institutions that Rome reaches preeminence , but under an aristocracy . All that is most glorious in Roman annals took place under the rule of the Patricians . Sidenote : Rome struggles for existence for 150 years . Sidenote : Beautiful legends of the heroic period . Sidenote : They indicate the existence of great virtues . Sidenote : Petty wars with neighboring states @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  when the future mistress of the world struggled for its existence with the cities and inhabitants of Latium , Samnium , and Etruria , whose united territories scarcely extended fifty miles from Rome , were developed the virtues of a martial aristocracy . Our minds kindle with the contemplation of their courage , fortitude , patience , hope , perseverance , energy , self-devotion , patriotism , and religious faith . They deserved success . The long and bitter struggle of one hundred and fifty years had more of the nature of self-preservation than military ambition . The history of those petty wars is interesting , because it is romantic . Beautiful legends of early patriotism and heroism have been reproduced in all the histories from Livy to our times , like those of the knights of King Arthur and the paladins of Charlemagne in the popular literature of Europe . Poets have made them the themes of their inspiration . Painters have chosen them as favorite subjects of art . We love to ponder on the bitter exile of Coriolanus , his treasonable revenge , and the noble patriotism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country but lost her son ; on Cincinnatus , taken from the plow and sent as general and dictator against the Acquians ; on the Fabian gens , defending Rome a whole year from the attacks of the Veientines until they were all cut off , like the Spartan band at Thermopylae ; on Siccius Dentatus , the veteran captain of one hundred and twenty battles , who was only slain by rolling a stone from a high rock upon his head ; on Cossos , slaying the king of Veii with his own hand ; on the siege of Veii , itself , a city as large as Rome , lasting ten years , and only finally taken by draining the Alban lake ; on the pride and avarice of the banished Camillus , and his subsequent rescue of Rome from the Gauls ; on the sacred geese of the capitol , and Manlius who slew its assailants ; on the siege of the capitol for seven months by these Celtic invaders , and the burning and sack of the city , and its deliverance by the great Camillus . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the self-devotion and bravery , the simplicity and virtue of those primitive ages , when luxury was unknown and crime was severely punished . It was in those days of danger and hardship that the foundation of the future military strength of the empire was laid . We do not read of military science , of war as an art or trade , or even of great military ambition , for the sphere of military operations was narrow and obscure , but of preparation for victories , under men of genius , in the time to come . That part of Roman history bears the same relation to the age of Marius and Sulla , that the conquests of the Puritans over the Indians , and the difficulties with which they contended , do to the gigantic warfare of the North and South in the late rebellion . The Puritans laid the foundation of the military virtues of the Americans , in their colonial state , as the Patricians of Rome did for one hundred and fifty years after the expulsion of the kings . Those petty wars with Volscians and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ germ of subsequent greatness . They took place in the infancy of the republic , under the rule of Patricians , who were not then great nobles , but brave and poor citizens , animated with patriotic zeal and characterized , like the Puritans , for stern and lofty virtues and religious faith ,  --  superstitious and unenlightened , yet elevated and grand ,  --  qualities on which the strength of man is based . It is not puerile to dwell with delight on the legends of that heroic age , for the philosopher sees in those little struggles the germs of imperial power . They were small and insignificant , like the battles of the American Revolution , when measured with the marshaling of vast armies on the plains of Pharsalia or Waterloo , but they were great in their inherent heroism , and in their future results . Who shall say which is greater to the eye of the Infinite  --  the battle of Leipsic , or the fight on Bunker Hill ? It is the cause , the principles involved , the spirit of a contest , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nations and ages have felt great interest in the early struggles of Rome . They are full of poetry and philosophical importance . The Roman historians themselves dwelt upon them with peculiar enthusiasm ; and the record of them lives in the school-books of all generations , and has not been deemed unworthy of the critical genius of Niebuhr , of Arnold , or of Mommsen . Sidenote : The complete independence of Rome . Sidenote : The Gaulish Invasion . The result of this protracted warfare with petty cities and states for one hundred and fifty years was the complete independence of the City of the Seven Hills , the regaining of the conquests lost by the expulsion of Tarquin , the conquest of Latium , the dissolution of the Latin League , the possession of the Pontine district , and the extension of Roman power to the valleys of the Apennines . The war with the Gauls was not a systematic contest . It was a raid of these Celts across the Apennines , and the temporary humiliation of the Roman capital . The Gauls burned and sacked the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ again invaded by a foreign foe until the hordes of Alaric appeared . The disaster was soon recovered , and the Romans made more united by the lesson . With the retreat of the Gauls , B.C. 350 , and the recovery of Latium , B.C. 341 and four hundred and sixteen years from the foundation of the city , the aggressive period of Roman warfare begins . By this time the Plebeians made their power felt , and had obtained one of the two consulships ; but for a long time after , the Patricians , though shorn of undivided sovereignty , still monopolized most of the great offices of state  --  indeed were the controlling power , socially and politically . At no period was Rome a democratic state ; never had Plebeians the ascendency . But now the plebeian influence begins to modify the old constitution . All classes , after incessant warfare for a century and a half , and exposed to innumerable feuds , united in enterprises of conquest . Rome begins to appear on the stage of political history . Sidenote : War with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aggressive nature of Roman warfare commenced with Samnium . The Samnites were a warlike and pastoral people who inhabited the rugged mountain district between the valleys of the Vulturnus and the Calor , but they were nevertheless barbarians , and the contest between them and the Romans was for the sovereignty of Italy . I need not mention the alleged causes , or the details of a sanguinary war . The alleged causes were not the true ones , and the details are complicated and obscure . We deal with results . The war began B.C. 326 , and lasted , with short intervals of peace , thirty-six years . The Roman heroes were M. Valerius Corvus , L. Papirius Cursor , Q. Fabius Maximus , and P. Decius the younger . All of these were great generals , and were consuls or dictators . As in all great contests , lasting a whole generation , there was alternate victory and defeat , disgraced by treachery and bad faith . The Romans fought , assisted by Latins , Campanians , and Apulians . The Samnites defended themselves in their mountain fastnesses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ until nearly worn out , when Umbrians , Etrurians , and Senonian Gauls came to the rescue . About sixty thousand men fought on each side . The battle of Sentinum determined the fate of Samnium and Italy , gained by Fabius and Decius , and the Samnites laid down their arms and yielded to their rivals . Their brave general , Pontius , was beheaded in the prison under the capitol ,  --  an act of inhumanity which sullied the laurels of Fabius . The Roman power is now established over central and lower Italy , and with the exception of a few Greek cities on the coast , Latium , Campania , Apulia , and Samnium are added to the territories of the republic . Sidenote : Works of Appius Claudius . In the mean time the political inequality between Patricians and Plebeians had been removed , and a plebeian nobility had grown up , created by success in war and domestic factions . The great man in civil history , during this war , was Appius Claudius the Censor , a proud and inflexible Patrician . His , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ road led to Capua through the Pontine marshes one hundred and twenty miles , and was paved with blocks of basalt ; the aqueduct passed under ground , and was the first of those vast works which supplied the city with water . About ten years elapsed between the conquest of the Samnites and the landing of Pyrrhus in Italy , B.C. 280 , during which the Romans were brought in contact with Magna Grecia and Syracuse . Sidenote : Tarentum invokes the aid of Phyrrus . The chief of the Greek-Italian cities was Tarentum , a very ancient Lacedaemonian colony . It was admirably situated for commerce on the gulf which bears its name , was very rich , and abounded in fearless sailors . But like most commercial cities , it intrusted its defense to mercenaries . It viewed with alarm the growing power of Rome , and unable to meet her face to face , called in the aid of Pyrrhus , king of Epirus , the greatest general of the age , which was followed by a general rising of the Italian states , to shake off @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Italy . Sidenote : He is defeated at the battle of Beneventum . Pyrrhus was a soldier of fortune , and practiced war as an art , and delighted in it like Alexander or Charles XII . He readily responded to the overture of the Tarentine Ambassador , and sent over a general with three thousand men to secure a footing , and soon followed with twenty thousand foot , five thousand horse , and a number of elephants . Among his troops were five thousand Macedonian soldiers , a phalanx such as the Romans had never encountered . The Macedonians fought in masses ; the Romans in lines . The first encounter was disastrous to the Romans , whose cavalry was frightened by the elephants . But Pyrrhus , contented with victory , did not pursue his advantages , and advanced with easy marches towards Rome with seventy thousand men . The battle of Heraclea , however , had greatly weakened his forces ; his allies proved treacherous ; and he was glad to offer terms of peace , which were promptly rejected by the Senate . After spending nearly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ again tried his fortune against the Romans , and was signally routed at the battle of Beneventum by Curius Dentatus . He hastily left Italy to her fate , and the fall of Tarentum speedily followed , which made the Romans masters of the whole peninsula . The Macedonian phalanx , which had conquered Asia , yielded to the Roman legion , and a new lesson was learned in the art of war . Sidenote : Results of the Fall of Tarentum . Sidenote : The Romans complete masters of Italy . The Romans , by the fall of Tarentum , were now the undisputed masters of Italy , and had made the first great step towards the conquest of the world . The city of Romulus was now four hundred and eighty years old , and the national domain extended from the Ciminian wood in Etruria to the middle of the Campania . It was called the Ager Romanus , in which was a population of two hundred and ninety-three thousand men capable of bearing arms ; and the citizens of the various conquered cities , who had served certain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with all the rights to which the citizens of the capital were entitled ,  - -  absolute authority over wife , children , and slaves , security from capital punishment except by a vote of the people , or under military authority in the camp , access to all the honors and employments of the state , the right of suffrage , and the possession of Quirinal property . They felt themselves to be allies of Rome , and henceforward lent efficient aid in war . To all practical intents , they were Romans as completely as the inhabitants of Marseilles are French . Tarentum , Neapolis , Tibur , Praeneste , and other large cities , enjoyed peculiar privileges ; but armed garrisons were maintained in them , under the form of colonies . The administration of them was organized after the model of Rome . Military roads were constructed between all places of importance . Sidenote : The virtues of eminent Patricians . The same sterling virtues which characterized the absolute rule of the Patricians still continued , and patriotism partook of the nature of religious sentiment . Three Decii surrendered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his son to the genius of discipline ; Runnus is degraded from the Senate for possessing ten pounds of silver plate , although twice consul and once dictator ; Regulus , twice consul , possessed no more than one little field in the barren district of Papinice . Curius like Fabricius prepared his simple meal with his own hand , and refused the gold of the Samnites , as Fabricius refused that of Pyrrhus . The new masters of Italy deserved their empire . There was union because there was now political equality . The " new men , like Fabricius and Curius Dentatus , were not less numerous in the Senate than the old Curial families . The aristocracy of blood was blended with the aristocracy of merit . The consulship gave unity of command , the Senate wisdom and the proper strength , preserving a happy equilibrium of forces ,  --  the combination of royalty , aristocracy , and democracy , which , with military virtues and austere manners , made an irresistible force . " Footnote : Durny , Hist. des Romains This period , the fifth century @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ heroic age . Sidenote : Rome prepares for aggressive and unjust war . But now military aggrandizement became the master-passion of the people , and the uniform policy of the government . Military virtues still remained , but the morals of state began to decline . Aggressive wars , for conquest and power , henceforth , mark the progress of the Romans ; and not merely aggressive wars , but unjust and foreign wars . The step of the Roman is now proud and defiant . Visions of unlimited conquest rise up before his eye . He is cold , practical , imperious . The eagles of the legions are the real objects of pride and reverence . Mars is the presiding deity . Success is the only road to honor . Sidenote : Rivalry between Carthage and Rome . While Rome was completing the reduction of Italy , Carthage , a Tyrian colony on the opposite coast of Africa , was extending her conquests in the Islands of the Mediterranean . The Greek colonies of Sicily had fallen under her sway . She was a rival whose power was formidable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proud in the number of her allies . The city contained seven hundred thousand inhabitants , and the walls measured twenty miles in circumference . Sidenote : Shall Rome or Carthage have the preeminence . Sidenote : Carthage falls after a long and memorable struggle . Sidenote : Territories acquired by the fall of Carthage . Between such ambitious and unscrupulous rivals , peace could not long be maintained . To the eye of the philosopher the ascendency of Carthage or of Rome over the countries which border on the Mediterranean was clearly seen . Which were better ? Shall the world be governed by a martial , law-making , law-loving , heroic commonwealth , not yet seduced and corrupted by luxury and wealth , or by a commercial , luxurious , selfish nation of merchants , whose only desire is self-indulgence and folly . Providence sides with Rome  --  although Rome can not be commended , and is ruled by ambitious and unscrupulous chieftains whose delight is power . If there is to be one great empire more , before Christianity is proclaimed , which shall absorb all other empires @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to a people who know how to civilize after they have conquered . Let the sword rather than gold rule the world  --  enlightened statesmen rather than self-indulgent merchants . So Carthage falls , after three memorable struggles , extending over more than a century , during which she produced the greatest general of antiquity , next to Caesar and Alexander . But not even Hannibal could restore the fortunes of his country , after having inflicted a bitter humiliation on his enemies . That city of merchants , like Tyre and Sidon , must drink of the cup of divine chastisement . Another type of civilization than that furnished by a " mistress of the sea , " was needed for Europe , and another rule for Asia and Africa . The Carthaginians taught the Romans , in their contest , how to build ships of war and fight naval battles . As many as three hundred thousand men were engaged in that memorable sea-fight of Ecnomus which opened to Regulus the way to Africa . Three times did the Romans lose their fleets by tempests , and yet they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Romans , in view of the brilliant successes of Hannibal , can never be sufficiently admired . The defeat at Can nae was a catastrophe , but the troops of Fabius , to whom was left the defense of the city , were not discouraged , and with Scipio  --  religious , self-reliant , and lofty  --  the tide of victory turned . By the first Punic war , which lasted twenty-two years , Rome gained Sicily ; by the second , which opened twenty-three years after the first , and lasted seventeen years , she gained Sardinia , a foothold in Spain and Gaul , and a preponderance throughout the western regions of Europe and Africa ; by the third , which occurred fifty years after the second , and continued but four years , she gained all the provinces of Africa ruled by Carthage , and a great part of Spain . Nothing was allowed to remain of the African capital . The departing troops left behind complete desolation . The captives were sold as slaves , or put to death , and enough of spoil rewarded the victors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on his return from the conquest of Greece . Sidenote : Condition of the Macedonian empire . Sidenote : Principles and passions which led to the conquest of Greece . In the mean time , in the interval between the second and third Punic wars , occurred the Macedonian wars , which prepared the way for conquests in the East . The great Macedonian empire was split up into several monarchies among the generals of Alexander and their successors . The Ptolemies reigned in Egypt ; the successors of Seleucus in Babylonia ; those of Antigonus in Syria and Asia Minor ; those of Lysimachus in Thrace ; and of Cassander in Macedonia . It was the mission of Rome to subdue these monarchies , or rather her good fortune , for she was destined to conquer the world . The principles which animated these wars can not be defended on high moral grounds , any more than the conquest of India by England , or of Algeria by France . They were based entirely upon ambition  --  upon the passion for political aggrandizement . I confess I have no sympathy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were these monarchies dangerous rivals like Carthage . The subjugation of Italy was in accordance with what we now call the Monroe doctrine  --  to obtain the ascendency on her own soil ; and even the conquest or of Sicily was no worse than the conquest of Ireland , or what would be the future absorption of Cuba and Jamaica within the limits of the United States . The Emperor Napoleon would probably justify both the humiliation of Carthage and the conquest of Greece and Asia and Egypt , and others would echo his voice in defense of aggressive domination , on some plea of pretended schemes of colonization , and the progress of civilization . But I do not believe in overturning the immutable laws of moral obligation for any questionable policy of expediency . I look upon the great civil wars of the Romans , which followed these conquests , in which so much blood was shed , and in which Marius and Sulla and Caesar and Pompey exhausted the resources of the state , and made an imperial regime necessary , only as the visitation of God in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the penalty of the unscrupulous wars of Alexander . Sidenote : Degeneracy of the Greeks . Sidenote : Spoils of Greece fall into the hands of the Romans . Sidenote : The triumph of Paulus . Sidenote : Grecian provinces added to the empire . The conquest over the Macedonians , however , by the Romans , was not an unmixed calamity , and was a righteous judgment on the Greeks . Nothing could be more unscrupulous than the career of Alexander and his generals . Again , the principle which had animated the Oriental kings before him was indefensible . We could go back still further , and show from the whole history of Asiatic conquests that their object was to aggrandize ambitious conquerors . The Persians , at first , were a brave and religious people , hardy and severe , and their conquest of older monarchies resulted in a certain good . But they became corrupt by prosperity and power , and fell a prey to the Greeks . The Greeks , at that period , were the noblest race of the ancient world  --  immortal for genius @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ remained of that glorious spirit which was seen at Thermopylae and Marathon . The Greek ascendency in Asia and Egypt was followed by the same luxury and extravagance and effeminacy that resulted from the rule of Persia . The Greeks had done great things , and contributed to the march of civilization , but they had done their work , and their turn of humiliation must come . Their vast empire fell into the hands of the Romans , and the change was beneficial to humanity . They who had abused their trust were punished , and those were exalted above them who were as yet uncorrupted by those vices which are most fatal to nations . The great fruit of these wars were the treasures of Greece , especially precious marbles , and other works of art . The victory at Pydna , B.C. 168 , which gave the final superiority to the Roman legion over the Macedonian phalanx , was followed by the triumph of Paulus himself  --  the grandest display ever seen at Rome . First passed the spoils of Greece  --  statues and pictures  --  in two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Macedonian soldiers ; then three thousand men , each carrying a vase of silver coin ; then victims for sacrifice , with youths and maidens with garlands ; then men bearing vases of gold and precious stones ; then the royal chariot of the conquered king laden with armor and trophies ; then his wife and children , and the fallen monarch on foot ; then the triumphal car of the victorious general , preceded by men bearing four hundred crowns of gold  - -  the gift of the Grecian cities  --  and followed by his two sons on horseback , and the whole army in order . The sack of Corinth by Mummius was the finale of Grecian humiliation , soon followed by the total subjection of Macedonia , Greece , and Illyria , forming three provinces . Nine provinces now composed the territories of Rome , while the kings of Asia Minor , Syria , and Egypt were vassals rather than allies , B.C. 133 . Sidenote : Change of manners and morals at Rome . Sidenote : Reforms of Cato the Censor . Sidenote : Great degeneracy produced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the imperial capital had undergone a gradual change since the close of the second Punic War . During these fifty years , the sack of so many Grecian cities , the fall of Carthage , and the prestige of so many victories , had filled Rome with pride and luxury . In vain did M. Portius Cato , the most remarkable man who adorned this degenerate age , lift up his voice against increasing corruption . In vain were his stringent measures as censor . In vain did he strike senators from the list , and make an onslaught on the abuses of his day . In vain were his eloquence , his simple manners , his rustic garb , and his patriotic warnings . That hard , narrow , self-sufficient , arbitrary , worldly-wise old statesman , whose many virtues redeemed his defects , and whose splendid abilities were the glory of his countrymen , could not restore the simplicities of former times . An age of " progress " had set in , of Grecian arts and culture , of material wealth , of sumptuous banquets , of splendid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of circus games , of female gallantries , of effeminated manners  --  all the usual accompaniments of civilization , when it is most proud of its triumphs ; and there was no resisting its march  --  to the eye of many a great improvement ; to the eye of honest old Cato , the descensus averi . Wealth had become a great power ; senatorial families grew immensely rich ; the divisions of society widened ; slavery was enormously increased , while the rural population lost independence and influence . Then took place the memorable struggles of Rome , not merely with foreign enemies , but against herself . Factions and parties convulsed the city ; civil war wasted the national resources . Sidenote : Wars with the Cimbri and Teutones . Sidenote : Success of Marius , who rolls back the tide of northern emigration . It was in that period of civic strife , when factions and parties struggled for ascendency  --  when the Gracchi were both reformers and demagogues , patriots and disorganizes , heroes and martyrs  --  when fortunate generals aimed at supreme power , and sought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was seriously threatened by the barbarians . Both Celts and Teutones , from Gaul and Germany , formed a general union for the invasion of Italy . They had successively defeated five consular armies , in which one hundred and twenty thousand men were slain . They rolled on like a devastating storm  --  some three hundred thousand warriors from unconquered countries beyond the Alps . They were met by Marius the hero of the African war , who had added Numidia , to the empire  --  now old , fierce , and cruel , a plebeian who had arisen by force of military genius  --  and the Gaulish hordes were annihilated on the Rhone and the Po . The Romans at first viewed those half-naked warriors  --  so full of strength and courage , so confident of victory , so reckless of life , so impetuous and savage  --  with terror and awe . But their time had not yet come . Numbers were of no avail against science , when science was itself directed by genius and sustained by enthusiasm . The result of the decisive battles of Aquae @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ northern immigration for three hundred years , and to prepare the way for the conquests of Caesar in Gaul . Sidenote : The Social War . Sidenote : Rise of Sulla . Then followed that great insurrection of the old states of Italy against their imperious mistress  --  their last struggle for independence , called the Social War , in which three hundred thousand of the young men of Italy fell , and in which Sulla so much distinguished himself as to be regarded as the rival of Marius , who had ruled Rome since the slaughter of the Cimbrians and Teutones . Sulla , who had served under Marius in Africa , dissolute like Antony , but cultivated like Caesar  --  a man full of ambition and genius , and belonging to one of the oldest and proudest patrician families , the Cornelian gens  --  was no mean rival of the old tyrant and demagogue , and he was sent against Mithridates , the most powerful of all the Oriental kings . This Asiatic potentate had encouraged the insurgents in Italy , and was also at war with the Romans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Sulla in the conduct of the Mithridatic War , and succeeded , by his intrigues and influence with the people , in causing Sulla to be superseded , and himself to be appointed in his place . Sidenote : Civil wars between Marius and Sulla . Hence that dreadful civil contest between these two generals , in which Rome was alternately at the mercy of both , and in which the most horrible butcheries took place that had ever befallen the city  --  a reign of terror , a burst of savage passion , especially on the part of Marius , who had lately abandoned himself to wine and riotous living . He died B.C. 86 , victor in the contest , in his seventh consulate , worn out by labor and dissolute habits , nearly seventy years of age . Sidenote : Death of Marius . His opportune death relieved Rome of a tyrannical rule , and opened the way for the splendid achievements of Sulla in the East . A great warrior had arisen in a quarter least expected . In the mountainous region along the north side @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from a principality to a kingdom , and Mithridates , ruling over Cappadocia , Papalagonia , and Phrygia , aspired for the sovereignty of the East . He was an accomplished and enlightened prince , and could speak twenty-five-languages , hardy , adventurous , and bold , like an ancient Persian . By conquests and alliances he had made himself the most powerful sovereign in Asia . Sidenote : Mithridates . Availing himself of the disturbance growing out of the Social War , he fomented a rebellion of the provinces of Asia Minor , seized Bithynia , and encouraged Athens to shake off the Roman yoke . Most of the Greek communities joined the Athenian insurrection , and Asia rallied around the man who hoped to cope successfully with Rome herself . Sidenote : Conquests of Sulla in Greece . At this juncture , Sulla was sent into Greece with fifty thousand men . Athens fell before his conquering legions , B.C. 88 , and the lieutenants of Mithridates retreated before the Romans with one hundred thousand foot and ten thousand horse , and one hundred armed chariots . On the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by Philip of Macedon , two hundred and fifty years before , a desperate conflict took place , and the Pontic army was signally defeated . Shortly after , Sulla gained another great victory over the generals of the King of Pontus , and compelled him to accept peace , the terms of which he himself dictated , after exacting heavy contributions from the cities of Greece and Asia Minor . Sidenote : Death of Sulla . The civil war between Sulla and the chiefs of the popular faction that had been created by Marius , which ended in his complete ascendency in Italy , stopped for a while the Roman conquests in the East . Sulla , having undone the popular measures of the last half century , and reigned supreme over all factions as dictator , died B.C. 78 , after a most successful career , and left his mantle to the most enterprising of his lieutenants , Cnaeus Pompey , who was destined to complete the Mithridatic war . Sidenote : Character of Sulla . If Sulla had not been so inordinately fond of pleasure and luxurious self-indulgence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and have made himself undisputed master of the empire . He was a man of extraordinary genius , fond of literature , and a great diplomatist . But he was not preeminently ambitious like Caesar , and was diverted by the fascinations of elegant leisure ; nor was he naturally cruel , though his passions , when aroused , were fierce and vindictive . He lived in an age of exceeding corruption , when it was evident to contemplative minds that Roman liberties could not be much longer preserved . He had , for a time , restored the ascendency of the senatorial families , but faction was at work among the unprincipled chiefs of the republic . Sidenote : Lucullus marches against Mithridates . On the death of the great dictator , Mithridates broke the peace he had concluded , and marched into Bithynia , which had been left by will to the Roman people by Nicomedes , with the hope of its reconquest . He had an army of one hundred and twenty thousand foot and fifteen thousand horse . Lucullus , with thirty thousand foot and one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forces of Mithridates were defeated , and the king was driven into Armenia , and sought the aid of Tigranes , his son-in-law , king of that powerful country . He , too , was subdued by the Roman legions , and all the nations from the Halys to the Euphrates acknowledged the dominion of Rome . Sidenote : Rising greatness of Pompey . Still , Mithridates was not subdued , and Pompey , who had annihilated the Mediterranean pirates , was the only person fit to finish the Mithridatic war . His successes had been more brilliant than even those of Sulla , or Lucullus , or Metellus . He was made Dictator of the East , with greater powers than had ever before been intrusted to a Roman general . He had success equal to his fame ; drove Mithridates across the Caucasus ; reduced Pontus , and took possession of Syria , which had been subject to Tigranes . The defeated King of Pontus , who had sought to unite all the barbarous tribes of Eastern Europe against Rome , destroyed himself . Pompey , after seven years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ triumph , having subdued the East , and added the old monarchy of the Seleucidae to the dominion of Rome , B.C. 61 . Sidenote : The early career of Julius Caesar . Sidenote : His victories in Spain . Sidenote : Caesar sent into Gaul . But while Pompey was pursuing his victories over the effeminate people of Asia , a still more brilliant career in the West marked the rising fortunes of Julius Caesar . I need not dwell on the steps by which he arose to become the formidable rival of the conqueror of the East . He bears the most august name of antiquity . A patrician by birth , a demagogue in his principles , popular in his manners , unscrupulous in his means , he successively passed through the various great offices of state , which he discharged with prodigious talent . As leader of the old popular party of Marius , he sought the humiliation of the Senate , while his ambition led him to favor every enterprise which promised to advance his own interests . Leaving the province of Spain , after his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ great career of conquest commenced . He first availed himself of some disturbances in Lusitania to declare war against its gallant people , overran their country , and then turned his arms against the Gallicians . In two years he had obtained spoils more than sufficient to pay his enormous debts , the result of his prodigality , by which , however , he won the hearts of the thoughtless citizens , and paved the way for honor . Conqueror of Spain , and idol of the people , he returned to Rome , B.C. 60 , when Pompey was quarreling with the Senate , formed an alliance with him and Crassus , and by their aid was elected consul . His measures in that high office all tended to secure his popularity with the people , and supported by Pompey and Crassus , he triumphed over the Senate . He then secured the government of Cisalpine Gaul and Illyricum , with two legions , for the extraordinary term of five years . The Senate added the province of Transalpine Gaul , then threatened by the Allobrogians , Suevi , Helvetians @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ confining him to a dangerous and uncertain field of warfare . Sidenote : His great military genius . Sidenote : His difficulties in the conquest of Gaul . Sidenote : Results of the Gaulish wars . Sidenote : Gaul becomes Latinized . That field , however , established his military fame , and paved the way for his subsequent usurpations . The conquests of Caesar in Western Europe are unique in the history of war , and furnish no parallel . Other conquests may have been equally brilliant and more imposing , but none were ever more difficult and arduous , requiring greater perseverance , energy , promptness , and fertility of resources . The splendid successes of Lucullus and Pompey in Asia resembled those of Alexander . We see military discipline and bravery triumphing over the force of multitudes , and a few thousand men routing vast armies of enervated or undisciplined mercenaries . Such were the conquests of the English in India . They make a great impression , but the fortunes of an empire are decided by a single battle . It was not so with the conflicts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ successive waves of barbarians , inured to danger , adventurous and hardy , holding life in little estimation , willing to die in battle , intrepid in soul , and bent on ultimate victory . He had to fight in hostile territories , unacquainted with the face of the country , at a great distance from the base of his supplies , exposed to perpetual perils , and surrounded with unknown difficulties . And these were appreciated by his warlike countrymen , who gave him the credit he deserved . The ten years he spent in Gaul were the years of his truest glory , and the most momentous in their consequences on the future civilization of the world , since it was not worn-out monarchies he added to the empire , but a new territory , inhabited by brave and simple races , who were to learn the arts and laws and literature of Rome , and supply the government with powerful aid in the decline of its strength . It was the conquered barbarians who , henceforth , were to furnish Rome with soldiers , and even scholars and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to take root , among them new states were to arise on which the Romans could impress their own remarkable characteristics . It was the western provinces of the empire that alone were vital with energy and strength , and which were destined to perpetuate the spirit of Roman institutions . The eastern provinces never lost the impress of the Greek mind and manners . They remained Greek even when subdued by the imperial legions . Syria , Asia Minor , Egypt , were filled with Grecian cities , and Asiatic customs were modified by Grecian civilization . The West was purely Roman , and the Latin language , laws , and arts were continued , in a modified form , through the whole period of the Middle Ages . Even Christianity had a different influence in the West from what it had in the East . In other words , the West was completely Latinized , while the East remained Grecian . Though the East was governed by Roman proconsuls , they could not change the Graeco-Asiatic character of its institutions and manners ; but the barbarians were willing to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Greatness of Caesar . It would require a volume to describe the various campaigns of Caesar in Gaul , in which a million of people were destroyed . But I only aim to show results . Most people are familiar with the marvelous generalship and enterprises of the Roman conqueror  --  the conquest and reconquest of the brave barbarians , most of whom were Celts ; the uprising of Germanic tribes as well , and their fearful slaughter near Coblentz ; the bloody battles , the fearful massacres , the unscrupulous cruelties which he directed ; the formidable insurrection organized by Vercingetorix ; the spirit he infused into his army ; the incessant hardships of the soldiers , crossing rivers , mountains , and valleys , marching with their heavy burdens  --  fighting amid every disadvantage , until all the countries north of the Alps and west of the Rhine acknowledged his sway  - -  all these things are narrated by Caesar himself with matchless force and simplicity of language . Sidenote : Rivalry between Caesar and Pompey . Caesar now probably aspired to the sovereignty of the empire , as Napoleon did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ great rival in Pompey , who had remained chiefly at Rome , during his Gaulish campaigns , virtually dictator , certainly the strongest citizen . And Pompey had also his ambitious schemes . One was the conqueror of the East ; the other of the West . One leaned to the aristocratic party , the other to the popular . Pompey was proud , pompous , and self-sufficient . Caesar was politic , patient , and intriguing . Both had an inordinate ambition , and both were unscrupulous . Pompey had more prestige , Caesar more genius . Pompey was a greater tactician , Caesar a greater strategist . The Senate rallied around the former , the people around the latter . Cicero distrusted both , and flattered each by turns , but inclined to the side of Pompey , as belonging to the aristocratic party . Sidenote : Battle of Pharsalia . Sidenote : Death of Pompey . Between such ambitious rivals coalition for any length of time could not continue . Dissensions arose between them , and then war . The contest was decided at Pharsalia . On the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Greek , " yet with forces by no means great on either side . Pompey had only forty thousand , and Caesar less , but they were veterans , and the victory was complete . Pompey fled to Egypt , without evincing his former greatness , paralyzed , broken , and without hope . There he miserably died , by the assassin 's dagger , at the age of sixty , and the way was now prepared for the absolute rule of Caesar . Sidenote : Dictatorship of Caesar . But the party of Pompey rallied , connected with which were some of the noblest names of Rome . The battle of Thapsus proved as disastrous to Cato as Pharsalia did to Pompey . Caesar was uniformly victorious , not merely over the party which had sustained Pompey , but in Asia , Africa , and Spain , which were in revolt . His presence was everywhere required , and wherever he appeared his presence was enough . He was now dictator for ten years . He had overturned the constitution of his country . He was virtually the supreme ruler @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from his last triumphs to his death , he was occupied in legislative labors , in settling military colonies , in restoring the wasted population of Italy , in improving the city , in reforming the calendar , and other internal improvements , evincing an enlarged and liberal mind . Sidenote : Death of Caesar . His character . But the nobles hated him , and had cause , in spite of his abilities , his affability , magnanimity , and forbearance . He had usurped unlimited authority , and was too strong to be removed except by assassination . I need not dwell on the conspiracy under the leadership of Brutus , and his tragic end in the senate-house , where he fell , pierced by twenty-two wounds , at the base of Pompey 's statue , the greatest man in Roman history  --  great as an orator , a writer , a general , and a statesman ; a man without vanity , devoted to business , unseduced by pleasure , unscrupulous of means to effect an end ; profligate , but not more so than his times ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was once secured , for the benefit of his country , like many other despots immortal on a bloody catalogue . After his passage of the Rubicon his career can only be compared with that of Napoleon . Sidenote : Character of his later wars . But Roman territories were not much enlarged by Caesar after the conquest of Celtic Europe . His later wars were either against rivals or to settle distracted provinces . Nor were they increased in the civil wars which succeeded his death , between the various aspirants for the imperial power and those who made one more stand for the old constitution . At the fatal battle of Philippi , when the hopes of Roman patriots vanished forever , double the number of soldiers were engaged on both sides than at Pharsalia , but fortune had left the senatorial party , of which Brutus was the avenger and the victim . Sidenote : Civil wars after the death of Caesar . Sidenote : Ascendency of Octavian . Civil war was carried on most vigorously after the death of Julius . But it was now plainly a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The chief contest was between Octavian and Antony , the former young , artful , self-controlled , and with transcendent abilities as a statesman ; the latter bold , impetuous , luxurious , and the ablest of all Caesar 's lieutenants as a general . Had he not yielded to the fascinations of Cleopatra , he would probably have been the master of the world . But the sea-fight of Actium , one of the great decisive battles of history , gave the empire of the world to Octavian B.C. 31 , and two years after the victor celebrated three magnificent triumphs , after the example of his uncle , for Dalmatia , Actium , and Egypt . The kingdom of the Ptolemies passed under the rule of Caesar . The Temple of Janus was shut , for the first time for more than two hundred years ; and the imperial power was peaceably established over the civilized world . Sidenote : Necessity for the empire . The friends of liberty may justly mourn over the fall of republican Rome , and the centralization of all power in the hands of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be averted , and was a revolution which was in accordance with the necessities of the times . Fifty years ' civil war taught the Romans the hopelessness of the struggle to maintain their old institutions so long as the people were corrupt , and fortunate generals would sacrifice the public welfare to their ambition . Order was better than anarchy , even though a despot reigned supreme . When men are worse than governments , they must submit to the despotism of tyrants . It is idle to dream of liberty with a substratum of folly and vice . The strongest man will rule , but whether he rule wisely or unwisely , there is no remedy . Providence gave the world to the Romans , after continual and protracted wars for seven hundred years ; and when the people who had conquered the world by their energy , prudence , and perseverance , were no longer capable of governing themselves , then the state fell into the possession of a single man . Sidenote : Change in the imperial policy . Under the emperors , the whole policy of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ further aggrandizement , but of retaining the conquests which were already made . And if they occasionally embarked in new wars , those wars were of necessity rather than of ambition , were defensive rather than aggressive . New provinces were from time to time added , but in consequence of wars which were waged in defense of the empire . The conquest of Britain and Judea was completed , and various conflicts took place with the Germanic nations , who , in the reign of Antoninus , formed a general union for the invasion of the Roman world . These barbarians were the future aggressors on the peace of the empire , until it fell into their hands . The empire of Augustus may be said to have reached the utmost limits it ever permanently retained , extending from the Rhine and the Danube to the Euphrates and Mount Atlas , embracing a population variously estimated from one hundred to one hundred and thirty millions . Sidenote : Perfection of military art . When Augustus became the sovereign ruler of this vast empire , military art had reached the highest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ antiquity . It required centuries to perfect this science , if science it may be called , and the Romans doubtless borrowed from the people whom they subdued . They learned to resist the impetuous assaults of semi-barbarous warriors , the elephants of the East , and the phalanx of the Greeks . Military discipline was carried to the severest extent by Marius , Pompey , and Caesar . Sidenote : The spirit of the Roman soldier . The Roman soldier was trained to march twenty miles a day , under a burden of eighty pounds ; yea , to swim rivers , to climb mountains , to penetrate forests , and to encounter every kind of danger . He was taught that his destiny was to die in battle . He expected death . He was ready to die . Death was his duty , and his glory . He enlisted in the armies with little hope of revisiting his home . He crossed seas and deserts and forests with the idea of spending his life in the service of his country . His pay was only a denarius daily @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Marriage was discouraged or forbidden . He belonged to the state , and the state was exacting and hard . He was reduced to abject obedience , yet he held in his hand the destinies of the empire . And however insignificant was the legionary as a man , he gained importance from the great body with which he was identified . He was the servant and the master of the state . He had an intense esprit de corps . He was bound up in the glory of his legion . Both religion and honor bound him to his standards . The golden eagle which glittered in his front was the object of his fondest devotion . Nor was it possible to escape the penalty of cowardice or treachery , or disobedience . He could be chastised with blows by his centurion ; his general could doom him to death . Never was the severity of military discipline relaxed . Military exercises were incessant , in winter as in summer . In the midst of peace the Roman troops were familiarized with the practice of war . Sidenote : Military @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ military art . It was the spirit which animated the Roman legions , and the discipline to which they were inured , which gave them their irresistible strength . When we remember that they had not our fire-arms , we are surprised at their efficiency , especially in taking strongly fortified cities . Jerusalem was defended by a triple wall , and the most elaborate fortifications , and twenty-four thousand soldiers , beside the aid received from the citizens ; and yet it fell in little more than four months before an army of eighty thousand under Titus . How great the science to reduce a place of such strength , in so short a time , without the aid of other artillery than the ancient catapult and battering-ram ! Whether the military science of the Romans was superior or inferior to our own , no one can question that it was carried to utmost perfection before the invention of gunpowder . We are only superior in the application of this great invention , especially in artillery . There can be no doubt that a Roman army was superior to a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ world has produced no generals superior to Caesar , Pompey , Sulla , and Marius . No armies ever won greater victories over superior numbers than the Roman , and no armies of their size , ever retained in submission so great an empire , and for so long a time . At no period in the history of the empire were the armies so large as those sustained by France in time of peace . Two hundred thousand legionaries , and as many more auxiliaries , controlled diverse nations and powerful monarchies . The single province of Syria once boasted of a military force equal in the number of soldiers to that wielded by Tiberius . Twenty-five legions made the conquest of the world , and retained that conquest for five hundred years . The self-sustained energy of Caesar in Gaul puts to the blush the efforts of all modern generals , except Frederic II. , Marlborough , Napoleon , Wellington , Grant , Sherman , and a few other great geniuses which a warlike age developed ; nor is there a better text-book on the art of war than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the great victories of the Romans over barbarians , over Gauls , over Carthaginians , over Greeks , over Syrians , over Persians , were not the result of a short-lived enthusiasm , like those of Attila and Tamerlane , but extended over a thousand years . The Romans were essentially military in all their tastes and habits . Luxurious senators and nobles showed the greatest courage and skill in the most difficult campaigns . Antony , Caesar , Pompey , and Lucullus were , at home , enervated and luxurious , but , at the head of the legions , were capable of any privation and fatigue . The Roman legion was a most perfect organization , a great mechanical force , and could sustain furious attacks after vigor , patriotism , and public spirit had fled . For three hundred years a vast empire was sustained by mechanism alone . Sidenote : The Roman Legion . Sidenote : Its composition . Sidenote : The infantry the strength of the legion . Sidenote : Its armor . Sidenote : Its weapons . Sidenote : The cavalry . Sidenote : Term @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foundation of Rome , but the number of the troops of which it was composed varied at different periods . It rarely exceeded six thousand men . Gibbon estimates the number at six thousand eight hundred and twenty-six men . For many centuries it was composed exclusively of Roman citizens . Up to the year B.C. 107 , no one was permitted to serve among the regular troops except those who were regarded as possessing a strong personal interest in the stability of the republic . Marius admitted all orders of citizens ; and after the close of the Social War , B.C. 87 , the whole free population of Italy was allowed to serve in the regular army . Claudius incorporated with the legion the vanquished Goths , and after him the barbarians filled up the ranks , on account of the degeneracy of the times . But during the period when the Romans were conquering the world every citizen was trained to arms , and was liable to be called upon to serve in the armies . In the early age of the republic , the legion was disbanded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was in all essential respects a militia . For three centuries , we have no record of a Roman army wintering in the field ; but when Southern Italy became the seat of war , and especially when Rome was menaced by foreign enemies , and still more when a protracted foreign service became inevitable , the same soldiers remained in activity for several years . Gradually the distinction between the soldier and the civilian was entirely obliterated . The distant wars of the republic , like the prolonged operations of Caesar in Gaul , and the civil contests , made a standing army a necessity . During the civil wars between Caesar and Pompey , the legions were forty in number ; under Augustus but twenty-five . Alexander Severus increased them to thirty-two . This was the standing force of the empire , from one hundred and fifty to two hundred and forty thousand men , and this was stationed in the various provinces . The main dependence of the legion was on the infantry , which wore heavy armor consisting of helmet , breastplate , greaves on the legs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ length and two and a half in width . The helmet was originally made of leather or skin , strengthened and adorned by bronze or gold , and surmounted by a crest which was often of horse-hair , and so made as to give an imposing look The crest not only served for ornament but to distinguish the different centurions . The breastplate or cuirass was generally made of metal , and sometimes was highly ornamented . Chain-mail was also used . The greaves were of bronze or brass , with a lining of leather or felt , and reached above the knees . The shield , worn by the heavy-armed infantry , was not round , like that of the Greeks , but oval or oblong , adapted to the shape of the body , and was made of wood or wicker-work . The weapons were a light spear , a pilum or javelin six feet long , terminated by a steel point , and a sword with a double edge , adapted to striking or pushing . The legion was drawn up eight deep , and three feet intervened @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and made it superior to the Macedonian phalanx , the strength of which depended on sixteen ranks of long pikes wedged together . The cavalry attached to each legion were three hundred men , and they originally were selected from the leading men in the state . They were mounted at the expense of the state , and formed a distinct order . The cavalry was divided into ten squadrons ; and to each legion was attached a train of ten military engines of the largest size , and fifty-five of the smaller ,  --  all of which discharged stones and darts with great effect . This train corresponded with our artillery . Besides the armor and weapons of the legionaries they usually carried on their marches provisions for two weeks , and three or four stakes used in forming the palisade of the camp , beside various tools ,  --  altogether a burden of sixty or eighty pounds per man . The general period of service for the infantry was twenty years , after which the soldier received a discharge together with a bounty in money or land . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hastati . Sidenote : The Principes and Velites . Sidenote : The Triarii . Sidenote : The Pilarii . Sidenote : The Equites . The Roman legion , whether it was composed of four thousand men , as in the early ages of the republic or six thousand , as in the time of Augustus , of was divided into ten cohorts , and each cohort was composed of Hastati , Principes , Triarii , and Velites . The soldiers of the first line , called Hastati , consisted of youths in the bloom of manhood , and were distributed into fifteen companies or maniples . Each company contained sixty privates , two centurions , and a standard-bearer . Two thirds were heavily armed , and bore the long shield , the remainder carried only a spear and light javelins . The second line , the Principes , was composed of men in the full vigor of life , divided also into fifteen companies , all heavily armed , and distinguished by the splendor of their equipments . The third body , the Triarii , was also composed of tried veterans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were placed in the rear . These formed three lines . The Velites were light-armed troops , employed on outpost duty , and mingled with the horsemen . The Hastati were so called because they were armed with the hasta ; the Principes , for being placed so near to the front ; the Triarii , from having been arrayed behind the first two lines as a body of reserve , armed with the pilum , thicker and stronger than the Grecian lance ,  --  four and a half feet long , of wood , with a barbed head of iron ,  --  so that the whole length of the weapon was six feet nine inches . It was used either to throw or thrust with , and when it pierced the enemy 's shield , Footnote : Liv . viii . 8. the iron head was bent , and the spear , owing to the twist in the iron , still held to the shield . Footnote : Plut . Mar. 25 . Each soldier carried two of these weapons . Footnote : Polyb. vi . 23 . The Principes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in complete defensive armor ,  --  men in the vigor of strength . The Pilarii were in the rear , who threw the heavy pilum over the heads of their comrades , in order to break the enemy 's line . In the time of the empire , when the legion was modified , the infantry wore cuirasses and helmets , and two swords ; namely , a long one and a dagger . The select infantry carried a long spear and a shield , the rest a pilum . Each man carried a saw , a basket , a mattock , a hatchet , a leather strap , a hook , a chain , and provisions for three days . The Equites wore helmets and cuirasses , like the infantry , with a broad sword at the right side , and in their hand a long pole . A buckler swung at the horse 's flank . They were also furnished with a quiver containing three or four javelins . Sidenote : The artillery . Sidenote : The Testudo . Sidenote : The Helepolis . Sidenote : The Turris . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hurling missiles in battle , and for the attack of fortresses . The tormentum , which was an elastic instrument , discharged stones and darts , and was continued until the discovery of gunpowder . In besieging a city , the ram was employed for destroying the lower part of a wall , and the balista , which discharged stones , was used to overthrow the battlements . The balista would project a stone weighing from fifty to three hundred pounds . The aries , or battering-ram , consisted of a large beam made of the trunk of a tree , frequently one hundred feet in length , to one end of which was fastened a mace of iron or bronze , which resembled in form the head of a ram , and was often suspended by ropes from a beam fixed transversely over it , so that the soldiers were relieved from supporting its weight , and were able to give it a rapid and forcible motion backward and forward . And when this machine was further aided by placing a frame in which it was suspended upon wheels , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ form a testudo , which protected the besieging party from the assaults of the besieged , there was no tower so strong , no wall so thick , as to resist a long-continued attack . Its great length enabled the soldiers to work across the ditch , and as many as one hundred men were often employed upon it . The Romans learned from the Greeks the art of building this formidable engine , which was used with great effect by Alexander , but with still greater by Vespasian in the siege of Jerusalem . It was first used by the Romans in the siege of Syracuse . The vinea was a sort of roof under which the soldiers protected themselves when they undermined walls . The helepolis , also used in the attack of cities , was a square tower furnished with all the means of assault . This also was a Greek invention , and that used by Demetrius at the siege of Rhodes , B.C. 306 , was one hundred and thirty-five feet high and sixty-eight wide , divided into nine stories . Towers of this description were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ B. J. , ii . 19. and were manned by two hundred men employed upon the catapults and rams . The turris , a tower of the same class , was used both by Greeks and Romans , and even by Asiatics . Mithridates used one at the siege of Cyzicus one hundred and fifty feet in height . This most formidable engine was generally made of beams of wood covered on three sides with iron and sometimes with raw hides . They were higher than the walls and all the other fortifications of a besieged place , divided into stories pierced with windows . In and upon them were stationed archers and slingers , and in the lower story was a battering-ram . They also carried scaling-ladders , so that when the wall was cleared , these were placed against the walls . They were placed upon wheels , and brought as near the walls as possible . It was impossible to resist these powerful engines , unless they were burned , or the ground undermined upon which they stood , except by overturning them with stones or iron-shod beams @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ increasing the height of the wall , or the erection of temporary towers on the wall beside them . Sidenote : The advantages of defenders . Sidenote : Ordinary way of capture . Sidenote : Strength and advantage of fortresses . Thus there was no ancient fortification capable of withstanding a long siege when the besieged city was , short of defenders or provisions . With equal forces an attack was generally a failure , for the defenders had always a great advantage . But when the number of defenders was reduced , or when famine pressed , the skill and courage of the assailants would ultimately triumph . Some ancient cities made a most obstinate resistance , like Tarentum ; Carthage , which stood a siege of four years ; Numantia in Spain , and Jerusalem . When cities were of immense size , population , and resources , like Rome when besieged by Alaric , it was easier to take them by cutting off all ingress and egress , so as to produce famine . Tyre was only taken by Alexander by cutting off the harbor . Babylon could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the walls were three hundred and thirty-seven feet high , according to Herodotus , and the ditch too wide for the use of battering-rams . He resorted to an expedient of which the blinded inhabitants of that doomed city never dreamed , which rendered their impregnable fortifications useless . Nor would the Romans have probably prevailed against Jerusalem had not famine decimated and weakened the people . Fortified cities , though scarcely ever impregnable , were yet more in use in ancient than modern times , and greatly delayed the operations of advancing armies . And it was probably the fortified camp of the Romans , which protected an army against surprises and other misfortunes , which gave such efficacy to the legions . Sidenote : The Tribunes . Sidenote : The Centurions . Sidenote : Gradation of ranks . The chief officers of the legion were the tribunes , and originally there was one in each legion from the three tribes  --  the Ramnes , Luceres , and Tities . In the time of Polybius the number in each legion was six . Their authority extended equally over the whole @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the custom for these military tribunes to divide themselves into three sections of two , and each pair undertook the routine duties for two months out of six . They nominated the centurions , and assigned to each the company to which he belonged . These tribunes , at first , were chosen by the commander-in-chief ,  --  by the kings and consuls ; but during the palmy days of the republic , when the patrician power was preeminent , they were elected by the people , that is , the citizens . Later they were named half by the Senate and half by the consuls . No one was eligible to this great office who had not served ten years in the infantry or five in the cavalry . They were distinguished by their dress from the common soldier . Next in rank to the tribunes , who corresponded to the rank of brigadiers and colonels in our times , were the centurions , of whom there were sixty in each legion ,  --  men who were more remarkable for calmness and sagacity than for courage and daring valor ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It was their duty to drill the soldiers , to inspect arms , clothing , and food , to visit the sentinels , and regulate the conduct of the men . They had the power of inflicting corporal punishment . They were chosen for merit solely , until the later ages of the empire , when their posts were bought , as in the English army . These centurions were of unequal rank ,  --  those of the Triarii before those of the Principes , and those of the Principes before those of the Hastati . The first centurion of the first maniple of the Triarii stood next in rank to the tribunes , and had a seat in the military councils , and his office was very lucrative . To his charge was intrusted the eagle of the legion . Footnote : Liv . xxv. 5 ; Caes . B.C. , vi . 6 . As the centurion could rise from the ranks , and rose by regular gradation through the different maniples of the Hastati , Principes , and Triarii , there was great inducement held out to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there was a regular gradation of rank although there were but few distinct offices . But the gradation was not determined by length of service , but for merit alone , of which the tribunes were the sole judges . Hence the tribune of a Roman legion had more power than that of a modern colonel . As the tribunes named the centurions , so the centurions appointed their lieutenants , who were called sub-centurions . Sidenote : Change in the organization of the legions . There was a change in the constitution and disposition of the legion after the time of Marius , until the fall of the republic . The legions were thrown open to men of all grades ; they were all armed and equipped alike ; the lines were reduced to two , with a space between each cohort , of which there were five in each line ; the young soldiers were placed in the rear , and not the van ; the distinction between Hastati , Principes , and Triarii ceased ; the Velites disappeared , their work being done by the foreign mercenaries ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and became a distinct body ; and the military was completely severed from the rest of the state . Formerly no one could aspire to office who had not completed ten years of military service , but in the time of Cicero a man could pass through all the great dignities of the state with a very limited experience of military life . Cicero himself served but one campaign . Sidenote : Changes under the emperors . Sidenote : Pay of soldiers . Under the emperors , there were still other changes . The regular army consisted of legions and supplementa ,  --  the latter being subdivided into the imperial guards and the auxiliary troops . The auxiliaries ( Socii ) consisted of troops from the states in alliance with Rome , or those compelled to furnish subsidies . The infantry of the allies was generally more numerous than that of the Romans , while the cavalry was three times as numerous . All the auxiliaries were paid by the state ; the infantry received the same pay as the Roman infantry , but the cavalry only two thirds of what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ received in the time of Polybius three and a half asses a day , equal to about six farthings sterling money ; the horseman three times as much . The Praetorian cohorts received twice as much as the legionaries . Julius Caesar allowed about six asses a day as the pay of the legionary , and under Augustus the daily pay was raised to ten asses  --  little more than four pence per day . Domitian raised the stipend still higher . The soldier , however , was fed and clothed by the government . Sidenote : The Praetorian cohort . The Praetorian cohort was a select body of troops instituted by Augustus to protect his person , and consisted of ten cohorts , each of one thousand men , chosen from Italy . This number was increased by Vitellius to sixteen thousand , and they were assembled by Tiberius in a permanent camp , which was strongly fortified . They had peculiar privileges , and when they had served sixteen years , received twenty thousand sesterces , or more than one hundred pounds sterling . Each Praetorian had the rank @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ body-guard of Louis XIV. , they were all gentlemen , and formed gradually a great power , like the janissaries at Constantinople , and frequently disposed of the purple itself . It would thus appear that the centurion only received twice the pay of the ordinary legionary . There was not therefore so much difference in rank between a private and a captain as in our day . There were no aristocratic distinctions in the ancient world so marked as in the modern . Sidenote : The Roman camp . Sidenote : The guardianship of the camp . Sidenote : The breaking up of the camp . Our notice of the Roman legion would be incomplete without allusion to the camp in which the soldier virtually lived . A Roman army never halted for a single night without forming a regular intrenchment capable of holding all the fighting men , the beasts of burden , and the baggage . When the army could not retire , during the winter months , into some city , it was compelled to live in the camp . It was arranged and fortified according to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had a place assigned . We can not tell when this practice of intrenchment began ; it was matured gradually , like all other things pertaining to the art of war . The system was probably brought to perfection during the wars with Hannibal . Skill in the choice of ground , giving facilities for attack and defense , and for procuring water and other necessities , was of great account with the generals . An area of about five thousand square feet was allowed for a company of infantry , and ten thousand feet for a troop of thirty dragoons . The form of a camp was an exact square , the length of each side being two thousand and seventeen feet . There was a space between the ramparts and the tents of two hundred feet to facilitate the marching in and out of soldiers , and to guard the cattle and booty . The principal street was one hundred feet wide , and was called Principia . The defenses of the camp consisted of a ditch , the earth from which was thrown inwards , and strong palisades @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ formed . The ditch was sometimes fifteen feet deep , and the vallum or rampart ten feet in height . When the army encamped for the first time the tribunes administered an oath to each individual , including slaves , to the effect that they would steal nothing out of the camp . Every morning at daybreak , the centurions and the equites presented themselves before the tents of the tribunes , and the tribunes in like manner presented themselves to the praetorian , to learn the orders of the consuls , which through the centurions were communicated to the soldiers . Four companies took charge of the principal street , to see that it was properly cleaned and watered . One company took charge of the tent of the tribune , a strong guard attended to the horses , and another of fifty men stood beside the tent of the general that he might be protected from open danger and secret treachery . The velites mounted guard the whole night and day along the whole extent of the vallum , and each gate was guarded by ten men . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ during the night , and most ingenious measures were adopted to secure their watchfulness and fidelity . The watchword for the night was given by the commander-in-chief . " On the first signal being given by the trumpet , the tents were all struck and the baggage packed . At the second signal , the baggage was placed upon the beasts of burden ; and at the third the whole army began to move . Then the herald , standing at the right hand of the general , demands thrice if they are ready for war , to which they all respond with loud and repeated cheers that they are ready , and for the most part , being filled with martial ardor , anticipate the question , ' and raise their right hands on high with a shout . ' " Footnote : Smith , Dict. of Ant. , art . Castra . Sidenote : Line of March . Josephus gives an account of the line of march in which the army of Vespasian entered Galilee. " 1 . The light-armed auxiliaries and bowmen , advancing to reconnoiter. 2 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . 3 . Ten men out of every century or company , carrying their own equipments and the measures of the camp . 4 . The baggage of Vespasian and his legati guarded by a strong body of horse . 5 . Vespasian himself , attended by his horse-guard and a body of spearmen. 6 . The peculiar cavalry of the legion . 7 . The artillery dragged by mules . 8 . The legati , tribunes , and praefects of cohorts , guarded by a body of picked soldiers . 9 . The standards , surrounding the eagle . 10 . The trumpeters. 11 . The main body of the infantry , six abreast , accompanied by a centurion , whose duty it was to see that the men kept their ranks . 12 . The whole body of slaves attached to each legion , driving the mules and beasts of burden loaded with the baggage . 13 . Behind all the legions followed the mercenaries . 14 . The rear was brought up by a strong body of cavalry and infantry . " Footnote : Josephus , B. J. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Excitements of military life . Sidenote : Smallness of the Roman armies . Sidenote : How battles were decided . From what has come down to us of Roman military life , it appears to have been full of excitement , toil , danger , and hardship . The pecuniary rewards of the soldier were small . He was paid in glory . No profession brought so much honor as the military . And from the undivided attention of a great people to this profession , it was carried to all the perfection which could be attained until the great invention of gunpowder changed the art of war . It was not the number of men employed in the armies which particularly arrests attention , but the spirit and genius which animated them . The Romans loved war , but so reduced it to a science that it required comparatively small armies to conquer the world . Sulla defeated Mithridates with only thirty thousand men , while his adversary marshaled against him over one hundred thousand ; and Caesar had only ten legions to effect the conquest of Gaul , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ great decisive battle of Pharsalia , when most of the available forces of the empire were employed , on one side or the other , Pompey commanded a legionary army of forty-five thousand men ; and the cavalry amounted to seven thousand more , but among them were included the flower of the Roman nobility . The auxiliary force has not been computed , although it was probably numerous . Caesar had under him only twenty-two thousand of legionaries and one thousand cavalry . But every man in both armies was prepared to conquer or die . The forces were posted on the open plain , and the battle was really a hand-to-hand encounter , in which the soldiers , after hurling their lances , fought with their swords chiefly . And when the cavalry of Pompey rushed upon the legionaries of Caesar , no blows were wasted on the mailed panoply of the mounted Romans , but were aimed at the face alone , as that alone was unprotected . The battle was decided by the coolness , bravery , and discipline of veterans , inspired by the genius of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thousand men , in all probability , were engaged in one of the most memorable conflicts which the world has seen . Sidenote : Gradual organization of military power . Sidenote : Magnanimity of the early generals . Thus it was , by unparalleled heroism in war , and a uniform policy in government , that Rome became the mistress of the world . The Roman conquests have never been surpassed , for they were retained until the empire fell . I wish that I could have dwelt on these conquests more in detail , and presented more fully the brilliant achievements of individuals . It took nearly two hundred years , after the expulsion of the kings , to regain supremacy over the neighboring people , and another century to conquer Italy . The Romans did not contend with regular armies until they were brought in conflict with the king of Epirus and the phalanx of the Greeks , " which improved their military tactics , and introduced between the combatants those mutual regards of civilized nations which teach men to honor their adversaries , to spare the vanquished , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " In the fifth century of her existence , the republic appears in peculiar splendor . Military chieftains do not transcend their trusts ; the aristocracy are equally distinguished for exploits and virtues ; the magistrates maintain simplicity of manners and protect the rights of the citizens ; the citizens are self-sacrificing and ever ready to obey the call to arms , laying aside great commands and retiring poor to private stations . Marcus Valerius Corvus , after filling twenty-one curule offices , returns to agricultural life ; Marcus Curius Dentatus retains no part of the rich spoils or the Sabines ; Fabricius rejects the gold of the Samnites and the presents of Pyrrhus . The most trustworthy are elevated to places of dignity and power . Senators mingle in the ranks of the legions , and eighty of them die on the field of Can nae . Discipline is enforced to cruelty , and Manlius Torquatus punishes with death a disobedient son . Soldiers who desert the field are decimated or branded with dishonor . Faith is kept even with enemies , and Regulus returns a voluntary prisoner to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . After the consolidation of Roman power in Italy , it took one hundred and fifty years more only to complete the conquest of the world  --  of Northern Africa , Spain , Gaul , Illyria , Epirus , Greece , Macedonia , Asia Minor , Pontus , Syria , Egypt , Bithynia , Cappadocia , Pergamus , and the islands of the Mediterranean . The conquest of Carthage left Rome without a rival in the Mediterranean , and promoted intercourse with the Greeks . The Illyrian wars opened to the Romans the road to Greece and Asia , and destroyed the pirates of the Adriatic . The invasion of Cisalpine Gaul , now that part of Italy which is north of the Apennines , protected Italy from the invasion of barbarians . The Macedonian War against Philip put Greece under the protection of Rome , and that against Antiochus laid Syria at her mercy ; and when these kingdoms were reduced to provinces , the way was opened to further conquests in the East , and the Mediterranean became a Roman lake . Sidenote : Effect of Roman conquests on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But these conquests introduce luxury , wealth , pride , and avarice , with arts , refinements , and literature . These degrade while they elevate . Civilization becomes the alternate triumph of good and evil influences , and a doubtful boon . Successful war creates great generals , and founds great families , increases slavery , and promotes inequalities . Demagogues arise who seduce and deceive the people , and they enroll themselves under the standards of their idols . Rome is governed by an oligarchy of military chieftains , and has become more aristocratic and more democratic at the same time . The people gain rights , only to yield to the supremacy of demagogues . The Senate is humbled , but remains the ascendant power , for generals compose it , and those who have held great offices . Meanwhile the great generals struggle for supremacy . Civil wars follow in the train of foreign conquests . Marius , Sulla , Pompey , Julius , Antony , Augustus , sacrifice the state to their ambition . Good men lament , and protest , and hide themselves . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Degenerate morals keep pace with civil contests . Rome revels in the spoils of all kingdoms and countries , is intoxicated with power , becomes cruel and tyrannical , and , after yielding up the lives of citizens to fortunate generals , yields at last her liberties , and imperial despotism begins its reign ,  --  hard , immovable , resolute ,  --  under which genius is crushed , and life becomes epicurean , but under which property and order are preserved . The regime is bad ; but it is a change for the better . War has produced its fruits . It has added empire , but undermined prosperity ; it has created a great military monarchy , but destroyed liberty ; it has brought wealth , but introduced inequalities ; it has filled the city with spoils , but sown the vices of self-interest . The machinery is perfect , but life has fled . It is henceforth the labor of emperors to keep together their vast possessions with this machinery , which at last wears out , since there is neither genius to repair it nor patriotism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but is broken to pieces by the Goths and Vandals . * * * * * The highest authority in relation to the construction of an army is Polybius , who was contemporary with Scipio , at a period when Roman discipline was most perfect . A fragment from his sixth book gives considerable information . A chapter of Livy  --  the eighth  --  is also very much prized . Salmasius and Lepsius have also written learned treatises . Smith 's Dictionary , which is full of details in every thing pertaining to the weapons , the armor , the military engines , the rewards and punishments of the soldiers , refers to Folard 's Commentaire , to Memoires Militaires sur les Grecs et les Remains , by Guischard , and to the Histoire des Campagnes d'Hannibal en Italie , by Vaudencourt . Tacitus , Sallust , Livy , Dion Cassius , Pliny , and Caesar reveal incidentally much that we wish to know . Gibbon gives some important facts in his first chapter . The subject of ancient machines is treated by Folard 's Commentary attached to his translation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the liveliest idea of the military habits and tactics of the Romans . Josephus describes with great vividness the siege of Jerusalem . The article on Exercitus , by Prof. Ramsay , in Smith 's Dictionary , is the fullest I have read pertaining to the structure of a Roman army . For the narrative of wars , the reader is referred to ordinary Roman histories  --  to Livy and Caesar especially ; to Niebuhr , Mommsen , Arnold , and Liddell . See also Durny , Hist. des Romains ; Michelet , Hist. de Rom . Napoleon 's History of Caesar should be read , admirable in style , and interesting in matter , although a sophistical defense of usurpation . CHAPTER II . THE MATERIAL GRANDEUR AND GLORY OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE . To the eye of an ancient traveler there must have been something very grand and impressive in the external aspects of wealth and power which the Roman Empire , in the period of its greatest glory , presented in every city and province . It will therefore be my aim in this chapter to present @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ senses of an ordinary observer , and such as would first arrest his attention were he to describe the wonders he beheld to those who were imperfectly acquainted with them . Sidenote : Culmination of Roman greatness . It is generally admitted that Roman greatness culminated during the reigns of the Antonines , about the middle of the second century of the Christian era . At that period we perceive the highest triumphs of material civilization and the proudest spirit of panegyric and self-confidence . To the eye of contemporaries it seemed that Rome was destined to be the mistress of the world forever . Sidenote : Extent of the empire . Sidenote : Square miles . Sidenote : Seas and rivers . Sidenote : Boundaries . Sidenote : Scandinavia . Sidenote : Sarmatia . Sidenote : Mountains . We naturally glance , in the first place , to the extent of that vast empire which has had no parallel in ancient or modern times , and which was erected on the ruins of all the powerful states of antiquity . It was a most wonderful centralization of power , spreading @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the Caspian Sea ; from the Rhine and the Danube to the Euphrates and Tigris ; from the forests of Sarmatia to the deserts of Africa . The empire extended three thousand miles from east to west , and two thousand from north to south . It stretched over thirty-five degrees of latitude , and sixty-five of longitude , and embraced within its limits nearly all the seas , lakes , and gulfs which commerce explored . It contained 1,600,000 square miles , for the most part cultivated , and populated by peoples in various stages of civilization , some of whom were famous for arts and wealth , and could boast of heroes and cities ,  --  of a past history brilliant and impressive . In nearly the centre of this great empire was Mediterranean Sea , which was only , as it were , an inland lake , upon whose shores the great cities of antiquity had flourished , and towards which the tide of Assyrian and Persian conquests had rolled and then retreated forever . The great rivers  --  the Nile , the Po , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , wafting the produce of distant provinces to the great central city on the Tiber . The boundaries of the empire were great oceans , deserts , and mountains , beyond which it was difficult to extend or to retain conquests . On the west was the Atlantic Ocean , unknown and unexplored  --  that mysterious expanse of waters which filled navigators with awe and dread , and which was not destined to be crossed until the stars should cease to be the only guide . On the northwest was the undefined region of Scandinavia , into which the Roman arms never penetrated , peopled by those barbarians who were to be the future conquerors of Rome , and the creators of a new and more glorious civilization ,  --  those Germanic tribes which , under different names , had substantially the same manners , customs , and language ,  --  a race more unconquerable and heroic than the Romans themselves , the future lords of mediaeval Europe , the ancestors of the English , the French , the Spaniards , and the Germans . On the northwest were the Sarmatians @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but not to reconstruct ; savages repulsive and hideous even to the Goths themselves . On the east lay the Parthian empire , separated from Roman territories by the Euphrates , the Tigris , and the Armenian mountains . The Caucasian range between the Euxine and the Caspian seas presented an insuperable barrier , as did the deserts of Arabia to the Roman legions . The Atlas , the African desert , and the cataracts of the Nile formed the southern boundaries . The vulnerable part of the empire lay between the Danube and Rhine , from which issued , in successive waves , the Germanic foes of Rome . To protect the empire against their incursions , the Emperor Probus constructed a wall , which , however , proved but a feeble defense . Sidenote : Provinces . Sidenote : Results of successive conquests . Sidenote : Vastness of the political power . Sidenote : Empire universal . This immense empire was divided into thirty-six provinces , exclusive of Italy , each of which was governed by a proconsul . The most important of these were Spain , Gaul , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Egypt . Gaul was more extensive than modern France . Achaia included Greece and the Ionian Islands . The empire embraced the modern states of England , France , Spain , Holland , Belgium , Switzerland , Bavaria , Austria , Styria , the Tyrol , Hungary , Egypt , Morocco , Algiers , and the empire of Turkey both in Europe and Asia . It took the Romans nearly five hundred years to subdue the various states of Italy , the complete subjugation of which took place with the fall of Tarentum , a Grecian city , which introduced Grecian arts and literature . Sicily , the granary of Rome , was the next conquest , the fruit of the first Punic War . The second Punic War added to the empire Sardinia , Corsica , and the two Spanish provinces of Baetica and Tarraconensis  --  about two thirds of the peninsula  --  fertile in the productions of the earth , and enriched by mines of silver and gold , and peopled by Iberians and Celts . The rich province of Illyricum was added to the empire about one hundred @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Actium , the empire extended over Achaia , Asia Minor , Macedonia , Narbonensic Gaul , Cyrenaica , Crete , Cilicia , Cyprus , Bithynia , Syria , Aquitania , Belgic and Celtic Gaul . Augustus added Egypt , Lusitania , Numidia , Galatia , the Maritime Alps , Noricum , Vindelicia , Rhaetia , Pannonia , and Mosia . Tiberius increased the empire by the addition of Cappadocia . Claudius incorporated the two Mauritanias , Lycia , Judaea , Thrace , and Britain . Nero added Pontus . These various and extensive countries had every variety of climate and productions , and boasted of celebrated cities . They composed most of the provinces known to the ancients west of the Euphrates , and together formed an empire in comparison with which the Assyrian and Egyptian monarchies , and even the Grecian conquests , were vastly inferior . The Saracenic conquests in the Middle Ages were not to be compared with these , and the great empires of Charlemagne and Napoleon could be included in less than half the limits . What a proud position it was to be a Roman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ civilized world ! Well may the Roman empire be called universal , since it controlled all the nations of the earth known to the Greeks . It was the vastest centralization of power which this world has seen , or probably will ever see , extending nearly over the whole of Europe , and the finest parts of Asia and Africa . We are amazed that a single city of Italy could thus occupy with her armies and reign supremely over so many diverse countries and nations , speaking different languages , and having different religions and customs . And when we contemplate this great fact , we can not but feel that it was a providential event , designed for some grand benefit to the human race . That benefit was the preparation for the reception of a new and universal religion . No system of " balance of power , " no political or military combinations , no hostilities could prevent the absorption of the civilized world in the empire of the Caesars . Sidenote : The Mediterranean the centre of the empire . If we more particularly examine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ composed of the various countries and kingdoms which bordered on the Mediterranean , and those other seas with which it was connected . Roman power was scarcely felt on the shores of the Baltic , or the eastern coasts of the Euxine , or on the Arabian and Persian gulfs . The central part of the empire was Italy , the province which was first conquered , and most densely populated . It was the richest in art , in cities , in commerce , and in agriculture . Sidenote : Italy . Sidenote : Natural productions . Sidenote : Population . Sidenote : Cities . Sidenote : Italian Cities . Sidenote : Memorable cities . Italy itself was no inconsiderable state  --  a beautiful peninsula , extending six hundred and sixty geographical miles from the foot of the Alps to the promontory of Leucopetra . Its greatest breadth is about one hundred and thirty miles . It was always renowned for beauty and fertility . Its climate on the south was that of Greece , and on the north that of the south of France . The lofty range of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ waters of the Mediterranean and the Adriatic tempered and varied its climate . Its rearing of flocks . Its magnificent forests furnished timber for ships ; its rich pastures fed innumerable sheep , goats , cattle , and horses ; its olive groves were nowhere surpassed ; its mountains contained nearly every kind of metals ; its coasts furnished a great variety of fish ; while its mineral springs supplied luxurious baths . There were no extremes of heat and cold ; the sky was clear and serene ; the face of the country was a garden . It was a paradise to the eye of Virgil and Varro , the most favored of all the countries of antiquity in those productions which sustain the life of man or beast . The plains of Lombardy furnished maize and rice ; oranges grew to great perfection on the Ligurian coast ; aloes and cactuses clothed the rocks of the southern provinces ; while the olive and the grape abounded in every section . The mineral wealth of Italy was extolled by the ancient writers , and the fisheries were as remarkable as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were free , and could furnish seven hundred thousand foot and seventy thousand horse for the armies of the republic , if they were all called into requisition . The whole country was dotted with beautiful villas and farms , as well as villages and cities . It contained twelve hundred cities or large towns which had municipal privileges . Mediolanum , now Milan , the chief city in Cisalpine Gaul , in the time of Ambrose , was adorned with palaces and temples and baths . It was so populous that it lost it is said at one time three hundred thousand male citizens in the inroads of the Goths . It was surrounded with a double range of walls , and the houses were elegantly built . It was also celebrated as the seat of learning and culture . Verona had an amphitheatre of marble , whose remains are among the most striking monuments of antiquity , capable of seating twenty-two thousand people . Ravenna , near the mouth of the Padus ( Po ) , built on piles , was a great naval depot , and had an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of war , and was the seat of government after the fall of the empire . Padua counted among its inhabitants five hundred Roman knights , and was able to send twenty thousand men into the field . Aquileia was a great emporium of the trade in wine , oil , and salted provisions . Pola had a magnificent amphitheatre . Luna , now Spezzia , was famous for white marbles , and for cheeses which often weighed a thousand pounds . Arutium , now Avezzo , an Etrurian city , was celebrated for its potteries , many beautiful specimens of which now ornament the galleries of Florence . Cortona had walls of massive thickness , which can be traced to the Pelasgians . Clusium , the capital of Porsenna , had a splendid mausoleum . Volsinii boasted of two thousand statues . Veii had been the rival of Rome . In Umbria , we may mention Sarsina , the birthplace of Plautus ; Mevania , the birthplace of Propertius ; and Sentinum , famous for the self-devotion of Decius . In Picenum were Ancona , celebrated for its purple dye @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , memorable for a siege against Pompey . Of the Sabine cities were Antemnae , more ancient than Rome ; Nomentum , famous for wine ; Regillum , the birthplace of Appius Claudius , the founder of the great Claudian family ; Reate , famous for asses , which sometimes brought the enormous price of 60,000 sesterces , about $2320 ; Cutiliae , celebrated for its mineral waters ; and Alba , in which captives of rank were secluded . In Latium were Ostia , the seaport of Rome ; Laurentum , the capital of Latinus ; Lavinium , fabled to have been founded by Aeneas ; Lanuvium , the birthplace of Roscius and the Antonines ; Alba Longa , founded four hundred years before Rome ; Tusculum , where Cicero had his villa ; Tibur , whose temple was famous through Italy ; Praeneste , now Palestrio , remarkable for its citadel and its temple of Fortune ; Antium , to which Coriolanus retired after his banishment , a favorite residence of Augustus , and the birthplace of Nero , celebrated also for a magnificent temple , amid whose ruins @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by St. Paul , from which travelers on the Appian Way embarked on a canal ; Arpinum , the birthplace of Cicero ; Aquium , where Juvenal and Thomas Aquinas were born , famous for a purple dye ; Formiae , a favorite residence of Cicero . In Campania were Cumae , the abode of the Sibyl ; Misenum , a great naval station ; Baiae , celebrated for its spas and villas ; Puteoli , famous for sulphur springs ; Neapolis , the abode of literary idlers ; Herculaneum and Pompeii , destroyed by an eruption of Vesuvius ; Capua , the capital of Campania , and inferior to Rome alone ; and Salernum , a great military stronghold . In Samnium were Bovianum , a very opulent city ; Beneventum , and Sepinum . In Apulia were Sarinum ; Venusia , the birthplace of Horace ; Can nae , memorable for the great victory of Hannibal ; Brundusium , a city of great antiquity on the Adriatic , and one of the great naval stations of the Romans ; and Tarentum , the rival of Brundusium , a great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time the residence of Pythagoras ; Heraclea , the seat of a general council ; Sybaris , which once was the mistress of twenty-five dependent cities , fifty stadia in circumference , and capable of sending an army of three hundred thousand Footnote : Anthon , Geog . Diet. men into the field ,  --  a city so prosperous and luxurious that the very name of Sybarite was synonymous with voluptuousness . Sidenote : Pompeii . Such were among the principal cities of Italy . More than two hundred and fifty towns or cities are historical , and were famous for the residence of great men , or for wines , wool , dyes , and various articles of luxury . The ruins of Pompeii prove it to have been a city of great luxury and elegance . The excavations , which have brought to light the wonders of this buried city , attest a very high material civilization ; yet it was only a second-rate provincial town , of which not much is commemorated in history . It was simply a resort for Roman nobles who had villas in its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was built with great regularity . Its streets were paved , and it had its forum , its amphitheatre , its theatre , its temples , its basilicas , its baths , its arches , and its monuments . The basilica was two hundred and twenty feet in length by eighty feet in width , the roof of which was supported by twenty-eight Ionic columns . The temple of Venus was profusely ornamented with paintings . One of the theatres was built of marble , and was capable of seating five thousand spectators , and the amphitheatre would seat ten thousand . Sidenote : Sicily and Sardinia . Sidenote : Richness of Sicily . Sidenote : Syracuse . But Italy , so grand in cities , so varied in architectural wonders , so fertile in soil , so salubrious in climate , so rich in minerals , so prolific in fruits and vegetables and canals , was only a small part of the empire of the Caesars . The Punic wars , undertaken soon after the expulsion of Pyrrhus , resulted in the acquisition of Sicily , Sardinia , and Africa @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of grain , and in the creation of a great naval power . Sicily , the largest island of the Mediterranean , was not inferior to Italy in any kind of produce . It was , it was supposed , the native country of wheat . Its honey , its saffron , its sheep , its horses , were all equally celebrated . The island , intersected by numerous streamy and beautiful valleys , was admirably adapted for the growth of the vine and olive . Its colonies , founded by Phoenicians and Greeks , cultivated all the arts of civilization . Long before the Roman conquest , its cities were famous for learning and art . Syracuse , a Corinthian colony , as old as Rome , had a fortress a mile in length and half a mile in breadth ; a temple of Diana whose doors were celebrated throughout the Grecian world , and a theatre which could accommodate twenty-four thousand people . No city in Greece , except Athens , can produce structures which vie with those of which the remains are still visible at Agrigentum , Selinus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one of the great provinces of the empire . It virtually embraced the Carthaginian empire , and was settled chiefly by the Phoenicians . Its capital , Carthage , so long the rival of Rome , was probably the greatest maritime mart of antiquity , next to Alexandria . Though it had been completely destroyed , yet it became under the emperors no inconsiderable city , and was the capital of a belt of territory extending one hundred and sixty miles , from the Pillars of Hercules to the bottom of the great Syrtis , unrivaled for fertility . Its population once numbered seven hundred thousand inhabitants , and ruled over three hundred dependent cities , and could boast of a navy carrying one hundred and fifty thousand men . Sidenote : The richness of Greece . Greece , included under the province called Achaia , was the next great conquest of the Romans , the fruit of the Macedonian wars . Though small in territory , it was the richest of all the Roman acquisitions in its results on civilization . The great peninsula to which Hellas belonged extended from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not more than two hundred and fifty miles in length and one hundred and eighty in breadth . Attica contained but seven hundred and twenty square miles , yet how great in associations , deeds , and heroes ! When added to the empire , it was rich in every element of civilization , in cities , in arts , in literature , in commerce , in manufactures , in domestic animals , in fruits , in cereals . It was a mountainous country , but had an extensive sea-coast , and a flourishing trade with all the countries of the world . Almost all the Grecian states had easy access to the sea , and each of the great cities were isolated from the rest by lofty mountains difficult to surmount . But the Roman arms and the Roman laws penetrated to the most inaccessible retreats . Sidenote : Her monuments and arts and schools . In her political degradation , Greece still was the most interesting country on the globe . Every city had a history ; every monument betokened a triumph of human genius . On her classic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the immortal teacher of all the nations in art , in literature , in philosophy , in war itself . Every cultivated Roman traveled in Greece ; every great noble sent his sons to be educated in her schools ; every great general sent to the banks of the Tiber some memento of her former greatness , some wonder of artistic skill . The wonders of Rome herself were but spoliations of this glorious land . Sidenote : The glory of Athens . Sidenote : Temples . First in interest and glory was Athens , which was never more splendid than in the time of the Antonines . The great works of the age of Pericles still retained their original beauty and freshness ; and the city of Minerva still remained the centre of all that was elegant or learned of the ancient civilization , and was held everywhere in the profoundest veneration . There still flourished the various schools of philosophy , to which young men from all parts of the empire resorted to be educated  --  the Oxford and the Edinburgh , the Berlin and Paris of the ancient @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ towered upon the Acropolis the temple of Minerva , that famous Parthenon whose architectural wonders have never been even equaled , built of Pentelic marble , and adorned with the finest sculptures of Pheidias  --  a Doric temple , whose severe simplicity and matchless beauty have been the wonder of all ages  --  often imitated , never equaled , majestic even in its ruins . Side by side , on that lofty fortification in the centre of the city , on its western slope , was the Propylaea , one of the masterpieces of ancient art , also of Pentelic marble , costing 2000 talents , or $23,000,000Footnote : Smith , Geog . Diet. when gold was worth more than twenty times what it is now . Then there was the Erechtheum , the temple of Athena Polias , the most revered of all the sanctuaries of Athens , with its three Ionic porticos , and its frieze of black marble , with its olive statue of the goddess , and its sacred inclosures . The great temple of Zeus Olympius , commenced by Peisistratus and completed by Hadrian , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was four stadia in circumference . It was surrounded by a peristyle which had ten columns in front and twenty on its sides . The peristyle being double on the sides , and having a triple range at either end , besides three columns between the antae at each end of the cella , consisted altogether of one hundred and twenty columns . These were sixty feet high and six and a half feet in diameter , the largest which now remain of ancient architecture in marble , or which still exist in Europe . This vast temple was three hundred and fifty-four feet in length and one hundred and seventy-one in breadth , and was full of statues . The ruins of this temple , of which sixteen columns are still standing , are among the most imposing in the world , and indicate a grandeur and majesty in the city of which we can scarcely conceive . The theatre of Bacchus , the most beautiful in the ancient world , would seat thirty thousand spectators . I need not mention the various architectural monuments of this classic city , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Theseus , the Agora , the Odeum , the Areopagus , the Gymnasium of Hadrian , the Lyceum , and other buildings of singular beauty , built mostly of marble , and adorned with paintings and statues . What work of genius in the whole world more interesting than the ivory and gold statue of Athena in the Parthenon , the masterpiece of Pheidias , forty feet high , the gold of which weighed forty talents ,  --  a model for all succeeding sculptors , and to see which travelers came from all parts of Greece ? Athens , a city of five hundred thousand inhabitants , was filled with wonders of art , which time has not yet fully destroyed . Sidenote : Corinth . Sidenote : The wonders of Corinth . Sidenote : Its luxury . Corinth was another grand centre of Grecian civilization , richer and more luxurious than Athens . When taken by the Romans she possessed the most valuable pictures in Greece . Among them was one of Dionysus by Aristides for which Attalus offered 600,000 sesterces . Rich commercial cities have ever been patrons of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ poetry or philosophy . The Corinthians invented the most elaborate style of architecture known to antiquity , and which was generally adopted at Rome . They were also patrons of statuary , especially of works in bronze , for which the city was celebrated . The Corinthian , vessels of terra cotta were the finest in Greece . All articles of elegant luxury were manufactured here , especially elaborate tables , chests , and sideboards . If there had been a great exhibition in Rome , the works of the Corinthians would have been the most admired , and would have suited the taste of the luxurious senators , among whom literature and the higher developments of art were unappreciated . There was no literature in Corinth after Periander , and among the illustrious writers of Greece not a single Corinthian appeared . Nor did it ever produce an orator . What could be expected of a city whose patron goddess was Aphrodite ! But Lais was honored in the city , and rich merchants frequented her house . The city was most famous for courtesans , and female slaves , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Carthage . Corinth was probably the richest city in Greece , and one of the largest . It had , it is said , four hundred and sixty thousand slaves . Its streets , three miles in length , were adorned with costly edifices . Its fortress was one thousand eight hundred and eighty-six feet above the sea and very strong . Sidenote : Sparta . Sparta , of historic fame , was not magnificent except in public buildings . It had a famous portico , the columns of which , of white marble , represented the illustrious persons among the vanquished Medes . Sidenote : Olympia . Olympia , the holy city , was celebrated for its temple and its consecrated garden , where stood some of the great masterpieces of ancient , art , among them the famous statue of Jupiter , the work of Pheidias ,  --  an impersonation of majesty and power ,  --  a work which furnished models from which Michael Angelo drew his inspiration . Sidenote : Delphi . Delphi , another consecrated city , was enriched with the contributions of all Greece , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rich were the shrines of its oracle that Nero carried away from it five hundred statues of bronze at one time . Sidenote : Greece enriches Rome . Such was Greece , every city of which was famous for art , or literature , or commerce , or manufacture , or for deeds which live in history . It had established a great empire in the East , but fell , like all other conquering nations , from the luxury which conquest engendered . It was no longer able to protect itself . Its phalanx , which resisted the shock of the Persian hosts , yielded to the all-conquering legion . When Aemilius Paulus marched up the Via Sacra with the spoils of the Macedonian kingdom in his grand and brilliant triumph , he was preceded by two hundred and fifty wagons containing pictures and statues , and three thousand men , each carrying a vase of silver coin , and four hundred more bearing crowns of gold . Yet this was but the commencement of the plunder of Greece . Sidenote : Islands colonized by Greeks . And not merely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ formed no slight addition to the glories of the empire . Rhodes was the seat of a famous school for sculpture and painting , from which issued the Laocoon and the Farnese Bull . It contained three thousand statues and one hundred and six colossi , among them the famous statue of the sun , one hundred and five feet high , one of the seven wonders of the world , containing 3000 talents  --  more than 3,000,000 dollars . Its school of rhetoric was so celebrated that Cicero resorted to it to perfect himself in oratory . Sidenote : Asia Minor . Sidenote : Its extent . Sidenote : Cities . Sidenote : Antioch . If we pass from Greece to Asia Minor and Syria , with their dependent provinces , all of which were added to the empire by the victories of Sulla and Pompey , we are still more impressed with the extent of the Roman rule . Asia Minor , a vast peninsula between the Mediterranean , Aegean , and Euxine seas , included several of the old monarchies of the world . It extended from Ilium @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the northern parts of Bithynia and Pontus to Syria and Cilicia , nine hundred miles from east to west , and nearly three hundred from north to south . It was the scene of some of the grandest conquests of the oriental world , Babylonian , Persian , and Grecian . Syria embraced all countries from the eastern coasts of the Mediterranean to the Arabian deserts . No conquests of the Romans were attended with more eclat than the subjection of these wealthy and populous sections of the oriental world ; and they introduced a boundless wealth and luxury into Italy . But in spite of the sack of cities and the devastations of armies , the old monarchy of the Seleucidae remained rich and grand . Both Syria and Asia Minor could boast of large and flourishing cities , as well as every kind of luxury and art . Antioch was the third city in the empire , the capital of the Greek kings of Syria , and like Alexandria a monument of the Macedonian age . It was built on a regular and magnificent plan , and abounded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a street four miles in length , perfectly level , with double colonnades through its whole length , built by Antiochus Epiphanes . In magnitude the city was not much inferior to Paris at the present day , and covered more land than Rome . It had its baths , its theatres and amphitheatres , its fora , its museums , its aqueducts , its temples , and its palaces . It was the most luxurious of all the cities of the East , and had a population of three hundred thousand who were free . In the latter clays of the empire it was famous as the scene of the labors of Chrysostom . Sidenote : Ephesus . Ephesus , one of the twelve of the Ionian cities in Asia , was the glory of Lydia ,  --  a sacred city of which the temple of Diana was the greatest ornament . This famous temple was four times as large as the Parthenon , and covered as much ground as Cologne Cathedral , and was two hundred and twenty years in building . It had one hundred and twenty-eight columns @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ each contributed by a king  --  the largest of all the Grecian temples , and probably the most splendid . It was a city of great trade and wealth . Its theatre was the largest in the world , six hundred and sixty feet in diameter , Footnote : Muller , Anc . Art. and capable of holding sixty thousand spectators . Ephesus gave birth to Apelles the painter , and was the metropolis of five hundred cities . Sidenote : Jerusalem . Sidenote : The Temple . Sidenote : The Acropolis . Jerusalem , so dear to Christians as the most sacred spot on earth , inclosed by lofty walls and towers , not so beautiful or populous as in the days of Solomon and David , was , before its destruction by Titus , one of the finest cities of the East . Its royal palace , surrounded by a wall thirty cubits high , with decorated towers at equal intervals , contained enormous banqueting halls and chambers most profusely ornamented ; and this palace , magnificent beyond description , was connected with porticos and gardens filled with statues @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than the present fortress , from the western edge of Mount Zion to the present garden of the Armenian Convent . The Temple , so famous , was small compared with the great wonders of Grecian architecture , being only about one hundred and fifty feet by seventy ; but its front was covered with plates of gold , and some of the stones of which it was composed were more than sixty feet in length and nine in width . Its magnificence consisted in its decorations and the vast quantity of gold and precious woods used in its varied ornaments , and vessels of gold , so as to make it one of the most costly edifices ever erected to the worship of God . The Acropolis , which was the fortress of the Temple , combined the strength of a castle with the magnificence of a palace , and was like a city in extent , towering seventy cubits above the elevated rock upon which it was built . So strongly fortified was Jerusalem , even in its latter days , that it took Titus five months , with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it ; one of the most memorable sieges on record . It probably would have held out against the whole power of Rome , had not famine done more than battering rams . Sidenote : Damascus and other cities . Many other interesting cities might be mentioned both in Syria and Asia Minor , which were centres of trade , or seats of philosophy , or homes of art . Tarsus in Cilicia was a great mercantile city , to which strangers from all parts resorted . Damascus , the oldest city in the world , and the old capital of Syria , was both beautiful and rich . Laodicea was famous for tapestries , Hierapolis for its iron wares , Cybara for its dyes , Sardis for its wines , Smyrna for its beautiful monuments , Delos for its slave-trade , Gyrene for its horses , Paphos for its temple of Venus , in which were a hundred altars . Seleucia , on the Tigris , had a population of four hundred thousand . Caesarea , founded by Herod the Great , and the principal seat of government to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the renowned Piraeus , and was secured against the southwest winds by a mole of such massive construction that the blocks of stone , sunk under the water , were fifty feet in length and eighteen in width , and nine in thickness . Footnote : Josephus , Ant. , xv . The city itself was constructed of polished stone , with an agora , a theatre , a circus , a praetorium , and a temple to Caesar . Tyre , which had resisted for seven months the armies of Alexander , remained to the fall of the empire a great emporium of trade . It monopolized the manufacture of imperial purple . Sidon was equally celebrated for its glass and embroidered robes . The Sidonians cast glass mirrors , and imitated precious stones . But the glory of both Tyre and Sidon was in ships , which visited all the coasts of the Mediterranean , and even penetrated to Britain and India . Sidenote : Egypt . Sidenote : Its ancient grandeur . Sidenote : Glories of Egypt . Sidenote : Thebes . But greater than Tyre , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the capital of Egypt , which was one of the last provinces added to the empire . Egypt alone was a mighty monarchy  --  the oldest which history commemorates , august in records and memories . What pride , what pomp , what glory are associated with the land of the Pharaohs , with its mighty river reaching to the centre of a great continent , flowing thousands of miles to the sea , irrigating and enriching the most fertile valley of the world ! What noble and populous cities arose upon its banks three thousand years before Roman power was felt ! What enduring monuments remain of a its ancient very ancient yet extinct civilization ! What successive races of conquerors have triumphed in the granite palaces of Thebes and Memphis ! Old , sacred , rich , populous , and learned , Egypt becomes a province of the Roman empire . The sceptre of three hundred kings passes from Cleopatra , the last of the Ptolemies , to Augustus Caesar , the conqueror at Actium ; and six millions of different races , once the most civilized on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which compose the universal monarchy . At one time the military force of Egypt is said to have amounted to seven hundred thousand men , in the period of its greatest prosperity . The annual revenues of this state under the Ptolemies amounted to about 17,000,000 dollars in gold and silver , beside the produce of the earth . A single feast cost Philadelphus more than half a million of pounds sterling , and he had accumulated treasures to the amount of 740,000 talents , or about 860,000,000 dollars . Footnote : Napoleon , Life of Caesar . What European monarch ever possessed such a sum ? The kings of Egypt were richer in the gold and silver they could command than Louis XIV. , in the proudest hour of his life . What monarchs ever reigned with more absolute power than the kings of this ancient seat of learning and art ! The foundation of Thebes goes back to the mythical period of Egyptian history , and it covered as much ground as Rome or Paris , equally the centre of religion , of trade , of manufactures , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ worshiped Ammon from Pelusium to Axume , from the Red Sea to the Oases of Libya . The palaces of Thebes , though ruins two thousand years ago as they are ruins now , were the largest and probably the most magnificent ever erected by the hand of man . What must be thought of a palace whose central hall was eighty feet in height , three hundred and twenty-five feet in length , and one hundred and seventy-nine in breadth ; the roof of which was supported by one hundred and thirty-four columns , eleven feet in diameter and seventy-six feet in height , with their pedestals ; and where the cornices of the finest marble were inlaid with ivory moldings or sheathed with beaten gold ! But I do not now refer to the glories of Egypt under Sesostris or Rameses , but to what they were when Alexandria was the capital of the country ,  - -  what it was under the Roman domination . Sidenote : Extent and population of Alexandria . Sidenote : Library . Sidenote : Public buildings . Sidenote : Commerce . The ground-plan of this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was not completed until the reign of Ptolemy Philadelphus . It continued to receive embellishments from nearly every monarch of the Lagian line . Its circumference was about fifteen miles ; the streets were regular , and crossed one another at right angles , and were wide enough to admit both carriages and foot passengers . The harbor was large enough to admit the largest fleet ever constructed ; its walls and gates were constructed with all the skill and strength known to antiquity ; its population numbered six hundred thousand , and all nations were represented in its crowded streets . The wealth of the city may be inferred from the fact that in one year 6250 talents , or more than 6,000,000 dollars , were paid to the public treasury for port dues . The library was the largest in the world , and numbered over seven hundred thousand volumes , and this was connected with a museum , a menagerie , a botanical garden , and various halls for lectures , altogether forming the most famous university in the empire . The inhabitants were chiefly Greek , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a commercial point of view it was the most important in the empire , and its ships whitened every sea . Alexandria was of remarkable beauty , and was called by Ammianus Vertex omnium civitatum . Its dry atmosphere preserved for centuries the sharp outlines and gay colors of its buildings , some of which were remarkably imposing . The Mausoleum of the Ptolemies , the High Court of justice , the Stadium , the Gymnasium , the Palaestra , the Amphitheatre , and the Temple of the Caesars , all called out the admiration of travelers . The Emporium far surpassed the quays of the Tiber . But the most imposing structure was the Exchange , to which , for eight hundred years , all the nations sent their representatives . It was commerce which made Alexandria so rich and beautiful , for which it was more distinguished than both Tyre and Carthage . Unlike most commercial cities , it was intellectual , and its schools of poetry , mathematics , medicine , philosophy , and theology were more renowned than even those of Athens during the third and fourth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ art , it was the second city of the world . It would be a great capital in these times . Sidenote : Power of the empire seated in the western provinces . Such were Egypt , Syria , Asia Minor , Greece , and Africa , all of which had been great empires , but all of which were incorporated with the Roman in less than two hundred years after Italy succumbed to the fortunate city on the Tiber . But these old and venerated monarchies , with their dependent states and provinces , though imposing and majestic , did not compose the vital part of the empire of the Caesars . It was those new provinces which were rescued from the barbarians , chiefly Celts , where the life of the empire centred . It was Spain , Gaul , Britain , and Illyricum , countries which now compose the most powerful European monarchies , which the more truly show the strength of the Roman world . And these countries were added last , and were not fully incorporated with the empire until imperial power had culminated in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ especially became populous and flourishing states , dotted with cities , and instructed in all the departments of Roman art and science . From these provinces the armies were recruited , the schools were filled , and even the great generals and emperors were furnished . These provinces embraced nearly the whole of modern Europe . Sidenote : Spain . Sidenote : Its provinces . Sidenote : Productions . Sidenote : Its towns and cities . Sidenote : Its commercial centres . Spain had been added to the empire after the destruction of Carthage , but only after a bitter and protracted warfare . It was completed by the reduction of Numantia , a city of the Celtiberians in the valley of the Douro , and its siege is more famous than that of Carthage , having defied for a long time the whole power of the empire , as Tyre did Alexander , and Jerusalem the armies of Titus . It yielded to the genius of Scipio , the conqueror of Africa , as La Rochelle , in later times , fell before Richelieu , but not until famine had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after the fall of Numantia , and in the time of the Antonines was one of the richest and most prized of the Roman provinces . It embraced the whole peninsula , from the Pillars of Hercules to the Pyrenees ; and the warlike nations who composed it became completely Latinized . It was divided into three provinces  --  Boetica , Lusitania , and Tarraconensis  --  all governed by praetors , the last of whom had consular power , and resided in Carthago Nova , on the Mediterranean . Under Constantine , Spain , with its islands , was divided into seven provinces , and stood out from the rest of the empire like a round bastion tower from the walls of an old fortified town . This magnificent possession , extending four hundred and sixty miles from north to south , and five hundred and seventy from east to west , including , with the Balearic Isles , 171,300 square miles , with a rich and fertile soil and inexhaustible mineral resources , was worth more to the Romans than all the conquests of Pompey and Sulla , since it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new civilization . It furnished corn , oil , wine , fruits , pasturage , metals of all kinds , and precious stones . Boetica was famed for its harvests , Lusitania for its flocks , Tarraconensis for its timber , and the fields around Carthago Nova for materials of which cordage was made . But the great value of the peninsula to the eyes of the Romans was in its rich mines of gold , silver , and other metals . The bulk of the population was Iberian . The Celtic element was the next most prominent . There were six hundred and ninety-three towns and cities in which justice was administered . New Carthage , on the Mediterranean , had a magnificent harbor , was strongly fortified , and was twenty stadia in circumference , was a great emporium of trade , and was in the near vicinity of the richest silver mines of Spain , which employed forty thousand men . Gades ( New Cadiz ) , a Phoenician colony , on the Atlantic Ocean , was another commercial centre , and numbered five hundred Equites among the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Boetis ( Guadalquivir ) , the capital of Boetica , was a populous city before the Roman conquest , and was second only to Gades as a commercial mart . It was the birthplace of Seneca and Lucan . Sidenote : Richness of Gaul . Sidenote : Population and cities . Sidenote : Splendor of Gaulish cities . Gaul , which was the first of Caesar 's most brilliant conquests , and which took him ten years to accomplish , was a still more extensive province . It was inhabited chiefly by Celtic tribes , who , uniting with Germanic nations , made a most obstinate defense . When incorporated with the empire , Gaul became rapidly civilized . It was a splendid country , extending from the Pyrenees to the Rhine , with a sea-coast of more than six hundred miles , and separated from Italy by the Alps , having 200,000 square miles . Great rivers , as in Spain , favored an extensive commerce with the interior , and on their banks were populous and beautiful cities . Its large coast on both the Mediterranean and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It produced corn , oil , and wine , those great staples , in great abundance . It had a beautiful climate , and a healthy and hardy population , warlike , courageous , and generous . Gaul was a populous country even in Caesar 's time , and possessed twelve hundred towns and cities , some of which were of great importance . Burdigala , now Bordeaux , the chief city of Aquitania , on the Garonne , was famous for its schools of rhetoric and grammar . Massolia ( Marseilles ) , before the Punic wars was a strong fortified city , and was largely engaged in commerce . Vienne , a city of the Allobroges , was inclosed with lofty walls , and had an amphitheatre whose long diameter was five hundred feet , and the aqueducts supplied the city with water . Lugdunum ( Lyons ) on the Rhone , was a place of great trade , and was filled with temples , theatres , palaces , and aqueducts . Nemausus ( NOEmes ) had subject to it twenty-four villages , and from the monuments which remain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Its amphitheatre would seat seventeen thousand people ; and its aqueduct constructed of three successive tiers of arches , one hundred and fifty-five feet high , eight hundred and seventy feet long , and fifty feet wide , is still one of the finest monuments of antiquity , built of stone without cement . It is still solid and strong , and gives us a vivid conception of the magnificence of Roman masonry . Narbo ( Narbonne ) was another commercial centre , adorned with public buildings which called forth the admiration of ancient travelers . The modern cities of Treves , Boulogne , Rheims , Chalons , Cologne , Metz , Dijon , Sens , Orleans , Poictiers , Clermont , Rouen , Paris , Basil , Geneva , were all considerable places under the Roman rule , and some were of great antiquity . Sidenote : Illyricum . Illyricum is not famous in Roman history , but was a very considerable province , equal to the whole Austrian empire in our times , and was as completely reclaimed from barbarism as Gaul or Spain . Both Jerome and Diocletian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cultivated face of nature . Sidenote : Agricultural wealth . Nothing could surpass the countries which bordered on the Mediterranean in all those things which give material prosperity . They were salubrious in climate , fertile in soil , cultivated like a garden , abounding in nearly all the fruits , vegetables , and grains now known to civilization . The beautiful face of nature was the subject of universal panegyric to the fall of the empire . There were no destructive wars . All the various provinces were controlled by the central power which emanated from Rome . There was scope for commerce , and all kinds of manufacturing skill . Italy , Sicily , and Egypt were especially fertile . The latter country furnished corn in countless quantities for the Roman market . Italy could boast of fifty kinds of wine , and was covered with luxurious villas in which were fish-ponds , preserves for game , wide olive groves and vineyards , to say nothing of the farms which produced milk , cheese , honey , and poultry . Syria was so prosperous that its inhabitants divided their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gymnasium , and indulged in continual festivals . It was so rich that Antiochus III . was able to furnish at one time a tribute of 15,000 talents , beside 540,000 measures of wheat . The luxury of Nineveh and Babylon was revived in the Phoenician cities . Sidenote : Natural productions of the various provinces . Spain produced horses , mules , wool , oil , figs , wine , corn , honey , beer , flax , linen , beside mines of copper , silver , gold , quicksilver , tin , lead , and steel . Gaul was so cultivated that there was little waste land , and produced the same fruits and vegetables as at the present day . Its hams and sausages were much prized . Sicily was famous for wheat , Sardinia for wool , Epirus for horses , Macedonia for goats , Thessaly for oil , Boeotia for flax , Scythia for furs , and Greece for honey . Almost all the flowers , herbs , and fruits that grow in European gardens were known to the Romans  --  the apricot , the peach @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the quince , the apple , the pear , the plum , the cherry , the fig , the date , the olive . Martial speaks of pepper , beans , pulp , lentils , barley , beets , lettuce , radishes , cabbage sprouts , leeks , turnips , asparagus , mushrooms , truffles , as well as all sorts of game and birds . Footnote : Martial , B. 13 . In no age of the world was agriculture more honored than before the fall of the empire . Sidenote : Roads . And all these provinces were connected with each other and with the capital by magnificent roads , perfectly straight , and paved with large blocks of stone . They were originally constructed for military purposes , but were used by travelers , and on them posts were regularly established . They crossed valleys upon arches , and penetrated mountains . In Italy , especially , they were great works of art , and connected all the provinces . Among the great roads which conveyed to Rome as a centre were the Clodian and Cassian roads which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; the Via Valeria , which had its terminus at Alternum on the Adriatic ; the Via Latina , which , passing through Latium and Campania , extended to the southern extremity of Italy ; the Via Appia also passed through Latium , Campania , Lucania , Iapygia to Brundusium , on the Adriatic . Again , from the central terminus at Milan , several lines passed through the gorges of the Alps , and connected Italy with Lyons and Mayence on the one side , and with the Tyrol and Danubian provinces on the other . Spain and southern Gaul were connected by a grand road from Cadiz to Narbonne and Arles . Lyons was another centre from which branched out military roads to Saintes , Marseilles , Boulogne , and Mayence . In fact , the Roman legion could traverse every province in the empire over these grandly built public roads , as great and important in the second century as railroads are at the present time . There was an uninterrupted communication from the Wall of Antonius through York , London , Sandwich , Boulogne , Rheims , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Byzantium , Ancyra , Tarsus , Antioch , Tyre , Jerusalem  --  a distance of 3740 miles . And these roads were divided by milestones , and houses for travelers erected every five or six miles . Sidenote : Commerce . Sidenote : Objects of ancient commerce . Commerce under the emperors was not what it now is , but still was very considerable , and thus united the various provinces together . The most remote countries were ransacked to furnish luxuries for Rome . Every year a fleet of one hundred and twenty vessels sailed from the Red Sea for the islands of the Indian Ocean . But the Mediterranean , with the rivers which flowed into it , was the great highway of the ancient navigator . Navigation by the ancients was even more rapid than in modern times before the invention of steam , since oars were employed as well as sails . In summer one hundred and sixty-two Roman miles were sailed over in twenty-four hours . This was the average speed , or about seven knots . From the mouth of the Tiber , vessels could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Tarraco in four , and the Pillars of Hercules in seven . From Puteoli the passage to Alexandria had been effected , with moderate winds , in nine days . But these facts apply only to the summer , and to objects of favorable winds . The Romans did not navigate in the inclement seasons . But in summer the great inland sea was white with sails . Great fleets brought corn from Gaul , Spain , Sardinia , Africa , Sicily , and Egypt . This was the most important trade . But a considerable commerce was carried on in ivory , tortoise-shell , cotton and silk fabrics , pearls and precious stones , gums , spices , wines , wool , oil . Greek and Asiatic wines , especially the Chian and Lesbian , were in great demand at Rome . The transport of earthenware , made generally in the Grecian cities ; of wild animals for the amphitheatre ; of marble , of the spoils of eastern cities , of military engines , and stores , and horses , required very large fleets and thousands of mariners @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cities like Alexandria , Corinth , Carthage , Rhodes , Cyrene , Massalia , Neapolis , Tarentum , and Syracuse . These great cities with their dependencies , required even more vessels for communication with each other than for Rome herself  --  the great central object of enterprise and cupidity . Sidenote : The metropolis of the empire . Sidenote : The centre and the pride of the world . Sidenote : Its varied objects of interest . In this survey of the provinces and cities which composed the empire of the Caesars , I have not yet spoken of the great central city  --  the City of the Seven Hills , to which all the world was tributary . Rome was so grand , so vast , so important in every sense , political and social ; she was such a concentration of riches and wonders , that it demands a separate and fuller notice than what I have been able to give of those proud capitals which finally yielded to her majestic domination . All other cities not merely yielded precedence , but contributed to her greatness . Whatever @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , or Asia , or Egypt , was appropriated by her citizen kings , since citizens were provincial governors . All the great roads , from the Atlantic to the Tigris , converged to Rome . All the ships of Alexandria and Carthage and Tarentum , and other commercial capitals , were employed in furnishing her with luxuries or necessities . Never was there so proud a city as this " Epitome of the Universe . " London , Paris , Vienna , Constantinople , St. Petersburg , Berlin , are great centres of fashion and power ; but they are rivals , and excel only in some great department of human enterprise and genius , as in letters , or fashions , or commerce , or manufactures  - -  centres of influence and power in the countries of which they are capitals , yet they do not monopolize the wealth and energies of the world . London may contain more people than ancient Rome , and may possess more commercial wealth ; but London represents only the British monarchy , not a universal empire . Rome , however , monopolized everything , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up the schools of Athens , or disperse the ships of Alexandria , or regulate the shops of Antioch . What Lyons or Bordeaux is to Paris , Corinth or Babylon was to Rome  --  secondary cities , dependent cities . Paul condemned at Jerusalem , stretched out his arms to Rome , and Rome protects him . The philosophers of Greece are the tutors of Roman nobility . The kings of the East resort to the palaces of Mount Palatine for favors or safety . The governors of Syria and Egypt , reigning in the palaces of ancient kings , return to Rome to squander the riches they have accumulated . Senators and nobles take their turn as sovereign rulers of all the known countries of the world . The halls in which Darius , and Alexander , and Pericles , and Croesus , and Solomon , and Cleopatra have feasted , if unspared by the conflagrations of war , witness the banquets of Roman proconsuls . Babylon and Thebes and Athens were only what Delhi and Calcutta are to the English of our day  --  cities to be ruled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the only " home " of the proud governors who reigned on the banks of the Thames , of the Seine , of the Rhine , of the Nile , of the Tigris . After they had enriched themselves with the spoils of the ancient monarchies they returned to their estates in Italy , or to their palaces on the Aventine , for the earth had but one capital  --  one great centre of attraction . To an Egyptian even , Alexandria was only provincial . He must travel to the banks of the Tiber to see something greater than his own capital . It was the seat of government for one hundred and twenty millions of people . It was the arbiter of taste and fashion . It was the home of generals and senators and statesmen , of artists and scholars and merchants , who were renowned throughout the empire . It was enriched by the contributions of conquered nations for eight hundred years . It contained more marble statues than living inhabitants . Every spot was consecrated by associations ; every temple had a history ; every palace @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; every monument pointed to the deeds of the illustrious dead , and swelled the pride of the most powerful families which aristocratic ages had created . * * * * * For the ancient authorities , see Strabo , Pliny , Polybius , Diodorus Siculus , Titus Livius , Pausanias , and Herodotus . There is an able chapter on Mediterranean prosperity in Napoleon 's History of Caesar . Smith , Dictionary of Ancient Geography , is exhaustive . See , also , Muller , article on Atticus , in Ersch , and Gruber 's Encyclopedia , translated by Lockhart ; Stuart and Revett , Antiquities of Atticus ; Dodwell , Tour through Greece ; Wilkinson , Hand-book for Travelers in Egypt ; Becker , Hand-book of Rome . Anthon has compiled a useful work on ancient geography , but the most accessible and valuable book on the material aspects of the old Roman world is the great dictionary of Smith , from which this chapter is chiefly compiled . CHAPTER III . THE WONDERS OF ANCIENT ROME . Sidenote : Early inhabitants of Italy . The great capital of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that is involved in myth and mystery . Even the Latin stock , inhabiting the country from the Tiber to the Volscian mountains , which furnished the first inhabitants of the city , can not be clearly traced , since we have no traditions of the first migration of the human race into Italy . It is supposed by Mommsen that the peoples which inhabited Latium belong to the Indo-Germanic family . Among these were probably the independent cantons of the Ramnians , Tities , and Luceres , which united to form a single commonwealth , and occupied the hills which arose about fourteen miles from the mouth of the Tiber . Around these hills was a rural population which tilled the fields . From these settlements a fortified fort arose on the Palatine Hill , fitted to be a place of trade from its situation on the Tiber , and also a fortress to protect the urban villages . Though unhealthy in its site , it was admirably adapted for these purposes , and thus early became an important place . Sidenote : Foundation of Rome . Sidenote : Settlement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the death of Romulus . The legends attribute a different foundation of the " Eternal City . " But these also assign the Palatine as the nucleus of ancient Rome . It was on this hill that Romulus and Remus grew up to manhood , and it was this hill which Romulus selected as the site of the city he was so desirous to build . But modern critics suppose that he did not occupy the whole hill , but only the western part of it . Varro , whose authority is generally received , assigns the year 753 before Christ as the date for the foundation of the city . The first memorable incident in the history of this little city of robbers was the care of Romulus to increase its population by opening an asylum for fugitive slaves on the Capitoline Hill . But this supplied only males who had no wives . And when the proposal of the founder to solicit intermarriage with the neighboring nations was rejected , he resorted to stratagem and force . He invites the Sabines and the people of other Latin towns to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assembled , and while all are intent on the games , the unmarried women are seized by the Roman youth . Then ensues , of course , a war with the Sabines , the result of which is that the Sabines are united with the Romans and settle on the Quirinal . The Saturnian Hill is left in possession of the Sabines , while Romulus assumes the Sabine name of Quirinus , from which we infer that the Sabines had the best of the conflict . Callius , who , it is said , assisted Romulus , receives as a compensation the hill known as the Caelian . At the death of Romulus , who reigned thirty-seven years , Rome comprised the Palatine , the Quirinal , the Caelian , and the Capitoline hills . Footnote : M. Ampere , Hist . Rom. , tom . i. ch. xii . The Sabines thus occupy two of the seven hills , and furnish not only people for the infant city , but laws , customs , and manners , especially religious observances . Sidenote : The public works of Numa . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ power which Romulus had acquired , to the civilization of his subjects , and the improvement of the city . He fixed his residence between the Roman and the Sabine city , and erected adjoining to the Regia a temple to Vesta , which was probably only an oedes sacra . It was probably along with these buildings that the Sacra Via came into existence . The Regia became in after times the residence of the Pontifex Maximus . Numa established on the Palatine the Curia Saliorum , and built on the Quirinal a temple of Romulus , afterwards rebuilt by Augustus . He also erected on the Quirinal a citadel connected with a temple of Jupiter , with cells of Juno and Minerva . He converted the gate which formed the entrance of the Sabine city into a temple of Janus , and laid the foundation upon the Capitoline of a large temple to Fides Publica , the public faith . Sidenote : The reign of Tullus Hostilius . Sidenote : Improvement of the city made by Tullus . Under the reign of Tullus Hostilius was the capture of Alba @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had reigned , and the transfer of its inhabitants to Rome , which thus became the chief city of the Latin league . They were located on the Caelian , which also became the residence of the king . He built the Curia Hostilia , a senate chamber , to accommodate the noble Alban families , in which the Roman Senate assembled , at the northwest corner of the Forum , to the latest times of the republic . It was a templum , but not dedicated for divine services , adjoining the eastern side of the Vulcanal . Out of the spoils of Alba Longa , Tullus improved the Comitium , a space at the northwest end of the Forum , fronting the Curia , the common meeting place of the Romans and Sabines . On the Quirinal Hill he erected a Curia Saliorum in imitation of that of Numa on the Palatine , devoted to the worship of Quirinus . Sidenote : Growth of Rome during the reign of Ancus Martius . Ancus Martius , a grandson of Numa , succeeded Tullus after a reign of thirty-two years . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of various Latin cities which he subdued . These settled on the Aventine , and in the valley which separated it from the Palatine , supposed by Niebuhr to be the origin of the Roman Plebs , though it is maintained by Lewis that the Plebeian order was coaeval with the foundation of the city . Ancus fortified Mons Janiculus , the hill on the western bank of the Tiber , for the protection of the city . He connected it with Rome by the Pons Sublicius , the earliest of the Roman bridges , built on piles . The Janiculum was not much occupied by residences until the time of Augustus . Ancus founded Ostia , at the mouth of the Tiber , which became the port of Rome . It was this king who built the famous Mamertine Prison , near the Forum , below the northern height of the Capitoline . Sidenote : Tarquinius Priscus . Sidenote : The Cloaca Maxima . Sidenote : Temple of the Capitoline Jupiter . A new dynasty succeeded this king , who reigned twenty-four years ; that of the Tarquins , an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the cradle of Grecian art , celebrated as the birth-place of painting and for its works of pottery and bronze . Tarquinius Priscus constructed the Cloaca Maxima , that vast sewer which drained the Forum and Velabrum , and which is regarded by Niebuhr as one of the most stupendous monuments of antiquity . It was composed of three semicircular arches inclosing one another , the innermost of which had a diameter of twelve feet , large enough to be traversed by a Roman hay-cart . Footnote : Arnold , Hist. of Rom. , vol. i. p. 52 . It was built without cement , and still remains a magnificent specimen of the perfection of the old Tuscan masonry . Along the southern side of the Forum this enlightened monarch constructed a row of shops occupied by butchers and other tradesmen . At the head of the Forum and under the Capitoline he founded the Temple of Saturn , the ruins of which attest considerable splendor . But his greatest work was the foundation of the Capitoline Temple of Jupiter , completed by Tarquinius Superbus , the consecrated citadel in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Sidenote : Accession of Servius Tullius . During the reign of Servius Tullius , who succeeded Tarquin B.C. 578 , the various elements of the population were amalgamated , and the seven hills , namely , the Palatine , the Capitoline , the Quirinal , the Caelian , the Viminal , the Esquiline , and the Aventine , were covered with houses , and inclosed by a wall about six miles in circuit . A temple of Diana was erected on the Aventine , besides two temples to Fortune , one to Juno , and one to Luna . Servius also dedicated the Campus Martius , and enlarged the Mamertine Prison by adding a subterranean dungeon of impenetrable strength . Sidenote : Tarquinius Superbus . On the assassination of Servius Tullius , B.C. 535 , his son-in-law , Tarquinius Superbus , usurped the power , and did much for the adornment of the city . The Capitoline Temple was completed on an artificial platform , having a triple row of columns in front , and a double row at the sides . It was two hundred feet wide , having @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jupiter , with Juno and Minerva on either hand . The temple had a single roof , and lasted nearly five hundred years before it was burned down , and rebuilt with greater splendor . Sidenote : Rome under the early consuls . Sidenote : Roman roads . Such were the chief improvements of the city during the kingly rule . Under the consuls the growth was constant , but was not marked by grand edifices . Portunus , the conqueror of the Tarquins at Lake Regillus , erected a temple to Ceres , Liber , and Libera , at the western extremity of the Circus Maximus . Camillus founded a celebrated temple to Juno on the Aventine . But these , and a few other temples , were destroyed when the Gauls held possession of the city . The city was rebuilt hastily and without much regard to regularity . There was nothing memorable in its architectural monuments till the time of Appius Claudius , who constructed the Via Appia , the first Roman aqueduct . In fact the constant wars of the Romans prevented much improvement in the city @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pyrrhus were struck with its grandeur . M. Curius Dentatus commenced the aqueduct called Anio Vetus B.C. 278 , the greater part of which was under ground . Its total length was forty-three miles . Q. Flaminius , B.C. 220 , between the first and second Punic wars , constructed the great highway , called after him the Via Flaminia  --  the great northern road of Italy , as the Via Appia was the southern . These roads were very elaborately built . In constructing them , the earth was excavated till a solid foundation was obtained ; over this a layer of loose stones was laid , then another layer nine inches thick of rubble-work of broken stones cemented with lime , then another layer of broken pottery cemented in like manner , over which was a pavement of large polygonal blocks of hard stone nicely fitted together . Roads thus constructed were exceedingly durable , so that portions of them , constructed two thousand years ago , are still in a high state of preservation . Sidenote : Ancient basilicas . Sidenote : Temple of Hercules . Sidenote : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the conquest of Greece , although destructive fires frequently laid large parts of the city in ruins . The deities of the conquered nations were introduced into the Roman worship , and temples erected to them . In the beginning of the second century before Christ we notice the erection of basilicas , used as courts of law and a sort of exchange , the first of which was built by M. Portius Cato , B.C. 184 , on the north side of the Forum . It was of an oblong form , open to the air , surrounded with columns , at one end of which was the tribunal of the judge . The Basilica Portia was soon followed by the Basilica Fulvia behind the Argentariae Novae , which had replaced the butchers ' shops . Fulvius Nobilia further adorned the city with a temple of Hercules on the Campus Martius , and brought from Ambrasia , once the residence of Pyrrhus , two hundred and thirty marble and two hundred and eighty-five bronze statues , beside pictures . L. Aemilius Paulus founded an emporium on the banks of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ transported by sea , and built a bridge over the Tiber . Sempronius Gracchus , the father of the two demagogue patriots , erected a third Basilica B.C. 169 , on the south side of the Forum on the site of the house of Scipio Africanus . The triumph of Aemilius Paulus introduced into the city pictures and statues enough to load two hundred and fifty chariots , and a vast quantity of gold and silver . Cornelius Octavius , B.C. 167 , built a grand palace on the Palatine , one of the first examples of elegant domestic architecture , and erected a magnificent double portico with capitals of Corinthian bronze . With the growing taste for architectural display , various Asiatic luxuries were introduced  --  bronze beds , massive sideboards , tables of costly woods , cooks , pantomimists , female dancers , and luxurious banquets . Metellus erected the first marble temple seen in Rome , before which he placed the twenty-five bronze statues which Lysippus had executed for Alexander the Great . Sidenote : Sack of Corinth . Sidenote : Adornment of the Forum . The same @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , also saw the fall of Carthage and the sack of Corinth by Mummius , so that many of the choicest specimens of Grecian art were brought to the banks of the Tiber . Among these was the celebrated picture of Bacchus by Aristides , which was placed in the Temple of Bacchus , Ceres , and Proserpine . The Forum now contained many gems of Grecian art , among which were the statues of Alcibiades and Pythagoras which stood near the comitium , the Three Sibyls placed before the rostra , and a picture by Serapion , which covered the balconies of the tabernae on the south side of the Forum . Sidenote : Aqua Marcia . In the year 144 B.C. , Q. Marcius Rex constructed the Aqua Marcia , one of the noblest of the Roman monuments , sixty-two miles in length , seven of which were on arches , sufficiently lofty to supply the Capitoline with pure and cold water . Seventeen years after , the Aqua Tepula was added to the aqueducts of Rome . Sidenote : Triumphal Arches . The first triumphal arch erected to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ L. Sertinius . Scipio Africanus erected another on the Capitoline , and Q. Fabius , B.C. 121 , raised another in honor of his victories over the Allobroges . This spanned the Via Sacra where it entered the Forum , and at that time was a conspicuous monument , though vastly inferior to the arches of the imperial regime . Sidenote : Temple of Concord . Sidenote : Basilica Opimia . When tranquillity was restored to Rome after the riots connected with the murder of the Gracchi , the Senate ordered a Temple of Concord to be built , B.C. 121 , in commemoration of the event . This temple was on the elevated part of the Vulcanal , and was of considerable magnitude . It was used for the occasional meetings of the Senate , and contained many valuable works of art . Adjoining this temple , Opimius , the consul , erected the Basilica Opimia , which was used by the silversmiths , who were the bankers and pawnbrokers of Rome . The whole quarter on the north side of the Forum , where this basilica stood , was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sidenote : Private palaces . Sidenote : Houses of the nobles . The increasing wealth and luxury of Rome , especially caused by the conquest of Asia , led to the erection on the Palatine of those magnificent private residences , which became one of the most striking features the capital . The first of these historical houses was built by M. Livius Drusus , and overlooked the city . It afterwards passed into the hands of Crassus , Cicero , and Censorinus . Pompey had a house on the Palatine , but afterwards transferred his residence to the Casinae , another aristocratic quarter . M. Aemilius Lepidus also lived in a magnificent palace ; the house of Crassus was still more splendid , adorned with columns of marble from Mount Hymettus . The house of Catullus excelled even that of Crassus . This again was excelled by that of Aquillius on the Viminal , which for some time was the most splendid in Rome , until Lucullus occupied nearly the whole of the Pincian Hill with his gardens and galleries of art , which contained some of the chefs d'oeuvre @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the declivity of the Houses of Aventine , were adorned with Greek statues , exceeded in beauty by those of Sallust between the Pincian and the Quirinal hills , built with the spoils of Numidia , and ultimately the property of the emperors . The house of Clodius on the Palatine , near to that of Cicero , was one of the finest in Rome , occupied before him by Scaurus , who gave for it nearly fifteen million sesterces , about $650,000 . It was adorned with Greek paintings and sculptures . The house of Cicero , which he bought of Crassus , cost him $150,000 . Its atrium was adorned with Greek marble columns thirty-eight feet high . Hortensius lived in a house on the Palatine , afterwards occupied by Augustus . The residence of his friend Atticus , on the Quirinal , was more modest , whose chief ornament was a grove . Pompey surrounded his house with gardens and porticos . Sidenote : Destruction and rebuilding of the Capitol . The year 83 B.C. was marked by the destruction by fire of the old Capitoline Temple @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sulla aspired to rebuild it , and caused to be transported to Rome for that purpose the column of the Olympian Zeus at Athens . It was completed by Caesar , and its roof was gilded at an expense of $15,000,000 . The pediment was adorned with statuary , and near it was a colossal statue of Jupiter . Sidenote : Theatre of Pompey . In the early ages of the republic there were no theatres at Rome , theatrical representations being regarded as demoralizing . The regular drama was the last development even of Grecian genius . The Roman aristocracy set their faces against dramatic entertainments till after the conquest of Greece . These plays were introduced and performed on temporary stages in the open air , or in wooden buildings . There was no grand theatre till Pompey erected one of stone , B.C. 55 , in the Campus Martius , which was capable of holding eighty thousand spectators , and it had between its numerous pillars three thousand bronze statues . Footnote : Plin . H. N. , xxxvi. 24 . He also erected , behind his theatre @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ became one of the most fashionable lounging-places of Rome , and which was adorned with statues and images . Pompey also built various temples . Sidenote : Forum Julian . Sidenote : Basilica Julia . His great rival however surpassed him in labors to ornament the capital . Caesar enlarged the Forum , or rather added a new one , the ground of which cost $2,500,000 . It was called the Forum Julian , and was three hundred and forty feet long by two hundred wide , containing a temple of Venus . He did not live , however , to carry out his magnificent plans . He contemplated building an edifice , for the assembly of the Comitia Tributa , of marble , with a portico inclosing a space of a mile square , and also the erection of a temple to Mars of unparalleled size and magnificence . He commenced the Basilica Julia and the Curia Julia  --  vast buildings , which were completed under the emperors . Sidenote : Rome under the Emperors . Such were the principal edifices of Rome until the imperial sway . Augustus boasted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of marble . It was not until the emperors embellished the city with amphitheatres , theatres , baths , and vast architectural monuments that it was really worthy to be regarded as the metropolis of the world . The great improvements of Rome in the republican period were of a private nature , such as the palaces of senatorial families . There were no temples equal to those in the Grecian cities either for size , ornament , or beauty . Indeed , Rome was never famous for temples , but for edifices of material utility rather than for the worship of the gods ; yet the Romans , under the rule of the aristocracy , were more religious than the Corinthians or Athenians . Sidenote : Works of Augustus . Sidenote : The Subura . Sidenote : Forum Romanum . Sidenote : Its magnificence . Sidenote : Surrounding buildings . Sidenote : Temple of Castor and Pollux . Sidenote : Basilica Julia . Sidenote : Arch of Septimius Severus , and columns of Trajan . Sidenote : Forum Julium . Sidenote : Forum Augusti . Sidenote : Forum of Trajan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the senatorial or constitutional party that had ruled since the expulsion of the kings , and probably before , and the peaceful accession of Augustus , B.C. 31 , a great impulse was given to the embellishments of the city . His long reign , his severe taste , and his immense resources ,  --  undisputed master of one hundred and fifty millions of subjects ,  --  enabled him to carry out the designs of Julius , and to restore an immense number of monuments falling to decay . But Rome was even then deficient in those things which most attract attention in our modern capitals  --  the streets and squares . The longest street of Rome was scarcely three fourths of a mile in length ; but the houses upon it were of great altitude . Moreover the streets were narrow and dark  - -  scarcely more than fifteen feet in width . But they were not encumbered with carriages . Private equipages , which form one of the most imposing features of a modern city , were unknown . There was nothing attractive in a Roman street , dark , narrow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with dingy shops , like those of Paris in the Middle Ages . The sun scarcely ever penetrated to them . They were damp and cold . The greater part of the city belonged to wealthy and selfish capitalists , like Crassus , who thought more of their gains than the health or beauty of the city . The Subura , the Sub Velia , and the Velabrum , built in the valleys , were choked up with tall houses , frequently more , and seldom less , than seventy feet in height . The hills alone were covered with aristocratic residences , temples , and public monuments . The only open space , where the poor people could get fresh air and extensive prospect , was Circus Maximus and the Forum Romanum . The former was three fourths of a mile in length and one eighth in breadth , surrounded with a double row of benches , the lower of stone and the upper of wood , and would seat two hundred and eighty-five thousand spectators . The Forum was the centre of architectural splendor , as well as of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eastern part of the Capitoline to the spot where the Velia begins to ascend , and was bounded on the south by the Via Sacra , which extended to the arx or citadel . It was that consecrated street by which the augurs descended when they inaugurated the great festivals of the republic , and in which lived the Pontifex Maximus . Although the Forum Romanum was only seven hundred feet by four hundred and seventy , yet it was surrounded by and connected with basilicas , halls , porticoes , temples , and shops . It was a place of great public resort for all classes of people  --  a scene of life and splendor rarely if ever equaled , and having some resemblance to the crowded square of Venice on which St. Mark 's stands . Originally it was a marketplace , busy and lively , a great resort where might be seen " good men walking quietly by themselves , " Footnote : Plautus Cuve , iv . 1 . " flash men strutting about without a denarius in their purses , " " gourmands clubbing for a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " " perjured witnesses , liars , braggarts , rich and erring husbands , worn-out harlots , " and all the various classes which now appear in the crowded places of London or Paris . In this open space the people were assembled on great public occasions , and here they were addressed by orators and tribunes . Immediately surrounding the Forum Romanum , or in close proximity to it , were the most important public buildings of the city in which business was transacted  --  the courts of law , the administrative bureaus , the senate chamber and the principal temples , as well as monuments and shops . On the north side was the Comitium , an open space for holding the Comitia Curiata and heavy lawsuits , and making speeches to the assembled people . During the kingly government the temples of Janus and Vesta and Saturn were erected , also the Curia Hostilia , a senate-house , the Senaculum , the Mamertine Prison , and the Tabernae or porticoes and shops inclosing the Forum . During the republic the temple of Castor and Pollux , which served @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was erected , not of the largest size , but very rich and beautiful . The Basilica Portia , where the tribunes of the people held their assemblies , was founded by Cato the Censor , and this was followed by the Basilica Fulvia , with columns of Phrygian marble , admired by Pliny for its magnificence , the Basilica Sempronia , the Temple of Concord , and the Triumphal Arch of Fabius , to commemorate his victories over the Allobroges . Under the empire , the magnificent Basilica Julia was erected for the sittings of the law courts , and its immense size may be inferred from the fact that one hundred and eighty judges , divided into four courts , with four separate tribunals , with seats for advocates and spectators , were accustomed to assemble . Tiberius erected a triumphal arch near the Temple of Saturn . Domitian built the Temple of Vespasian and Titus , and erected to himself a colossal equestrian statue . Near it rose the temples of Divus-Julius and of Antoninus and Faustina . Beside these were the Triumphal Arch of Septimius Severus , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the latter of which is the finest monument of its kind in the world , one hundred and twenty-seven feet high , with a spiral band of admirable reliefs containing two thousand five hundred human figures . Beside these , new fora of immense size were constructed by various emperors , not for political business so much as courts of justice . The Forum Julium , which connected with the old Forum Romanum , was virtually a temple of great magnificence . In front of it was the celebrated bronze horse of Lysippus , and the temple was enriched with precious offerings and adorned with pictures from the best Greek artists . It was devoted to legal business . The Forum Augusti was still larger , and also inclosed a temple , in which the Senate assembled to consult about wars and triumphs , and was surrounded with porticoes in which the statues of the most eminent Roman generals were placed , while on each side were the triumphal arches of Germanicus and Drusus . More extensive and magnificent than either of the old fora was the one which Trajan erected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the emperor , so universally admired , while the sides were ornamented with a double colonnade of gray Egyptian marble , the columns of which were fifty-five feet in height . This was one of the most gigantic structures in Rome , covering more ground than the Flavian Amphitheatre , and built by the celebrated Apollodorus of Damascus . It filled the whole space between the Capitoline and Quirinal . The Basilica Ulpia was only one division of this vast edifice , divided internally by four rows of columns of gray granite , and paved with slabs of marble . Sidenote : Beauty of the Roman Forum . Nothing in Rome , or perhaps any modern city , exceeded the glory and beauty of the Forum , with the adjoining basilica , and other public buildings , filled with statues and pictures , and crowded with people . The more aristocratic loungers sought the retired promenade afforded by the porticoes near the Circus Flaminius , where the noise and clamor of the crowded streets , the cries of venders , the sports of boys , and the curses of wagoners @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ peculiar glory of the republican period , where the Gracchi enlightened the people on their political rights , where Cato calmed the passions of the mob , where Cicero and Hortensius delivered their magnificent harangues . Sidenote : Works of Augustus . Sidenote : Temple of Apollo . Sidenote : Theatre of Marcellus . The glory of the Augustan age was more seen in the magnificent buildings which arose upon the hills , although he gave attention to the completion of many works of utility or beauty in other parts of the city . He restored the Capitoline temple and the theatre of Pompey ; repaired aqueducts ; finished the Forum and Basilica Julia ; and entirely built the Curia Julia . He founded , on the Palatine , the Imperial Palace , afterwards enlarged by his successors until it entirely covered the original city of Romulus . Among the most beautiful of his works was the Temple of Apollo , the columns of which were of African marble , between which were the statues of the fifty Danaids . In the temple was a magnificent statue of Apollo , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the work of Miron , so beautifully sculptured that they seemed alive . The temple was of the finest marble ; its gates were of ivory , finely sculptured . Attached to this temple was a library , where the poets , orators , and philosophers assembled , and recited their productions . The Forum Augusti was another of the noblest monuments of this emperor , in order to provide accommodation for the crowds which overflowed the Forum Romanum . He also built the theatre of Marcellus , capable of holding twenty thousand spectators . Sidenote : Pantheon . Sidenote : Thermae Agrippae . Sidenote : Campus Martius . Sidenote : Works of the Nobles . Nor was Augustus alone the patron of the arts . His son-in-law , and prime minister , Agrippa , adorned the city with many noble structures , of which the Pantheon remains to attest his munificence . This temple , the best preserved of all the monuments of ancient splendor , stood in the centre of the Campus Martius , and contained only the images of the deities immediately connected with the Julian race and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to establish those famous baths , which became the most splendid monuments of imperial munificence . The Thermae Agrippae stood at the back of the Pantheon . It was fed by the Aqua Virgo , an aqueduct which Agrippa purposely constructed to furnish water for his baths . Many other architectural monuments marked the public spirit of this enlightened and liberal minister , especially in the quarter of the Circus Flaminius and the Campus Martius . This quarter was like a separate town , more magnificent than any part of the ancient city . It was adorned with temples , porticoes , and theatres , and other buildings devoted to amusement and recreation . It had not many private houses , but these were of remarkable splendor . Other courtiers of Augustus followed his example for the embellishment of the city . Statilius Taurus built the first permanent amphitheatre of stone in the Campus Martius . L. Cornelius Balbur built at his own expense a stone theatre . L. Marcius Philippus rebuilt the temple of Hercules Musarum , and surrounded it with a portico . L. Cornificius built a temple of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Plaucus a temple of Saturn . Maecenas , who lived upon the Esquiline , converted the Campus Esquilinus , near the Subura , a pauper burial-ground offensive to both sight and health , into beautiful gardens , called the Horti Maecenatis . Nunc licet esquiliis habitare salubribus atque , Aggere in Aprico Spatiari , quo modo tristes . Albis informem spectabant ossibtis agrum . Footnote : Horace Sat. i. 8 . Near these gardens Virgil lived , also Propertius , and probably Horace . The Esquiline , once a plebeian quarter , seems to have been selected by the literary men , who sought the favor of Maecenas , for their abode . Ovid lived near the capitol , at the southern extremity of the Quirinal . Sidenote : Mausoleum of Augustus . Among the other buildings which Augustus erected , should not be omitted the magnificent Mausoleum , or the tomb of the imperial family at the northern part of the Campus Martius , near which lay the remains of Sulla and of Caesar , and which remained the burial-place of his family down to the time of Hadrian . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He also brought from Egypt the obelisk which now stands on Mount Citorio , and which was placed in that receptacle for monuments  --  the Campus Martius . Sidenote : Imperial palace . Tiberius did but little for the improvement of his capital beyond erecting a triumphal arch , in commemoration of the exploits of Germanicus , on the Via Sacra , and establishing the Praetorian Camp near the Servian Agger . Caligula extended the imperial palace , and began the Circus Neronis in the gardens of Agrippa , near where St. Peter 's now stands . Sidenote : Claudian aqueduct . Claudius constructed the two noble aqueducts , the Aqua Claudia and Arno Novis ,  --  the longest of all these magnificent Roman monuments ,  --  the latter of which was fifty-nine miles in length , and some of its arches were one hundred and nine feet in height . Nero still further extended the precincts of the imperial palace , and included the Esquiline . The great fire which occurred in his reign , A.D. 65 , and which lasted six days and seven nights , destroyed some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Palatine , and very much damaged the Forum , to say nothing of the statues and treasures which perished . But the city soon arose from her ashes more beautiful than before . The streets were laid out on a more regular plan and made wider , the houses were built lower , and brick was substituted for wood . Sidenote : The Imperial Palace . The great work of Nero was the construction of the Imperial Palace on the site of the buildings which had been destroyed by the fire . He gave it the name of Aurea Domus , and , if we may credit Suetonius , Footnote : Suet . Ner. , 31. its richness and splendor surpassed any other similar edifice in ancient times . It fronted the Forum and Capitol , and in its vestibule stood a colossal statue of the emperor , one hundred and twenty feet high . The palace was surrounded by three porticoes , each one thousand feet in length . The back front of the palace looked upon the artificial lake , afterwards occupied by the Flavian Amphitheatre . Within the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with gold , and adorned with jewels and mother-of-pearl . The supper rooms were vaulted , and the compartments of the ceiling , inlaid with ivory , were made to revolve and scatter flowers upon the banqueters below . The chief banqueting-room was circular , and perpetually revolved in imitation of the motion of the celestial bodies . There are scarcely no remains of this extensive palace , which engrossed so large a part of the city , and which covered the site of so many famous temples and palaces , and which exhausted even the imperial revenues , great as they were , even as Versailles taxed the magnificent resources of Louis XIV. , and St. Peter 's obliged the Popes to appeal to the contributions of Christendom . Sidenote : Temple of Peace . The next great edifice which added to the architectural wonders of the city , was the temple built by Vespasian after the destruction of Jerusalem , which he called the Temple of Peace . It was adorned with the richest sculptures and paintings of Greece , taken from Nero 's palace , which Vespasian demolished @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were deposited also the Jewish spoils , except the laws and veil of the temple . Sidenote : Falvian Amphitheatre . Sidenote : The Colosseum . But the great work of this emperor , and the greatest architectural wonder of the world , was the amphitheatre , which he built on the ground covered by Nero 's lake , in the middle of the city , between the Velia and the Esquiline . For magnitude it can only be compared with the pyramids of Egypt , and its remains are the most striking monument we have of the material greatness of the Romans . Though not the first of the amphitheatres which were erected , its enormous size rendered the erection of subsequent ones unnecessary . It was here that emperors , senators , generals , knights , and people , met together to witness the most exciting and sanguinary amusements ever seen in the world . It was built in the middle of the city , with a perfect recklessness of expense , and could accommodate eighty-seven thousand spectators , round an arena large enough for the combats of several @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of an elliptical form , founded on eighty arches , and rising to the height of one hundred and forty feet , with four successive orders of architecture , six hundred and twenty feet by five hundred and thirteen , inclosing six acres . It was built of travertine , faced with marble , and decorated with statues . The eighty arches of the lower story formed entrances for the spectators . The seats were of marble covered with cushions . The spectators were protected from the sun and rain by ample canopies , while the air was refreshed by scented fountains . The nets designed as a protection from the wild beasts were made of golden wire . The porticoes were gilded ; the circle which divided the several ranks of spectators was studded with a precious mosaic of beautiful stones . The arena was strewed with the finest sand , and assumed , at different times , the most different forms . Subterranean pipes conveyed water into the arena . The furniture of the amphitheatre consisted of gold , silver , and amber . The passages of ingress and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and out without confusion . Only a third part of this wonderful structure remains , and whole palaces have been built of its spoils . Footnote : Dyer , Hist. of the City of Rome , p. 245 . Gibbon , chap . 12 . Montaigne , Essays , in. 6 . Lipsius , de Amphitheatro . Sidenote : Rebuilding of the Capitol . Sidenote : Arch of Titus . Another great fire which took place A.D. 80 ,  --  the same in which Titus dedicated the Colosseum ,  --  and which raged three days and nights , destroyed the region of the Circus Flaminius , including some of the finest temples of the city , and especially on the Capitoline , and created the necessity for new improvements . These were made by Domitian , who rebuilt the Capitol itself with greater splendor on its old site , and erected several new edifices . Martial speaks with peculiar admiration of the Temple of the Gens Flavia . Footnote : Martial , L. , ix . Ep . 4 , 35 . He also erected that beautiful arch to his brother @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the imperial city . The Odeum , a roofed theatre , was erected by him , capable of holding twelve thousand people . He also made many additions to his palace on the Palatine  --  so lofty , that Martial , his flatterer , described it as towering above the clouds , and Statius compared the ceiling to the cope of heaven . Sidenote : Forum Trajanum . Sidenote : Basilica Ulpia . No great improvements were made in the city until Trajan commenced his beneficent and splendid reign . His greatest work was the Forum which bears his name , to which allusion has been made , eleven hundred feet long , in the centre of which was that beautiful pillar , one hundred and twenty-eight feet high , which is still standing . The Forum , the Basilica Ulpia , and the temple dedicated by Hadrian to Trajan , were all parts of this magnificent structure , one of the most imposing ever built , filled with colossal statues and surrounded with colonnades . Sidenote : Temple of Venus and Rome . Sidenote : Mausoleum of Hadrian . Sidenote @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so great a passion for building as Hadrian , who succeeded Trajan A.D. 117 . He erected a vast number of edifices , and in his reign Rome attained its greatest height of architectural splendor . The most remarkable among the edifices which he built was the Temple of Venus and Rome , facing on one side the Colosseum , and the other the Forum , on the site of the Atrium , or the golden house of Nero . This seems to have been one of the largest of the Roman temples , erected on an artificial terrace five hundred feet long and three hundred broad . It was surrounded with a portico four hundred feet by two hundred , and another portico of four hundred columns inclosed the terrace on which the temple was built , the columns of which were forty feet in height . The roof was covered with bronze tiles . Ammianus Marcellinus classes this magnificent temple with the Capitoline Temple , the Flavian Amphitheatre , and the Pantheon . The next greatest work of Hadrian was the Mausoleum , which is now converted into the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which each side was two hundred and fifty-three feet in length . From the magnificent colonnade which supported the platform on which it was built , and the successive stories supported by arches and pillars , between which were celebrated statues , this circular edifice , one hundred and eighty-eight feet in diameter , must have been one of the most imposing edifices in the city . After eighteen centuries , it still remains a monument of architectural strength , and it served for one of the strongest fortresses in Italy during the Middle Ages . I pass by , without notice , the villa this emperor erected at Tivoli , the ruins of which are among the most interesting which remain of that great age . Sidenote : Column of Marcus Aurelius . Sidenote : Arch of Septimius Severus . Sidenote : Baths of Caracalla . Under Hadrian Rome attained its greatest splendor , and after him , there was a progressive decline in the arts , since the public taste was corrupted . Still successive emperors continued to adorn the city . Marcus Aurelius , the wisest and best @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that of Trajan , to represent his wars with the Germanic tribes , and this still remains ; he also built a triumphal arch . Septimius Severus erected the most beautiful of the triumphal arches , of which the Arc de Triumph in Paris is an imitation ; and Caracalla built one of the greatest of the Roman baths , which , with the porticoes which surrounded it , formed a square of eleven hundred feet on each side  --  so enormous were these structures of luxury and utility , designed not only for the people as a sanitary measure , but for places of gymnastic exercises , popular lectures , and the disputations of philosophers . The Pantheon was merely an entrance to the baths of Agrippa . The baths of Trajan covered an area nearly as great . But those of Caracalla surpassed them all in magnificence . Nothing was more striking to a traveler than the painted corridors , the arched ceilings , the variegated columns , the elaborate mosaic pavements , the immortal statues , and the exquisite paintings which ornamented these places of luxury and pleasure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most priceless of the statues which ornament the museums of Italy  --  the Farnese Hercules , the colossal Florae , the Torso Farnese , the Torso Belvidere , the Atreus and Thyestes , the Laocoon , beside granite and basaltic vases beautifully polished , cameos , bronzes , medals , and other valuable relics of ancient art . To supply these baths new aqueducts were built , and the treasures of the empire expended . Those subsequently erected by Diocletian contained three thousand two hundred marble seats , and the main hall now forms one of the most splendid of the Roman churches . Sidenote : Temples and Palaces . Sidenote : General aspect of the city . Sidenote : What a traveler would see in a walk . Sidenote : The Via Sacra . Sidenote : The Velabrum . Sidenote : The Fora . Sidenote : View from the summit of the Capitoline Hill . Sidenote : Gardens of Lucullus . Sidenote : The Subura . Sidenote : Circus Maximus . Sidenote : View of Rome from the Capitol . Such is a brief view of the progress of those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ antiquity , and perhaps the grandest , in its public monuments , of any city in ancient or modern times . What a concentration of works of art on the hills , and around the Forum , and in the Campus Martins , and other celebrated quarters ! There were temples rivaling those of Athens and Ephesus ; baths covering more ground than the Pyramids , surrounded with Corinthian columns and filled with the choicest treasures , ransacked from the cities of Greece and Asia ; palaces in comparison with which the Tuileries and Versailles are small ; theatres which seated more people than any present public buildings in Europe ; amphitheatres more extensive and costly than Cologne , Milan , and York Minster cathedrals combined , and seating eight times as many people as could be crowded into St. Peter 's Church ; circuses where , it is said , three hundred and eighty-five thousand spectators could witness the games and chariot-races at a time ; bridges , still standing , which have furnished models for the most beautiful at Paris and London ; aqueducts carried over arches one hundred @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of distant lakes ; drains of solid masonry in which large boats could float ; pillars more than one hundred feet in height , coated with precious marbles or plates of brass , and covered with bass-reliefs ; obelisks brought from Egypt ; fora and basilicae connected together , and extending more than three thousand feet , in length , every part of which was filled with " animated busts " of conquerors , kings , and statesmen , poets , publicists , and philosophers ; mausoleums greater and more splendid than that Artemisia erected to the memory of her husband ; triumphal arches under which marched in stately procession the victorious armies of the Eternal City , preceded by the spoils and trophies of conquered empires ,  --  such was the proud capital  - -  a city of palaces , a residence or nobles who were virtually kings , enriched with the accumulated treasures of ancient civilization . Great were the capitals of Greece and Asia , but how preeminent was Rome , since all were subordinate to her . How bewildering and bewitching to a traveler must have been the varied @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his eye rested on something which was both a study and a marvel . Let him drive or walk about the suburbs , there were villas , tombs , aqueducts looking like railroads on arches , sculptured monuments , and gardens of surpassing beauty and luxury . Let him approach the walls  - -  they were great fortifications extending twenty-one miles in circuit , according to the measurement of Ammon as adopted by Gibbon , and forty-five miles according to other authorities . Let him enter any of the various gates which opened into the city from the roads which radiated to all parts of Italy  --  they were of monumental brass covered with bass-reliefs , on which the victories of generals for a thousand years were commemorated . Let him pass up the Via Appia , or the Via Flaminia , or the Via Cabra  --  they were lined with temples and shops and palaces . Let him pass through any of the crowded thoroughfares , he saw houses towering scarcely ever less than seventy feet  --  as tall as those of Edinburgh in its oldest sections . Let him pass through @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we should now call them , he finds some fourteen regions , as constituted by Augustus , all marked by architectural monuments , and containing , according to Lipsius , a population larger than London or Paris , guarded and watched by a police of ten thousand armed men . Most of the houses in which this vast population lived , according to Strabo , possessed pipes which gave a never-failing supply of water from the rivers which flowed into the city through the aqueducts and out again through the sewers into the Tiber . Let him walk up the Via Sacra  --  that short street , scarcely half a mile in length  --  and he passes the Flavian Amphitheatre , the Temple of Venus , and Rome , the Arch of Titus , the temples of Peace , of Vesta , and of Castor , the Forum Romanum , the Basilica Julia , the Arch of Severus , and the Temple of Saturn , and stands before the majestic ascent to the Capitoline Jupiter , with its magnificent portico and ornamented pediment , surpassing the facade of any modern church @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the sculptured Arch of Titus , is the Palatine Mount , nearly covered by the palace of the Caesars , the magnificent residences of the higher nobility , and various temples , of which that of Apollo was the most magnificent , built by Augustus of solid white marble from Luna . Here were the palaces of Vaccus , of Flaccus , of Cicero , of Catiline , of Scaurus , of Antonius , of Clodius , of Agrippa , and of Hortensius . Still on his left , in the valley between the Palatine and the Capitoline , though he can not see it , concealed from view by the great temples of Vesta and of Castor , and the still greater edifice known as the Basilica Julia , is the quarter called the Velabrum , extending to the river , where the Pons Aemilius crosses it  - -  a low quarter of narrow streets and tall houses where the rabble lived and died . On his right , concealed from view by the Aedes Divi Julii and the Forum Romanum , is that magnificent series of edifices extending from the Temple @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Basilica Pauli , the Forum Julii , the Forum Augusti , the Forum Trajani , the Basilica Ulpia , more than three thousand feet in length and six hundred in breadth , almost entirely surrounded by porticoes and colonnades , and filled with statues and pictures  --  on the whole the grandest series of public buildings clustered together probably ever erected , especially if we take in the Forum Romanum and the various temples and basilicas which connected the whole together  --  a forest of marble pillars and statues . He ascends the steps which lead from the Temple of Concord to the Temple of Juno Moneta upon the Arx or Tarpeian Rock , on the southwestern summit of the hill , itself one of the most beautiful temples in Rome , erected by Camillus on the spot where the house of M. Manlius Capitolinus had stood . Here is established the Roman mint . Near this is the temple erected by Augustus to Jupiter Tonans and that built by Domitian to Jupiter Gustos . But all the sacred edifices which crown the Capitoline are subordinate to the Templum Jovis Capitolini @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and built of the richest materials . The portico which faces the Via Sacra consists of three rows of Doric columns , the pediment is profusely ornamented with the choicest sculptures , the apex of the roof is surmounted by the bronze horses of Lysippus , and the roof itself is covered with gilded tiles . The temple has three separate cells , though covered with one roof ; in front of each stand colossal statues of the three deities to whom it is consecrated . Here are preserved what was most sacred in the eyes of Romans , and it is itself the richest of all the temples of the city . What a beautiful panorama is presented to the view from the summit of this consecrated hill , only mounted by a steep ascent of one hundred steps . To the south is the Via Sacra extending to the Colosseum , and beyond it is the Appia Via , lined with monuments as far as the eye can reach . Little beyond the fora to the east is the Carinae , a fashionable quarter of beautiful shops and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Titus , extending from the Carinae to the Esquiline Mount . This hill , once a burial-ground , is now covered with the house and gardens of Maecenas , and of the poets whom he patronized . It is not rich in temples , but its gardens and groves are beautiful . To the northeast are the Viminal and Quirinal hills , after the Palatine the most ancient part of the city  --  the seat of the Sabine population . Abounding in fanes and temples , the most splendid of which is the Temple of Quirinus , erected originally to Romulus by Numa , but rebuilt by Augustus , with a double row of columns on each of its sides , seventy-six in number . Near by was the house of Atticus , and the gardens of Sallust in the valley between the Quirinal and Pincian , afterwards the property of the emperor . Far back on the Quirinal , near the wall of Servius , were the Baths of Diocletian , and still further to the east the Pretorian Camp established by Tiberius , and included within the wall of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pincian Hill covered by the gardens of Lucullus , to possess which Messalina caused the death of Valerius Asiaticus , into whose possession they had fallen . In the valley which lay between the fora and the Quirinal was the celebrated Subura ,  - -  the quarter of shops , markets , and artificers ,  --  a busy , noisy , vulgar section , not beautiful , but full of life and enterprise and wickedness . The eye now turns to the north , and the whole length of the Via Flaminia is exposed to view , extending from the Capitoline to the Flaminian gate , perfectly straight , the finest street in Rome , and parallel to the modern Corso . It is the great highway to the north of Italy . Monuments and temples and palaces line this celebrated street . It is spanned by the triumphal arches of Claudius and Marcus Aurelius . To the west of it is the Campus Martius , with its innumerable objects of interest ,  --  the Baths of Agrippa , the Pantheon , the Thermae Alexandrinae , the Column of Marcus Aurelius , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ west , toward the river , is the Circus Flaminius , the Portico of Octavius , the Theatre of Balbus , and the Theatre of Pompey , where forty thousand spectators were accommodated . Stretching beyond the Thermae Alexandrinae , near the Pantheon , is the magnificent bridge which crosses the Tiber , built by Hadrian when he founded his Mausoleum , to which it leads , still standing under the name of the Ponte S. Angelo . The eye takes in eight or nine bridges over the Tiber , some of wood , but generally of stone , of beautiful masonry , and crowned with statues . At the foot of the Capitoline , toward the southwest , are the Portico of Octavius and the Theatre of Marcellus , near the Pons Cestius . Still further southwest , between the Capitoline and the Aventine , in a low valley , are the Velabrum and the Forum Boarium , once a marsh , but now rich in temples and monuments , among which are those of Hercules Fortuna and Mater Matuta . There are no less than four temples consecrated to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ celebrated places in Rome , devoted to trade and commerce . Beyond still , in the valley between the Palatine and the Aventine , is the great Circus Maximus , founded by the early Tarquin . It is the largest open space inclosed by walls and porticoes in the city . It seats three hundred and eighty-five thousand people . How vast a city , which can spare nearly four hundred thousand of its population to see the chariot-races ! Beyond is the Aventine itself . This also is rich in legendary monuments and in the palaces of the great , though originally a plebeian quarter . Here dwelt Trajan , before he was emperor , and Ennius the poet , and Paula , the friend of St. Jerome . Beneath the Aventine , and a little south of the Circus Maximus , west of the Appian Way , are the great baths of Caracalla , the ruins of which , next to those of the Colosseum , made on my mind the strongest impression of any thing that pertains to antiquity , though these were not so large as those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hill , the ancient residence of Tullus Hostilius . The beautiful Temple of Divus Claudius , the Arch of Dolabella , the Macellum Magnum ,  --  a market founded by Nero ,  --  the Castra Peregrina , the Temple of Isis , the Campus Martialis , are among the most conspicuous objects of interest . This hill is the residence of many distinguished Romans . It is covered with palaces . Among them is the house of Claudius Centumalus  --  so high , that the augurs command him to lower it . It towers ten or twelve stories into the air . Scarcely inferior in size is the house of Mamura , whose splendor is described by Pliny . Here also is the house of Annius Verus , the father of Marcus Aurelius , surrounded with gardens . But grander than any of these palaces is that of Plautius Lateranus , the egregioe Lateranorum oedes , which became imperial property in the time of Nero , and on whose site stands the basilica of St. John Lateran ,  --  the gift of Constantine to the bishop of Rome ,  --  one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which , for fifteen hundred years , daily services have been performed . Sidenote : Population . Sidenote : Number of houses . Such are the objects of interest and grandeur which strike the eye as it is turned toward the various quarters of the city . But these are only the more important . The seven hills , appearing considerably higher than at the present day , as the valleys are raised fifteen or twenty feet above their ancient level , are covered with temples , palaces , and gardens ; the valleys are densely crowded with shops , houses , baths , and theatres . The houses rise frequently to the tenth platform or story . The suburban population , beyond the walls , is probably greater than that within . The city , virtually , contains between three and four millions or people . Lipsius estimates four millions as the population , including slaves , women , children , and strangers . Though this estimate is regarded as too large by Merivale and others , yet how enormous must have been the number of the people when there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Diocletian could accommodate three thousand two hundred people at a time . The wooden theatre of Scaurus contained eighty thousand seats ; that of Marcellus would seat twenty thousand ; the Colosseum would seat eighty-seven thousand , and give standing space for twenty-two thousand more . The Circus Maximus would hold three hundred and eighty-five thousand spectators . If only one person out of four of the free population witnessed the games and spectacles at a time , we thus must have four millions of people altogether in the city . The Aurelian walls are now only thirteen miles in circumference , but Lipsius estimates the circumference at forty-five miles , and Vopiscus nearly fifty . The diameter of the city must have been eleven miles , since Strabo tells us that the actual limit of Rome was at a place between the fifth and sixth milestone from the column of Trajan in the Forum  --  the central and most conspicuous object in the city except the capitol . Footnote : Strabo , lib. v. ch. 3 . Even in the sixth century , after Rome had been sacked and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , asserts that there were three hundred and eighty-four spacious streets , eighty golden statues of the gods ; sixty-six large ivory statues of the gods ; forty-six thousand six hundred and three houses ; seventeen thousand and ninety-seven palaces ; thirteen thousand and fifty-two fountains ; three thousand seven hundred and eighty-five bronze statues of emperors and generals ; twenty-two great horses in bronze ; two colossi ; two spiral columns ; thirty-one theatres ; eleven amphitheatres ; nine thousand and twenty-six baths ; two thousand three hundred shops of perfumers ; two thousand and ninety-one prisons . Footnote : St. Ampere , Hist . Romaine a Rome . This seems to be incredible . " But , " says Story , " Augustus divided the city into eighteen regions : each region contained twenty-two vici ; each vicus contained about two hundred and thirty dwelling-houses , so that there must have been seventy-five thousand houses ; of these houses , seventeen thousand were palaces , or domus . If each contained two hundred persons , ( and four hundred slaves were maintained in a single palace , ) reckoning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ millions four hundred thousand people , and supposing the remaining fifty-eight thousand houses to have contained twenty-five persons each , we have in them one million four hundred and fifty thousand , which would give an entire population of four millions eight hundred and fifty thousand . " If Mr. Merivale 's estimate of seven hundred thousand is correct , then the Colosseum would hold nearly one in six of the whole population , which is incredible . Indeed , it is probable that even four millions was under than above the true estimate , which would make Rome the most populous city ever seen upon our globe . Nor is it extravagant to suppose this . The city numbered , according to the census , eighty thousand people in the year 197 ; and in 683 it had risen to four hundred and fifty thousand . Is it strange it should have numbered four millions in the time of Augustus , or even six millions in the time of Arelian , when we bear in mind that it was the political and social centre of a vast empire , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the present day , and Paris two millions , why should not a capital which had no rival , and which controlled at least one hundred and twenty millions of people ? So that Pliny was not probably wrong when he said , " Si quis altitudinem tectorum addat , dignam profecto oestimationem concipiat , fateatur qui nullius urbis magnitudinem potuisse ei comparare . " " If any one considers the height of the roofs , so as to form a just estimate , he will confess that no city could be compared with it for magnitude . " Sidenote : The monuments which survive . Sidenote : Games of Titus . Modern writers , taking London and Paris for their measure of material civilization , seem unwilling to admit that Rome could have reached such a pitch of glory and wealth and power . To him who stands within the narrow limits of the Forum , as it now appears , it seems incredible that it could have been the centre of a much larger city than Europe can now boast of . Grave historians are loth to compromise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which seem , to men of limited views , to be fabulous , and which transcend modern experience . But we should remember that most of the monuments of ancient Rome have entirely disappeared . Nothing remains of the Palace of the Caesars , which nearly covered the Palatine Hill ; little of the fora which , connected together , covered a space twice as large as that inclosed by the palaces of the Louvre and Tuileries with all their galleries and courts ; almost nothing of the glories of the Capitoline Hill ; and little comparatively of those Thermae which were a mile in circuit . But what does remain attests an unparalleled grandeur  --  the broken pillars of the Forum ; the lofty columns of Trajan and Marcus Aurelius ; the Pantheon , lifting its spacious dome two hundred feet into the air ; the mere vestibule of the Baths of Agrippa ; the triumphal arches of Titus and Trajan and Constantine ; the bridges which span the Tiber ; the aqueducts which cross the Campagna ; the Cloaca Maxima , which drained the marshes and lakes of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ What glory and shame are associated with that single edifice ! That alone , if nothing else remained of Pagan antiquity , would indicate a grandeur and a folly such as can not now be seen on earth . It reveals a wonderful skill in masonry , and great architectural strength ; it shows the wealth and resources of rulers who must have had the treasures of the world at their command ; it indicates an enormous population , since it would seat all the male adults of the city of New York ; it shows the restless passions of the people for excitement , and the necessity on the part of government of yielding to this taste . What leisure and indolence marked a city which could afford to give up so much time to the demoralizing sports ! What facilities for transportation were afforded , when so many wild beasts could be brought to the capital from the central parts of Africa without calling out unusual comment ! How imperious a populace that compels the government to provide such expensive pleasures ! The games of Titus , on its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wild beasts are slaughtered in the arena . The number of the gladiators who fought surpasses belief . At the triumph of Trajan over the Dacians , ten thousand gladiators were exhibited , and the emperor himself presides under a gilded canopy , surrounded by thousands of his lords . Underneath the arena , strewed with yellow sand and sawdust , is a solid pavement so closely cemented that it can be turned into an artificial lake on which naval battles are fought . But it is the conflict of gladiators which most deeply stimulates the passions of the people . The benches are crowded with eager spectators , and the voices of one hundred thousand are raised in triumph or rage as the miserable victims sink exhausted in the bloody sport . Sidenote : Roman triumphs . But it is not the gladiatorial sports of the amphitheatre which most strikingly attest the greatness and splendor of the city ; nor the palaces , in which as many as four hundred slaves are sometimes maintained as domestic servants , twelve hundred in number according to the lowest estimate , but probably @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ knight , and every rich man was proud to possess a residence which would attract attention ; nor the temples , which numbered four hundred and twenty-four , most of which were of marble , filled with statues , the contributions of ages , and surrounded with groves ; nor the fora and basilicae , with their porticoes , statues , and pictures , covering more space than any cluster of public buildings in Europe , a mile and a half in circuit ; nor the baths , nearly as large , still more completely filled with works of art ; nor the Circus Maximus , where more people witnessed the chariot races at a time than are nightly assembled in all the places of public amusement in Paris , London , and New York combined  - -  more than could be seated in all the cathedrals of England and France ; it is not these which most impressively make us feel that Rome was the mistress of the world and the centre of all civilization . The triumphal processions of the conquering generals were still more exciting to behold , for these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ passions which urged the Romans to a career of conquest from generation to generation . No military review of modern times equaled those gorgeous triumphs , even as no scenic performance compares with the gladiatorial shows . The . sun has never shone upon any human assemblage so magnificent and so grand , so imposing and yet so guilty . And we recall the picture of it with solemn awe as it moves along the Via Sacra and ascends the Capitoline Hill , or passes through the theatres of Pompey and Marcellus , that all the people might witness the brilliant spectacle . Not only were displayed the spoils of conquered kingdoms , and the triumphal cars of generals , but the whole military strength of the capital . An army of one hundred thousand men , flushed with victory , follows the gorgeous procession of nobles and princes . The triumph of Aurelian , on his return from the East , gives us some idea of the grandeur of that ovation to conquerors . " The pomp was opened by twenty elephants , four royal tigers , and two hundred @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , south , east , and west . These were followed by one thousand six hundred gladiators , devoted to the cruel amusement of the amphitheatre . Then were displayed the arms and ensigns of conquered nations , the plate and wardrobe of the Syrian queen . Then ambassadors from all parts of the earth  --  all remarkable in their rich dresses , with their crowns and offerings . Then the captives taken in the various wars , Goths , Vandals , Samaritans , Alemanni , Franks , Gauls , Syrians , and Egyptians , each marked by their national costume . Then the Queen of the East , the beautiful Zenobia , confined by fetters of gold , and fainting under the weight of jewels , preceding the beautiful chariot in which she had hoped to enter the gates of Rome . Then the chariot of the Persian king . Then the triumphal car of Aurelian himself , drawn by elephants . Finally the most illustrious of the Senate , the people , and the army closed the solemn procession , amid the acclamations of the people , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ day until the ninth hour for the procession to pass to the capital , and the festival was protracted by theatrical representations , the games of the circus , the hunting of wild beasts , combats of gladiators , and naval engagements . Liberal donations were presented to the army , and a portion of the spoils dedicated to the gods . All the temples glittered with the offerings of ostentatious piety , and the Temple of the Sun received fifteen thousand pounds of gold . The soldiers and the citizens were then surfeited with meat and wine . The disbanded soldiery thronged the amphitheatre , and yelled their fiendish applause at the infernal games ,  - -  the gorged robbers of the world , drunk in a festival of hell , " Footnote : Henry Giles.  --  a representation of war as terrible as war itself , compensating to the Roman people the massacres which they could not see . If any thing more were wanted to give us an idea of Roman magnificence , we would turn our eyes from public monuments , demoralizing games , and grand processions ; we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ outnumbered the living inhabitants , so numerous that one hundred thousand have been recovered and still embellish Italy , and would descend into the lower sphere of material life  --  to those things which attest luxury and taste  --  to ornaments , dresses , sumptuous living , and rich furniture . The art of working metals and cutting precious stones surpassed any thing known at the present day . In the decoration of houses , in social entertainments , in cookery , the Romans were remarkable . The mosaics , signet rings , cameos , bracelets , bronzes , chains , vases , couches , banqueting tables , lamps , chariots , colored glass , gildings , mirrors , mattresses , cosmetics , perfumes , hair dyes , silk robes , potteries , all attest great elegance and beauty . The tables of thuga root and Delian bronze were as expensive as the sideboards of Spanish walnut , so much admired in the great exhibition at London . Wood and ivory were carved as exquisitely as in Japan and China . Mirrors were made of polished silver . Glass-cutters could imitate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Portland vase , from the tomb of Alexander Severus , was long considered as a genuine sardonix . Brass could be hardened so as to cut stone . The palace of Nero glittered with gold and jewels . Perfumes and flowers were showered from ivory ceilings . The halls of Heliogabulus were hung with cloth of gold , enriched with jewels . His beds were silver , and his tables of gold . Tiberius gave a million of sesterces for a picture for his bed-room . A banquet dish of Drusillus weighed five hundred pounds of silver . The cups of Drusus were of gold . Tunics were embroidered with the figures of various animals . Sandals were garnished with precious stones . Paulina wore jewels , when she paid visits , valued at $800,000 . Drinking-cups were engraved with scenes from the poets . Libraries were adorned with busts , and presses of rare woods . Sofas were inlaid with tortoise-shell , and covered with gorgeous purple . The Roman grandees rode in gilded chariots , bathed in marble baths , dined from golden plate , drank from crystal cups @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ couches , wore embroidered robes , and were adorned with precious stones . They ransacked the earth and the seas for rare dishes for their banquets , and ornamented their houses with carpets from Babylon , onyx cups from Bythinia , marbles from Numidia , bronzes from Corinth , statues from Athens  --  whatever , in short , was precious or rare or curious in the most distant countries . The luxuries of the bath almost exceed belief , and on the walls were magnificent frescoes and paintings , exhibiting an inexhaustible productiveness in landscape and mythological scenes , executed in lively colors . From the praises of Cicero , Seneca , and Pliny , and other great critics , we have a right to infer that painting was as much prized as statuary , and equaled it in artistic excellence , although so little remains of antiquity from which we can form an enlightened judgment . We certainly infer from designs on vases great skill in drawing , and from the excavations of Pompeii , the most beautiful colors . The walls of the great hall of the baths of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with wonderful accuracy . In the long corridor of these baths the ceiling is painted with colors which are still fresh , and Raphael is said to have studied the frescoes with admiration , even as Michael Angelo found in the Pantheon a model for the dome of St. Peter 's , and in the statues which were dug up from the ruins of the baths , studies for his own immortal masterpieces . Thus every thing which gilds the material wonders of our day with glory and splendor , also marked the old capitol of the world . That which is most prized by us , distinguished to an eminent degree the Roman grandees . In an architectural point of view no modern city approaches Rome . It contained more statues than all the Museums of Europe . It had every thing which we have except machinery . It surpassed every modern capitol in population . It was richer than any modern city , since the people were not obliged to toil for their daily bread . The poor were fed by the government , and had time and leisure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the amphitheatre . The citizen nobles owned whole provinces . Even Paula could call a whole city her own . Rich senators , in some cases , were the proprietors of twenty thousand slaves . Their incomes were known to be 1000 pounds sterling a day , when gold and silver were worth four times as much as at the present day . Rome was made up of these citizen kings and their dependants , for most of the senators had been , at some time , governors of provinces , which they rifled and robbed . In Rome were accumulated the choicest treasures of the world . Her hills were covered with the palaces of the proudest nobles that ever walked the earth , Rome was the centre , and the glory , and the pride of all the nations of antiquity . It seemed impossible that such a city could ever be taken by enemies , or fall into decay . " Quando cadet Roma cadet et mundus , " said the admiring Saxons three hundred years after the injuries inflicted by Goths and Vandals . Nor has Rome @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of her enemies . A hundred times on the verge of annihilation , she was never annihilated . She never accepted the stranger 's yoke  --  she never was permanently subjected to the barbarian . She continued to be Roman after the imperial presence had departed . She was Roman when fires , and inundations , and pestilence , and famine , and barbaric soldiers desolated the city . She was Roman when the Pope held Christendom in a base subserviency . She was Roman when Rienzi attempted to revive the virtues of the heroic ages , and when Michael Angelo restored the wonders of Apollodorus . And Roman that city will remain , whether as the home of princes , or the future capitol of the kings of Italy , or the resort of travelers , or the school of artists , or the seat of a spiritual despotism which gains strength as political and temporal power passes away before the ideas of the new races and the new civilization . * * * * * The most valuable book of reference for this chapter is the late work of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Smith 's Dictionary . In fact this chapter is a mere compilation of that elaborate work , ( " History of the City of Rome , " ) which may be said to be exhaustive . Mabillon and Montfaucon  --  two French Benedictines  --  rendered great service in the seventeenth century to Roman topography . Edward Burton and Richard Burgess wrote descriptions of Roman antiquities , now superseded by the writings of those great German scholars , who made a new epoch of Roman topography  --  Niebuhr , Bunsen , Platner , Gerhard , and Rostell , who , however , have succeeded in throwing doubt on many things supposed to be established . One of the most learned treatises on ancient Rome is the celebrated Handbuch of Becker . Stephano Piale and Luigi Canina are the most approved of the modern Italian antiquarians . Relocated Footnote : Sidenote : Mausoleum of Augustus . Sidenote : Those who were buried in it . " This enduring structure , which survived the conflagrations , the wars , and the anarchies of fifteen hundred years , consisted of a large tumulus of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and covered on the summit with evergreens in the manner of a hanging garden . On the summit was a bronze statue of Augustus himself , and beneath the tumulus was a large central hall , round which ran a range of fourteen sepulchral chambers , opening into this common vestibule . At the entrance were two Egyptian obelisks , fifty feet in height , and all around was an extensive grove divided into walks and terraces . The young Marcellus , whose fate was bewailed by Virgil , was its first occupant . Here was placed Octavia , the neglected wife of Antony , and Agrippa , the builder of the Parthenon , and Livia , the beloved wife of Augustus , and beside them the first imperator himself . Here were the poisoned ashes of the noble Germanicus , borne from Syria ; here the young Drusus , the pride of the Ciaudian family , and at his side the second Drusus , the son of Tiberius . Here reposed the dust of Agrippina , after years of exile , by the side of her husband , Germanicus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his victim , Britannicus ; here Tiberius , Caligula , Claudius , and all the other Caesars to Nerva . Then the marble door was closed , for the sepulchral cells were full . "  --  Story 's Roba di Roma . CHAPTER IV . ART IN THE ROMAN EMPIRE . In my enumeration of the external glories of the Roman world , I only attempted to glance at those wonders which were calculated to strike a traveler with admiration . Among these were the great developments of Art , displayed in architecture , in statuary , and in painting . But I only enumerated the more remarkable objects of attraction ; I did not attempt to show the genius displayed in them . But ancient art , as a proud creation of the genius of man , demands additional notice . We wish to know to what heights the Romans soared in that great realm of beauty and grace and majesty . Sidenote : Origins and principles of art . Sidenote : Fascinations of art . Sidenote : Development of art . Sidenote : Glory of art . The aesthetic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and attest as well as demand no ordinary force of genius . Art claims to be creative , and to be based on eternal principles of beauty , and artists in all ages have claimed a proud niche in the temple of fame . They rank with poets and musicians , and even philosophers and historians , in the world 's regard . They are favored sons of inspiration , urged to their work by ideal conceptions of the beautiful and the true . Their productions are material , but the spirit which led to their creation is of the soul and mind . Imagination is tasked to the uttermost to portray sentiments and passions . The bust is " animated , " and the temple , though built of marble , and by man , is called " religious . " Art appeals to every cultivated mind , and excites poetic feelings . It is impressive even to every order , class , and condition of men , not , perhaps , in its severest forms , since the taste must be cultivated to appreciate its higher beauties , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ granite image temples of Egypt must have filled even the rude people with a certain awe and wonder , even as the majestic cathedrals of mediaeval Europe , with their imposing pomps , stimulated the poetic conceptions of the Gothic nations . Art is popular . The rude savage admires a gaudy picture even as the cultivated Leo X. or Cardinal Mazarini bent in admiration before the great creations of Raphael or Domenichino . Art appeals to the senses as well as to the intellect and the heart , and is capable of inspiring the passions as well as the loftiest emotions and sentiments . The Grecian mind was trained to the contemplation of aesthetic beauty in temples , in statues , and in pictures ; and the great artist was rewarded with honors and material gains . The love of art is easier kindled than the love of literary excellence , and is more generally diffused . It is coeval with songs and epic poetry . Before Socrates or Plato speculated on the great certitudes of philosophy , temples and statues were the pride and boast of their countrymen . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ letters , so it survives , when the literature has lost its life and freshness . The luxurious citizens of Rome ornamented their baths and palaces with exquisite pictures and statues long after genius ceased to soar to the heights of philosophy and poetry . The proudest triumphs of genius are in a realm which art can never approach , yet the wonders of art are still among the great triumphs of civilization . Zeuxis or Praxiteles may not have equaled Homer or Plato in profundity of genius , but it was only a great age which could have produced a Zeuxis or Praxiteles . I can not place Raphael on so exalted a pinnacle as Luther , or Bacon , or Newton , and yet his fame will last as long as civilization shall exist . The creations of the chisel will ever be held in reverence by mankind , and probably in proportion as wealth , elegance , and material prosperity shall flourish . In an important sense , Corinth was as wonderful as Athens , although to Athens will be assigned the highest place in the ancient world @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was the glory of Rome in the period of her decline . As great capitals become centres of luxury and display , artists will be rewarded and honored . The pride of a commercial metropolis is in those material wonders which appeal to the senses , and which wealth can purchase . A rich merchant can give employment to the architect , when he would be disinclined to reward the critic or the historian . Even where liberty and lofty aspirations for truth and moral excellence have left a state , the arts suffer but little decline . The grandest monuments of Rome date to the imperial regime , not to the republican sway . When the voice of a Cicero was mute , the Flavian amphitheatre arose in its sublime proportions . Imperial despotism is favorable to the adornment of Paris and St. Petersburg , even as wealth and luxury will beautify New York . When the early lights of the Church were unheeded in the old capitals of the world , new temples and palaces were the glory of the state . Art was the first to be revived @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be the last to be relinquished , by those whom civilization has enriched . Art excites no dangerous passions or sentiments in a decaying monarchy , and it is a fresh and perpetual pleasure , not merely to the people , but to the arbiters of taste and fashion . The Popes rewarded artists when they crushed reformers , and persecuted inquiring genius . The developments of art appeal to material life and interests rather than to the spiritual and eternal . St. Paul scarcely alludes to the material wonders of the cities he visited , even as Luther was insensible to the ornaments of Italy in his absorbing desire for the spiritual and moral welfare of society . Art is purely the creation of man . It receives no inspiration from Heaven ; and yet the principles on which it is based are eternal and unchangeable , and when it is made to be the handmaid of virtue , it is capable of exciting the loftiest sentiments . So pure , so exalted , and so wrapt are the feelings which arise from the contemplation of a great picture @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the art itself , while all that is divine springs from the conception of the artist , and all that is divine in his conception arises from sentiments independent of his art , as he is stimulated by emotions of religion , or patriotism , or public virtue , and which he could never have embodied had he not been a good man , rather than a great artist , or , at least , affected by sentiments which he learned from other sources . There can be no doubt that , through the vehicle of art , the grandest and noblest sentiments may be expressed . Hence artists may be great benefactors ; yet sometimes their works are demoralizing , as they appeal to perverted taste and passions . This was especially true in the later days of Rome , when artists sought to please their corrupt but wealthy patrons . The great artists of Greece , however , had in view a lofty ideal of beauty and grace which they sought to realize without reference to profit , or worldly advantage , or utilitarian necessities . Art , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and always should be , has its end in itself . Like virtue , it is its own reward . Michael Angelo worked , preoccupied and wrapt , without the stimulus of even praise , even as Dante lived in the visions to which his imagination gave form and reality . Art is therefore self-sustained , unselfish , lofty . It is the soul going forth triumphant over external circumstances , jubilant and melodious even in poverty and neglect , rising above the evils of life in its absorbing contemplation of ideal loveliness . The fortunate accidents of earth are nothing to the true artist , striving to reach his ideal of excellence ,  --  no more than carpets and chairs are to a great woman pining for sympathy or love . And it is only when there is this soul-longing to reach the excellence it has conceived for itself alone that great works have been produced . The sweetest strains of music sometimes come from women where no one listens to their melodies . Nor does a great artist seek or need commiseration , if ever so unfortunate in worldly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only in the profound seriousness of superior knowledge , in that isolation to which all genius is doomed . Sidenote : Great artists labor from inspiration . We have reason to believe that the great artists of antiquity lived , as did the Ionic philosophers , in their own glorious realms of thought and feeling , which the world could neither understand nor share . Their ideas of grace and beauty were realized to the highest degree ever known on earth . They were expressed in their temples , their statues , and their pictures . They did not live for utilities . When art became a utility , it degenerated . It became more pretentious , artificial , complicated , elaborate , ornamental even , but it lacked genius , the simplicity of power , the glory of originality . The horses of the sun can not be made to go round in a mill . The spiritual must keep within its own seclusion , in its inner temple of mystery and meditation . Sidenote : Grecian art consecrated to Paganism . Sidenote : Greatness and beauty of Grecian art @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was consecrated to Paganism , and could not therefore soar beyond what Paganism revealed . It did not typify those exalted sentiments which even a Gothic cathedral portrayed  --  sacrifice ; the man on the cross ; the man in the tomb ; the man ascending to heaven . Nor did it paint , like Raphael , etherial beauty , such as was expressed in the mother of our Lord , her whom all generations shall bless , regina angelorum , mater divinae gratiae . But whatever has been reached by the unaided powers of man , it reproduced and consecrated , and it realized the highest conceptions of beauty and grace that have ever been represented . All that the mind and the soul could , by their inherent force , reach , it has attained . Modern civilization has no prouder triumphs than those achieved by the artists of Pagan antiquity in those things which pertain to beauty and grace . Grecian artists have been the schoolmasters of all nations and all ages in architecture , sculpture , and painting . How far they themselves were original we can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Assyrians and Egyptians . But they struck out so new a style , and so different from the older monuments of Asia and Egypt , that we consider them the great creators of art . But whether original or not , they have never been surpassed . In some respects their immortal productions remain objects of hopeless imitation . In the realization of ideas of beauty which are eternal , like those on which Plato built his system of philosophy , they reached absolute perfection . And hence we infer that art can flourish under Pagan as well as Christian influences . We can go no higher than those ancient Pagans in one of the proudest fields of civilization ; for art has as sincere and warm admirers as it had in Grecian and Roman times , but the limit of excellence has been reached . It is the mission of our age to apply creative genius to enterprises and works which have not been tried , if any thing new is to be found under the sun . Nor was it the number and extent of the works of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which made art so distinguishing an element of the old civilization . It was the spirit of the age , the absorption of the public mind , the great prominence which art had in the eyes of the people . Art was to the Greeks what tournaments and churches were to the men of the Middle Ages , what the Reformation was to Germany and England in the sixteenth century , what theories of political rights were to the era of the French Revolution , what mechanical inventions to abridge human labor are to us . The creation of a great statue was an era , an object of popular interest  --  the subject of universal comment . It kindled popular inspirations . It was the great form of progress in which that age rejoiced . Public benefactors erected temples , and lavished upon them the superfluous wealth of the State . And public benefactors , in turn , had statues erected to their memory by their grateful admirers . The genius of the age expressed itself in marble histories . And these histories stand in the mystery of absolute @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and peculiar people . Sidenote : Principles of art . Sidenote : Devotion of the Greeks for Art . Much has been written on those principles upon which art is founded , and great ingenuity displayed . But treatises on taste , on beauty , on grace , and other perceptions of intellectual pleasure , are not very satisfactory , and must be necessarily indefinite . In what does beauty consist ? Do we arrive at any clearer conceptions of it by definitions ? Whether beauty , the chief glory of the fine arts , consists in certain arrangements and proportions of the parts to a whole , or in the fitness of means to an end , or is dependent on associations which excite pleasure , or is a revelation of truth , or is an appeal to sensibilities , or is an imitation of Nature , or the realization of ideal excellence , it is difficult to settle and almost useless to inquire . " Metaphysics , mathematics , music , and philosophy have been called in to analyze , define , demonstrate , and generalize . " Footnote @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ p. 67 . Great writers have written ingenious treatises , like Burke , Alison , and Stewart . Beauty , according to Plato , is the contemplation of mind ; Leibnitz maintained it consists in perfection ; Diderot referred beauty to the idea of relation ; Blondel asserted it was harmonic proportions ; Peter Leigh speaks of it as the music of the eye . Yet everybody understands what beauty is , and that it is derived from Nature , agreeable to the purest models which Nature presents . Such was the ideal of Phidias . Such was it to the minds of the Greeks , who united every advantage , physical and mental , for the perfection of art . Nor could art have been so wonderfully developed had it not been for the influence which the great poets , orators , dramatists , historians , and philosophers exercised on the inspiration of the artists . Phidias , being asked how he conceived the idea of his Olympian Jupiter , answered by repeating a passage of Homer . We can scarcely conceive of the enthusiasm which the Greeks exhibited in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ascendency over that of all other nations . Roman art was the continuation of the Grecian . The Romans appreciated and rewarded Grecian artists . They adopted their architecture , their sculpture , and their paintings ; and , though art never attained the estimation and dignity in Rome that it did in Greece , it still can boast of a great development . But , inasmuch as all the great models were Grecian , and appropriated and copied by the Romans ,  - -  inasmuch as the great wonders of the " Eternal City " were made by Greeks ,  --  we can not treat of Roman art in distinction from Grecian . And as I wish to show simply the triumph of Pagan genius in the realm of art , and most of the immortal creations of the great artists were transported to Rome , and adorned Rome , it is within my province to go where they were originally found . " Tu , regere imperio populos , Romane , memento ! Hae tibi erunt artes . " Sidenote : Art first impressive in achitecture . The first development of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but among the older nations . Although it refers , in a certain sense , to all buildings , yet it is ordinarily restricted to those edifices in which we recognize the principle of beauty , such as symmetrical arrangement , and attractive ornaments , like pillars , cornices , and sculptured leaves . The earliest buildings were houses to protect men from the inclemencies of the weather , and built without much regard to beauty ; but it is in temples for the worship of God , that architecture lays claim to dignity . It was the result of devotional feelings ; nor is there a single instance of supreme excellence in art being reached , which was not sacred , and connected with reverential tendencies . In the erection and decoration of sacred buildings there was a profound sentiment that they were to be the sanctuaries of God , and genius was stimulated by pious emotions . In India , in Egypt , in Greece , in Italy , the various temples all originated in blended superstition and devotion . Nor did the edifice , erected for religious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ until that earnest and profoundly religious epoch which felt as injuries the insults offered to the tomb which covered the remains of the Saviour of the world . Then arose those hoary and Gothic vaults of Cologne and Westminster , the only modern structures which would probably have called out the admiration of an ancient Greek . Sidenote : Egyptian architecture . Sidenote : Monuments of Egypt . Sidenote : Temple of Carnack . Sidenote : Features of Egyptian art . But architecture is conventional , and demands a knowledge of its system and a mind informed as to the principles on which it depends for beauty . Hence , in the oldest temples of India and Egypt , there was probably vastness , without elegance or even embellishment . But no nation ever left structures that , in extent and grandeur , can compare with those of ancient Egypt ; and these were chiefly temples . Nothing remains of the ancient monuments of Thebes but the ruins of edifices consecrated to the deity  --  neither bridges , nor quays , nor baths , nor theatres . It was when the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Heliopolis , which the Greeks called Thebes , arose , with its hundred gates , and stately public buildings , and magnificent temples . The ruins of these attest grandeur and vastness . They were built of stone , in huge blocks , and we are still at a loss to comprehend how such heavy stones could have been transported and erected . All the monuments of the Pharaohs are wonders of science and art , especially such as appear in the ruins of Carnack  --  a temple formerly designated as that of Jupiter Ammon . It was in the time of Sesostris , or Rameses the Great , the first of the Pharaohs of the nineteenth dynasty , that architecture in Egypt reached its greatest development . Then we find the rectangular cut blocks of stone in parallel courses , and the heavy piers , and the cylindrical column , with its bell-shaped capital , and the bold and massive rectangular architraves extending from pier to pier and column to column , surmounted by a deep covered coping or cornice . But the imposing architecture of Egypt was chiefly owing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was not produced by beauty of proportion , or graceful embellishments . It was designed to awe the people , and kindle sentiments of wonder and astonishment . So far as this end was contemplated , it was nobly reached . Even to this day the traveller stands in admiring amazement before those monuments which were old three thousand years ago . No structures have been so enduring as the Pyramids . No ruins are more extensive and majestic than those of Thebes . The temple of Carnack and the palace of Rameses the Great , were probably the most imposing ever built by man . This temple was built of blocks of stone seventy feet in length , on a platform one thousand feet long and three hundred wide , with pillars sixty feet in height . But this and other structures did not possess that unity of design , which marked the Grecian temples . Alleys of colossal sphinxes form the approach . At Carnack the alley was six thousand feet long , and before the main body of the edifice stand two obelisks commemorative of the dedication . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but begin with pyramidical towers which flank the gateways . Then follows , usually , a court surrounded with colonnades , subordinate temples , and houses for the priests . A second pylon , or pyramidical tower , now leads to the interior and most considerable part of the temple , a portico inclosed with walls , which only receives light through the entablature or openings in the roof . Adjoining to this is the cella of the temple , without columns , inclosed by several walls , often divided into various small chambers , with monolith receptacles for idols or mummies or animals . The columns stand within the walls . The Egyptians had no perpetual temples . The colonnade is not , as among the Greeks , an expansion of the temple ; it is merely the wall with apertures . The walls , composed of square blocks , are perpendicular only on the inside , and beveled externally , so that the thickness at the bottom sometimes amounts to twenty-four feet , and thus the whole building assumes a pyramidical form , the fundamental principle of Egyptian architecture @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , are placed close together , and have bases of circular plinths ; the shaft diminishes , and is ornamented with perpendicular or oblique furrows , but not fluted like Grecian columns . The capitals are of the bell form , ornamented with all kinds of foliage , and have a narrow but high abacus , or bulge out below , and are contracted above , with low , but projecting abacus . They abound with sculptured decorations , borrowed from the vegetation of the country . The highest of the columns of the temple of Luxor is five and a quarter times the greatest diameter . Footnote : Muller . Sidenote : The Pyramids . But no monuments have ever excited so much curiosity and wonder as the Pyramids , not in consequence of any particular beauty or ingenuity , as from their immense size and unknown age . None but sacerdotal monarchs would ever have erected them  --  none but a fanatical people would ever have toiled upon them . They do not indicate civilization , but despotism . We do not know for what purpose they were raised @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even indicate as high a culture as the temples of Thebes , although they were built at a considerable period subsequently , even several generations after Sesostris reigned in splendor . The pyramid of Cheops , at Memphis , covers a square whose side is seven hundred and sixty-eight feet , and rises into the air four hundred and fifty-two , and is a solid mass of stone , which has suffered less from time than the mountains near it . And it is probable that it stands over an immense substructure , in which may yet be found the lore of ancient Egypt , and which may even prove to be the famous labyrinth of which Herodotus speaks , built by the twelve kings of Egypt . According to this author , one hundred thousand men worked on this monument for forty years . What a waste of labor ! The palaces of the kings are mere imitations of the temples , and the only difference of architecture is this , that the rooms are larger and in greater numbers . Some think that the labyrinth was a collective palace @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Egyptian antiquities : at the best curiosities , but of slight avail for moral or aesthetic culture , they yet indicate a considerable civilization at a very remote period  --  proving not merely by architectural monuments , but by their system of writing , an original and intellectual people . Footnote : Muller , Ancient Art ; Wilkinson , Topog. of Thebes ; Champollion , Lettres Ecrites d'Egypt ; Journal des Sav. 1836 ; Encyclopedia Britannica ; Strabo . Sidenote : Babylonian architecture . Of Babylonian architecture we know but little , beyond what the Scriptures and ancient authors allude to in scattered notices . But , though nothing survives of ancient magnificence , we feel that a city whose walls , according to Herodotus , were eighty-seven feet in thickness , three hundred and thirty-seven in height , and sixty miles in circumference , and in which were one hundred gates of brass , must have had considerable architectural splendor . The Tower of Belus , the Palace of Nebuchadnezzar , and the Obelisk of Semiramis , were probably wonderful structures , certainly in size , which is one of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Tyrians must have carried architecture to considerable perfection , since the Temple of Solomon , one of the most magnificent in the ancient world , was probably built by Phoenician artists . It was not remarkable for size ; it was , indeed , very small ; but it had great splendor of decoration . It was of quadrangular outline , erected upon a solid platform of stone , and having a striking resemblance to the oldest Greek temples , like those of aegina and Paestum . The portico of the temple , in the time of Herod , was one hundred and eighty feet high , and the temple itself was entered by nine gates thickly coated with silver and gold . The inner sanctuary was covered on all sides with plates of gold , and was dazzling to the eye . The various courts and porticoes and palaces with which it was surrounded , gave to it a very imposing effect . Sidenote : Early Doric monuments . Sidenote : The principles of Doric architecture . Sidenote : The features of the Doric order . Sidenote : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of genius and high civilization , was perfected only by the Greeks . Egyptian monuments were curiosities to the Greek and Roman mind , as they are to us objects of awe and wonder . And as we propose to treat of the arts in their culminating excellence chiefly ,  --  to show what the Pagan intellect of man could accomplish , unaided by light from heaven , we turn to the great teacher of the last two thousand years . It was among the ancient Dorians , who descended from the mountains of Northern Greece eighty years after the fall of Troy , that art first appeared . The Pelasgi , supposed to be Phoenicians , erected cyclopean structures fifteen hundred years before Christ , as seen in the giant walls of the Acropolis , Footnote : Dodwell 's Classical Tour , Muller. constructed of huge blocks of hewn stone , and the palaces of the princes of heroic times , Footnote : Homer 's description of the palace of Odysseus. like the Mycenaean treasury , the lintel of the doorway of which is one stone twenty-seven feet long and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But these edifices , which aimed at splendor and richness merely , were deficient in that simplicity and harmony which have given immortality to the temples of the Dorians . In this style of architecture every thing was suitable to its object , and was grand and noble . The great thickness of the columns , the beautiful entablature , the ample proportion of the capital ; the great horizontal lines of the architrave and cornice , predominating over the vertical lines of the columns ; the severity of geometrical forms , produced for the most part by straight lines , gave an imposing simplicity to the Doric temple . How far the Greek architects were indebted to the Egyptian we can not tell , for though columns are found amid the ruins of the Egyptian temples , they are of different shape from any made by the Greeks . In the structures of Thebes we find both the tumescent and the cylindrical columns , from which amalgamation might have been produced the Doric column . The Greeks seized on beauty wherever they found it , and improved upon it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ entirely new creation , but shaped after the models furnished by the most original of all the ancient nations , even the Egyptians . The Doric style was used exclusively until after the Macedonian conquest , and was chiefly applied to temples . The Doric temples are uniform in plan . The columns were fluted , and were generally about six diameters in height . They diminished gradually from the base , with a slight convexed swelling downward . They were superimposed by capitals proportionate , and coming within their height . The entablature which the column supported is also of so many diameters in height . So regular and perfect was the plan of the temple , that , " if the dimensions of a single column , and the proportion the entablature should bear to it , were given to two individuals acquainted with the style , with directions to compose a temple , they would produce designs exactly similar in size , arrangement , and general proportions . " Then the Doric order possessed a peculiar harmony , but taste and skill were nevertheless necessary in order to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and , accordingly , the height of the entablature . The Doric was the favorite order of European Greece for one thousand years , and also of her colonies in Sicily and Magna Graecia . The massive temples of Paestum , the colossal magnificence of the Sicilian ruins , and the more elegant proportions of the Athenian structures , like the Parthenon and Temple of Theseus , show the perfection of the Doric architecture . Although the general style of all the Doric temples is so uniform , yet hardly two temples were alike . The earlier Doric was more massive ; the latter were more elegant , and were rich in sculptured decorations . Nothing could surpass the beauty of a Doric temple in the time of Pericles . The stylobate or pedestal , from two thirds to a whole diameter of a column in height , was built in three equal courses , which gradually receded from the one below , and formed steps , as it were , of a grand platform on which the pillars rested . The column was from four to six diameters in height @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a diameter supporting the entablature . This again , two diameters in height , was divided into architrave , frieze , and cornice . But the great beauty of the temple was the portico in front , a forest of columns , supporting the pediment , about a diameter and a half to the apex , making an angle at the base of about 14 degrees . From the pediment projects the cornice , while , at the apex and at the base of it , are sculptured ornaments , generally , the figures of men or animals . The whole outline of columns supporting the entablature is graceful , while the variety of light and shade arising from the arrangement of mouldings and capitals produce a grand effect . The Parthenon , the most beautiful specimen of the Doric , has never been equaled , and it still stands august in its ruins  --  the glory of the old Acropolis , and the pride of Athens . It was built of Pentelic marble , and rested on a basement of limestone . It was two hundred and twenty-seven feet in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and sixty-five in height , surrounded with forty-eight fluted columns , six feet and two inches at the base , and thirty-four feet in height , while within the peristyle , at either end , was an interior range of columns , standing before the end of the cella . The frieze and the pediment were elaborately ornamented with reliefs and statues , while the cella , within and without , was adorned with the choicest sculptures of Phidias . The grandest was the colossal statue of Minerva , in the eastern apartment of the cella , forty feet in height , composed of gold and ivory ; while the inner walls were decorated with paintings , and the temple itself was a repository of countless treasure . But the Parthenon , so regular , with its vertical and horizontal lines , was curved in every line , with the exception of the gable ,  --  pillars , architrave , entablature , frieze , and cornice , together with the basement  --  all arched upwards , though so slightly as not to be perceptible , and these curved lines gave to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as well as solidity . Sidenote : The Acropolis . Nearly coeval with the Doric was the Ionic order , invented by the Asiatic Greeks , still more graceful , though not so imposing . The Acropolis is a perfect example of this order . The column is nine diameters in height , with a base , while the capital is more ornamented . The shaft is fluted with twenty-four flutes and alternate fillets , and the fillet is about a quarter the width of the flute . The pediment is flatter than of the Doric order , and more elaborate . The great distinction of the Ionic column is a base , and a capital formed with volutes , with a more slender shaft . Vitruvius , the greatest authority among the ancients in architecture , says that , " the Greeks , in inventing these two kinds of columns , imitated in the one the naked simplicity and dignity of a man , and in the other , the delicacy and ornaments of a woman ; the base of the Ionic was the imitation of sandals , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Corinthian order exhibits a still greater refinement and elegance than the other two , and was introduced toward the end of the Peloponnesian war . Its peculiarity is columns with foliated capitals , and still greater height , about ten diameters , with a more ornamented entablature . Of this order , the most famous temple in Greece was that of Minerva at Tegea , built by Scopas of Paros , but destroyed by fire four hundred years before Christ . Nothing more distinguished Greek architecture than the variety , the grace , and the beauty of the mouldings , generally in eccentric curves . The general outline of the moulding is a gracefully flowing cyma , or wave , concave at one end , and convex at the other , like an Italic f , the concavity and convexity being exactly in the same curve , according to the line of beauty which Hogarth describes . Sidenote : Architecture among the Greeks seen in greatest perfection in temples . The most beautiful application of Grecian architecture was in the temples , which were very numerous , and of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ entrance was always to the west or the east . They were built either in an oblong or round form , and were mostly adorned with columns . Those of an oblong form had columns either in the front alone , in the fore and back fronts , or on all the four sides . They generally had porticoes attached to them . They had no windows , receiving their light from the door or from above . The friezes were adorned with various sculptures , as were sometimes the pediments , and no expense was spared upon them . The most important part of the temple was the cella , where the statue of the deity was kept , and was generally surrounded with a balustrade . Beside the cella was the vestibule , and a chamber in the rear or back front in which the treasures of the temple were kept . Names were applied to the temples , as well as the porticoes , according to the number of columns in the portico at either end of the temple , such as the tetrastyle with four columns in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were never more than ten columns in front . The Parthenon had eight , but six was the usual number . It was the rule to have twice as many columns along the sides as in front , and one more . Some of the temples had double rows of columns on all sides , like that of Diana at Ephesus , and of Quirinus at Rome . The distance between the columns varied from a diameter and half of a column to four diameters . About five eighths of a Doric temple were occupied by the cella , and three eighths by the portico . Sidenote : Simplicity of Grecian temples . That which gives so much simplicity and harmony in the Greek temples , which are the great elements of beauty in architecture , is the simple outline , in parallelogrammic and pyramidal forms , in which the lines are straight and uninterrupted through their entire length . This simplicity and harmony are more apparent in the Doric than in any of the other orders , and pertain to all the temples of which we have knowledge . Nor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ alteration which does not conflict with established principles . The Ionic and Corinthian , or the Voluted and Foliated orders , do not possess that harmony which pervades the Doric , but the more beautiful compositions are so consummate that they will ever be taken as models of study . Sidenote : Matchless proportions of the Grecian temples . It is not the magnitude of the Grecian temples and other works of art which most impresses us . It is not for this that they are important models . It is not for this that they are copied and reproduced in all the modern nations of Europe . They were generally small compared with the temples of Egypt , or the vast dimensions of Roman amphitheatres . Only three or four would compare in size with a Gothic cathedral , like the Parthenon , the Temple of Zeus at Olympia , and the Temple of Diana at Ephesus . Even the Pantheon at Rome is small , compared with the later monuments of the Caesars . The traveler is always disappointed in contemplating their remains , so far as size is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ severe symmetry , the grandeur of effect , the undying beauty , the graceful form which impress us , and make us feel that they are perfect . By the side of the Colosseum they are insignificant in magnitude . They do not cover acres like the baths of Caracalla . Yet who has copied the Flavian amphitheatre ? Who erects an edifice after the style of the Thermae ? But all artists copy the Parthenon . That , and not the colossal monuments of the Caesars , reappears in the capitals of Europe , and stimulates the genius of a Michael Angelo or a Christopher Wren . The flourishing period of Greek architecture was during the period from Pericles to Alexander  --  one hundred and thirteen years . The Macedonian conquest introduced more magnificence and less simplicity . The Roman conquest accelerated the decline in severe taste , when different orders were used indiscriminately . Sidenote : Beginning of Roman art . Sidenote : Romans copied the Greeks . In this state the art passed into the hands of the masters of the world , and they inaugurated a new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , although the Romans derived their first knowledge from the Etruscans . The Cloaca Maxima was built during the reign of the second Tarquin  --  the grandest monument of the reign of the kings . It is not probable that temples and other public buildings were either beautiful or magnificent until the conquest of Greece , when Grecian architects were employed . The Romans adopted the Corinthian style , which they made even more ornamental , and by the successful combination of the Etruscan arch with the Grecian column , laid the foundation of a new and original style , susceptible of great variety and magnificence . They entered into architecture with the enthusiasm of their teachers , but , in their passion for novelty , lost sight of the simplicity which is the great fascination of a Doric Temple . " And they deemed that lightness and grace were to be attained not so much by proportion between the vertical and the horizontal , as by the comparative slenderness of the former . Hence we see a poverty in Roman architecture in the midst of profuse ornament . The great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ while they increased the elevation , of the columns . Hence the massive simplicity and severe grandeur of the ancient Doric disappear in the Roman , the characteristics of the order being frittered down into a multiplicity of minute details . " Footnote : Memes , Sculpture and Architecture . And when they used the Doric at all , they used the base , which was never done at Athens . They also altered the Doric capital , which can not be improved . Again , most of the Grecian Doric temples were peripteral , that is , were surrounded with pillars on all the sides . But the Romans did not build with porticoes even on each front , but only on one , which had a greater projection than the Grecian . They generally are projected three columns . Many of the Roman temples are circular , like the Pantheon , which has a portico of eight columns projected to the depth of three . Nor did the Romans construct hypaethral temples , or uncovered , with internal columns , like the Greeks . The Pantheon is an exception @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one great ornament of this beautiful structure is in the arrangement of internal columns placed in the front of niches , composed with antae , or pier-formed ends of walls , to carry an entablature round under an attic on which the cupola rests . They also adopted coupled columns , broken and recessed entablatures , and pedestals , which are considered blemishes . They again paid more attention to the interior than to the exterior decoration of their palaces and baths , as we may infer from the ruins of Adrian 's villa at Tivoli , and the excavations of Pompeii . The Roman Corinthian , like the Greek orders , consisted of three parts , stylobate , column , and entablature , but the stylobate was much loftier , and was not graduated , except in the access before a portico . The column varied from nine and a half to ten diameters , and was always fluted with twenty-four flutes and fillets . The height of the capital is a diameter and one eighth ; the entablature varies from one diameter and seven eighths to two diameters and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the best specimens of the Corinthian order . The entablature of the temple of Jupiter Stator , like that of the Pantheon , is two diameters and one half . The pediments are steeper than those made by the Greeks , varying in inclination from eighteen to twenty-five degrees . The mouldings used in Roman architectural works are the same as the Grecian in general form , although they differ from them in contour . They are less delicate and graceful , but were used in great profusion . Roman architecture is overdone with ornament , every moulding carved , and every straight surface sculptured with foliage or historical subjects in relief . The ornaments of the frieze consist of foliage and animals , with a variety of other things . The great exuberance of ornament is considered a defect , although when applied to some structures it is exceedingly beautiful . In the time of the first Caesars architecture had a character of grandeur and magnificence . Columns and arches appeared in all the leading public buildings , columns generally forming the external , and arches the internal construction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Flavii supplanted the edifices of Nero , which ministered to debauchery , by structures of public utility . Sidenote : Changes made by the Romans . Sidenote : Invention of the arch . Sidenote : Uses of the arch . The Romans invented no new principle in architecture , except the arch , which was not known to the Greeks , and carried out by them to greater perfection than by the Romans ; but this , for simplicity , harmony , and beauty , has never been surpassed in any age , or by any nation . The Romans were a practical and utilitarian people , and needed for their various structures greater economy of material than large blocks of stone , especially for such as were carried to great altitudes . The arch supplied this want , and is perhaps the greatest invention ever made in architecture . No instance of its adoption occurs in the construction of Greek edifices , before Greece became a part of the Roman Empire . Its application dates back to the Cloaca Maxima , and may have been of Etrurian invention @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , or Indians , or Greeks . Some maintain that Archimedes of Sicily was the inventor , but to whomsoever the glory of the invention is due , it is certain that the Romans were the first to make a practical application of its wonderful qualities . It enabled them to rear vast edifices into the air with the humblest materials , to build bridges , aqueducts , sewers , amphitheatres , and triumphal arches , as well as temples and palaces ; its merits have never been lost sight of by succeeding generations , and it is at the foundation of the magnificent Gothic cathedrals of the Middle Ages . Its application extends to domes and cupolas , to arched floors and corridors and roofs , and to various other parts of buildings where economy of material and labor is desired . It was applied extensively to doorways and windows , and is an ornament as well as a utility . The most imposing forms of Roman architecture may be traced to a knowledge of the properties of the arch , and as brick was more extensively used than any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ palace on Mount Palatine , the Pantheon , except its portico and internal columns , the temples of Peace , of Venus and Rome , and of Minerva Medica , were of brick . So were the great baths of Titus , Caracalla , and Diocletian , the villa of Adrian , the city walls , the villa of Maecenas at Tivoli , and most of the palaces of the nobility ; although , like many of the temples , they were faced with stone . The Colosseum was of travertine faced with marble . It was the custom to stucco the surface of the walls , as favorable to decorations . In consequence of this invention , the Romans erected a greater variety of fine structures than either the Greeks or Egyptians , whose public edifices were chiefly confined to temples . The arch entered into almost every structure , public or private , and superseded the use of long stone beams , which were necessary in the Grecian temples , as also of wooden timbers , in the use of which the Romans were not skilled , and which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ An imposing building must always be constructed of stone or brick . The arch also enabled the Romans to economize in the use of costly marbles , of which they were very fond , as well as of other stones . Some of the finest columns were made of Egyptian granite , very highly polished . The extensive application of the arch doubtless led to the deterioration of the Grecian architecture , since it blended columns with arcades , and thus impaired the harmony which so peculiarly marked the temples of Athens and Corinth . And as taste became vitiated with the decline of the Empire , monstrous combinations took place , which were a great fall from the simplicity of the Parthenon , and the interior of the Pantheon . Sidenote : Magnificence of Roman architecture . But whatever defects marked the age of Diocletian and Constantine , it can never be questioned that the Romans carried architecture to a perfection rarely attained in our times . They may not have equaled the severe simplicity of their teachers , the Greeks , but they surpassed them in the richness or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , especially in private houses and baths and theatres . Sidenote : The effect of columns in architecture . The Romans do not seem to have used other than semicircular arches . The Gothic , or Pointed , or Christian architecture , as it has been variously called , was the creation of the Middle Ages , and arose nearly simultaneously in Europe after the first Crusade , so that it would seem to be of Eastern origin . But it was a graft on the old Roman arch ,  --  in the shape of an ellipse rather than a circle . Aside from this invention , to which we are indebted for the most beautiful ecclesiastical structures ever erected , we owe every thing in architecture to the Greeks and Romans . We have found out no new principles which were not equally known to Vitruvius . No one man was the inventor or creator of the wonderful structures which ornamented the cities of the ancient world . We have the names of great architects , who reared various and faultless models , but they all worked upon the same @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that in architecture the ancients are our schoolmasters , whose genius we revere the more we are acquainted with their works . What more beautiful than one of those grand temples which the heathen but cultivated Greeks erected to the worship of their unknown gods : the graduated and receding stylobate as a base for the fluted columns , rising at regular distances , in all their severe proportion and matchless harmony , with their richly carved capitals , supporting an entablature of heavy stones , most elaborately moulded and ornamented with the figures of plants and animals , and rising above this , on the ends of the temple , or over a portico several columns deep , the pediment , covered by chiseled cornices , with still richer ornaments rising from the apices and at the feet ; all carved in white marble , and then spread over an area larger than any modern churches , making a forest of columns to bear aloft those ponderous beams of stone , without any thing tending to break the continuity of horizontal lines , by which the harmony and simplicity of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adjusted were the stones and pillars of which these temples were built , that there was scarcely need of even cement . Without noise or confusion or sound of hammers did those temples rise , since all their parts were cut and carved in the distant quarries , and with mathematical precision . And within the cella , nearly concealed by the surrounding columns , were the statues of the gods , and the altars on which incense was offered , or sacrifices made . In every part , interior and exterior , do we see a matchless proportion and beauty , whether in the shaft , or the capital , or the frieze , or the pilaster , or the pediment , or the cornices , or even the mouldings  --  everywhere grace and harmony , which grow upon the mind the more they are contemplated . The greatest evidence of the matchless creative genius displayed in those architectural wonders is that , after two thousand years , and with all the inventions of Roman and modern artists , no improvement can be made , and those edifices which are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they approximate the ancient models which will forever remain objects of imitation , No science can make two and two other than four . No art can make a Doric temple different from the Parthenon without departing from the settled principles of beauty and proportion which all ages have endorsed . Such were the Greeks and Romans in an art which is one of the greatest indices of material civilization , and which by them was derived from geometrical forms , or the imitation of Nature . * * * * * Sidenote : Perfection of Grecian sculpture . The genius displayed by the ancients in sculpture , is even more remarkable than in architecture . It was carried to perfection , however , only by the Greeks . But they did not originate the art , since we read of sculptured images from the remotest antiquity . The earliest names of sculptors are furnished by the Old Testament . Assyria and Egypt are full of relics to show how early this art was cultivated . It was not carried to perfection as early , probably , as architecture ; but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as old as the history of idolatry . The history of sculpture is in fact identified with that of idols . It was from Phoenicia that Solomon obtained the workmen for the decoration of his Temple . But the Egyptians were probably the first who made considerable advances in the execution of statues . They are rude , simple , uniform , without beauty or grace , but colossal and grand . Nearly two thousand years before Christ , the walls of Thebes were ornamented with sculptured figures , even as the gates of Babylon were of sculptured bronze . The dimensions of Egyptian colossal figures surpass those of any other nation . The sitting figures of Memnon at Thebes are fifty feet in height , and the Sphinx is twenty-five , and these are of granite . The number of colossal statues was almost incredible . The sculptures found among the ruins of Carnac must have been made nearly four thousand years ago . Footnote : Wilkinson 's Ancient Egyptians . They exhibit great simplicity of design , but without much variety of expression . They are generally carved from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ infer that the Egyptians were acquainted with the art of hardening metals to a degree not known in our times . But we see no ideal grandeur among any of the remains of Egyptian sculpture . However symmetrical or colossal , there is no expression , no trace of emotion , no intellectual force . Every thing is calm , impassive , imperturbable . It was not until sculpture came into the hands of the Greeks that any remarkable excellence was reached . But the progress of development was slow . The earliest carvings were rude wooden images of the gods , and more than a thousand years elapsed before the great masters were produced which marked the age of Pericles . It is not my object to give a history of the development of the plastic art , but to show the great excellence it attained in the hands of immortal sculptors . Sidenote : Admiration for sculpture among the Greeks . Sidenote : High estimation of sculpture among the Greeks . The Greeks had an intuitive perception of the beautiful , and to this great national trait we ascribe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ carefully studied , and that which was most beautiful in Nature became the object of imitation . They ever attained to an ideal excellence , since they combined in a single statue what could not be found in a single individual , as Zeuxis is said to have studied the beautiful forms of seven virgins of Crotona in order to paint his famous picture of Venus . Great as was the beauty of Thryne , or Aspasia , or Lais , yet no one of them could have served for a perfect model . And it required a great sensibility to beauty in order to select and idealize what was most perfect in the human figure . Beauty was adored in Greece , and every means were used to perfect it , especially beauty of form , which is the characteristic excellence of Grecian statuary . The gymnasia were universally frequented , and the great prizes of the games , bestowed for feats of strength and agility , were regarded as the highest honors which men could receive  --  the subject of the poet 's ode and the people 's admiration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the sculptor 's art . From the study of these statues were produced those great creations which all subsequent ages have admired . And from the application of the principles seen in these forms we owe the perpetuation of the ideas of grandeur and beauty such as no other people have ever discovered and scarcely appreciated . The sculpture of the human figure became a noble object of ambition , and was most munificently rewarded . Great artists arose , whose works adorned the temples of Greece , so long as she preserved her independence ; and when it was lost , their priceless productions were scattered over Asia and Europe . The Romans especially seized what was most prized , whether or not they could tell what was most perfect . Greece lived in her marble statues more than in her government or laws . And when we remember the estimation in which sculpture was held , the great prices paid for masterpieces , the care and attention with which they were guarded and preserved , and the innumerable works which were produced , filling all the public buildings , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the houses of the rich and great ,  - -  calling from all classes admiration and praise ,  --  it is improbable that so great perfection will ever be reached again in those figures which are designed to represent beauty of form . Even the comparatively few statues which have survived the wars and violence of two thousand years , convince us that the moderns can only imitate . They can produce no creations which were not surpassed by Athenian artists . " No mechanical copying of Greek statues , however skillful the copyist , can ever secure for modern sculpture the same noble and effective character it possessed among the Greeks , for the simple reason that the imitation , close as may be the resemblance , is but the result of the eye and hand , while the original is the expression of a true and deeply felt sentiment . Art was not sustained by the patronage of a few who affect to have what is called taste . In Greece , the artist , having a common feeling for the beautiful with his countrymen , produced his works for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dedicated in temples of the gods . " Footnote : Encyclopedia Britannica , " Sculpture , " R. W. T. Sidenote : Phidias and his contemporaries . Sidenote : The statue of Zeus by Phidias . But it was not until the Persian wars awakened in Greece the slumbering consciousness of national power , and Athens became the central point of Grecian civilization , that sculpture , like architecture and painting , reached its culminating point of excellence , under Phidias and his contemporaries . Great artists , however , had previously made themselves famous , like Miron , Polycletus , and Ageladas ; but the great riches which flowed into Athens at this time gave a peculiar stimulus to art , especially under the encouragement of such a ruler as Pericles , whose age was the golden era of Grecian history . Pheidias or Phidias was to sculpture what Aeschylus was to tragic poetry , sublime and grand . He was born four hundred and eighty-four years before Christ , and was the pupil of Ageladas . He stands at the head of the ancient sculptors , not from what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but from the estimation in which he was held by the greatest critics of antiquity . It was to him that Pericles intrusted the adornment of the Parthenon , and the numerous and beautiful sculptures of the frieze and the pediment were the work of artists whom he directed . His great work in that wonderful edifice was the statue of the goddess Minerva herself , made of gold and ivory , forty feet in height , standing victorious with a spear in her left hand and an image of victory in her right ; girded with the aegis , with helmet on her head , and her shield resting by her side . The cost of this statue may be estimated when the gold alone of which it was composed was valued at forty-four talents . Footnote : This sum was equal to $500,000 of our money , an immense sum in that age . Some critics suppose that this statue was overloaded with ornament , but all antiquity was unanimous in its admiration . The exactness and finish of detail were as remarkable as the grandeur of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bronze statue of Athena Promachus , sixty feet in height , on the Acropolis , between the Propylaea and the Parthenon . But both of these yielded to the colossal statue of Zeus in his great temple at Olympia , represented in a sitting posture , forty feet high , on a pedestal of twenty . In this , his greatest work , the artist sought to embody the idea of majesty and repose ,  --  of a supreme deity no longer engaged in war with Titans and Giants , but enthroned as a conqueror , ruling with a nod the subject world , and giving his blessing to those victories which gave glory to the Greeks . Footnote : The god was seated on a throne . Ebony , gold , ivory , and precious stones formed , with a multitude of sculptured and painted figures , the wonderful composition of this throne . So famous was this statue , which was regarded as the masterpiece of Grecian art , that it was considered a calamity to die without seeing it ; and this served for a model for all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ancients . It was removed to Constantinople by Theodosius I. , and was destroyed by fire in the year 475 . Phidias executed various other famous works , which have perished ; but even those that were executed under his superintendence , that have come down to our times , like the statues which ornamented the pediment of the Parthenon , are among the finest specimens of art which exist , and exhibit the most graceful and appropriate forms which could have been selected , uniting grandeur with simplicity , and beauty with accuracy of anatomical structure . His distinguishing excellence was ideal beauty , and that of the sublimest order . Footnote : Muller , De Phidiae Vita . Sidenote : Colossal statues of ivory and gold . Of all the wonders and mysteries of ancient art , the colossal statues of ivory and gold were perhaps the most remarkable , and the difficulty of executing them has been set forth by the ablest of modern critics , like Winkelmann , Heyne , and De Quincy . " The grandeur of their dimensions , the perfection of their workmanship , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and ideal truth ; the splendor of the architecture and pictorial decoration with which they were associated , all conspired to impress the beholder with wonder and awe , and induce a belief of the actual presence of the god . " Sidenote : The school of Praxiteles . After the Peloponnesian War , a new school of art arose in Athens , which appealed more to the passions . Of this school was Praxiteles , who aimed to please , without seeking to elevate or instruct . No one has probably ever surpassed him in execution . He wrought in bronze and marble , and was one of the artists who adorned the Mausoleum of Artemisia . Without attempting the sublime impersonation of the deity , in which Phidias excelled , he was unsurpassed in the softer graces and beauties of the human form , especially in female figures . His most famous work was an undraped statue of Venus , for his native town of Cnidus , which was so remarkable that people flocked from all parts of Greece to see it . He did not aim at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ works were imitated from the most beautiful living models , and hence expressed only the ideal of sensual charms . It is probable that the Venus de Medici of Cleomenes was a mere copy of the Aphrodite of Praxiteles , which was so highly extolled by the ancient authors . It was of Parian marble , and modeled from the celebrated Phryne . His statues of Dionysus also expressed the most consummate physical beauty , representing the god as a beautiful youth , crowned with ivy , engirt with a nebris , and expressing tender and dreamy emotions . Praxiteles sculptured several figures of Eros , or the god of love , of which that at Thespiae attracted visitors to the city in the time of Cicero . It was subsequently carried to Rome , and perished by a conflagration in the time of Titus . One of the most celebrated statues of this artist was an Apollo , many copies of which still exist . His works were very numerous , but chiefly from the circle of Dionysus , Aphrodite , and Eros , in which adoration for corporeal attractions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ artist was fitted by his life with the hetaerae . Sidenote : Scopas . Scopas was his contemporary , and was the author of the celebrated group of Niobe , which is one of the chief ornaments of the gallery of sculpture at Florence . He flourished about three hundred and fifty years before Christ , and wrought chiefly in marble . He was employed in decorating the Mausoleum which Artemisia erected to her husband , one of the wonders of the world . His masterpiece is said to have been a group representing Achilles conducted to the island of Leuce by the divinities of the sea , which ornamented the shrine of Domitius in the Flaminian Circus . In this , tender grace , heroic grandeur , daring power , and luxurious fullness of life were combined with wonderful harmony . Footnote : Muller , 125 . Like the other great artists of this school , there was the grandeur and sublimity for which Phidias was celebrated , but a greater refinement and luxury , and skill in the use of drapery . Sidenote : Lysippus . Sidenote : The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an art , in Lysippus , who worked chiefly in bronze . He is said to have executed fifteen hundred statues , and was much esteemed by Alexander the Great , by whom he was extensively patronized . He represented men , not as they were , but as they appeared to be ; and , if he exaggerated , he displayed great energy of action . He aimed to idealize merely human beauty , and his imitation of Nature was carried out in the minutest details . None of his works are extant ; but as he alone was permitted to make the statue of Alexander , we infer that he had no equals . The Emperor Tiberius transferred one of his statues , that of an athlete , from the baths of Agrippa to his own chamber , which so incensed the people that he was obliged to restore it . His favorite subject was Hercules , and a colossal statue of this god was carried to Rome by Fabius Maximus , when he took Tarentum , and afterwards was transferred to Constantinople . The Farnese Hercules and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ left many eminent scholars , among whom were Chares , who executed the famous Colossus of Rhodes , Agesander , Polydorus , and Athenodorus , who sculptured the group of the " Laocoon . " The Rhodian School was the immediate offshoot from the school of Lysippus at Sicyon , and from this small island of Rhodes the Romans , when they conquered it , carried away three thousand statues . The Colossus was one of the wonders of the world , seventy cubits in height , and the Laocoon is a perfect miracle of art , in which group pathos is exhibited in the highest degree ever attained in sculpture . It was discovered in 1506 near the baths of Titus , and is one of the choicest remains of ancient plastic art . The great artists of antiquity did not confine themselves to the representation of man ; but they also carved animals with exceeding accuracy and beauty . Nicias was famous for his dogs , Myron for his cows , and Lysippus for his horses . Praxiteles composed his celebrated lion after a living animal . " The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ live and move ; to roll their eyes , to gallop , prance , and curvet ; the veins of their faces and legs seem distended with circulation . The beholder is charmed with the deer-like lightness and elegance of their make ; and although the relief is not above an inch from the back-ground , and they are so much smaller than nature , we can scarcely suffer reason to persuade us they are not alive . " Footnote : Flaxman , Lectures on Sculpture . Sidenote : Cameos and medals . The Greeks also carved gems , cameos , medals , and vases , with unapproachable excellence . Very few specimens have come down to our times , but those which we possess show great beauty both in design and execution . Sidenote : Sack of the Grecian cities . Grecian statuary commenced with ideal representations of deities , and was carried to the greatest perfection by Phidias in his statues of Jupiter and Minerva . Then succeeded the school of Praxiteles , in which the figures of gods and goddesses were still represented , but in mortal forms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of celebrated men , especially in cities where Macedonian rulers resided . Artists were expected henceforth to glorify kings and powerful nobles and rulers by portrait statues . The plastic art then degenerated . Nor were works of original genius produced , but rather copies or varieties from the three great schools to which allusion has been made . Sculpture may have multiplied , but not new creations ; although some imitations of great merit were produced , like the " Hermaphrodite , " the " Torso , " the Farnese " Hercules , " and the " Fighting Gladiator . " When Corinth was sacked by Mummius , some of the finest statues of Greece were carried to Rome , and after the civil war between Caesar and Pompey the Greek artists emigrated to Italy . The fall of Syracuse introduced many works of priceless value into Rome ; but it was from Athens , Delphi , Corinth , Elis , and other great centres of art , that the richest treasures were brought . Greece was despoiled to ornament Italy . The Romans did not create a school of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made , especially in the time of Hadrian , many beautiful statues . They were fond of this art , and all eminent men had statues erected to their memory . The busts of emperors were found in every great city , and Rome was filled with statues . The monuments of the Romans were even more numerous than those of the Greeks , and among them some admirable portraits are found . These sculptures did not express that consummation of beauty and grace , of refinement and sentiment , which marked the Greeks ; but the imitations were good . Art had reached its perfection under Lysippus ; there was nothing more to learn . Genius in that department could soar no higher . It will never rise to loftier heights . Sidenote : Degeneracy of art among the Romans . It is noteworthy that the purest forms of Grecian art arose in its earlier stages . In a moral point of view , sculpture declined from the time of Phidias . It was prostituted at Rome under the emperors . The specimens which have often been found among the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The skill of execution did not decline for several centuries ; but the lofty ideal was lost sight of , and gross appeals to human passions were made by those who sought to please corrupt leaders of society in an effeminate age . The turgidity and luxuriance of art gradually passed into tameness and poverty . The reliefs on the Arch of Constantine are rude and clumsy compared with those on the Column of Marcus Aurelius . Sidenote : Imitation of ancient art . But I do not wish to describe the decline of art , or enumerate the names of the celebrated masters who exalted sculpture in the palmy days of Pericles , or even Alexander . I simply allude to sculpture as an art which reached a great perfection among the Greeks and Romans , as we have a right to infer from the specimens which have been preserved . How many more must have perished , we may infer from the criticisms of the ancient authors ! The finest productions of our own age are in a measure reproductions . They can not be called creations , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Moses of Michael Angelo is a Grecian god , and the Greek Slave a copy of an ancient Venus . The very tints which have been admired in some of the works of modern sculptors are borrowed from Praxiteles , who succeeded in giving an appearance of living flesh . The Museum of the Vatican alone contains several thousand specimens of ancient sculpture which have been found among the debris of former magnificence , many of which are the productions of Grecian artists transported to Rome . Among them are antique copies of the Cupid and the Faun of Praxiteles , the statue of Demosthenes , the Minerva Medica , the Athlete of Lysippus , the Torso Belvidere , sculptured by Apollonius , the Belvidere Antinous , of faultless anatomy and a study for Domenichino , the Laocoon , so panegyrized by Pliny , the Apollo Belvidere the work of Agasias of Ephesus , the Sleepy Ariadne , with numerous other statues of gods and goddesses , emperors , philosophers , poets , and statesmen of antiquity . The Dying Gladiator , which ornaments the capitol , alone is a magnificent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after the art had culminated at Athens . And these are only a few which stand out among the twenty thousand recovered statues which now embellish Italy , to say nothing of those which are scattered over Europe . We have the names of hundreds of artists who were famous in their day . Not merely the figures of men are chiseled , but animals and plants . Nature , in all her forms , was imitated ; and not merely Nature , but the dresses of the ancients are perpetuated in marble . No modern sculptor has equaled , in delicacy of finish , the draperies even of those ancient statues , as they appear to us after the exposure and accidents of two thousand years . No one , after a careful study of the museums of Europe , can question that , of all the nations who have claimed to be civilized , the ancient Greek and Roman deserve a proud preeminence in an art which is still regarded as among the highest triumphs of human genius . All these matchless productions of antiquity , it should be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ without the aid of Christian ideas . Nor , with the aid of Christianity , are we sure that any nation will ever soar to loftier heights than did the Greeks in that proud realm which was consecrated to Paganism . * * * * * We are not so certain in regard to the excellence of the ancients in the art of painting as we are in reference to sculpture and architecture , since so few specimens have been preserved . We have only the testimony of the ancients themselves ; and as they had so severe a taste and so great susceptibility to beauty in all its forms , we can not suppose that their notions were crude in this great art which the moderns have carried to so great perfection . In this art the moderns may be superior , especially in perspective and drawing , and light and shade . No age , we fancy , can surpass Italy in the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries , when the genius of Raphael , Correggio , and Domenichino blazed with such wonderful brilliancy . Nevertheless , we read of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ form as the great principle and basis of the art , even like the moderns . The schools of Sicyon , Corinth , Athens , and Rhodes were indebted for their renown , like those of Bologna , Florence , and Rome , to their strict observance of this fundamental law . Sidenote : Antiquity of painting . Sidenote : Painting among the Egyptians . Painting , in some form , is very ancient , though not so ancient as the temples of the gods and the statues which were erected to their worship . It arose with the susceptibility to beauty of form and color , and with the view of conveying thoughts and emotions of the soul by imitation . The walls of Babylon were painted after Nature with different species of animals and combats . Semiramis was represented on horseback , striking a leopard with a dart , and her husband Ninus wounding a lion . Ezekiel ( viii . 10 ) represents various idols and beasts portrayed upon the walls , and even princes , painted in vermilion , with girdles around their loins ( xxiii. 14 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some rude attempts in this art , which probably arose from the coloring of statues and reliefs . The wooden chests of Egyptian mummies are painted and written with religious subjects , but the colors were laid without regard to light and shade . The Egyptians did not seek to represent the passions and emotions which agitate the soul , but rather to authenticate events and actions ; and hence their paintings , like hieroglyphics , are inscriptions . It was their great festivals and religious rites which they sought to perpetuate , not ideas of beauty or grace . Hence their paintings abound with dismembered animals , plants , and flowers , censers , entrails ,  --  whatever was used in their religious worship . In Greece , also , the original painting consisted in coloring statues and reliefs of wood and clay . At Corinth , painting was early united with the fabrication of vases , on which were rudely painted figures of men and animals . Among the Etruscans , before Rome was founded , it is said there were beautiful paintings , and it is probable they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ paintings in some of the old Etruscan cities which the Roman emperors wished to remove , so much admired were they even in the days of the greatest splendor . The ancient Etruscan vases are famous for designs which have never been exceeded in purity of form , but it is probable that these were copied from the Greeks . Sidenote : Cimon of Cleona . But whether the Greeks or the Etruscans were the first to paint , the art was certainly carried to the greatest perfection among the former . The development of it was , like all arts , very gradual . It probably commenced by drawing the outline of a shadow , without intermediate markings ; the next step was the complete outline with the inner markings , such as are represented on the ancient vases , or like the designs of Flaxman . They were originally practiced on a white ground . Then light and shade were introduced , and then the application of colors in accordance with Nature . We read of a great painting by Bularchus , of the battle of Magnete , purchased @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before Christ . And as the subject was a battle , it must have represented the movement of figures , although we know nothing of the coloring , or of the real excellence of the work , except that the artist was paid munificently . Cimon of Cleona is the first great name connected with the art in Greece , and is praised by Pliny , to whom we owe the history of ancient painting more than to any other author . He was contemporary with Dionysius in the eightieth Olympiad . He was not satisfied with drawing simply the outlines of his figures , such as we see in the oldest painted vases , but he also represented limbs , and folds of garments . He invented the art of foreshortening , or the various positions of figures , as they appear when looking upward or downward and sideways , and hence is the first painter of perspective . He first made muscular articulations , indicated the veins , and gave natural folds to drapery . Footnote : Pliny , xxxv. 34 . Sidenote : Greatness of Polygnotus and his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Thasos , the contemporary of Phidias , who came to Athens about the year 463 B.C. , one of the greatest geniuses of any age , and one of the most magnanimous ; and had the good fortune to live in an age of exceeding intellectual activity . He was employed on the public buildings of Athens , and on the great temple of Delphi , the hall of which he painted gratuitously . He also decorated the Propylaea , which was erected under the superintendence of Phidias . His greatness lay in statuesque painting , which he brought nearly to perfection by the ideal expression , the accurate drawing , and improved coloring . He used but few colors , and softened the rigidity of his predecessors by making the mouth of beauty smile . He was the first who painted woman with brilliant drapery and variegated head-dresses . He gave great expression to the face and figure , and his pictures were models of excellence for the beauty of the eyebrows , the blush upon the cheeks , and the gracefulness of the draperies . He was a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Homer a poet , since he expressed not passion and emotion only , but ideal character . He imitated the personages and the subjects of the old mythology , and treated them in an epic spirit . He strove , like Phidias , to express character in repose . His subjects were almost invariably taken from Homer and the Epic cycle . His pictures had nothing of that elaborate grouping , aided by the powers of perspective , so much admired in modern art . His figures were grouped in regular lines , as in the bas-reliefs upon a frieze . He painted on panels which were afterward let into the walls . He used the pencil , instead of painting in encaustic with the cestrum . Among the works of Polygnotus , as mentioned by Pliny , Footnote : H. N. xxx . 9 , s. 35. are his paintings in the Temple at Delphi , in the Portico called Poecile at Athens , in the Propylaea of the Acropolis , in the Temple of Theseus , and in the Temple of the Dioscuri at Athens . He took @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but we know nothing of them except from the praises of his contemporaries . Footnote : Pausanias , x. 25-31 . His great merit is said to have consisted in accurate drawing , and in giving grace and charm to his female figures . He painted in a truly religious spirit , and upon symmetrical principles , with great grandeur and freedom , resembling Michael Angelo more than any other modern artist . Like the Greeks , he painted with wax , resins , and in water colors , to which the proper consistency was given with gum and glue . The use of oil was unknown . The artists painted upon wood , clay , plaster , stone , parchment , but not upon canvas , which was not used till the time of Nero . They painted upon tablets or panels , and not upon the walls . These panels were framed and encased in the walls . The style or cestrum used in drawing , and for spreading the wax colors , was pointed on one end and flat on the other , and generally made of metal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ then mixed with colors . When painting was practiced in water colors , glue was used with the white of an egg or with gums , but wax and resins were also worked with water , with certain preparations . This latter was called encaustic , and was , according to Plutarch , the most durable of all methods . It was not generally adopted till the time of Alexander the Great . Wax was a most essential ingredient , since it prevented the colors from cracking . Encaustic painting was practiced both with the cestrum and the pencil , and the colors were also burnt in . Fresco was used for coloring walls , which were divided into compartments or panels . The Fresco composition of the stucco , and the method of painting , preparing the walls for painting , is described by the ancient writers : " They first covered the walls with a layer of ordinary plaster , over which , when dry , were successively added three other layers of a finer quality , mixed with sand . Above these were placed three layers of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ laid on before the under one was dry , by which process the different layers were so bound together that the whole mass formed one beautiful and solid slab , resembling marble , and was capable of being detached from the wall and transported in a wooden frame to any distance . The colors were applied when the composition was still wet . The fresco wall , when painted , was covered with an encaustic varnish , both to heighten the color and preserve it from the effects of the sun or the weather . But this process required so much care , and was attended with so much expense , that it was used only in the better houses and palaces . " The later discoveries at Pompeii show the same correctness of design in painting as in sculpture , and also considerable perfection in coloring . The great artists of Greece were both sculptors and painters , like Michael Angelo . Phidias and Euphranor , Zeuxis and Protogenes , Polygnotus and Lysippus , were both . And the ancient writers praise the paintings of these great artists as much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Esquiline Mount , during the pontificate of Clement VIII. , and placed in the Vatican by Pius VII. , is admired both for drawing and color . Polygnotus was praised by Aristotle for his designs and by Lucian for his color . Footnote : Poetica of Aristotle , c. 286 . Imagines of Lucian , c. 7 . Sidenote : Contemporaries of Polygnotus . Dionysius and Micon were the great contemporaries of Polygnotus , the former of whom was celebrated for his portraits . His pictures were deficient in the ideal , but were remarkable for expression and elegant drawing . Footnote : Plutarch , Timol. 36 . Micon was particularly skilled in painting horses , and was the first who used for a color the light Attic ochre , and the black made from burnt vine twigs . He painted three of the walls of the Temple of Theseus , and also the walls of the Temple of the Dioscuri . Sidenote : The school of Apollodorus . With Apollodorus , of Athens , a new development was made in the art of painting . Through his labors , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ style of Polygnotus , without departing from his pictures as models . " The acuteness of his taste , " says Fuseli , " led him to discover that , as all men were connected by one general form , so they were separated each by some predominant power , which fixed character and bound them to a class . Thence he drew his line of imitation and personified the central form of the class to which his object belonged , and to which the rest of its qualities administered , without being absorbed ; agility was not suffered to destroy firmness , solidity , or weight ; nor strength and weight agility ; elegance did not degenerate to effeminacy , nor grandeur swell to hugeness . " Footnote : Fuseli , Lect . I. His aim was to deceive the eye of the spectator by the semblance of reality . He painted men and things as they really appeared . He also made a great advance in coloring . He invented chiaro-oscuro . Other painters had given attention to the proper gradation of light and shade ; he heightened this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what the moderns call tone . He was the first who conferred due honor on the pencil  --  " primusque gloriam penicillo jure contulit . " Footnote : Pliny , H. N. xxxv. 11 . Sidenote : Peculiarities of Zeuxis as a painter . This great painter prepared the way for Zeuxis , Footnote : Born 455 B.C. who belonged to his school , but who surpassed him in the power to give ideal form to rich effects . He began his great career four hundred and twenty-four years before Christ , and was most remarkable for his female figures . His " Helen , " painted from five of the most beautiful women of Croton , was one of the most renowned productions of antiquity , to see which the painter demanded money . He gave away his pictures , because , with an artist 's pride , he maintained that their price could not be estimated . There is a tradition that Zeuxis laughed himself to death over an old woman painted by him . He arrived at illusion of the senses , regarded as a high attainment in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He belonged to the Asiatic school , whose head-quarters were at Ephesus , the peculiarities of which were accuracy of imitation , the exhibition of sensual charms , and the gratification of sensual tastes . He went to Athens about the time that the sculpture of Phidias was completed , which modified his style . His marvelous powers were displayed in the contrast of light and shade which he learned from Apollodorus . He gave ideal beauty to his figures , but it was in form rather than in expression . He taught the true method of grouping , by making each figure the perfect representation of the class to which it belonged . His works were deficient in those qualities which elevate the feelings and the character . He was the Euripides rather than the Homer of his art . He exactly imitated natural objects , which are incapable of ideal representation . His works were not so numerous as they were perfect in their way , in some of which , as in the Infant Hercules strangling the Serpent , he displayed great dramatic power . Footnote : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as one of the most remarkable paintings of the world , in which he showed great ingenuity in his contrasts . His Jupiter Enthroned is also extolled by Pliny , as one of his finest works . He acquired a great fortune , and lived ostentatiously . Sidenote : Parrhasius of Ephesus . Contemporaneous with him , and equal in fame , was Parrhasius , a native of Ephesus , whose skill lay in accuracy of drawing , and power of expression . He gave to painting true proportion , and attended to minute details of the countenance and the hair . In his gods and heroes , he did for painting what Phidias did in sculpture . His outlines were so perfect as to indicate those parts of the figure which they did not express . He established a rule of proportion which was followed by all succeeding artists . While many of his pieces were of a lofty character , some were demoralizing . Zeuxis yielded the palm to him , since he painted a curtain which deceived his rival , whereas Zeuxis painted grapes which deceived only birds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of having reached the utmost limits of his art . He combined the magic tone of Apollodorus with the exquisite design of Zeuxis , and the classic expression of Polygnotus . Sidenote : Contemporaries of Zeuxis . Many were the eminent painters that adorned the fifth century before Christ , not only in Athens , but the Ionian cities of Asia . Timanthes of Sicyon was distinguished for invention , and Eupompus of the same city founded a school . His advice to Lysippus is memorable  --  " Let Nature , not an artist , be your model . " Protogenes was celebrated for his high finish . His Talissus took him seven years to complete . Pamphilus was celebrated for composition , Antiphilus for facility , Theon of Samos for prolific fancy , Apelles for grace , Pausias for his chiaro-oscuro , Nicomachus for his bold and rapid pencil , Aristides for depth of expression . Sidenote : Art culminates in Apelles . Sidenote : The Venus of Apelles . The art probably culminated in Apelles , the Titian of his age , who united the rich coloring and sensual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sicyonian school . He was contemporaneous with Alexander , and was alone allowed to paint the picture of the great conqueror . He was a native of Ephesus , studied under Pamphilus of Amphipolis , and when he had gained reputation he went to Sicyon and took lessons from Melanthius . He spent the best part of his life at the court of Philip and Alexander , and painted many portraits of these great men and of their generals . He excelled in portraits , and labored so assiduously to perfect himself in drawing that he never spent a day without practicing . Footnote : Pliny , xxxv. 12 . He made great improvement in the mechanical part of his art , and also was the first who covered his picture with a thin varnish , both to preserve it and bring out the colors . He invented ivory black . His distinguishing excellence was grace , " that artless balance of motion and repose , springing from character , founded on propriety , which neither falls short of the demands nor overleaps the modesty of Nature . " Footnote : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ equaled him in perspective , accuracy , and finish ; but he added a grace of conception and refinement of taste which placed him , by the general consent of ancient authors , at the head of all the painters of the world . His greatest work was his Venus Anadyomene , or Venus rising out of the sea , in which female grace was personified . The falling drops of water from her hair form a transparent silver veil over her form . It cost one hundred talents , Footnote : 243 pounds x 100 = 24300 pounds x 5 = $121,500. and was painted for the Temple of Aesculapius at Cos , and afterwards placed by Augustus in the temple which he dedicated to Julius Caesar . The lower part of it becoming injured , no one could be found to repair it . Nor was there an artist who could complete an unfinished picture which he left . He was a man who courted criticism , and who was unenvious of the fame of rivals . He was a great admirer and friend of Protogenes of Rhodes , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ knew , as Apelles did , when to cease correcting . Footnote : Cicero , Brut. 18 ; De Orat. iii . 7 . Martial , xxx . 9 . Ovid , Art . Anc. iii . 403 . Pliny , xxxv. 37 . Sidenote : Introduction of pictures into Rome . After Apelles , the art of painting declined , although great painters occasionally appeared , especially from the school of Sicyon , which was renowned for nearly two hundred years . The destruction of Corinth by Mummius , B.C. 146 , gave a severe blow to Grecian art . He carried to Rome more works , or destroyed them , than all his predecessors combined . Sylla , when he spoiled Athens , inflicted a still greater injury , and , from that time , artists resorted to Rome and Alexandria and other flourishing cities for patronage and remuneration . The masterpieces of famous artists brought enormous prices , and Greece and Asia were ransacked for old pictures . The paintings which Aemilius Paulus brought from Greece required two hundred and fifty wagons to carry them in the triumphal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of artists commenced , and this spoliation of Greece and Asia and Sicily continued for two centuries ; and such was the wealth of Rhodes in works of art that three thousand statues were found for the conquerors . Nor could there have been less at Athens , Olympia , or Delphi . Scaurus had all the public pictures of Sicyon transported to Rome . Verres plundered every temple and public building in Sicily . Sidenote : High value placed by them on painting . Thus Rome was possessed of the finest paintings of the world , without the slightest claim to the advancement of the art . And if the opinion of Sir Joshua Reynolds is correct , art could soar no higher in the realm of painting , as well as of statuary . Yet the Romans learned to place as high value on the works of Grecian genius as the English do on the paintings of the old masters of Italy and Flanders . And if they did not add to the art , they gave such encouragement that , under the emperors , it may be said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seven hundred portraits of eminent men . Footnote : Pliny , H. N. xxx . 2 . The portraits as well as the statues of the great were placed in the temples , libraries , and public buildings . The baths especially were filled with paintings . Sidenote : Subjects among the Greeks . The great masterpieces of the Greeks were either historical or mythological . Paintings of gods and heroes , groups of men and women , in which character and passion could be delineated , were the most highly prized . It was in the expression given to the human figure  --  in beauty of form and countenance , in which all the emotions of the soul as well as the graces of the body were portrayed  --  that the Greek artists sought to reach the ideal , and to gain immortality . And they painted for people who naturally had taste and sensibility . Sidenote : Landscape Painting . Among the Romans , portrait , decorative , and scene painting engrossed the art , much to the regret of such critics as Pliny and Vitruvius . Nothing could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nero , one hundred and twenty feet high . From the time of Augustus , landscape decorations were common , and were carried out with every species of license . Among the Greeks we do not read of landscape painting . This has been reserved for our age , and is much admired , as it was at Rome in its latter days . Mosaic gradually superseded painting in Rome . It was first used for floors , but finally walls and ceilings were ornamented with it , like St. Peter 's at Rome . Many ancient mosaics have been preserved which attest beauty of design of the highest character , like the Battle of Issus , lately discovered at Pompeii . In fact , neither statuary nor painting was advanced by the Romans . They had no sensibility , or conception of ideal beauty . The divine spark of genius animated the Greeks alone . Still the wonders of Grecian art were possessed by the Romans , and were made to adorn those grand architectural monuments for which they had a taste . Greek productions were not merely matters of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cities of the Mediterranean ; and though no artist of original genius arose from Augustus to Constantine , galleries of art existed everywhere in which the masterpieces of Polygnotus , Pausias , Aristides , Timanthes , Zeuxis , Parrhasius , Pamphilus , Euphranor , Protogenes , Apelles , Timomachus , and of other illustrious men , were objects of as much praise as the galleries of Dresden and Florence . Sidenote : Probable perfection of the ancients in painting . " The glorious art of these masters , as far as regards tone , light , and local color , " says Muller , " is lost to us , and we know nothing of it except from obscure notices and later imitations ; on the contrary , the pictures on vases give us the most exalted idea of the progress and achievements of the arts of design . " Footnote : Muller , Ancient Art , 143 . It is surprising that , with four colors , the Greeks should have achieved such miracles of beauty and finish as are represented by the greatest cities of antiquity . The great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sicyon have perished , and we can not judge of their merits as we can of the statues which have fortunately been preserved . Whether Polygnotus was equal to Michael Angelo , Zeuxis to Raphael , and Apelles to Titian , we have no means of settling . But it is scarcely to be questioned that critics like the Greeks , whose opinions respecting architecture and sculpture coincide with our own , could have erred in their verdicts respecting those great paintings which extorted the admiration of the world , and were held , even in the decline of art , in such high value , not merely in the cities where they were painted , but in those to which they were transferred . What has descended to our times , like the mural decorations of Pompeii and the designs on vases , go to prove the perfection which was attained in painting , as well as sculpture and architecture . Sidenote : Perfection of art among the ancients . And thus , in all those arts of which modern civilization is proudest , and in which the genius of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were not merely our equals : they were our superiors . It is greater to originate than to copy . In architecture , in sculpture , and in painting the Greeks attained absolute perfection . Any architect of our time , who should build an edifice in different proportions than those which were recognized in the great cities of antiquity , would make a mistake . Who can improve upon the Doric columns of the Parthenon , or the Corinthian capitals of the Temple of Jupiter ? Indeed , it is in proportion as we accurately copy the faultless models of the age of Pericles that excellence with us is attained . When we differ from them we furnish grounds of just criticism . So , in sculpture , the Greek Slave is a reproduction of an ancient Venus , and the Moses of Michael Angelo is a Jupiter in repose . It is only when the artist seeks to bring out the purest and loftiest sentiments of the soul , and such as only Christianity can inspire , that he may hope to surpass the sculpture of antiquity in one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than beauty of form , on which no improvement can be made . And if we possessed the Venus of Apelles , as we can boast of having the sculptured Venus of Cleomenes , we should probably discover greater richness of coloring , as well as grace of figure , than in that famous Titian which is one of the proudest ornaments of the galleries of Florence , and one of the greatest marvels of Italian art . * * * * * REFERENCES .  --  Winckelmann 's History of Ancient Art ; Muller 's Remains of Ancient Art ; A. J. Guattani , Antiq. de la Grande Grece ; Mazois , Antiq. de Pomp. ; Sir W. Gill , Pompeiana ; Donaldson 's Antiquities of Athens ; Vitruvius , Stuart , Chandler , Clarke , Dodwell , Cleghorn , De Quincey . These are some of the innumerable authorities on Architecture among the ancients . In Sculpture , Pliny and Cicero are the most noted critics . There is a fine article in the Encyclopedia Britannica on this subject . In Smith 's Dictionary are the lives and works of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the leading masterpieces . Montfaucon 's Antiquite expliquee en Figures ; Specimens of Ancient Sculpture , by the Society of Diettanti , London , 1809 ; Ancient Marbles of the British Museum , by Taylor Combe ; Millin , Introduction a l'etude des Monumens Antiques ; Monumens Inedits d'Antiquite figuree , recuellis et publies par Raoul-Rochette ; Gerhard 's Archaol . Zeit. ; David 's Essai sur le Classement Chronol. des Sculpteurs Grecs les plus celebres . In Painting , see Caylus , Memoires de l'ac des Inscr . Levesque , sur les Progres successifs de la Peinture chez les Grecs ; I. I. Grund , Mahlerei der Griechen ; Meyer 's Kunstgischichte ; Muller , Hist , of Ancient Art ; Article on Painting , Ency . Brit. , Article " Pictura , " Smith 's Dict. ; Fuseli 's Lectures ; Sir Joshua Reynolds ' Lectures . Lanzi 's History of Painting refers to the revival of the art . Vitruvius speaks at some length on ancient wall paintings . The finest specimens of ancient painting are found in catacombs , the baths , and the ruins of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ authority . CHAPTER V. THE ROMAN CONSTITUTION . Sidenote : The Roman creators of civilization . Sidenote : The Romans sought to govern . Sidenote : The Romans sought to govern through laws . Sidenote : Roman sense of justice . It is not from a survey of the material grandeur , or the arts , or the military prowess of Rome that we get the highest idea of her civilization . These indicate strength and even genius ; but the checks and balances which were gradually introduced into the government of the city and empire , by which society was kept together , and a great prosperity secured for centuries , also show great foresight and practical wisdom . A State which favored individual development while it promoted law and order ; which secured liberty , while it made the government stable and respectable ; which guaranteed rights to the poorer citizens , while it placed power in the hands of those who were most capable of wielding it for the general good , is well worth our contemplation . The idea of aggrandizement was , it must be confessed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; but the principles of national unity , the welfare of citizens , the reign of law , the security of property , the network of trades and professions , also received attention there . The aspirations for liberty and national prosperity never left the Roman mind . The Romans were great creators of civilization , though in a different sense from the Greeks . What the principles of art were to the Greeks , those of government were to the Romans . If the Greeks made statues , the Romans made laws . If the former speculated on the beautiful , or the good , or the true , the latter realized the boast of Diogenes  --  the power to govern men . The passion for government was the most powerful which a Roman citizen felt , next to the passion for war . For five hundred years after the expulsion of the kings , there was the most perfect system of checks and balances in the government of the state known in the ancient world , and which is scarcely rivaled in the modern . Power was so wisely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gain a dangerous preeminence . Every citizen was a politician , and every Senator a statesman . For five hundred years there was neither anarchy nor military despotism . If every citizen knew how to fight , every citizen also knew how to govern , to submit . No consul dared to exceed his trust ; no general , till Caesar , ventured to cross the Rubicon . The Roman Senate never lost its dignity  - -  a supreme body which controlled all public interests . The Romans were sufficiently wise to bend to circumstances . Though proud , the patricians made concessions to plebeians whenever it was necessary . The right of citizenship was gradually extended throughout the Empire . Paul lived in a remote city of Asia Minor , but , by virtue of his citizenship , could appeal to a higher court than that of the governor . The Romans succeeded , by their wisdom , in extending their institutions over the countries they had conquered ; and every part of the Empire was well governed even when military despotism had overturned the ancient constitution . There were , of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ governors made large fortunes ; yet the provinces were better administered , and the rule was more in accordance with justice than under the native princes . Throughout the vast limits of the Empire , life and property were safe , and the roads were free of robbers ; nor were there riots in the cities , except on very rare occasions , in which they were put down with merciless severity . Yet a few hundred men were enough to preserve order in the largest cities , and a few thousand in the most extensive provinces . Even under the most tyrannical emperors , justice and order were enforced . The government was never better administered than by Tiberius , and further , was never better administered than when he was abandoned to pleasure in his guarded villa at Capri . There was the passion to govern the world , but in accordance with laws . The rule of the Romans was not that of brute force , even when the army was at the control of the Emperors . The citizens , to the last , enjoyed great social @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reference to marriage , and the making of wills , and the possession of property . Their persons were secured from the disgrace of corporal punishment ; they could appeal from the decision of magistrates ; they were eligible to public offices ; they were exempted from many oppressive taxes which still grind down the people in the most civilized states of Europe . The government of Octavius was the mildest despotism ever known to the ancient world . That Ulysses of state craft exercised the most extensive powers under the ancient forms , and all the early emperors disguised rather than paraded their powers . Contented with real power , the Roman was careless of its display . He had the tact to rule without seeming to rule ; but rule he must , though not until he had first learned to obey  - -  obedience to laws and domination were inseparably connected . This made the Roman yoke endurable , because it was not offensive or unjust . The Romans were masters of the world by conquest , yet ruled the world they had subdued by arms in accordance with laws @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ justice , in the enjoyment of unbounded domination , undoubtedly gave permanence to their government . The centurion was ever present to enforce a decree , but the decree was in accordance with justice . This was the idea , the recognized principle of government , although often abused . Paul appealed to Caesar . He might have been released by the governor , had he not appealed . Here was justice to Paul in allowing the appeal ; and still greater justice in keeping him in bonds until acquitted by Caesar himself . Sidenote : Degeneracy under emperors . Sidenote : Skill of the Romans for government . Sidenote : On what the prosperity was based . Sidenote : Government the great art and science of the Romans . Sidenote : Prosperity of the government . It must , however , be confessed that , after the Caesars were fairly established on their throne , a great indifference to public affairs ensued . Every office was then , directly or indirectly , in the hands of the emperor . Cicero expressed the popular sentiment of his day when he said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a combination of popular and aristocratic authority ; "  --  but in the eighth century of the city , the system of checks and balances would have fallen to pieces in the hands of a degenerate people . A constitutional monarchy even was no longer possible . The vices of the oligarchy , and the fierce reactions of the democracy , had destroyed all the dreams of the earlier patriots . The mass of the people had long been passive under the sway of factions and political intriguers , and they resigned themselves to the despotism of the emperor without a struggle . But even in this degradation the power of government remained among the leading classes . The governors of provinces , taken generally from the Senate and the nobles , were skillful in their administration of public affairs . They were enlightened in all political duties . The traditional ideas of government survived for several generations , even as the mechanism of the army made it powerful after all real spirit had fled . The Roman still regarded himself as the favorite of the gods , destined to achieve @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to political unity . Augustus made every effort , while he reigned , in the ruin of political institutions , to revive the forms and traditions of other days . The patricians were favored and honored , and the Senate still was made to appear august , with a prostrate world at its feet , to which it was bound to dictate laws and institutions . Political unity was the grand idea of the Romans , and this idea has survived to our own times . It was one of the great elements of Roman civilization . Universal empire was based , in the better days of the Republic , on public morality , in the iron discipline of families , in a marvelously well-trained soldiery , in a military system which made the civil society an army almost ready for the field , in a recognition of public rights and duties , in a wise system of colonization , in conciliatory conduct to the conquered races , and in a central power as the dispenser of all honor and emoluments . The civil wars broke up , in a measure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to all parts of the empire , even when it was manifest it must soon fall into the hands of barbarians . And as for the administration of justice , it was probably better conducted under the emperors than under the supreme rule of the Senate . Even bad emperors knew how to govern . To the Roman mind every thing was subordinate to the art of government . And every characteristic fitted the Romans to govern  --  energy of will , practical good sense , the conception of justice , an unyielding pride , fortitude , courage , and lust of power . And the spirit of domination was carried out into every thing . It was made a science , an art . Whatever would contribute to the ascendency of the state was remorselessly adopted ; whatever would interfere with it was abandoned or swept away . Fierce and tolerant by turns , and as circumstances prompted  --  such was the Roman . With submission life was easy , and the government was mild . And the supreme government rarely entrusted power except to faithful , capable , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ important offices . The governors of provinces were men of great experience ; they were generals and senators who had passed their term of active service . They easily made great mistakes . They carried out the policy of the State . They were acquainted with laws , and the customs of the people whom they ruled . They were versed in the literature of their day . They were men of dignity and fortune . They were moderate , conciliatory , and firm . They were models for rulers for all subsequent ages . There were , of course , exceptions , but the small number of riots and rebellions shows the contentment of the people , for they were not ground down by oppressive laws and exactions , until their spirit was broken . How munificent were the emperors to such cities as Athens and Alexandria ! Athens was the seat of learning and culture , to the very end of the empire . Arts and literature and science were fostered in all the cities . They were adopted as parts of the empire , not treated like conquered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had no jealousy of cities that once were equals . Their arts were made to subserve Roman greatness , indeed , but they were left free to develop their resources . The development of resources was a vital principle of the Roman government . Spain , Syria , and Egypt , were never more prosperous than under the imperial rule . All the provinces were more thriving under the emperors than they had been under their ancient kings , until the era of barbaric invasions . If war had been the mission of the republic , peace was the pride of the empire . There were no wars of importance for three hundred years , except those of necessity . The end of the emperors was to govern , to preserve peace , and secure obedience to the laws . Sidenote : The aristocracy the real rulers of the state . Sidenote : Defects of Democratic ascendency . Sidenote : The people unfit to govern when unenlightened . Sidenote : Popular element in the Roman state . Sidenote : Rich Plebeians had a great influence in the government . But we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rights enjoyed in the republican era , and however vast were the powers wielded by the emperors after liberty had fled , yet the constitution of Roman society was essentially aristocratic . All the great conquests were made under the rule of patricians , and all the leading men under the emperors were nobles . The government was virtually , from first to last , in the hands of the aristocracy . Still there was an important popular element , especially in the latter days of the republic , to which revolutionary leaders appealed , like the Gracchi , Marius , Catiline , and Caesar . One of the most humiliating lessons which we learn of antiquity , we are forced to own , was the signal incapacity of the people to govern themselves , when they had obtained a greater share of power than the old constitution had allowed . The republic did not long survive when successful generals and eloquent demagogues were sustained by the people . Had Rome been a democracy , as some suppose , the empire never could have been established . We comfort ourselves , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ surrendered themselves to factions and demagogues and tyrants , they were both ignorant and depraved . Self-government has never yet succeeded , because there have never been virtue and intelligence among the masses . So long as we can boast of virtue and intelligence among the people , we need not despair with the government in their hands . An enlightened self-interest will suggest the wisest policy . We only despair of the government of the people when they are ignorant , brutal , and wicked . As there was no period in the ancient world when they were not unenlightened , we are reconciled to the fact that a wise and vigorous administration of public affairs was always conducted by kings or nobles who had intelligence and patriotism , if they were proud and imperious . Whatever faith we may justly cherish in reference to popular sovereignty , grounded on the principles of natural justice , and the hopes which are held out as the fruit of Christian ideas , still , as a fact , there is but little in the history of the Roman commonwealth which reflects much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the aristocracy . Just so far as the popular element prevailed , the state was hurried on to ruin . The aristocratical element had the ascendency when Rome was most prosperous and most respected . Yet , while the Roman constitution was essentially aristocratic for five hundred years , it had a strong popular element mingled with it . The patricians had the chief power , but they were not lords and masters in so absolute a sense as to trample on the people with impunity , nor were they able to deprive them of their rights , or of all share in the government . They were not feudal nobles , nor a Venetian oligarchy . And yet it were a mistake to suppose that the distinction between the classes implied that the aristocratic power was lodged with the patricians alone . The patricians were not necessarily aristocrats , nor the plebeians a rabble . The political distinctions passed away without destroying social inequalities . There were great families among the plebeians which really belonged to the aristocratic class , at least in the time of Cicero . Aristocracy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but it was sustained by wealth , as in that country . A very rich man gained , ultimately , admission to the noble class , as Rothschild has in London . Without wealth to uphold distinctions , any aristocracy soon becomes contemptible . That organization of society is most aristocratic which confers great political and social privileges on a few men , and retains these privileges from generation to generation , as in France during the reign of Louis XV . The state of society at Rome under the republic , favored the monopoly of offices among powerful families . It was considered very remarkable for even Cicero to rise to the highest honors of the state with his magnificent genius , character , attainments , and services ; but he shared the consulship with a man of very ordinary capacity . The great offices were all in the hands of the aristocracy , from the expulsion of the kings to the times of Julius Caesar . Even the tribunes of the people ultimately were selected from powerful families . Sidenote : The Patricians . Sidenote : The Roman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the kings , the original citizens , were the warriors who built Rome , and conquered the surrounding cities and districts . They were called patres , which is synonymous with Patricians . Footnote : Cicero , De Repub. , ii . 12 Liv. , i. 8 . They were united among themselves by kindred and by political and religious ties . They supported themselves by agriculture although engaged continually in war . They consisted originally of three tribes , which gradually were united into the sovereign people . The first tribe was a Latin colony , and settled on the Palatine Hill ; the second were Sabine settlers on the Quirinal ; the third were Etruscans , who occupied the Caelian . They were distinct , at first , and were not united fully till the time of Tarquinius Priscus , himself an Etruscan . Footnote : Dionys. , ii . 62 . As there were no other Roman citizens but these patricians , they had no exclusive rights under the kings , and hence there was then no aristocracy of birth . Each of these three tribes of citizens @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decuries , or gentes . The three tribes , therefore , contained three hundred gentes . A gens was a family , and the gentes were aggregates of kindred families . Footnote : Nieb. , Lect . V. The name of a gens was generally characterized by the termination eia or in , as Julia , Cornelia , and it is to be presumed that each gens had a common ancestor . But with the growth of the city it came to pass that a gens often included a great number of families ; we read of three hundred Fabii forming the gens Fabia in the year 275 . These families composed , ultimately , the aristocracy . They were the people who filled all offices , and alone had the right of voting in the assemblies . As the gentes were subdivisions of the three ancient tribes , the populus alone had gentes , so that to be a patrician and to have a gens were synonymous . With the growth of Rome new gentes or families were added which did not claim descent from the ancient tribes . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Claudius , their head , after the expulsion of the kings . Tullus Hostilius incorporated the Julii , Servilii and other gentes with the patricians . This ruling class , the descendants of the conquerors , became a powerful aristocracy , and ultimately learned to value pride of blood . There are very few names in Roman history , until the time of Marius , which did not belong to this noble class . What proud families were the Servilii , the Claudii , the Julii , the Cornelii , the Fabii , the Valerii , the Sempronii , the Octavii , the Sergii , and others . Footnote : Liv. , i. 33 . Dionys. , iii . 31 . The Equites were originally elected from the patricians , and were cavalry soldiers , and did not form a distinct class till the time of the Gracchi . They were composed of rich citizens , whose wealth enabled them to become judices . They had the privilege of wearing a gold ring , and had seats reserved for them , like the Senate , at the theatre and circus . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and formed an honorable corps from which the highest officers of the army and the civil magistrates were chosen . Admission to this body was an introduction to public life , and was a test of social position . It was composed of rich plebeians as well as patricians , and was based wholly on wealth . Pliny says , " It became the third order in the state , and to the title of Senatus Populusque Romanus , there began to be added , et Equestris ordo . " Sidenote : The Roman plebs . Sidenote : The tribunes . Sidenote : Gradual increase of their power . Sidenote : Their usurpations . Beside this Romanus populus , which constituted the ruling class under kings , was another body , made up of conquered people . In early times their number was small , nor did they appear as a distinct class until the reign of Tullus Hostilius . After the subjection of Alba , the head of the Latin Confederacy , great numbers were transferred to Rome , and received settlements on the Caelian Hill , and were kept @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ extended , their numbers increased , until they formed the larger part of the population . They were called plebs , or commonalty , and had no political privileges whatever . They had not even the right of suffrage ; but they were enrolled in the army , Footnote : Liv. , i. 33 . Dionys. , iii . 31. and made to bear the expenses of the state . At first they were not allowed to intermarry with the patricians . Their oppression provoked resistance . The struggle which ensued is one of the most memorable in Roman history . The haughty oligarchy were obliged gradually to concede rights . These rights the plebs retained . First they gained a law which prevented patricians from taking usurious interest . They secured the appointment of tribunes for their protection . Soon after they had the right of summoning before their own Comitia tributa any one who violated their rights . In 449 they had influence sufficient to establish the Connubium , by which they could intermarry with patricians . In 421 the plebeians were admitted to the quaestorship . Then , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Their next right was the dignity of the consulship , and led to the dictatorship . In 351 they secured the censorship , and in 336 the praetorship . Political distinctions now vanished . The possession of a share of the great offices created powerful families , and these were incorporated with the aristocracy . The great privilege of securing tribunes was the first step to political power , and the most important in the constitutional history of the state . And it was the tribunes who gradually usurped the greatest powers . They assumed the right , in 456 , of convoking even the Senate . They also had the right to be present in the deliberations of the Senate ; as their persons were inviolable , they interceded against any action which a magistrate might undertake during his term of office , and even a command issued by a praetor . They could compel the Senate to submit a question to a fresh consultation , and ultimately compelled the consuls to appoint a dictator . Their power grew to such a height that they acquired the right of proposing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on nearly all the important affairs of the state , and finally were elected from among the Senators themselves . Sidenote : Advancement of Plebeians . Through the institution of tribunes , and other circumstances , especially the increase of wealth , the plebeians , originally so unimportant and insignificant that they could not obtain admission into the Senate , nor the high offices of state , nor the occupancy of the public lands , ultimately obtained all the rights of the patricians , so that gradually the political distinctions between patricians and plebeians vanished altogether , 286 B.C. , and the term populus was applied to them as well as to the patricians . Footnote : Liv. , iv . 44 ; v. 11,12 . Cicero de Repub. , ii . 37 . Sidenote : Gradual increase of their power . These rights were only secured by bitter and fierce contests . The plebeians , during their long struggle , did not seek power to gratify their ambition , but to protect themselves from oppression . Nor was the power which they obtained abused until near the close of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , with the patricians , still the latter monopolized most of the great offices of the state until the time of Cicero , and socially , always were preeminent . Yet there were many noble plebeian families who were blended with the aristocratic class . Aristocracy survived , after the political distinctions between the two classes were abrogated . Rome was never a democracy . Great families , whether patrician or plebeian , controlled the State , either by their wealth or social connections . The Roman nobility was really composed of all the families rendered illustrious by the offices they had filled . And as the great officers were taken generally from the Senate , that body was particularly august . Sidenote : The Senate . Sidenote : The prerogative of Senators . Until the usurpation of Caesar , the Senate was the great controlling power of the republic . It not only had peculiar privileges and powers , but a monopoly of offices . It always remained powerful , in spite of the victories of the plebeians . The laws proclaimed equality , but for fifty-nine years after the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only eighteen were plebeians , Footnote : Hist . Julius Caesar , by Napoleon ; chap . ii . 5. while two hundred and forty-six were patricians ; and while the right of admission to the Senate was acknowledged on principle , yet no one could enter it without having obtained a decree of the censor , or exercised a curule magistracy ,  - -  favors almost always reserved for the aristocracy . The Senate was a judicial and legislative body , and numbered for several centuries but three hundred men , selected from the patricians . At first they were appointed by the kings , afterwards by the consuls , and subsequently by the censors . But as all those who had been appointed by the populus to the great offices had admission into this body , the people , that is , the patricians , virtually nominated the candidates for the Senate . But all magistrates were not necessarily members of the Senate , only those whom the censors selected from among them , and the curule magistrates during their office . It was from these curule magistrates that vacancies were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . When the plebeians obtained the great offices , the Senate of course represented the whole people , as it formerly had represented the populus . But it was never a democratic assembly , for all its members belonged to the nobles . It required , under Augustus , 1,200,000 sesterces to support the senatorial dignity . Only a rich man could be , therefore , a senator . Nor could he carry on any mercantile business . The Senate was ever composed of men who had rendered great public services , or who were distinguished for wealth and talents . It was probably the most dignified and the proudest body of men ever assembled . The powers of the Senate were enormous . It had the general superintendence of matters of religion and foreign relations ; it commanded the levies of troops ; it regulated duties and taxes ; it gave audience to ambassadors ; it proposed , for a long time , the candidates for office to the Comitia ; it determined upon the way that war should be conducted ; it decreed to what provinces the consuls and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; it sent out embassies to foreign states ; it carried on the negotiations with foreign ambassadors ; it declared martial law in the appointment of dictators , and it decreed triumphs to fortunate generals . In short it was the supreme power in the state , and was the medium through which all the affairs of government passed . It was neither an hereditary , nor a popular body , yet represented the state  --  at first the patrician order , and finally the whole people , retaining to the end its aristocratic character . The senators wore on their tunics a broad purple stripe ,  --  a badge of distinction , like a modern decoration ,  --  and they had the exclusive rights of the orchestra at theatres and amphitheatres . Footnote : See article in Smith 's Dict. of Ant. , by Dr. Schmitz . Under the emperors , the Senate was degraded , and was made entirely subservient to their will , and a mouth-piece ; still it survived all the changes of the constitution , and was always a dignified and privileged body . It combined @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Parliament ; it was convoked by the curule magistrates , and finally by the tribunes . The most ancient place of assembly was the Curia Hostilia , though subsequently many temples were used . The majority of votes decided a question , and the order in which senators spoke and voted was determined by their rank , in the following order : president of the Senate , consuls , censors , praetors , aediles , tribunes , quaestors . Their decisions , called Senatus Consulta , were laws  --  leges  --  and were entrusted to the care of aediles and tribunes . Footnote : Nieb . Roman Hist. , viii . p. 264 . Sidenote : The Senate composed of patricians and plebeians . Sidenote : The Senate hold the great offices of state . Such was the Roman Senate  --  an assembly of nobles , whether patrician or plebeian . The descendants of all who had filled curule magistracies were nobiles , and had the privilege of placing in the atrium of the house the images and titles of their ancestors  --  an heraldic distinction in substance . And as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ period , there was great pride of blood . Few plebeians could boast of a remote and illustrious ancestry , and every plebeian who obtained a curule office , was the founder of his family 's nobility , like Cicero  --  a novus homo . This nobility contrived to keep possession of all the great offices , and it was difficult for a new man to get access to their ranks . The distinction of Patrician and Plebeian was secondary , after the Gracchi to that of Nobilitas , yet it was rare to find a patrician gens the families of which had not enjoyed the highest honors many times over . Thus the aristocracy was composed of the families of those who had held the highest offices of the state ; but as these offices were controlled by the Senate and enjoyed by the patricians chiefly , it was difficult to determine whether nobility was the result of patrician blood , or the possession of great offices . A man could scarcely be a patrician who had not held a great office ; nor could he often hold a great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were held in succession by the members of the Senate . The two consuls , the ten tribunes , the eight praetors in the time of Sulla  --  the twenty quaestors , together with the governors of provinces , and the generals who were selected from the Senate , or belonged to it , would necessarily compose a large part of the nobility , when their term of office lasted but a limited time , so that a senator with any ability was sure , in the course of his life , of the highest honors of the state . Sidenote : But only those who had distinguished themselves . The great executive officers , therefore , belonged to the noble class , not of necessity , but as a general thing . Cicero was a novus homo , and yet rose by his talents to the highest dignities . It was rare , however , to confer the highest offices on those who had not distinguished themselves in war . Military fame , after all , gave the greatest prestige to the Roman name . Consuls commanded armies , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as well as political , talent . Sidenote : The Consuls . The consul was , after the abolition of the monarchy , the highest officer of the state . It was not till the year 366 B.C. that a plebeian obtained this dignity . The powers of consuls were virtually those of the old kings , with the exception of priestly authority . They convened the Senate , introduced ambassadors , called together the people , conducted elections , commanded the armies and never appeared in public without lictors . Nor were they shorn of their powers till Julius Caesar assumed the dictatorship . The whole internal machinery of the state was under their control . But their term of office lasted only a single year . Their election took place in the Comitia Centuriata . Sidenote : The censors . The censors were next in dignity , and like the consuls , there were two , and elected in the same manner under the presidency of a consul ; only men of consular rank were chosen to this high office , and hence it was really higher than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ term than the consuls , and had the oversight of the public morals , the care of the census , and the administration of the finances . They could brand with ignominy the highest persons of the state , and could elect to the Senate , and exclude from it unworthy men . They had , with the aediles , the control of the public buildings and all public works . They could take away from a knight his horse , and punish extravagance in living , or the improper dissolution of the marriage rite . They were held in the greatest reverence , and when they died were honored with magnificent funerals . Sidenote : The praetors . Next in rank were the praetors , at first two in number , and ultimately sixteen . They exercised the judicial power , both in civil and criminal cases . Sidenote : The aediles . The aediles were also curule magistrates , and to them was entrusted the care of the public buildings , and the superintendence of public festivals . They were the keepers of the decrees of the Senate , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ water , the care of the streets , the drainage of the city , and the distribution of corn to the people . It was their business to see that no new deities were introduced , and they had the general superintendence of the police , and the inspection of baths . Their office entailed large expenses , and they were forced into great extravagance to gain popularity , as in the case of Julius Caesar and Aemilius Scaurus ; but the aediles exercised extensive powers , which , however , were essentially diminished under the emperors . Sidenote : The tribunes . Allusion has already been made to the tribunes , in connection with the development of the plebeian power . At first they were only two , then in creased to five , and finally to ten . It was their business to protect the plebs from the oppression of nobles , but their authority was so much increased in the time of Julius Caesar that they could veto an ordinance of the Senate . Footnote : Caesar , De Beil Civ. , 1 , 2 . They not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ command their viatores to seize a consul or a censor , to imprison him , or throw him from the Tarpeian rock . Footnote : Liv . ii . 56 , iv . 26 ; Cicero , De Legibus , iii . 9 . The college of tribunes had the power of making edicts . After the passage of the Hortensian law , there was no power equal to theirs , and they could dictate even to the Senate itself . In the latter days of the republic , the tribunes were generally elected from among the senators . It was the vast influence which the people had obtained through the tribunes which led to the usurpation of Caesar ; for he , as well as Marius , rose into power by courting them against the interests of the aristocracy . Sidenote : The quaestors . The last of the great magistrates whose office entitled them to a seat in the Senate were the quaestors , who had charge of the public money . Originally only two in number , they were raised by Sulla to twenty , and by Caesar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had the supreme direction of the finances they were merely its agents or paymasters . The proconsul or praetor , who had the administration of a province , was attended with a quaestor to regulate the collection of the revenues . The quaestors also were the paymasters of the army . Such were the great executive officers of the state , having a seat in the Senate , and belonging to the noble class by their official position as well as by birth . No one could be consul until he had passed through all these offices successively , except the censorship . Sidenote : Pontifex maximus . There was , however , another great Roman dignitary who held his office for life , which was one of transcendent importance . He was at the head of the college of priests , which had the superintendence of all matters of religion . The college of pontiffs , of which , under Julius Caesar , there were sixteen , were not priests , but stood above all priests , and regulated the worship of the gods , and punished offenses against religion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Via Sacra , and might also hold other offices . It is a great proof of the talents of Caesar and of the estimation in which he was held , that , at the age of thirty-seven , he was chosen to this high dignity , against the powerful opposition of Catulus , prince of the Senate , and when he had only reached the aedileship . Sidenote : Assemblies of the people . Sidenote : The Comitia Cenuriata . In regard to the assemblies of the people , where they voted for the great officers of state , it must be borne in mind that they were not made up of the rabble , but of the populus or the patricians till nearly the close of the republic . Each of the thirty curia had its building for the discussion of political and legal questions . They had also collectively an assembly , called Comitia Curiata , where the people voted on the measures proposed by the magistrates . The votes were given by the curiae , each curia having one collective vote . The assembly originated nothing , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ peace and war , and the election of magistrates . This was the primitive form under the kings . But Servius Tullius instituted the Comitia Centuriata , and hence divided the populus into six property classes , and one hundred and ninety-three centuriae . The first class was composed of ninety-eight centuriae , with a property qualification of one hundred thousand asses ; the second of twenty-two centuriae with seventy-five thousand asses ; the third of twenty , with fifty thousand asses ; the fourth of twenty-two , with twenty-five thousand asses ; the fifth of thirty , with eleven thousand asses ; and the sixth of any one of those below twelve and a half minae . Yet this class was the most numerous . The wealthier classes voted first , and when a majority of the centuries was obtained the voting stopped . Hence the power was virtually in the hands of the rich ; for , united , they made a majority before the poorer classes were called upon to vote . The Comitia Centuriata elected the magistrates and made laws , and formed the highest court of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the curiae , although in course of time the curia was a formality . The centuries met in the Campus Martius , and were presided over by the consuls , who read the names of the candidates . In the assemblies by centuries , the vote of the first class prevailed over all the others ; in the comitia by curiae the patricians were supreme . Sidenote : The Comitia Tributa . Sidenote : Decline of power of the comitia . The Comitia Tributa represented the thirty Roman tribes according to the Servian constitution , to whom was originally given the right to elect inferior magistrates . This was a plebian assembly , and had very insignificant powers , chiefly relating to the local affairs of the tribes . But when these tribes began to be real representatives of the people , with the increase of the plebeian classes , matters affecting the whole state were brought before them by the tribunes . This gave to the assembly the initiative of measures , which was sanctioned by a law of L. Valerius Publicola , B.C. 449 . This law gave @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a real lex , binding upon the whole people , provided it had the sanction of the Senate and the populus in the Comitia Centuriata . In 287 B.C. the Hortensian law made the plebiscita independent of the sanction of the Senate . When the plebeians began to be recognized as an essential element in the state , it was found inconvenient to have the first class , which included the equites , so greatly preponderant in the comitia of the centuries ; and it was designed to blend the Comitia Centuriata and the Tributa in such a manner as to make only one assembly . This took place after the completion of the thirty-five tribes , B.C. 241 . The citizens of each tribe were divided into five property classes , and each tribe into ten centuries , making three hundred and fifty centuries . This comitia was far more democratic than the comitia of the centuries , and was guided by the tribunes . When all the Italians were incorporated with the thirty-five tribes , violence and bribery became the order of the day . Sulla took away the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more on popular rights when he decided upon peace and war in connection-with the Senate  --  which great question was formerly settled by the comitia alone . The people retained nothing under him but the election of magistrates , which amounted to little , since Caesar had the right to appoint half the magistrates himself , with the exception of the consuls . After the death of Caesar , the comitia continued to be held , but was always controlled by the rulers , whose unlimited powers were ultimately complied with without resistance . Finally the comitia became a mere farce , and all legislation passed away forever , and was completely in the hands of the emperor and Senate . Sidenote : The nobles retain the chief ascendency . Sidenote : The dictator . Sidenote : The idea of popular government . Sidenote : The Senate retains all real power . Thus it would appear that the Roman constitution was essentially aristocratic , especially for three hundred years after the expulsion of kings . The Senate and the populus had the whole power . Gradually , as wealth increased , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than the patricians . The plebs were not of much consideration till the time of the Gracchi , and always obtained office with difficulty . It was two hundred years after the expulsion of kings before the plebeians could even obtain a share of the public lands . So long as the aristocracy preserved their virtue and patriotism , the state was most ably administered , and continually increased in wealth and power . The conquest of Italy was entirely under the regime of nobles , and even when wealthy plebeian families mingled with the ancient patricians there was still great difficulty in reaching preferment , without the advantages of birth . Footnote : Mommsen , Roman Hist. , i. p. 241 . In fourteen years , from 399 to 412 , the patricians allowed only six plebeians to reach the consulship . The lives of the citizens were protected by the laws , but public opinion remained powerless at the assassination of those who incurred the hatred of the Senate . The comitia were free , but the Senate had at its disposal either the veto of the tribunes or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could prevent the meeting of the assemblies , and the augurs could cut short their deliberations . Even the dictatorship was often a means of oppressing the plebs , and was a lever in the hands of the aristocracy , since the dictator was appointed by the consuls under the direction of the Senate . Footnote : Liv. , viii . 23 . He was a patrician as a matter of course , until the political distinctions between patrician and plebeian were removed , and had absolute authority for six months . He was not held responsible for his acts while in office , Footnote : Becker , Handbuch der Romanisch Alterthumer , vii . p. 2 ; Nieb . History of Rome . vol. i. p. 563. nor was there any appeal from his decisions . He was preceded by twenty-four lictors , and was virtually supreme . Between 390 and 416 there were eighteen dictators . The Senate thus remained all-powerful , in spite of the victories of the plebeians , and such were its patriotism and intelligence that it preserved its preponderance . It was during the conquest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and the most able men were entrusted with public affairs . Every thing was sacrificed to patriotism , and discipline was enforced with cruelty . The most powerful patricians readily exposed their lives in battle , and a town became a people which ultimately embraced the world . When the plebeians had grown to be a power the decline of the republic commenced , and a new organization was necessary . Great chieftains became dictators for life , and the imperial sceptre was seized by an unscrupulous but enlightened general . The Roman populus in an important sense carried out the great idea of self-government , but , strictly speaking , self-government , as applied to the people generally , never existed in the Roman Commonwealth . But the idea was advanced which gave birth to future republics . Nor did the fall of the old patrician oligarchy divest the Roman commonwealth of its aristocratic character , for a new aristocracy arose . When the plebeian families obtained the consulate and other high offices of state , they were put on a level with the old patrician families , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their illustrious ancestors in the family hall , and to have these images carried in the funeral procession . As curule magistrates , they had a seat in the Senate , and wore the insignia of rank  --  the gold finger-ring and the purple border on the toga . " The result of the Licinian laws , " says Mommsen , " in reality , only amounted to what we now call the creation of a new batch of officers . " Footnote : Mommsen , B. III . c. xi . As all the descendants of those who had enjoyed the curule magistracy were entitled to the privilege of these distinctions , the nobility became hereditary . And as the great officers of state were generally selected from this class , since they controlled the comitia , the nobility was not merely hereditary , but it was a governing nobility . The nobility had the possession of the Senate itself . It monopolized the great offices of state . The stability of the Roman aristocracy is seen in the fact , that , from the year 388 to 581 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plebeian , one hundred and forty of the consuls , out of the three hundred and eighty-six , belonged to sixteen great houses . The Cornelii furnished thirty consuls in one hundred and ninety-three years , the Valerii eighteen , the Claudii twelve , the Aemilii fifteen , the Fabii twelve , the Manlii ten , the Postumii eight , the Servilii seven , the Sulpicii eight , the Papirii four , to say nothing of other curule offices . Thus the nobility was not composed exclusively of patrician families , although these were the most numerous , but of old plebeian families also , in the same way that the English House of Lords is composed of families which trace their origin to Saxons as well as Normans , although the Normans , for several centuries , were the governing class . And as the House of Lords has accessions occasionally from the ranks of the people , in consequence of great wealth , or political interest , or eminent genius , or signal success in war , so the Roman nobility was increased , as old families died out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of state . Marius arose from the people , but his exploits in the field of battle insured his entrance among the nobility in consequence of the offices he held , even as the Lord Chancellors of England , who have been eminent lawyers merely , are made herditary peers in consequence of their judicial position . Sidenote : Roman citizens . The Roman burgesses again were any thing but a rabble . They were composed of men of standing and wealth . If they did not compose the motive-power , they constituted a firm foundation of the state . They had a clear conception of the common good , and a sagacity in the election of rulers , and a spirit of sacrifice for the general interests . They had a lofty patriotism that nothing could seduce . The rabble of Rome were of no account until the enormous wealth of the senatorial houses raised up clients and parasites . And when this rabble , who were merely the dependents of the rich , obtained the privilege of voting , then the decline of liberties was rapid and fearful , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sidenote : Balance of power . Thus among the Romans , until the prostration of their liberties , the powers of government were not in the hands of kings , as among the Orientals , nor in those of the aristocracy , exclusively , nor in those of the people ; but in all combined , one class acting as a check against another class . They were shared between the Senate , the magistrates , and the people in their assemblies . Theoretically , the populus was the real sovereign by whom power was delegated ; but , for several centuries , the populus meant the patricians , who alone could take part in the assemblies . The preponderating influence was exercised by the Senate . The judicial , the legislative , and the executive authority were as clearly defined as in our times . The magistrates were all elected by the Senate or the people , and sometimes proposed by the one and confirmed by the other . No case , involving the life of a Roman citizen , could be decided except by the Comitia Centuriata . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ law , though made on the ground of a senatus consultum , yet required the sanction of the curiae . In legislative measures , a senatus consultum was brought before the people by the consul , or the senator who originated the measure , after it had previously been exhibited in public for seventeen days . The inferior magistrates , whose office it was to superintend affairs of local interest , were elected by the Comitia Tributa . All the magistrates , however great their power , could , at the expiration of their office , be punished for transcending their trust . No person was above the authority of the laws . No one class could subvert the liberties and prerogatives of another . The Senate had the most power , but it could not ride over the Constitution . The consuls were not the creatures of the Senate ; they were elected by the centuries , and presided over the Senate , as well as the assembly of the people . The abuse of power by a consul was prevented by his colleague , and by the certainty of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . His power was also limited by the Senate , since he was dependent upon it . There was no absolute power exercised at Rome , except by the dictators , but they were appointed only in a national crisis , and then only for six months . Unless their power were perpetuated , not even they could overturn the constitution . The senators again , the most powerful body in the state , were not entirely independent . They could not elect members of their own body , nor keep them in office . The censors had the right of electing the senators from among the ex-magistrates and the equites , and of excluding such as they deemed unworthy . And as the Senate was thus composed wholly of men who had held the highest offices or had great wealth , it was a body of great experience and wisdom . Yet even this august assembly was obliged to submit to the introduction of any subject of discussion by the tribune . What a counterpoise to the authority of this powerful body were the tribunes ! From their right of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its discussions , and from their being the representatives of the whole people , in whom power was supposed primarily to be lodged , they gradually obtained the right of intercession against any action which a magistrate might undertake during the time of his office , and without giving a reason . They could not only prevent a consul from convening the Senate , but could veto an ordinance of the Senate itself . They could even seize a consul and a censor and imprison him . Thus was power marvelously distributed , even while it remained in the hands of the higher classes . The people were not powerless when their assemblies could make laws and appoint magistrates , and when their tribunes could veto the most important measures . The consuls could not remain in office long enough to be dangerous , and the senators could be ejected from their high position when flagrantly unworthy . " The nobiles had no legal privileges like a feudal aristocracy , but they were bound together by a common distinction derived from a legal title , and by a common interest ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ election to all the high magistracies to the members of their own body . " The term nobilitas implied that some one of a man 's ancestors had filled a curule magistracy , and it also implied the possession of wealth . Theoretically it would seem that the nobiles were very numerous , since so many people can ordinarily boast of an illustrious ancestor ; but practically the class was not so large as we might expect . A noble might be poor , but still , like Sulla , he remained noble . The distinction of patrician was , long before the reforms of the Gracchi , of secondary importance ; that of nobilitas remained to the close of the republic . The nobility kept themselves exclusive and powerful from the possession of the great offices of state from generation to generation ; they prevented their own extinction by admitting into their ranks those who distinguished themselves to an eminent degree . Sidenote : The reign of demagogues . But this state of things applied only to the republic in its palmy days . When democratical influences favored the ascendency @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our world , the inevitable consequence of a greater extension of popular liberties than what the people are prepared for ,  - -  then wholesome restraints were removed , and the people were the most enslaved , when they thought themselves most free . There is no more melancholy slavery than the slavery of the passions . Ignorant self-indulgent people are led by their passions ; they are rarely influenced by reason or by enlightened self-interest . Those who most skillfully and unscrupulously appeal to popular passions , when the people have power , have necessarily the ascendency in the community . The people , deceived , flattered , headstrong , follow them willingly . In times of war , and especially among a martial people , military chieftains , by inflaming the warlike passions , by holding out exaggerated notions of glory , by appealing to vanity and patriotism mingled , have ever had a most extraordinary influence in republics . They have also great influence in monarchies , when the monarch is crazed by the passion of military success . Monarchs , with the passions of the people , are led @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ led . Hence the reign of favorites with kings . The ascendency of favorites , with sovereigns like Louis XIII. , or even like Louis XIV. , is maintained by the same policy as that which animated Marius and Caesar , or animates the popular favorites of our times . And this ascendency may be for the better or the worse , according to the character of the demagogue rulers , or royal favorites . When a Richelieu or a Cavour holds the reins , a country may be indirectly benefited by the wisdom of their public acts . When a Buckingham or a Catiline prevails , a nation suffers a calamity . In either case , the power which is conceded to be legitimate becomes a mockery . With Caesar , the popular power is a mere name , even , as with Richelieu , the kingly is a shadow . In the better days of the Roman republic , the executive power was kept in a healthy state by the great authority of the Senate , and the senatorial influence was prevented from undue encroachment by the watchfulness of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ marked , the aristocratical body had too much virtue and ability to be enslaved by ambitious and able men of their own number . Had the Roman Senate , in the height of its power , been composed of ignorant , inexperienced , selfish , unpatriotic members , then it would have been easy for a great intellect among them , whether accompanied by virtue or not , by appealing perpetually to their pride , to their rank , to their privileges , to their peculiar passions , to have led them , as Pitt led the House of Commons . The real rulers of our world are few , in any community , or under any form of government . They are always dangerous , when there is a low degree of virtue or intelligence among those whom they represent . Certain it is , that their power is nearly absolute when they are sustained by passion or prejudice . The representative of a fanatical constituency has no continued power , unless he perpetually flatters those whom , in his heart , he knows to be lost to the control @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , according to the strength of the popular passions which he inflames , or in which , as is often the case , he shares . The honest representative of fanatics is himself a fanatic . Thus Cromwell had so great an ascendency with his party , because he felt more strongly than they in matters where they sympathized . But the liberties of Rome were not overturned by fanatical rulers , but by those who availed themselves of the passions which they themselves did not feel , in order to compass their selfish ends . And that is the greater danger in republics  --  that bad men rise by the suffrage of foolish people whom they deceive , by affecting to fall in with their wishes , like Napoleon and Caesar , rather than that honest @//                     