@@760948

txt // Old and New Systems of War . ART . XXV.  --  Depots of Supply , and their Relations to Operations . ART . XXVI.  --  Frontiers , and their Defense by Forts and Intrenched Lines .  --  Wars of Sieges . ART . XXVII .  --  Intrenched Camps and Tetes de Ponts in their Relation to Strategy . ART . XXVIII.  --  Strategic Operations in Mountainous Countries . ART . XXIX.  --  Grand Invasions and Distant Expeditions . Epitome of Strategy . CHAPTER IV . GRAND TACTICS AND BATTLES . ART . XXX .  --  Positions and Defensive Battles . ART . XXXI.  --  Offensive Battles and Orders of Battle . ART . XXXII.  --  Turning Maneuvers , and Too Extended Movements in Battle . ART . XXXIII.  --  Unexpected Meeting of Two Armies on the March . ART . XXXIV.  --  Surprises of Armies . ART . XXXV.  --  Attack of Cities , Intrenched Camps or Lines , and Coups de Main generally . CHAPTER V. SEVERAL OPERATIONS OF A MIXED CHARACTER , WHICH ARE PARTLY IN THE DOMAIN OF STRATEGY AND PARTLY OF TACTICS @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ART . XXXVII.  --  Passage of Rivers and other Streams . ART . XXXVIII.  --  Retreats and Pursuits . ART . XXXIX.  --  Cantonments and Winter Quarters . ART . XL .  --  Descents , or Maritime Expeditions . CHAPTER VI . LOGISTICS , OR THE PRACTICAL ART OF MOVING ARMIES . ART . XLI.  --  A few Remarks on Logistics in general . ART . XLII.  --  Reconnoissances , and other Means of Gaining Accurate Information of the Enemy 's Movements . CHAPTER VII . FORMATION AND EMPLOYMENT OF TROOPS FOR BATTLE . ART . ART . XLIII  --  Posting Troops in Line of Battle . ART . XLIV.  --  Formation and Employment of Infantry . ART . XLV .  --  - Formation and Employment of Cavalry . ART . XLVI .  --  - Formation and Employment of Artillery . ART . XLVII .  --  Employment of the Three Arms together . CONCLUSION . SUPPLEMENT . APPENDIX . SECOND APPENDIX . SKETCH OF THE PRINCIPAL MARITIME EXPEDITIONS . SUMMARY OF THE ART OF WAR . DEFINITION OF THE ART OF WAR . The art of war , as generally considered , consists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Grand Tactics , Logistics , Engineering , and Tactics . A sixth and essential branch , hitherto unrecognized , might be termed Diplomacy in its relation to War . Although this branch is more naturally and intimately connected with the profession of a statesman than with that of a soldier , it can not be denied that , if it be useless to a subordinate general , it is indispensable to every general commanding an army : it enters into all the combinations which may lead to a war , and has a connection with the various operations to be undertaken in this war ; and , in this view , it should have a place in a work like this . To recapitulate , the art of war consists of six distinct parts :  --  1 . Statesmanship in its relation to war . 2 . Strategy , or the art of properly directing masses upon the theater of war , either for defense or for invasion . 3 . Grand Tactics . 4 . Logistics , or the art of moving armies . 5 . Engineering ,  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tactics . It is proposed to analyze the principal combinations of the first four branches , omitting the consideration of tactics and of the art of engineering . Familiarity with all these parts is not essential in order to be a good infantry , cavalry , or artillery officer ; but for a general , or for a staff officer , this knowledge is indispensable . CHAPTER I. STATESMANSHIP IN ITS RELATION TO WAR . Under this head are included those considerations from which a statesman concludes whether a war is proper , opportune , or indispensable , and determines the various operations necessary to attain the object of the war . A government goes to war ,  --  To reclaim certain rights or to defend them ; To protect and maintain the great interests of the state , as commerce , manufactures , or agriculture ; To uphold neighboring states whose existence is necessary either for the safety of the government or the balance of power ; To fulfill the obligations of offensive and defensive alliances ; To propagate political or religious theories , to crush them out , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the state by acquisitions of territory ; To defend the threatened independence of the state ; To avenge insulted honor ; or , From a mania for conquest . It may be remarked that these different kinds of war influence in some degree the nature and extent of the efforts and operations necessary for the proposed end . The party who has provoked the war may be reduced to the defensive , and the party assailed may assume the offensive ; and there may be other circumstances which will affect the nature and conduct of a war , as ,  --  1 . A state may simply make war against another state . 2 . A state may make war against several states in alliance with each other . 3 . A state in alliance with another may make war upon a single enemy . 4 . A state may be either the principal party or an auxiliary . 5 . In the latter case a state may join in the struggle at its beginning or after it has commenced . 6 . The theater of war may be upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ally , or upon its own . 7 . If the war be one of invasion , it may be upon adjacent or distant territory : it may be prudent and cautious , or it may be bold and adventurous . 8 . It may be a national war , either against ourselves or against the enemy . 9 . The war may be a civil or a religious war . War is always to be conducted according to the great principles of the art ; but great discretion must be exercised in the nature of the operations to be undertaken , which should depend upon the circumstances of the case . For example : two hundred thousand French wishing to subjugate the Spanish people , united to a man against them , would not maneuver as the same number of French in a march upon Vienna , or any other capital , to compel a peace ; nor would a French army fight the guerrillas of Mina as they fought the Russians at Borodino ; nor would a French army venture to march upon Vienna without considering what might be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Rhine and the Inn , or between the Danube and the Elbe . A regiment should always fight in nearly the same way ; but commanding generals must be guided by circumstances and events . To these different combinations , which belong more or less to statesmanship , may be added others which relate solely to the management of armies . The name Military Policy is given to them ; for they belong exclusively neither to diplomacy nor to strategy , but are still of the highest importance in the plans both of a statesman and a general . ARTICLE I. Offensive Wars to Reclaim Rights . When a state has claims upon another , it may not always be best to enforce them by arms . The public interest must be consulted before action . The most just war is one which is founded upon undoubted rights , and which , in addition , promises to the state advantages commensurate with the sacrifices required and the hazards incurred . Unfortunately , in our times there are so many doubtful and contested rights that most wars , though apparently based @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in reality but wars of expediency . The question of the succession to the Spanish crown under Louis XIV . was very clear , since it was plainly settled by a solemn will , and was supported by family ties and by the general consent of the Spanish nation ; yet it was stoutly contested by all Europe , and produced a general coalition against the legitimate legatee . Frederick II. , while Austria and France were at war , brought forward an old claim , entered Silesia in force and seized this province , thus doubling the power of Prussia . This was a stroke of genius ; and , even if he had failed , he could not have been much censured ; for the grandeur and importance of the enterprise justified him in his attempt , as far as such attempts can be justified . In wars of this nature no rules can be laid down . To watch and to profit by every circumstance covers all that can be said . Offensive movements should be suitable to the end to be attained . The most natural step @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ operations may be carried on according to circumstances and to the respective strength of the parties , the object being to secure the cession of the territory by the enemy , and the means being to threaten him in the heart of his own country . Every thing depends upon the alliances the parties may be able to secure with other states , and upon their military resources . In an offensive movement , scrupulous care must be exercised not to arouse the jealousy of any other state which might come to the aid of the enemy . It is a part of the duty of a statesman to foresee this chance , and to obviate it by making proper explanations and giving proper guarantees to other states . ARTICLE II . Of Wars Defensive Politically , and Offensive in a Military Point of View . A state attacked by another which renews an old claim rarely yields it without a war : it prefers to defend its territory , as is always more honorable . But it may be advantageous to take the offensive , instead of awaiting the attack @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war of invasion : there are also advantages in awaiting the enemy upon one 's own soil . A power with no internal dissensions , and under no apprehension of an attack by a third party , will always find it advantageous to carry the war upon hostile soil . This course will spare its territory from devastation , carry on the war at the expense of the enemy , excite the ardor of its soldiers , and depress the spirits of the adversary . Nevertheless , in a purely military sense , it is certain that an army operating in its own territory , upon a theater of which all the natural and artificial features are well known , where all movements are aided by a knowledge of the country , by the favor of the citizens , and the aid of the constituted authorities , possesses great advantages . These plain truths have their application in all descriptions of war ; but , if the principles of strategy are always the same , it is different with the political part of war , which is modified by the tone @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of men at the head of states and armies . The fact of these modifications has been used to prove that war knows no rules . Military science rests upon principles which can never be safely violated in the presence of an active and skillful enemy , while the moral and political part of war presents these variations . Plans of operations are made as circumstances may demand : to execute these plans , the great principles of war must be observed . For instance , the plan of a war against France , Austria , or Russia would differ widely from one against the brave but undisciplined bands of Turks , which can not be kept in order , are not able to maneuver well , and possess no steadiness under misfortunes . ARTICLE III . Wars of Expediency . The invasion of Silesia by Frederick II. , and the war of the Spanish Succession , were wars of expediency . There are two kinds of wars of expediency : first , where a powerful state undertakes to acquire natural boundaries for commercial and political reasons ; secondly , to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his aggrandizement . These last are wars of intervention ; for a state will rarely singly attack a dangerous rival : it will endeavor to form a coalition for that purpose . These views belong rather to statesmanship or diplomacy than to war . ARTICLE IV . Of Wars with or without Allies . Of course , in a war an ally is to be desired , all other things being equal . Although a great state will more probably succeed than two weaker states in alliance against it , still the alliance is stronger than either separately . The ally not only furnishes a contingent of troops , but , in addition , annoys the enemy to a great degree by threatening portions of his frontier which otherwise would have been secure . All history teaches that no enemy is so insignificant as to be despised and neglected by any power , however formidable . ARTICLE V. Wars of Intervention . To interfere in a contest already begun promises more advantages to a state than war under any other circumstances ; and the reason is plain . The power which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weight and influence ; it interferes at the most opportune moment , when it can make decisive use of its resources . There are two kinds of intervention : 1 . Intervention in the internal affairs of neighboring states ; 2 . Intervention in external relations . Whatever may be said as to the moral character of interventions of the first class , instances are frequent . The Romans acquired power by these interferences , and the empire of the English India Company was assured in a similar manner . These interventions are not always successful . While Russia has added to her power by interference with Poland , Austria , on the contrary , was almost ruined by her attempt to interfere in the internal affairs of France during the Revolution . Intervention in the external relations of states is more legitimate , and perhaps more advantageous . It may be doubtful whether a nation has the right to interfere in the internal affairs of another people ; but it certainly has a right to oppose it when it propagates disorder which may reach the adjoining states . There are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ viz. : 1 , by virtue of a treaty which binds to aid ; 2 , to maintain the political equilibrium ; 3 , to avoid certain evil consequences of the war already commenced , or to secure certain advantages from the war not to be obtained otherwise . History is filled with examples of powers which have fallen by neglect of these principles . " A state begins to decline when it permits the immoderate aggrandizement of a rival , and a secondary power may become the arbiter of nations if it throw its weight into the balance at the proper time . " In a military view , it seems plain that the sudden appearance of a new and large army as a third party in a well-contested war must be decisive . Much will depend upon its geographical position in reference to the armies already in the field . For example , in the winter of 1807 Napoleon crossed the Vistula and ventured to the walls of Koenigsberg , leaving Austria on his rear and having Russia in front . If Austria had launched an army of one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is probable that the power of Napoleon would have been ended ; there is every reason to think that his army could not have regained the Rhine . Austria preferred to wait till she could raise four hundred thousand men . Two years afterward , with this force she took the field , and was beaten ; while one hundred thousand men well employed at the proper time would have decided the fate of Europe . There are several kinds of war resulting from these two different interventions :  --  1 . Where the intervention is merely auxiliary , and with a force specified by former treaties . 2 . Where the intervention is to uphold a feeble neighbor by defending his territory , thus shifting the scene of war to other soil . 3 . A state interferes as a principal party when near the theater of war ,  --  which supposes the case of a coalition of several powers against one . 4 . A state interferes either in a struggle already in progress , or interferes before the declaration of war . When a state intervenes with only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is simply an accessory , and has but little voice in the main operations ; but when it intervenes as a principal party , and with an imposing force , the case is quite different . The military chances in these wars are varied . The Russian army in the Seven Years ' War was in fact auxiliary to that of Austria and France : still , it was a principal party in the North until its occupation of Prussia . But when Generals Fermor and Soltikoff conducted the army as far as Brandenburg it acted solely in the interest of Austria : the fate of these troops , far from their base , depended upon the good or bad maneuvering of their allies . Such distant excursions are dangerous , and generally delicate operations . The campaigns of 1799 and 1805 furnish sad illustrations of this , to which we shall again refer in Article XXIX. , in discussing the military character of these expeditions . It follows , then , that the safety of the army may be endangered by these distant interventions . The counterbalancing advantage is that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ since the scene of hostilities is so distant ; so that what may be a misfortune for the general may be , in a measure , an advantage to the state . In wars of this character the essentials are to secure a general who is both a statesman and a soldier ; to have clear stipulations with the allies as to the part to be taken by each in the principal operations ; finally , to agree upon an objective point which shall be in harmony with the common interests . By the neglect of these precautions , the greater number of coalitions have failed , or have maintained a difficult struggle with a power more united but weaker than the allies . The third kind of intervention , which consists in interfering with the whole force of the state and near to its frontiers , is more promising than the others . Austria had an opportunity of this character in 1807 , but failed to profit by it : she again had the opportunity in 1813 . Napoleon had just collected his forces in Saxony , when Austria , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into the struggle with two hundred thousand men , with almost perfect certainty of success . She regained in two months the Italian empire and her influence in Germany , which had been lost by fifteen years of disaster . In this intervention Austria had not only the political but also the military chances in her favor ,  --  a double result , combining the highest advantages . Her success was rendered more certain by the fact that while the theater was sufficiently near her frontiers to permit the greatest possible display of force , she at the same time interfered in a contest already in progress , upon which she entered with the whole of her resources and at the time most opportune for her . This double advantage is so decisive that it permits not only powerful monarchies , but even small states , to exercise a controlling influence when they know how to profit by it . Two examples may establish this . In 1552 , the Elector Maurice of Saxony boldly declared war against Charles V. , who was master of Spain , Italy , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and held France in his grasp . This movement carried the war into the Tyrol , and arrested the great conqueror in his career . In 1706 , the Duke of Savoy , Victor Amadeus , by declaring himself hostile to Louis XIV. , changed the state of affairs in Italy , and caused the recall of the French army from the banks of the Adige to the walls of Turin , where it encountered the great catastrophe which immortalized Prince Eugene . Enough has been said to illustrate the importance and effect of these opportune interventions : more illustrations might be given , but they could not add to the conviction of the reader . ARTICLE VI . Aggressive Wars for Conquest and other Reasons . There are two very different kinds of invasion : one attacks an adjoining state ; the other attacks a distant point , over intervening territory of great extent whose inhabitants may be neutral , doubtful , or hostile . Wars of conquest , unhappily , are often prosperous ,  --  as Alexander , Caesar , and Napoleon during a portion of his career , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in these wars , which can not be passed without incurring great disaster . Cambyses in Nubia , Darius in Scythia , Crassus and the Emperor Julian among the Parthians , and Napoleon in Russia , furnish bloody proofs of these truths .  --  The love of conquest , however , was not the only motive with Napoleon : his personal position , and his contest with England , urged him to enterprises the aim of which was to make him supreme . It is true that he loved war and its chances ; but he was also a victim to the necessity of succeeding in his efforts or of yielding to England . It might be said that he was sent into this world to teach generals and statesmen what they should avoid . His victories teach what may be accomplished by activity , boldness , and skill ; his disasters , what might have been avoided by prudence . A war of invasion without good reason  --  like that of Genghis Khan  --  is a crime against humanity ; but it may be excused , if not approved , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ motives . The invasions of Spain of 1808 and of 1823 differed equally in object and in results : the first was a cunning and wanton attack , which threatened the existence of the Spanish nation , and was fatal to its author ; the second , while combating dangerous principles , fostered the general interests of the country , and was the more readily brought to a successful termination because its object met with the approval of the majority of the people whose territory was invaded . These illustrations show that invasions are not necessarily all of the same character . The first contributed largely to the fall of Napoleon ; the second restored the relation between France and Spain , which ought never to have been changed . Let us hope that invasions may be rare . Still , it is better to attack than to be invaded ; and let us remember that the surest way to check the spirit of conquest and usurpation is to oppose it by intervention at the proper time . An invasion , to be successful , must , be proportioned in magnitude @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be overcome . An invasion against an exasperated people , ready for all sacrifices and likely to be aided by a powerful neighbor , is a dangerous enterprise , as was well proved by the war in Spain , ( 1808 , ) and by the wars of the Revolution in 1792 , 1793 , and 1794 . In these latter wars , if France was better prepared than Spain , she had no powerful ally , and she was attacked by all Europe upon both land and sea . Although the circumstances were different , the Russian invasion of Turkey developed , in some respects , the same symptoms of national resistance . The religious hatred of the Ottoman powerfully incited him to arms ; but the same motive was powerless among the Greeks , who were twice as numerous as the Turks . Had the interests of the Greeks and Turks been harmonized , as were those of Alsace with France , the united people would have been stronger , but they would have lacked the element of religious fanaticism . The war of 1828 proved that Turkey @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ troops were found , while in the interior all was weakness . When an invasion of a neighboring territory has nothing to fear from the inhabitants , the principles of strategy shape its course . The popular feeling rendered the invasions of Italy , Austria , and Prussia so prompt . ( These military points are treated of in Article XXIX . ) But when the invasion is distant and extensive territories intervene , its success will depend more upon diplomacy than upon strategy . The first step to insure success will be to secure the sincere and devoted alliance of a state adjoining the enemy , which will afford reinforcements of troops , and , what is still more important , give a secure base of operations , depots of supplies , and a safe refuge in case of disaster . The ally must have the same interest in success as the invaders , to render all this possible . Diplomacy , while almost decisive in distant expeditions , is not powerless in adjacent invasions ; for here a hostile intervention may arrest the most brilliant successes . The invasions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if Prussia had interfered . The invasion of the North of Germany in 1807 was , so to speak , permitted by Austria . That of Rumelia in 1829 might have ended in disaster , had not a wise statesmanship by negotiation obviated all chance of intervention . ARTICLE VII . Wars of Opinion . Although wars of opinion , national wars , and civil wars are sometimes confounded , they differ enough to require separate notice . Wars of opinion may be intestine , both intestine and foreign , and , lastly , ( which , however , is rare , ) they may be foreign or exterior without being intestine or civil . Wars of opinion between two states belong also to the class of wars of intervention ; for they result either from doctrines which one party desires to propagate among its neighbors , or from dogmas which it desires to crush ,  --  in both cases leading to intervention . Although originating in religious or political dogmas , these wars are most deplorable ; for , like national wars , they enlist the worst passions , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Islamism , the Crusades , the Thirty Years ' War , the wars of the League , present nearly the same characteristics . Often religion is the pretext to obtain political power , and the war is not really one of dogmas . The successors of Mohammed cared more to extend their empire than to preach the Koran , and Philip II. , bigot as he was , did not sustain the League in France for the purpose of advancing the Roman Church . We agree with M. Ancelot that Louis IX. , when he went on a crusade in Egypt , thought more of the commerce of the Indies than of gaining possession of the Holy Sepulcher . The dogma sometimes is not only a pretext , but is a powerful ally ; for it excites the ardor of the people , and also creates a party . For instance , the Swedes in the Thirty Years ' War , and Philip II . in France , had allies in the country more powerful than their armies . It may , however , happen , as in the Crusades @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which the war is waged , instead of friends , finds only bitter enemies in the country invaded ; and then the contest becomes fearful . The chances of support and resistance in wars of political opinions are about equal . It may be recollected how in 1792 associations of fanatics thought it possible to propagate throughout Europe the famous declaration of the rights of man , and how governments became justly alarmed , and rushed to arms probably with the intention of only forcing the lava of this volcano back into its crater and there extinguishing it . The means were not fortunate ; for war and aggression are inappropriate measures for arresting an evil which lies wholly in the human passions , excited in a temporary paroxysm , of less duration as it is the more violent . Time is the true remedy for all bad passions and for all anarchical doctrines . A civilized nation may bear the yoke of a factious and unrestrained multitude for a short interval ; but these storms soon pass away , and reason resumes her sway . To attempt to restrain such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ restrain the explosion of a mine when the powder has already been ignited : it is far better to await the explosion and afterward fill up the crater than to try to prevent it and to perish in the attempt . After a profound study of the Revolution , I am convinced that , if the Girondists and National Assembly had not been threatened by foreign armaments , they would never have dared to lay their sacrilegious hands upon the feeble but venerable head of Louis XVI . The Girondists would never have been crushed by the Mountain but for the reverses of Dumouriez and the threats of invasion . And if they had been permitted to clash and quarrel with each other to their hearts ' content , it is probable that , instead of giving place to the terrible Convention , the Assembly would slowly have returned to the restoration of good , temperate , monarchical doctrines , in accordance with the necessities and the immemorial traditions of the French . In a military view these wars are fearful , since the invading force not only is met by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the attacks of an exasperated people . It may be said that the violence of one party will necessarily create support for the invaders by the formation of another and opposite one ; but , if the exasperated party possesses all the public resources , the armies , the forts , the arsenals , and if it is supported by a large majority of the people , of what avail will be the support of the faction which possesses no such means ? What service did one hundred thousand Vendeans and one hundred thousand Federalists do for the Coalition in 1793 ? History contains but a single example of a struggle like that of the Revolution ; and it appears to clearly demonstrate the danger of attacking an intensely-excited nation . However the bad management of the military operations was one cause of the unexpected result , and before deducing any certain maxims from this war , we should ascertain what would have been the result if after the flight of Dumouriez , instead of destroying and capturing fortresses , the allies had informed the commanders of those fortresses that they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her brave armies , and had marched on Paris with two hundred thousand men . They might have restored the monarchy ; and , again , they might never have returned , at least without the protection of an equal force on their retreat to the Rhine . It is difficult to decide this , since the experiment was never made , and as all would have depended upon the course of the French nation and the army . The problem thus presents two equally grave solutions . The campaign of 1793 gave one ; whether the other might have been obtained , it is difficult to say . Experiment alone could have determined it . The military precepts for such wars are nearly the same as for national wars , differing , however , in a vital point . In national wars the country should be occupied and subjugated , the fortified places besieged and reduced , and the armies destroyed ; whereas in wars of opinion it is of less importance to subjugate the country ; here great efforts should be made to gain the end speedily , without @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any acts which might alarm the nation for its independence or the integrity of its territory . The war in Spain in 1823 is an example which may be cited in favor of this course in opposition to that of the Revolution . It is true that the conditions were slightly different ; for the French army of 1792 was made up of more solid elements than that of the Radicals of the Isla de Leon . The war of the Revolution was at once a war of opinion , a national war , and a civil war ,  --  while , if the first war in Spain in 1808 was thoroughly a national war , that of 1823 was a partial struggle of opinions without the element of nationality ; and hence the enormous difference in the results . Moreover , the expedition of the Duke of Angouleme was well carried out . Instead of attacking fortresses , he acted in conformity to the above-mentioned precepts . Pushing on rapidly to the Ebro , he there divided his forces , to seize , at their sources , all the elements @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ safely do , since they were sustained by a majority of the inhabitants . If he had followed the instructions of the Ministry , to proceed methodically to the conquest of the country and the reduction of the fortresses between the Pyrenees and the Ebro , in order to provide a base of operations , he would perhaps have failed in his mission , or at least made the war a long and bloody one , by exciting the national spirit by an occupation of the country similar to that of 1807 . Emboldened by the hearty welcome of the people , he comprehended that it was a political operation rather than a military one , and that it behooved him to consummate it rapidly . His conduct , so different from that of the allies in 1793 , deserves careful attention from all charged with similar missions . In three months the army was under the walls of Cadiz . If the events now transpiring in the Peninsula prove that statesmanship was not able to profit by success in order to found a suitable and solid order of things , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commanders , but in the Spanish government , which , yielding to the counsel of violent reactionaries , was unable to rise to the height of its mission . The arbiter between two great hostile interests , Ferdinand blindly threw himself into the arms of the party which professed a deep veneration for the throne , but which intended to use the royal authority for the furtherance of its own ends , regardless of consequences . The nation remained divided in two hostile camps , which it would not have been impossible to calm and reconcile in time . These camps came anew into collision , as I predicted in Verona in 1823 ,  --  a striking lesson , by which no one is disposed to profit in that beautiful and unhappy land , although history is not wanting in examples to prove that violent reactions , any more than revolutions , are not elements with which to construct and consolidate . May God grant that from this frightful conflict may emerge a strong and respected monarchy , equally separated from all factions , and based upon a disciplined army as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  a monarchy capable of rallying to its support this incomprehensible Spanish nation , which , with merits not less extraordinary than its faults , was always a problem for those who were in the best position to know it . ARTICLE VIII . National Wars . National wars , to which we have referred in speaking of those of invasion , are the most formidable of all . This name can only be applied to such as are waged against a united people , or a great majority of them , filled with a noble ardor and determined to sustain their independence : then every step is disputed , the army holds only its camp-ground , its supplies can only be obtained at the point of the sword , and its convoys are everywhere threatened or captured . The spectacle of a spontaneous uprising of a nation is rarely seen ; and , though there be in it something grand and noble which commands our admiration , the consequences are so terrible that , for the sake of humanity , we ought to hope never to see it . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accordance with the institutions of the state and directed by the government . This uprising may be produced by the most opposite causes . The serfs may rise in a body at the call of the government , and their masters , affected by a noble love of their sovereign and country , may set them the example and take the command of them ; and , similarly , a fanatical people may arm under the appeal of its priests ; or a people enthusiastic in its political opinions , or animated by a sacred love of its institutions , may rush to meet the enemy in defense of all it holds most dear . The control of the sea is of much importance in the results of a national invasion . If the people possess a long stretch of coast , and are masters of the sea or in alliance with a power which controls it , their power of resistance is quintupled , not only on account of the facility of feeding the insurrection and of alarming the enemy on all the points he may occupy , but still @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ way of his procuring supplies by the sea . The nature of the country may be such as to contribute to the facility of a national defense . In mountainous countries the people are always most formidable ; next to these are countries covered with extensive forests . The resistance of the Swiss to Austria and to the Duke of Burgundy , that of the Catalans in 1712 and in 1809 , the difficulties encountered by the Russians in the subjugation of the tribes of the Caucasus , and , finally , the reiterated efforts of the Tyrolese , clearly demonstrate that the inhabitants of mountainous regions have always resisted for a longer time than those of the plains ,  --  which is due as much to the difference in character and customs as to the difference in the natural features of the countries . Defiles and large forests , as well as rocky regions , favor this kind of defense ; and the Bocage of La Vendee , so justly celebrated , proves that any country , even if it be only traversed by large hedges and ditches or canals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the path of an army in wars of opinions , as well as in national wars , are very great , and render the mission of the general conducting them very difficult . The events just mentioned , the contest of the Netherlands with Philip II . and that of the Americans with the English , furnish evident proofs of this ; but the much more extraordinary struggle of La Vendee with the victorious Republic , those of Spain , Portugal , and the Tyrol against Napoleon , and , finally , those of the Morea against the Turks , and of Navarre against the armies of Queen Christina , are still more striking illustrations . The difficulties are particularly great when the people are supported by a considerable nucleus of disciplined troops . The invader has only an army : his adversaries have an army , and a people wholly or almost wholly in arms , and making means of resistance out of every thing , each individual of whom conspires against the common enemy ; even the non-combatants have an interest in his ruin and accelerate it by every @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but that upon which he encamps ; outside the limits of his camp every thing is hostile and multiplies a thousandfold the difficulties he meets at every step . These obstacles become almost insurmountable when the country is difficult . Each armed inhabitant knows the smallest paths and their connections ; he finds everywhere a relative or friend who aids him ; the commanders also know the country , and , learning immediately the slightest movement on the part of the invader , can adopt the best measures to defeat his projects ; while the latter , without information of their movements , and not in a condition to send out detachments to gain it , having no resource but in his bayonets , and certain safety only in the concentration of his columns , is like a blind man : his combinations are failures ; and when , after the most carefully-concerted movements and the most rapid and fatiguing marches , he thinks he is about to accomplish his aim and deal a terrible blow , he finds no signs of the enemy but his camp-fires : so that while @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his adversary is on his line of communications , destroys the detachments left to guard it , surprises his convoys , his depots , and carries on a war so disastrous for the invader that he must inevitably yield after a time . In Spain I was a witness of two terrible examples of this kind . When Ney 's corps replaced Soult 's at Corunna , I had camped the companies of the artillery-train between Betanzos and Corunna , in the midst of four brigades distant from the camp from two to three leagues , and no Spanish forces had been seen within fifty miles ; Soult still occupied Santiago de Compostela , the division Maurice-Mathieu was at Ferrol and Lugo , Marchand 's at Corunna and Betanzos : nevertheless , one fine night the companies of the train  --  men and horses  --  disappeared , and we were never able to discover what became of them : a solitary wounded corporal escaped to report that the peasants , led by their monks and priests , had thus made away with them . Four months afterward , Ney with a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ valley of the Navia , while Kellermann debouched from Leon by the Oviedo road . A part of the corps of La Romana which was guarding the Asturias marched behind the very heights which inclose the valley of the Navia , at most but a league from our columns , without the marshal knowing a word of it : when he was entering Gijon , the army of La Romana attacked the center of the regiments of the division Marchand , which , being scattered to guard Galicia , barely escaped , and that only by the prompt return of the marshal to Lugo . This war presented a thousand incidents as striking as this . All the gold of Mexico could not have procured reliable information for the French ; what was given was but a lure to make them fall more readily into snares . No army , however disciplined , can contend successfully against such a system applied to a great nation , unless it be strong enough to hold all the essential points of the country , cover its communications , and at the same time furnish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may present himself . If this enemy has a regular army of respectable size to be a nucleus around which to rally the people , what force will be sufficient to be superior everywhere , and to assure the safety of the long lines of communication against numerous bodies ? The Peninsular War should be carefully studied , to learn all the obstacles which a general and his brave troops may encounter in the occupation or conquest of a country whose people are all in arms . What efforts of patience , courage , and resignation did it not cost the troops of Napoleon , Massena , Soult , Ney , and Suchet to sustain themselves for six years against three or four hundred thousand armed Spaniards and Portuguese supported by the regular armies of Wellington , Beresford , Blake , La Romana , Cuesta , Castanos , Reding , and Ballasteros ! If success be possible in such a war , the following general course will be most likely to insure it ,  --  viz. : make a display of a mass of troops proportioned to the obstacles and resistance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ every possible way , exhaust them by time and patience , display courtesy , gentleness , and severity united , and , particularly , deal justly . The examples of Henry IV . in the wars of the League , of Marshal Berwick in Catalonia , of Suchet in Aragon and Valencia , of Hoche in La Vendee , are models of their kind , which may be employed according to circumstances with equal success . The admirable order and discipline of the armies of Diebitsch and Paskevitch in the late war were also models , and were not a little conducive to the success of their enterprises . The immense obstacles encountered by an invading force in these wars have led some speculative persons to hope that there should never be any other kind , since then wars would become more rare , and , conquest being also more difficult , would be less a temptation to ambitious leaders . This reasoning is rather plausible than solid ; for , to admit all its consequences , it would be necessary always to be able to induce the people to take @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ us to be convinced that there would be in the future no wars but those of conquest , and that all legitimate though secondary wars , which are only to maintain the political equilibrium or defend the public interests , should never occur again : otherwise , how could it be known when and how to excite the people to a national war ? For example , if one hundred thousand Germans crossed the Rhine and entered France , originally with the intention of preventing the conquest of Belgium by France , and without any other ambitious project , would it be a case where the whole population  --  men , women , and children  --  of Alsace , Lorraine , Champagne , and Burgundy , should rush to arms ? to make a Saragossa of every walled town , to bring about , by way of reprisals , murder , pillage , and incendiarism throughout the country ? If all this be not done , and the Germans , in consequence of some success , should occupy these provinces , who can say that they might not afterward seek to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they had never contemplated it ? The difficulty of answering these two questions would seem to argue in favor of national wars . But is there no means of repelling such an invasion without bringing about an uprising of the whole population and a war of extermination ? Is there no mean between these contests between the people and the old regular method of war between permanent armies ? Will it not be sufficient , for the efficient defense of the country , to organize a militia , or landwehr , which , uniformed and called by their governments into service , would regulate the part the people should take in the war , and place just limits to its barbarities ? I answer in the affirmative ; and , applying this mixed system to the cases stated above , I will guarantee that fifty thousand regular French troops , supported by the National Guards of the East , would get the better of this German army which had crossed the Vosges ; for , reduced to fifty thousand men by many detachments , upon nearing the Meuse or arriving in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hands . To attain this mean , we have laid it down as a necessity that good national reserves be prepared for the army ; which will be less expensive in peace and will insure the defense of the country in war . This system was used by France in 1792 , imitated by Austria in 1809 , and by the whole of Germany in 1813 . I sum up this discussion by asserting that , without being a utopian philanthropist , or a condottieri , a person may desire that wars of extermination may be banished from the code of nations , and that the defenses of nations by disciplined militia , with the aid of good political alliances , may be sufficient to insure their independence . As a soldier , preferring loyal and chivalrous warfare to organized assassination , if it be necessary to make a choice , I acknowledge that my prejudices are in favor of the good old times when the French and English Guards courteously invited each other to fire first ,  --  as at Fontenoy ,  --  preferring them to the frightful epoch when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ murder of isolated soldiers . ARTICLE IX . Civil Wars , and Wars of Religion . Intestine wars , when not connected with a foreign quarrel , are generally the result of a conflict of opinions , of political or religious sectarianism . In the Middle Ages they were more frequently the collisions of feudal parties . Religious wars are above all the most deplorable . We can understand how a government may find it necessary to use force against its own subjects in order to crush out factions which would weaken the authority of the throne and the national strength ; but that it should murder its citizens to compel them to say their prayers in French or Latin , or to recognize the supremacy of a foreign pontiff , is difficult of conception . Never was a king more to be pitied than Louis XIV. , who persecuted a million of industrious Protestants , who had put upon the throne his own Protestant ancestor . Wars of fanaticism are horrible when mingled with exterior wars , and they are also frightful when they are family quarrels . The history @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an eternal lesson for nations and kings . It is difficult to believe that a people so noble and chivalrous in the time of Francis I. should in twenty years have fallen into so deplorable a state of brutality . To give maxims in such wars would be absurd . There is one rule upon which all thoughtful men will be agreed : that is , to unite the two parties or sects to drive the foreigners from the soil , and afterward to reconcile by treaty the conflicting claims or rights . Indeed , the intervention of a third power in a religious dispute can only be with ambitious views . Governments may in good faith intervene to prevent the spreading of a political disease whose principles threaten social order ; and , although these fears are generally exaggerated and are often mere pretexts , it is possible that a state may believe its own institutions menaced . But in religious disputes this is never the case ; and Philip II . could have had no other object in interfering in the affairs of the League than to subject France @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ X. Double Wars , and the Danger of Undertaking Two Wars at Once . The celebrated maxim of the Romans , not to undertake two great wars at the same time , is so well known and so well appreciated as to spare the necessity of demonstrating its wisdom . A government maybe compelled to maintain a war against two neighboring states ; but it will be extremely unfortunate if it does not find an ally to come to its aid , with a view to its own safety and the maintenance of the political equilibrium . It will seldom be the case that the nations allied against it will have the same interest in the war and will enter into it with all their resources ; and , if one is only an auxiliary , it will be an ordinary war . Louis XIV. , Frederick the Great , the Emperor Alexander , and Napoleon , sustained gigantic struggles against united Europe . When such contests arise from voluntary aggressions , they are proof of a capital error on the part of the state which invites them ; but if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ met by seeking alliances , or by opposing such means of resistance as shall establish something like equality between the strength of the parties . The great coalition against Louis XIV. , nominally arising from his designs on Spain , had its real origin in previous aggressions which had alarmed his neighbors . To the combined forces of Europe he could only oppose the faithful alliance of the Elector of Bavaria , and the more equivocal one of the Duke of Savoy , who , indeed , was not slow in adding to the number of his enemies . Frederick , with only the aid of the subsidies of England , and fifty thousand auxiliaries from six different states , sustained a war against the three most powerful monarchies of Europe : the division and folly of his opponents were his best friends . Both these wars , as well as that sustained by Alexander in 1812 , it was almost impossible to avoid . France had the whole of Europe on its hands in 1793 , in consequence of the extravagant provocations of the Jacobins , and the Utopian ideas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the English fleets they would defy all the kings in the world . The result of these absurd calculations was a frightful upheaval of Europe , from which France miraculously escaped . Napoleon is , to a certain degree , the only modern sovereign who has voluntarily at the same time undertaken two , and even three , formidable wars ,  --  with Spain , with England , and with Russia ; but in the last case he expected the aid of Austria and Prussia , to say nothing of that of Turkey and Sweden , upon which he counted with too much certainty ; so that the enterprise was not so adventurous on his part as has been generally supposed . It will be observed that there is a great distinction between a war made against a single state which is aided by a third acting as an auxiliary , and two wars conducted at the same time against two powerful nations in opposite quarters , who employ all their forces and resources . For instance , the double contest of Napoleon in 1809 against Austria and Spain aided @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with Austria assisted by an auxiliary force of a given strength . These latter contests belong to ordinary wars . It follows , then , in general , that double wars should be avoided if possible , and , if cause of war be given by two states , it is more prudent to dissimulate or neglect the wrongs suffered from one of them , until a proper opportunity for redressing them shall arrive . The rule , however , is not without exception : the respective forces , the localities , the possibility of finding allies to restore , in a measure , equality of strength between the parties , are circumstances which will influence a government so threatened . We now have fulfilled our task , in noting both the danger and the means of remedying it . CHAPTER II . MILITARY POLICY . We have already explained what we understand by this title . It embraces the moral combinations relating to the operations of armies . If the political considerations which we have just discussed be also moral , there are others which influence , in a certain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ neither to diplomacy , strategy , nor tactics . We include these under the head of Military Policy . Military policy may be said to embrace all the combinations of any projected war , except those relating to the diplomatic art and strategy ; and , as their number is considerable , a separate article can not be assigned to each without enlarging too much the limits of this work , and without deviating from my intention ,  --  which is , not to give a treatise on theses subjects , but to point out their relations to military operations . Indeed , in this class we may place the passions of the nation to be fought , their military system , their immediate means and their reserves , their financial resources , the attachment they bear to their government or their institutions , the character of the executive , the characters and military abilities of the commanders of their armies , the influence of cabinet councils or councils of war at the capital upon their operations , the system of war in favor with their staff , the established force @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and statistics of the state which is to be invaded , and , finally , the resources and obstacles of every kind likely to be met with , all of which are included neither in diplomacy nor in strategy . There are no fixed rules on such subjects , except that the government should neglect nothing in obtaining a knowledge of these details , and that it is indispensable to take them into consideration in the arrangement of all plans . We propose to sketch the principal points which ought to guide in this sort of combinations . ARTICLE XI . Military Statistics and Geography . By the first of these sciences we understand the most thorough knowledge possible of the elements of power and military resources of the enemy with whom we are called upon to contend ; the second consists in the topographical and strategic description of the theater of war , with all the obstacles , natural or artificial , to be encountered , and the examination of the permanent decisive points which may be presented in the whole extent of the frontier or throughout the extent of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commanding general and his chief of staff should be afforded this information , under the penalty of cruel miscalculations in their plans , as happens frequently in our day , despite the great strides civilized nations have taken in statistical , diplomatic , geographical , and topographical sciences . I will cite two examples of which I was cognizant . In 1796 , Moreau 's army , entering the Black Forest , expected to find terrible mountains , frightful defiles and forests , and was greatly surprised to discover , after climbing the declivities of the plateau that slope to the Rhine , that these , with their spurs , were the only mountains , and that the country , from the sources of the Danube to Donauwerth , was a rich and level plain . The second example was in 1813 . Napoleon and his whole army supposed the interior of Bohemia to be very mountainous ,  --  whereas there is no district in Europe more level , after the girdle of mountains surrounding it has been crossed , which may be done in a single march . All European @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Balkan and the Turkish force in the interior . It seemed that it was given out at Constantinople that this province was an almost impregnable barrier and the palladium of the empire ,  --  an error which I , having lived in the Alps , did not entertain . Other prejudices , not less deeply rooted , have led to the belief that a people all the individuals of which are constantly armed would constitute a formidable militia and would defend themselves to the last extremity . Experience has proved that the old regulations which placed the elite of the Janissaries in the frontier-cities of the Danube made the population of those cities more warlike than the inhabitants of the interior . In fact , the projects of reform of the Sultan Mahmoud required the overthrow of the old system , and there was no time to replace it by the new : so that the empire was defenseless . Experience has constantly proved that a mere multitude of brave men armed to the teeth make neither a good army nor a national defense . Let us return to the necessity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ empire . These sciences are not set forth in treatises , and are yet to be developed . Lloyd , who wrote an essay upon them , in describing the frontiers of the great states of Europe , was not fortunate in his maxims and predictions . He saw obstacles everywhere ; he represents as impregnable the Austrian frontier on the Inn , between the Tyrol and Passau , where Napoleon and Moreau maneuvered and triumphed with armies of one hundred and fifty thousand men in 1800 , 1805 , and 1809 . But , if these sciences are not publicly taught , the archives of the European staff must necessarily possess many documents valuable for instruction in them ,  --  at least for the special staff school . Awaiting the time when some studious officer , profiting by those published and unpublished documents , shall present Europe with a good military and strategic geography , we may , thanks to the immense progress of topography of late years , partially supply the want of it by the excellent charts published in all European countries within the last twenty years . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its infancy : excepting the semi-topographical map of Cassini , the works of Bakenberg alone merited the name . The Austrian and Prussian staff schools , however , were good , and have since borne fruit . The charts published recently at Vienna , at Berlin , Munich , Stuttgart , and Paris , as well as those of the institute of Herder at Fribourg , promise to future generals immense resources unknown to their predecessors . Military statistics is not much better known than geography . We have but vague and superficial statements , from which the strength of armies and navies is conjectured , and also the revenue supposed to be possessed by a state ,  --  which is far from being the knowledge necessary to plan operations . Our object here is not to discuss thoroughly these important subjects , but to indicate them , as facilitating success in military enterprises . ARTICLE XII . Other Causes which exercise an Influence upon the Success of a War . As the excited passions of a people are of themselves always a powerful enemy , both the general and his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ We have nothing to add to what has been said on this point under the head of national wars . On the other hand , the general should do every thing to electrify his own soldiers , and to impart to them the same enthusiasm which he endeavors to repress in his adversaries . All armies are alike susceptible of this spirit : the springs of action and means , only , vary with the national character . Military eloquence is one means , and has been the subject of many a treatise . The proclamations of Napoleon and of Paskevitch , the addresses of the ancients to their soldiers , and those of Suwaroff to men of still greater simplicity , are models of their different kinds . The eloquence of the Spanish Juntas , and the miracles of the Madonna del Pilar , led to the same results by very different means . In general , a cherished cause , and a general who inspires confidence by previous success , are powerful means of electrifying an army and conducing to victory . Some dispute the advantages of this enthusiasm @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unmistakable advantages and disadvantages . Enthusiasm impels to the performance of great actions : the difficulty is in maintaining it constantly ; and , when discouragement succeeds it , disorder easily results . The greater or less activity and boldness of the commanders of the armies are elements of success or failure , which can not be submitted to rules . A cabinet and a commander ought to consider the intrinsic value of their troops , and that resulting from their organization as compared with that of the enemy . A Russian general , commanding the most solidly organized troops in Europe , need not fear to undertake any thing against undisciplined and unorganized troops in an open country , however brave may be its individuals. 1 Concert in action makes strength ; order produces this concert , and discipline insures order ; and without discipline and order no success is possible . The Russian general would not be so bold before European troops having the same instruction and nearly the same discipline as his own . Finally , a general may attempt with a Mack as his antagonist what it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ action of a cabinet in reference to the control of armies influences the boldness of their operations . A general whose genius and hands are tied by an Aulic council five hundred miles distant can not be a match for one who has liberty of action , other things being equal . As to superiority in skill , it is one of the most certain pledges of victory , all other things being equal . It is true that great generals have often been beaten by inferior ones ; but an exception does not make a rule . An order misunderstood , a fortuitous event , may throw into the hands of the enemy all the chances of success which a skillful general had prepared for himself by his maneuvers . But these are risks which can not be foreseen nor avoided . Would it be fair on that account to deny the influence of science and principles in ordinary affairs ? This risk even proves the triumph of the principles , for it happens that they are applied accidentally by the army against which it was intended to apply them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in admitting this truth , it may be said that it is an argument against science ; this objection is not well founded , for a general 's science consists in providing for his side all the chances possible to be foreseen , and of course can not extend to the caprices of destiny . Even if the number of battles gained by skillful maneuvers did not exceed the number due to accident , it would not invalidate my assertion . If the skill of a general is one of the surest elements of victory , it will readily be seen that the judicious selection of generals is one of the most delicate points in the science of government and one of the most essential parts of the military policy of a state . Unfortunately , this choice is influenced by so many petty passions , that chance , rank , age , favor , party spirit , jealousy , will have as much to do with it as the public interest and justice . This subject is so important that we will devote to it a separate article . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ troops may be of the greatest value , in destroying convoys , intercepting communication , &c.,; and may  --  as in the case of the French in 1812  --  make a retreat very disastrous . ARTICLE XIII . Military Institutions . One of the most important points of the military policy of a state is the nature of its military institutions . A good army commanded by a general of ordinary capacity may accomplish great feats ; a bad army with a good general may do equally well ; but an army will certainly do a great deal more if its own superiority and that of the general be combined . Twelve essential conditions concur in making a perfect army :  --  1 . To have a good recruiting-system ; 2 . A good organization ; 8 . A well-organized system of national reserves ; 4 . Good instruction of officers and men in drill and internal duties as well as those of a campaign ; 5 . A strict but not humiliating discipline , and a spirit of subordination and punctuality , based on conviction rather than on the formalities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rewards , suitable to excite emulation ; 7 . The special arms of engineering and artillery to be well instructed ; 8 . An armament superior , if possible , to that of the enemy , both as to defensive and offensive arms ; 9 . A general staff capable of applying these elements , and having an organization calculated to advance the theoretical and practical education of its officers ; 10 . A good system for the commissariat , hospitals , and of general administration ; 11 . A good system of assignment to command , and of directing the principal operations of war ; 12 . Exciting and keeping alive the military spirit of the people . To these conditions might be added a good system of clothing and equipment ; for , if this be of less direct importance on the field of battle , it nevertheless has a bearing upon the preservation of the troops ; and it is always a great object to economize the lives and health of veterans . None of the above twelve conditions can be neglected without grave inconvenience . A fine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reserves , and unskillfully led , suffered Prussia to fall in fifteen days under the attacks of Napoleon . On the other hand , it has often been seen of how much advantage it is for a state to have a good army . It was the care and skill of Philip and Alexander in forming and instructing their phalanxes and rendering them easy to move , and capable of the most rapid maneuvers , which enabled the Macedonians to subjugate India and Persia with a handful of choice troops . It was the excessive love of his father for soldiers which procured for Frederick the Great an army capable of executing his great enterprises . A government which neglects its army under any pretext whatever is thus culpable in the eyes of posterity , since it prepares humiliation for its standards and its country , instead of by a different course preparing for it success . We are far from saying that a government should sacrifice every thing to the army , for this would be absurd ; but it ought to make the army the object of its constant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ education it will be very difficult for him to fulfill his duty in this respect . In this case  --  which is , unfortunately , of too frequent occurrence  --  the defect must be supplied by wise institutions , at the head of which are to be placed a good system of the general staff , a good system of recruiting , and a good system of national reserves . There are , indeed , forms of government which do not always allow the executive the power of adopting the best systems . If the armies of the Roman and French republics , and those of Louis XIV . and Frederick of Prussia , prove that a good military system and a skillful direction of operations may be found in governments the most opposite in principle , it can not be doubted that , in the present state of the world , the form of government exercises a great influence in the development of the military strength of a nation and the value of its troops . When the control of the public funds is in the hands of those affected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so over-scrupulous and penurious as to take all power to carry on the war from the executive , whom very many people seem to regard as a public enemy rather than as a chief devoted to all the national interests . The abuse of badly-understood public liberties may also contribute to this deplorable result . Then it will be impossible for the most far-sighted administration to prepare in advance for a great war , whether it be demanded by the most important interests of the country at some future time , or whether it be immediate and necessary to resist sudden aggressions . In the futile hope of rendering themselves popular , may not the members of an elective legislature , the majority of whom can not be Richelieus , Pitts , or Louvois , in a misconceived spirit of economy , allow the institutions necessary for a large , well-appointed , and disciplined army to fall into decay ? Deceived by the seductive fallacies of an exaggerated philanthropy , may they not end in convincing themselves and their constituents that the pleasures of peace are always preferable to the more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that states should always have the hand upon the sword and always be established on a war-footing : such a condition of things would be a scourge for the human race , and would not be possible , except under conditions not existing in all countries . I simply mean that civilized governments ought always to be ready to carry on a war in a short time ,  --  that they should never be found unprepared . And the wisdom of their institutions may do as much in this work of preparation as foresight in their administration and the perfection of their system of military policy . If , in ordinary times , under the rule of constitutional forms , governments subjected to all the changes of an elective legislature are less suitable than others for the creation or preparation of a formidable military power , nevertheless , in great crises these deliberative bodies have sometimes attained very different results , and have concurred in developing to the full extent the national strength . Still , the small number of such instances in history makes rather a list of exceptional cases @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under the necessity of conquering or perishing , has profited by the extraordinary enthusiasm of the nation to save the country and themselves at the same time by resorting to the most terrible measures and by calling to its aid an unlimited dictatorial power , which overthrew both liberty and law under the pretext of defending them . Here it is the dictatorship , or the absolute and monstrous usurpation of power , rather than the form of the deliberative assembly , which is the true cause of the display of energy . What happened in the Convention after the fall of Robespierre and the terrible Committee of Public Safety proves this , as well as the Chambers of 1815 . Now , if the dictatorial power , placed in the hands of a few , has always been a plank of safety in great crises , it seems natural to draw the conclusion that countries controlled by elective assemblies must be politically and militarily weaker than pure monarchies , although in other respects they present decided advantages . It is particularly necessary to watch over the preservation of armies in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are most likely to degenerate . It is important to foster the military spirit in the armies , and to exercise them in great maneuvers , which , though but faintly resembling those of actual war , still are of decided advantage in preparing them for war . It is not less important to prevent them from becoming effeminate , which may be done by employing them in labors useful for the defense of the country . The isolation in garrisons of troops by regiments is one of the worst possible systems , and the Russian and Prussian system of divisions and permanent corps d'armee seems to be much preferable . In general terms , the Russian army now may be presented as a model in many respects ; and if in many points its customs would be useless and impracticable elsewhere , it must be admitted that many good institutions might well be copied from it . As to rewards and promotion , it is essential to respect long service , and at the same time to open a way for merit . Three-fourths of the promotions in each grade @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ remaining fourth reserved for those distinguished for merit and zeal . On the contrary , in time of war the regular order of promotion should be suspended , or at least reduced to a third of the promotions , leaving the other two-thirds for brilliant conduct and marked services . The superiority of armament may increase the chances of success in war : it does not , of itself , gain battles , but it is a great element of success . Every one can recall how nearly fatal to the French at Bylau and Marengo was their great inferiority in artillery . We may also refer to the great gain of the heavy French cavalry in the resumption of the cuirass , which they had for so long thrown aside . Every one knows the great advantage of the lance . Doubtless , as skirmishers lancers would not be more effectual than hussars , but when charging in line it is a very different affair . How many brave cavalry soldiers have been the victims of the prejudice they bore against the lance because it was a little more trouble @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is still susceptible of great improvements ; the state which shall take the lead in making them will secure great advantages . There is little left to be desired in artillery ; but the offensive and defensive arms of infantry and cavalry deserve the attention of a provident government . The new inventions of the last twenty years seem to threaten a great revolution in army organization , armament , and tactics . Strategy alone will remain unaltered , with its principles the same as under the Scipios and Caesars , Frederick and Napoleon , since they are independent of the nature of the arms and the organization of the troops . The means of destruction are approaching perfection with frightful rapidity. 2 The Congreve rockets , the effect and direction of which it is said the Austrians can now regulate ,  --  the shrapnel howitzers , which throw a stream of canister as far as the range of a bullet ,  --  the Perkins steam-guns , which vomit forth as many balls as a battalion ,  --  will multiply the chances of destruction , as though the hecatombs of Eylau @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to decimate the European races . If governments do not combine in a congress to proscribe these inventions of destruction , there will be no course left but to make the half of an army consist of cavalry with cuirasses , in order to capture with great rapidity these machines ; and the infantry , even , will be obliged to resume its armor of the Middle Ages , without which a battalion will be destroyed before engaging the enemy . We may then see again the famous men-at-arms all covered with armor , and horses also will require the same protection . While there is doubt about the realization of these fears , it is , however , certain that artillery and pyrotechny have made advances which should lead us to think of modifying the deep formation so much abused by Napoleon . We will recur to this in the chapter on Tactics . We will here recapitulate , in a few words , the essential bases of the military policy which ought to be adopted by a wise government . 1 . The prince should receive an education both @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of administrative ability in his councils than good statesmen or soldiers ; and hence he should be both of the latter himself . 2 . If the prince in person does not lead his armies , it will be his first duty and his nearest interest to have his place well supplied . He must confide the glory of his reign and the safety of his states to the general most capable of directing his armies . 3 . The permanent army should not only always be upon a respectable footing , but it should be capable of being doubled , if necessary , by reserves , which should always be prepared . Its instruction and discipline should be of a high character , as well as its organization ; its armament should at least be as good as that of its neighbors , and superior if possible . 4 . The materiel of war should also be upon the best footing , and abundant . The reserves should be stored in the depots and arsenals . National jealousy should not be allowed to prevent the adoption of all improvements in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is necessary that the study of the military sciences should be encouraged and rewarded , as well as courage and zeal . The scientific military corps should be esteemed and honored : this is the only way of securing for the army men of merit and genius . 6 . The general staff in times of peace should be employed in labors preparatory for all possible contingencies of war . Its archives should be furnished with numerous historical details of the past , and with all statistical , geographical , topographical , and strategic treatises and papers for the present and future . Hence it is essential that the chief of this corps , with a number of its officers , should be permanently stationed at the capital in time of peace , and the war-office should be simply that of the general staff , except that there should be a secret department for those documents to be concealed from the subalterns of the corps. 7 . Nothing should be neglected to acquire a knowledge of the geography and the military statistics of other states , so as to know their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well as the strategic advantages of the two parties . Distinguished officers should be employed in these scientific labors , and should be rewarded when they acquit themselves with marked ability . 8 . When a war is decided upon , it becomes necessary to prepare , not an entire plan of operations ,  --  which is always impossible ,  --  but a system of operations in reference to a prescribed aim ; to provide a base , as well as all the material means necessary to guarantee the success of the enterprise . 9 . The system of operations ought to be determined by the object of the war , the kind of forces of the enemy , the nature and resources of the country , the characters of the nations and of their chiefs , whether of the army or of the state . In fine , it should be based upon the moral and material means of attack or defense which the enemy may be able to bring into action ; and it ought to take into consideration the probable alliances that may obtain in favor of or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The financial condition of a nation is to be weighed among the chances of a war . Still , it would be dangerous to constantly attribute to this condition the importance attached to it by Frederick the Great in the history of his times . He was probably right at his epoch , when armies were chiefly recruited by voluntary enlistment , when the last crown brought the last soldier ; but when national levies are well organised money will no longer exercise the same influence ,  --  at least for one or two campaigns . If England has proved that money will procure soldiers and auxiliaries , France has proved that love of country and honor are equally productive , and that , when necessary , war may be made to support war . France , indeed , in the fertility of her soil and the enthusiasm of her leaders , possessed sources of temporary power which can not be adopted as a general base of a system ; but the results of its efforts were none the less striking . Every year the numerous reports of the cabinet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that France was about to break down for want of money , while Napoleon had 200,000,000 francs3 in the vaults of the Tuileries , all the while meeting the expenses of the government , including the pay of his armies . A power might be overrunning with gold and still defend itself very badly . History , indeed , proves that the richest nation is neither the strongest nor the happiest . Iron weighs at least as much as gold in the scales of military strength . Still , we must admit that a happy combination of wise military institutions , of patriotism , of well-regulated finances , of internal wealth and public credit , imparts to a nation the greatest strength and makes it best capable of sustaining a long war . A volume would be necessary to discuss all the circumstances under which a nation may develop more or less strength , either by its gold or iron , and to determine the cases when war may be expected to support war . This result can only be obtained by carrying the army into the territory of the enemy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resources to an assailant . We need not extend further the investigation of these subjects which are not directly connected with the art of war . It is sufficient for our purpose to indicate their relations to a projected war ; and it will be for the statesman to develop the modifications which circumstances and localities may make in these relations . FOOTNOTES : Footnote 2 : It will be recollected that the author wrote this many years ago , since which time the inventive genius of the age has been attentively directed to the improvement of fire-arms . Artillery , which he regarded as almost perfect , has certainly undergone important improvements , and the improved efficiency of small arms is no less marked , while we hear nothing now of Perkins 's steam-guns ; and as yet no civilized army has been organized upon the plan the author suggests for depriving these destructive machines of their efficiency .  --  TRANSLATORS . Footnote 3 : There was a deficit in the finances of France at the fall of Napoleon . It was the result of his disasters , and of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was no deficit in 1811 . ARTICLE XIV . The Command of Armies , and the Chief Control over Operations . Is it an advantage to a state to have its armies commanded in person by the monarch ? Whatever may be the decision on this point , it is certain that if the prince possess the genius of Frederick , Peter the Great , or Napoleon , he will be far from leaving to his generals the honor of performing great actions which he might do himself ; for in this he would be untrue to his own glory and to the well-being of the country . As it is not our mission to discuss the question whether it is more fortunate for a nation to have a warlike or a peace-loving prince , ( which is a philanthropic question , foreign to our subject , ) we will only state upon this point that , with equal merit and chances in other respects , a sovereign will always have an advantage over a general who is himself not the head of a state . Leaving out of the question @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enterprises , he may do much by the certainty he has of being able to dispose of all the public resources for the attainment of his end . He also possesses the powerful accessory of his favor , of recompenses and punishments ; all will be devoted to the execution of his orders , and to insure for his enterprises the greatest success ; no jealousy will interfere with the execution of his projects , or at least its exhibition will be rare and in secondary operations . Here are , certainly , sufficient motives to induce a prince to lead his armies , if he possess military capacity and the contest be of a magnitude worthy of him . But if he possess no military ability , if his character be feeble , and he be easily influenced , his presence with the army , instead of producing good results , will open the way for all manner of intrigues . Each one will present his projects to him ; and , as he will not have the experience necessary to estimate them according to their merits , he will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ general , interfered with and opposed in all his enterprises , will be unable to achieve success , even if he have the requisite ability . It may be said that a sovereign might accompany the army and not interfere with his general , but , on the contrary , aid him with all the weight of his influence . In this case his presence might be productive of good results , but it also might lead to great embarrassment . If the army were turned and cut off from its communications , and obliged to extricate itself , sword in hand , what sad results might not follow from the presence of the sovereign at head-quarters ! When a prince feels the necessity of taking the field at the head of his armies , but lacks the necessary self-confidence to assume the supreme direction of affairs , the best course will be that adopted by the Prussian government with Bluecher ,  --  viz. ; he should be accompanied by two generals of the best capacity , one of them a man of executive ability , the other a well-instructed staff @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ yield excellent results , as in the case of the army of Silesia in 1813 . The same system might apply in the case where the sovereign judges it proper to intrust the command to a prince of his house , as has frequently happened since the time of Louis XIV . It has often occurred that the prince possessed only the titular command , and that an adviser , who in reality commanded , was imposed upon him . This was the case with the Duke of Orleans and Marsin at the famous battle of Turin , afterward with the Duke of Burgundy and Vendome at the battle of Audenarde , and , I think , also at Ulm with the Archduke Ferdinand and Mack . This system is deplorable , since no one is responsible for what is done . It is known that at the battle of Turin the Duke of Orleans exhibited more sagacity than Marsin , and it became necessary for the latter to show full secret authority from the king before the prince would yield his judgment and allow the battle to be lost . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than Mack , who was to be his mentor . If the prince possess the genius and experience of the Archduke Charles , he should be invested with the untrammeled command , and be allowed full selection of his instruments . If he have not yet acquired the same titles to command , he may then be provided with an educated general of the staff , and another general distinguished for his talent in execution ; but in no case will it be wise to invest either of these counselors with more authority than a voice in consultation . We have already said that if the prince do not conduct his armies in person , his most important duty will be to have the position of commander well filled ,  --  which , unfortunately , is not always done . Without going back to ancient times , it will be sufficient to recall the more modern examples under Louis XIV . and Louis XV . The merit of Prince Eugene was estimated by his deformed figure , and this drove him ( the ablest commander of his time ) into the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tallard , Marsin , and Villeroi filled the places of Turenne , Conde , and Luxembourg , and subsequently Soubise and Clermont succeeded Marshal Saxe . Between the fashionable selections made in the Saloons of the Pompadours and Dubarrys , and Napoleon 's preference for mere soldiers , there are many gradations , and the margin is wide enough to afford the least intelligent government means of making rational nominations ; but , in all ages , human weaknesses will exercise an influence in one way or another , and artifice will often carry off the prize from modest or timid merit , which awaits a call for its services . But , leaving out of consideration all these influences , it will be profitable to inquire in what respects this choice of a commander will be difficult , even when the executive shall be most anxious to make it a judicious one . In the first place , to make choice of a skillful general requires either that the person who makes the selection shall be a military man , able to form an intelligent opinion , or that he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opens the way to the improper influence of cliques . The embarrassment is certainly less when there is at hand a general already illustrious by many victories ; but , outside of the fact that every general is not a great leader because he has gained a battle , ( for instance , Jourdan , Scherer , and many others , ) it is not always the case that a victorious general is at the disposition of the government . It may well happen that after a long period of peace , there may not be a single general in Europe who has commanded in chief . In this case , it will be difficult to decide whether one general is better than another . Those who have served long in peace will be at the head of their arms or corps , and will have the rank appropriate for this position ; but will they always be the most capable of filling it ? Moreover , the intercourse of the heads of a government with their subordinates is generally so rare and transient , that it is not astonishing they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The judgment of the prince , misled by appearances , may err , and , with the purest intentions , he may well be deceived in his selections . One of the surest means of escaping this misfortune would seem to be in realizing the beautiful fiction of Fenelon in Telemachus , by finding a faithful , sincere , and generous Philocles , who , standing between the prince and all aspirants for the command , would be able , by means of his more direct relations to the public , to enlighten the monarch in reference to selections of individuals best recommended by their character and abilities . But will this faithful friend never yield to personal affections ? Will he be always free from prejudice ? Suwaroff was rejected by Potemkin on account of his appearance , and it required all the art of Catherine to secure a regiment for the man who afterward shed so much luster upon the Russian arms . It has been thought that public opinion is the best guide ; but nothing could be more dangerous . It voted Dumouriez to be a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of war . Would it have placed Bonaparte at the head of the army of Italy , when he was known only by two directors ? Still , it must be admitted that , if not infallible , public sentiment is not to be despised , particularly if it survive great crises and the experience of events . The most essential qualities for a general will always be as follow :  --  First , A high moral courage , capable of great resolutions ; Secondly , A physical courage which takes no account of danger . His scientific or military acquirements are secondary to the above-mentioned characteristics , though if great they will be valuable auxiliaries . It is not necessary that he should be a man of vast erudition . His knowledge may be limited , but it should be thorough , and he should be perfectly grounded in the principles at the base of the art of war . Next in importance come the qualities of his personal character . A man who is gallant , just , firm , upright , capable of esteeming merit in others instead @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this merit conduce to his own glory , will always be a good general , and may even pass for a great man . Unfortunately , the disposition to do justice to merit in others is not the most common quality : mediocre minds are always jealous , and inclined to surround themselves with persons of little ability , fearing the reputation of being led , and not realizing that the nominal commander of an army always receives almost all the glory of its success , even when least entitled to it . The question has often been discussed , whether it is preferable to assign to the command a general of long experience in service with troops , or an officer of the staff , having generally but little experience in the management of troops . It is beyond question that war is a distinct science of itself , and that it is quite possible to be able to combine operations skillfully without ever having led a regiment against an enemy . Peter the Great , Conde , Frederick , and Napoleon are instances of it . It can not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ staff may as well as any other prove to be a great general , but it will not be because he has grown gray in the duties of a quartermaster that he will be capable of the supreme command , but because he has a natural genius for war and possesses the requisite characteristics . So , also , a general from the ranks of the infantry or cavalry may be as capable of conducting a campaign as the most profound tactician . So this question does not admit of a definite answer either in the affirmative or negative , since almost all will depend upon the personal qualities of the individuals ; but the following remarks will be useful in leading to a rational conclusion :  --  1 . A general , selected from the general staff , engineers , or artillery , who has commanded a division or a corps d'armee , will , with equal chances , be superior to one who is familiar with the service of but one arm or special corps. 2 . A general from the line , who has made a study of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the command . 3 . That the character of the man is above all other requisites in a commander-in-chief . Finally , He will be a good general in whom are found united the requisite personal characteristics and a thorough knowledge of the principles of the art of war . The difficulty of always selecting a good general has led to the formation of a good general staff , which being near the general may advise him , and thus exercise a beneficial influence over the operations . A well-instructed general staff is one of the most useful of organizations ; but care must be observed to prevent the introduction into it of false principles , as in this case it might prove fatal . Frederick , when he established the military school of Potsdam , never thought it would lead to the " right shoulder forward " of General Ruchel , 4 and to the teaching that the oblique order is the infallible rule for gaining all battles . How true it is that there is but a step from the sublime to the ridiculous ! Moreover , there ought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of staff ; and , if it be true that the latter should be a man of recognized ability , it is also proper to give the general the choice of the men who are to be his advisers . To impose a chief of staff upon a general would be to create anarchy and want of harmony ; while to permit him to select a cipher for that position would be still more dangerous ; for if he be himself a man of little ability , indebted to favor or fortune for his station , the selection will be of vital importance . The best means to avoid these dangers is to give the general the option of several designated officers , all of undoubted ability . It has been thought , in succession , in almost all armies , that frequent councils of war , by aiding the commander with their advice , give more weight and effect to the direction of military operations . Doubtless , if the commander were a Soubise , a Clermont , or a Mack , he might well find in a council of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the opinions given might be preferable to his ; but what success could be expected from operations conducted by others than those who have originated and arranged them ? What must be the result of an operation which is but partially understood by the commander , since it is not his own conception ? I have undergone a pitiable experience as prompter at head-quarters , and no one has a better appreciation of the value of such services than myself ; and it is particularly in a council of war that such a part is absurd . The greater the number and the higher the rank of the military officers who compose the council , the more difficult will it be to accomplish the triumph of truth and reason , however small be the amount of dissent . What would have been the action of a council of war to which Napoleon proposed the movement of Arcola , the crossing of the Saint-Bernard , the maneuver at Ulm , or that at Gera and Jena ? The timid would have regarded them as rash , even to madness , others @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all would have concurred in rejecting them ; and if , on the contrary , they had been adopted , and had been executed by any one but Napoleon , would they not certainly have proved failures ? In my opinion , councils of war are a deplorable resource , and can be useful only when concurring in opinion with the commander , in which case they may give him more confidence in his own judgment , and , in addition , may assure him that his lieutenants , being of his opinion , will use every means to insure the success of the movement . This is the only advantage of a council of war , which , moreover , should be simply consultative and have no further authority ; but if , instead of this harmony , there should be difference of opinion , it can only produce unfortunate results . Accordingly , I think it safe to conclude that the best means of organizing the command of an army , in default of a general approved by experience , is  --  1st . To give the command to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and of unshaken firmness in danger . 2d . To assign , as his chief of staff , a man of high ability , of open and faithful character , between whom and the commander there may be perfect harmony . The victor will gain so much glory that he can spare some to the friend who has contributed to his success . In this way Bluecher , aided by Gneisenau and Muffling , gained glory which probably he would not have been able to do of himself . It is true that this double command is more objectionable than an undivided one when a state has a Napoleon , a Frederick , or a Suwaroff to fill it ; but when there is no great general to lead the armies it is certainly the preferable system . Before leaving this important branch of the subject , another means of influencing military operations  --  viz. : that of a council of war at the seat of government  --  deserves notice . Louvois for a long time directed from Paris the armies of Louis XIV. , and with success . Carnot @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Republic : in 1793 he did well , and saved France ; in 1794 his action was at first very unfortunate , but he repaired his faults afterward by chance ; in 1796 he was completely at fault . It is to be observed , however , that both Louvois and Carnot individually controlled the armies , and that there was no council of war . The Aulic council , sitting in Vienna , was often intrusted with the duty of directing the operations of the armies ; and there has never been but one opinion in Europe as to its fatal influence . Whether this opinion is right or wrong , the Austrian generals alone are able to decide . My own opinion is that the functions of such a body in this connection should be limited to the adoption of a general plan of operations . By this I do not mean a plan which should trace out the campaign in detail , restricting the generals and compelling them to give battle without regard to circumstances , but a plan which should determine the object of the campaign , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the material means to be applied to these first enterprises , afterward for the reserves , and finally for the levies which may be necessary if the country be invaded . These points , it is true , should be discussed in a council of both generals and ministers , and to these points should the control of the council be limited ; for if it should not only order the general in command to march to Vienna or to Paris , but should also have the presumption to indicate the manner in which he should maneuver to attain this object , the unfortunate general would certainly be beaten , and the whole responsibility of his reverses should fall upon the shoulders of those who , hundreds of miles distant , took upon themselves the duty of directing the army ,  --  a duty so difficult for any one , even upon the scene of operations . FOOTNOTES : Footnote 4 : General Ruchel thought at the battle of Jena that he could save the army by giving the command to advance the right shoulder in order to form an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nations , and the Morale of Armies . The adoption of the best regulations for the organization of an army would be in vain if the government did not at the same time cultivate a military spirit in its citizens . It may well be the case in London , situated on an island and protected from invasion by its immense fleets , that the title of a rich banker should be preferred to a military decoration ; but a continental nation imbued with the sentiments and habits of the tradesmen of London or the bankers of Paris would sooner or later fall a prey to its neighbors . It was to the union of the civic virtues and military spirit fostered by their institutions that the Romans were indebted for their grandeur ; and when they lost these virtues , and when , no longer regarding the military service as an honor as well as a duty , they relinquished it to mercenary Goths and Gauls , the fall of the empire became inevitable . It is doubtless true that whatever increases the prosperity of the country should be neither @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the branches of industry which are the first instruments of this prosperity ; but they should always be secondary to the great institutions which make up the strength of states in encouraging the cultivation of the manly and heroic virtues . Policy and justice both agree on this point ; for , whatever Boileau may say , it is certainly more glorious to confront death in the footsteps of the Caesars than to fatten upon the public miseries by gambling on the vicissitudes of the national credit . Misfortune will certainly fall upon the land where the wealth of the tax-gatherer or the greedy gambler in stocks stands , in public estimation , above the uniform of the brave man who sacrifices his life , health , or fortune to the defense of his country . The first means of encouraging the military spirit is to invest the army with all possible social and public consideration . The second means is to give the preference to those who have rendered services to the state , in filling any vacancies in the administrative departments of the government , or even to require @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ certain offices . A comparison of the ancient military institutions of Rome with those of Russia and Prussia , is a subject worthy of serious attention ; and it would also be interesting to contrast them with the doctrines of modern theorists , who declare against the employment of officers of the army in other public functions , and who wish for none but rhetoricians in the important offices of administration. 5 It is true that many public employments demand a special course of study ; but can not the soldier , in the abundant leisure of peace , prepare himself for the career he would prefer after having fulfilled his debt to his country in the profession of arms ? If these administrative offices were conferred upon officers retired from the army in a grade not lower than that of captain , would it not be a stimulant for officers to attain that rank , and would it not lead them , when in garrisons , to find their recreations elsewhere than in the theaters and public clubs ? It may be possible that this facility of transfer from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ favorable to a high military spirit , and that to encourage this spirit it would be expedient to place the profession of the soldier above all others . This was the early practice of the Mamelukes and Janissaries . Their soldiers were bought at the age of about seven years , and were educated in the idea that they were to die by their standards . Even the English  --  so jealous of their rights  --  contract , in enlisting as soldiers , the obligation for the whole length of their lives , and the Russian , in enlisting for twenty-five years , does what is almost equivalent . In such armies , and in those recruited by voluntary enlistments , perhaps it would not be advisable to tolerate this fusion of military and civil offices ; but where the military service is a temporary duty imposed upon the people , the case is different , and the old Roman laws which required a previous military service of ten years in any aspirant for the public employments , seem to be best calculated to preserve the military spirit ,  --  particularly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and prosperity appears to be the dominant passion of the people . However this may be , still , in my opinion , under all forms of government , it will be a wise part to honor the military profession , in order to encourage the love of glory and all the warlike virtues , under the penalty of receiving the reproaches of posterity and suffering insult and dependency . It is not sufficient to foster the military spirit among the people , but , more than that , it is necessary to encourage it in the army . Of what avail would it be if the uniform be honored in the land and it be regarded as a duty to serve in the army , while the military virtues are wanting ? The forces would be numerous but without valor . The enthusiasm of an army and its military spirit are two quite different things , and should not be confounded , although they produce the same effects . The first is the effect of passions more or less of a temporary character ,  --  of a political or religious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of country ; while the latter , depending upon the skill of the commander and resulting from military institutions , is more permanent and depends less upon circumstances , and should be the object of the attention of every far-seeing government. 6 Courage should be recompensed and honored , the different grades in rank respected , and discipline should exist in the sentiments and convictions rather than in external forms only . The officers should feel the conviction that resignation , bravery , and faithful attention to duty are virtues without which no glory is possible , no army is respectable , and that firmness amid reverses is more honorable than enthusiasm in success ,  --  since courage alone is necessary to storm a position , while it requires heroism to make a difficult retreat before a victorious and enterprising enemy , always opposing to him a firm and unbroken front . A fine retreat should meet with a reward equal to that given for a great victory . By inuring armies to labor and fatigue , by keeping them from stagnation in garrison in times of peace , by inculcating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the latter , by inspiring a love for great exploits ,  --  in a word , by exciting their enthusiasm by every means in harmony with their tone of mind , by honoring courage , punishing weakness , and disgracing cowardice ,  --  we may expect to maintain a high military spirit . Effeminacy was the chief cause of the ruin of the Roman legions : those formidable soldiers , who had borne the casque , buckler , and cuirass in the times of the Scipios under the burning sun of Africa , found them too heavy in the cool climates of Germany and Gaul ; and then the empire was lost . I have remarked that it is not well to create a too great contempt for the enemy , lest the morale of the soldier should be shaken if he encounter an obstinate resistance . Napoleon at Jena , addressing Lannes ' troops , praised the Prussian cavalry , but promised that they would contend in vain against the bayonets of his Egyptians . The officers and troops must be warned against those sudden panics which often seize the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and hence when they do not recognize that in order is the surest hope of safety . It was not from want of courage that one hundred thousand Turks were beaten at Peterwardein by Prince Eugene , and at Kagoul by Romanzoff : it was because , once repulsed in their disorderly charges , every one yielded to his personal feelings , and because they fought individually , but not in masses and in order . An army seized with panic is similarly in a state of demoralization ; because when disorder is once introduced all concerted action on the part of individuals becomes impossible , the voice of the officers can no longer be heard , no maneuver for resuming the battle can be executed , and there is no resource but in ignominious flight . Nations with powerful imaginations are particularly liable to panics ; and nothing short of strong institutions and skillful leaders can remedy it . Even the French , whose military virtues when well led have never been questioned , have often performed some quick movements of this kind which were highly ridiculous . We @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Marshal Villars after having gained the battle of Friedlingen , in 1704 . The same occurred to Napoleon 's infantry after the victory of Wagram and when the enemy was in full retreat . A still more extraordinary case was the flight of the 97th semi-brigade , fifteen hundred strong , at the siege of Genoa , before a platoon of cavalry . Two days afterward these same men took Fort Diamond by one of the most vigorous assaults mentioned in modern history . Still , it would seem to be easy to convince brave men that death comes more quickly and more surely to those who fly in disorder than to those who remain together and present a firm front to the enemy , or who rally promptly when their lines have been for the instant broken . In this respect the Russian army may be taken as a model by all others . The firmness which it has displayed in all retreats is due in equal degrees to the national character , the natural instincts of the soldiers , and the excellent disciplinary institutions . Indeed , vivacity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of disorder : the want of the habit of order often causes it , and the lack of precautions on the part of the generals to maintain this order contributes to it . I have often been astonished at the indifference of most generals on this point . Not only did they not deign to take the slightest precaution to give the proper direction to small detachments or scattered men , and fail to adopt any signals to facilitate the rallying in each division of the fractions which may be scattered in a momentary panic or in an irresistible charge of the enemy , but they were offended that any one should think of proposing such precautions . Still , the most undoubted courage and the most severe discipline will often be powerless to remedy a great disorder , which might be in a great degree obviated by the use of rallying-signals for the different divisions . There are , it is true , cases where all human resources are insufficient for the maintenance of order , as when the physical sufferings of the soldiers have been so great as to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ officers find it impossible to do any thing to organize them ,  --  which was the case in the retreat of 1812 . Leaving out these exceptional cases , good habits of order , good logistical precautions for rallying , and good discipline will most frequently be successful , if not in preventing disorder , at least in promptly remedying it . It is now time to leave this branch , of which I have only desired to trace an outline , and to proceed to the examination of subjects which are purely military . FOOTNOTES : Footnote 5 : For instance , in France , instead of excluding all officers from the privilege of the elective franchise , it should be given to all colonels ; and the generals should be eligible to the legislature . The most venal deputies will not be those from military life . Footnote 6 : It is particularly important that this spirit should pervade the officers and non-commissioned officers : if they be capable , and the nation brave , there need be no fear for the men . CHAPTER III . STRATEGY . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The art of war , independently of its political and moral relations , consists of five principal parts , viz. : Strategy , Grand Tactics , Logistics , Tactics of the different arms , and the Art of the Engineer . We will treat of the first three branches , and begin by defining them . In order to do this , we will follow the order of procedure of a general when war is first declared , who commences with the points of the highest importance , as a plan of campaign , and afterward descends to the necessary details . Tactics , on the contrary , begins with details , and ascends to combinations and generalization necessary for the formation and handling of a great army . We will suppose an army taking the field : the first care of its commander should be to agree with the head of the state upon the character of the war : then he must carefully study the theater of war , and select the most suitable base of operations , taking into consideration the frontiers of the state and those of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proposed aim will determine the zone of operations . The general will take a first objective point : he will select the line of operations leading to this point , either as a temporary or permanent line , giving it the most advantageous direction ; namely , that which promises the greatest number of favorable opportunities with the least danger . An army marching on this line of operations will have a front of operations and a strategic front . The temporary positions which the corps d'armee will occupy upon this front of operations , or upon the line of defense , will be strategic positions . When near its first objective point , and when it begins to meet resistance , the army will either attack the enemy or maneuver to compel him to retreat ; and for this end it will adopt one or two strategic lines of maneuvers , which , being temporary , may deviate to a certain degree from the general line of operations , with which they must not be confounded . To connect the strategic front with the base as the advance is made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ established . If the line of operations be long , and there be hostile troops in annoying proximity to it , these bodies may either be attacked and dispersed or be merely observed , or the operations against the enemy may be carried on without reference to them . If the second of these courses be pursued , a double strategic front and large detachments will be the result . The army being almost within reach of the first objective point , if the enemy oppose him there will be a battle ; if indecisive , the fight will be resumed ; if the army gains the victory , it will secure its objective point or will advance to attain a second . Should the first objective point be the possession of an important fort , the siege will be commenced . If the army be not strong enough to continue its march , after detaching a sufficient force to maintain the siege , it will take a strategic position to cover it , as did the army of Italy in 1796 , which , less than fifty thousand strong , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thousand enemies within its walls , and having forty thousand more in front on the double line of the Tyrol and Frioul . If the army be strong enough to make the best use of its victory , or if it have no siege to make , it will operate toward a second and more important objective point . If this point be distant , it will be necessary to establish an intermediate point of support . One or more secure cities already occupied will form an eventual base : when this can not be done , a small strategic reserve may be established , which will protect the rear and also the depots by temporary fortifications . When the army crosses large streams , it will construct tetes de pont ; and , if the bridges are within walled cities , earth-works will be thrown up to increase the means of defense and to secure the safety of the eventual base or the strategic reserve which may occupy these posts . Should the battle be lost , the army will retreat toward its base , in order to be reinforced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ equivalent , to strengthen itself by the occupation of fortified posts and camps , thus compelling the enemy to halt or to divide his forces . When winter approaches , the armies will either go into quarters , or the field will be kept by the army which has obtained decisive success and is desirous of profiting to the utmost by its superiority . These winter campaigns are very trying to both armies , but in other respects do not differ from ordinary campaigns , unless it be in demanding increased activity and energy to attain prompt success . Such is the ordinary course of a war , and as such we will consider it , while discussing combinations which result from these operations . Strategy embraces the following points , viz. :  --  1 . The selection of the theater of war , and the discussion of the different combinations of which it admits . 2 . The determination of the decisive points in these combinations , and the most favorable direction for operations . 3 . The selection and establishment of the fixed base and of the zone of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , whether offensive or defensive . 5 . The strategic fronts , lines of defense , and fronts of operations . 6 . The choice of lines of operations leading to the objective point or strategic front . 7 . For a given operation , the best strategic line , and the different maneuvers necessary to embrace all possible cases . 8 . The eventual bases of operations and the strategic reserves . 9 . The marches of armies , considered as maneuvers. 10 . The relation between the position of depots and the marches of the army . 11 . Fortresses regarded as strategical means , as a refuge for an army , as an obstacle to its progress : the sieges to be made and to be covered . 12 . Points for intrenched camps , tetes de pont , &c.; 13 . The diversions to be made , and the large detachments necessary . These points are principally of importance in the determination of the first steps of a campaign ; but there are other operations of a mixed nature , such as passages of streams , retreats @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the execution of which belongs to tactics , the conception and arrangement to strategy . The maneuvering of an army upon the battle-field , and the different formations of troops for attack , constitute Grand Tactics . Logistics is the art of moving armies . It comprises the order and details of marches and camps , and of quartering and supplying troops ; in a word , it is the execution of strategical and tactical enterprises . To repeat . Strategy is the art of making war upon the map , and comprehends the whole theater of operations . Grand Tactics is the art of posting troops upon the battle-field according to the accidents of the ground , of bringing them into action , and the art of fighting upon the ground , in contradistinction to planning upon a map . Its operations may extend over a field of ten or twelve miles in extent . Logistics comprises the means and arrangements which work out the plans of strategy and tactics . Strategy decides where to act ; logistics brings the troops to this point ; grand tactics decides the manner @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is true that many battles have been decided by strategic movements , and have been , indeed , but a succession of them ; but this only occurs in the exceptional case of a dispersed army : for the general case of pitched battles the above definition holds good . Grand Tactics , in addition to acts of local execution , relates to the following objects :  --  1 . The choice of positions and defensive lines of battle . 2 . The offensive in a defensive battle . 3 . The different orders of battle , or the grand maneuvers proper for the attack of the enemy 's line . 4 . The collision of two armies on the march , or unexpected battles . 5 . Surprises of armies in the open field . 6 . The arrangements for leading troops into battle . 7 . The attack of positions and intrenched camps . 8 . Coups de main . All other operations , such as relate to convoys , foraging-parties , skirmishes of advanced or rear guards , the attack of small posts , and any thing accomplished @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as details of war , and not included in the great operations . THE FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLE OF WAR . It is proposed to show that there is one great principle underlying all the operations of war ,  --  a principle which must be followed in all good combinations . It is embraced in the following maxims :  --  1 . To throw by strategic movements the mass of an army , successively , upon the decisive points of a theater of war , and also upon the communications of the enemy as much as possible without compromising one 's own . 2 . To maneuver to engage fractions of the hostile army with the bulk of one 's forces . 3 . On the battle-field , to throw the mass of the forces upon the decisive point , or upon that portion of the hostile line which it is of the first importance to overthrow . 4 . To so arrange that these masses shall not only be thrown upon the decisive point , but that they shall engage at the proper times and with energy . This principle has too @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is easy to recommend throwing the mass of the forces upon the decisive points , but that the difficulty lies in recognizing those points . This truth is evident ; and it would be little short of the ridiculous to enunciate such a general principle without accompanying it with all necessary explanations for its application upon the field . In Article XIX. these decisive points will be described , and in Articles from XVIII . to XXII. will be discussed their relations to the different combinations . Those students who , having attentively considered what is there stated , still regard the determination of these points as a problem without a solution , may well despair of ever comprehending strategy . The general theater of operations seldom contains more than three zones ,  --  the right , the left , and the center ; and each zone , front of operations , strategic position , and line of defense , as well as each line of battle , has the same subdivisions ,  --  two extremities and the center . A direction upon one of these three will always be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ direction upon one of the two remaining will be less advantageous ; while the third direction will be wholly inapplicable . In considering the object proposed in connection with the positions of the enemy and the geography of the country , it will appear that in every strategic movement or tactical maneuver the question for decision will always be , whether to maneuver to the right , to the left , or directly in front . The selection of one of these three simple alternatives can not , surely , be considered an enigma . The art of giving the proper direction to the masses is certainly the basis of strategy , although it is not the whole of the art of war . Executive talent , skill , energy , and a quick apprehension of events are necessary to carry out any combinations previously arranged . We will apply this great principle to the different cases of strategy and tactics , and then show , by the history of twenty celebrated campaigns , that , with few exceptions , the most brilliant successes and the greatest reverses resulted from an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from a neglect of it in the other . OF STRATEGIC COMBINATIONS . ARTICLE XVI . Of the System of Operations . War once determined upon , the first point to be decided is , whether it shall be offensive or defensive ; and we will first explain what is meant by these terms . There are several phases of the offensive : if against a great state , the whole or a large portion of whose territory is attacked , it is an invasion ; if a province only , or a line of defense of moderate extent , be assailed , it is the ordinary offensive ; finally , if the offensive is but an attack upon the enemy 's position , and is confined to a single operation , it is called the taking the initiative . In a moral and political view , the offensive is nearly always advantageous : it carries the war upon foreign soil , saves the assailant 's country from devastation , increases his resources and diminishes those of his enemy , elevates the morale of his army , and generally depresses the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and energy of the adversary ,  --  particularly when he feels that the independence of his country is threatened . In a military point of view , the offensive has its good and its bad side . Strategically , an invasion leads to deep lines of operations , which are always dangerous in a hostile country . All the obstacles in the enemy 's country , the mountains , rivers , defiles , and forts , are favorable for defense , while the inhabitants and authorities of the country , so far from being the instruments of the invading army , are generally hostile . However , if success be obtained , the enemy is struck in a vital point : he is deprived of his resources and compelled to seek a speedy termination of the contest . For a single operation , which we have called the taking the initiative , the offensive is almost always advantageous , particularly in strategy . Indeed , if the art of war consists in throwing the masses upon the decisive points , to do this it will be necessary to take the initiative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what he desires to do ; he leads his masses to the point where he desires to strike . He who awaits the attack is everywhere anticipated : the enemy fall with large force upon fractions of his force : he neither knows where his adversary proposes to attack him nor in what manner to repel him . Tactically , the offensive also possesses advantages , but they are less positive , since , the operations being upon a limited field , the party taking the initiative can not conceal them from the enemy , who may detect his designs and by the aid of good reserves cause them to fail . The attacking party labors under the disadvantages arising from the obstacles to be crossed before reaching the enemy 's line ; on which account the advantages and disadvantages of the tactical offensive are about equally balanced . Whatever advantages may be expected either politically or strategically from the offensive , it may not be possible to maintain it exclusively throughout the war ; for a campaign offensive in the beginning may become defensive before it ends . A defensive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It may be passive or active , taking the offensive at times . The passive defense is always pernicious ; the active may accomplish great successes . The object of a defensive war being to protect , as long as possible , the country threatened by the enemy , all operations should be designed to retard his progress , to annoy him in his enterprises by multiplying obstacles and difficulties , without , however , compromising one 's own army . He who invades does so by reason of some superiority ; he will then seek to make the issue as promptly as possible : the defense , on the contrary , desires delay till his adversary is weakened by sending off detachments , by marches , and by the privations and fatigues incident to his progress . An army is reduced to the defensive only by reverses or by a positive inferiority . It then seeks in the support of forts , and in natural or artificial barriers , the means of restoring equality by multiplying obstacles in the way of the enemy . This plan , when not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but only when the general has the good sense not to make the defense passive : he must not remain in his positions to receive whatever blows may be given by his adversary ; he must , on the contrary , redouble his activity , and be constantly upon the alert to improve all opportunities of assailing the weak points of the enemy . This plan of war may be called the defensive-offensive , and may have strategical as well as tactical advantages .. It combines the advantages of both systems ; for one who awaits his adversary upon a prepared field , with all his own resources in hand , surrounded by all the advantages of being on his own ground , can with hope of success take the initiative , and is fully able to judge when and where to strike . During the first three campaigns of the Seven Years ' War Frederick was the assailant ; in the remaining four his conduct was a perfect model of the defensive-offensive . He was , however , wonderfully aided in this by his adversaries , who allowed him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taking the offensive with success . Wellington 's course was mainly the same in Portugal , Spain , and Belgium , and it was the most suitable in his circumstances . It seems plain that one of the greatest talents of a general is to know how to use ( it may be alternately ) these two systems , and particularly to be able to take the initiative during the progress of a defensive war . ARTICLE XVII . Of the Theater of Operations . The theater of a war comprises all the territory upon which the parties may assail each other , whether it belong to themselves , their allies , or to weaker states who may be drawn into the war through fear or interest . When the war is also maritime , the theater may embrace both hemispheres ,  --  as has happened in contests between France and England since the time of Louis XIV . The theater of a war may thus be undefined , and must , not be confounded with the theater of operations of one or the other army . The theater of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Italy , or may , in addition , comprise Germany if the German States take part therein . Armies may act in concert or separately : in the first case the whole theater of operations may be considered as a single field upon which strategy directs the armies for the attainment of a definite end . In the second case each army will have its own independent theater of operations . The theater of operations of an army embraces all the territory it may desire to invade and all that it may be necessary to defend . If the army operates independently , it should not attempt any maneuver beyond its own theater , ( though it should leave it if it be in danger of being surrounded , ) since the supposition is that no concert of action has been arranged with the armies operating on the other fields . If , on the contrary , there be concert of action , the theater of operations of each army taken singly is but a zone of operations of the general field , occupied by the masses for the attainment of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ each theater upon which one or more armies operate is composed , for both parties , as follows :  --  1 . Of a fixed base of operations . 2 . Of a principal objective point . 3 . Of fronts of operations , strategic fronts , and lines of defense . 4 . Of zones and lines of operations . 5 . Of temporary strategic lines and lines of communications . 6 . Of natural or artificial obstacles to be overcome or to oppose to the enemy . 7 . Of geographical strategic points , whose occupation is important , either for the offensive or defensive . 8 . Of accidental intermediate bases of operations between the objective point and the primary base . 9 . Of points of refuge in case of reverse . For illustration , let us suppose the case of France invading Austria with two or three armies , to be concentrated under one commander , and starting from Mayence , from the Upper Rhine , from Savoy or the Maritime Alps , respectively . The section of country which each of these armies traverses may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ operations . But if the army of Italy goes but to the Adige without concerted action with the army of the Rhine , then what was before but a zone becomes for that army a theater of operations . In every case , each theater must have its own base , its own objective point , its zones and lines of operations connecting the objective point with the base , either in the offensive or the defensive . It has been taught and published that rivers are lines of operations par excellence . Now , as such a line must possess two or three roads to move the army within the range of its operations , and at least one line of retreat , rivers have been called lines of retreat , and even lines of maneuver . It would be much more accurate to say that rivers are excellent lines of supply , and powerful auxiliaries in the establishment of a good line of operations , but never the line itself . It has also been maintained that , could one create a country expressly to be a good theater @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they facilitate invasion . Every country has its capital , its rich cities for manufactures or trade ; and , in the very nature of things , these points must be the centers of converging routes . Could Germany be made a desert , to be molded into a theater of war at the pleasure of an individual , commercial cities and centers of trade would spring up , and the roads would again necessarily converge to these points . Moreover , was not the Archduke Charles enabled to beat Jourdan in 1796 by the use of converging routes ? Besides , these routes are more favorable for defense than attack , since two divisions retreating upon these radial lines can effect a junction more quickly than two armies which are pursuing , and they may thus united defeat each of the pursuing masses separately . Some authors have affirmed that mountainous countries abound in strategic positions ; others have maintained that , on the contrary , these points are more rare among the Alps than in the plains , but also that if more rare they are more important and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of mountains are , in war , inaccessible barriers . Napoleon , on the contrary , in speaking of the Rhetian Alps , said that " an army could pass wherever a man could put his foot . " Generals no less experienced than himself in mountain-warfare have united with him in this opinion , in admitting the great difficulty of carrying on a defensive war in such localities unless the advantages of partisan and regular warfare can be combined , the first to guard the heights and to harass the enemy , the second to give battle at the decisive points ,  --  the junctions of the large valleys . These differences of opinion are here noticed merely to show the reader that , so far from the art having reached perfection , there are many points that admit of discussion . The most important topographical or artificial features which make up the theater of a war will , in succeeding portions of this chapter , be examined as to their strategic value ; but here it may be proper to remark that this value will depend much upon the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who crossed the Saint-Bernard and ordered the passage of the Splugen was far from believing in the impregnability of these chains ; but he was also far from thinking that a muddy rivulet and a walled inclosure could change his destiny at Waterloo . ARTICLE XVIII . Bases of Operations . A base of operations is the portion of country from which the army obtains its reinforcements and resources , from which it starts when it takes the offensive , to which it retreats when necessary , and by which it is supported when it takes position to cover the country defensively . The base of operations is most generally that of supply ,  --  though not necessarily so , at least as far as food is concerned ; as , for instance , a French army upon the Elbe might be subsisted from Westphalia or Franconia , but its real base would certainly be upon the Rhine . When a frontier possesses good natural or artificial barriers , it may be alternately either an excellent base for offensive operations , or a line of defense when the state is invaded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to have a second base in rear ; for , although an army in its own country will everywhere find a point of support , there is still a vast difference between those parts of the country without military positions and means , as forts , arsenals , and fortified depots , and those other portions where these military resources are found ; and these latter alone can be considered as safe bases of operations . An army may have in succession a number of bases : for instance , a French army in Germany will have the Rhine for its first base ; it may have others beyond this , wherever it has allies or permanent lines of defense ; but if it is driven back across the Rhine it will have for a base either the Meuse or the Moselle : it might have a third upon the Seine , and a fourth upon the Loire . These successive bases may not be entirely or nearly parallel to the first . On the contrary , a total change of direction may become necessary . A French army repulsed beyond @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Besancon , on Mezieres or Sedan , as the Russian army after the evacuation of Moscow left the base on the north and east and established itself upon the line of the Oka and the southern provinces . These lateral bases perpendicular to the front of defense are often decisive in preventing the enemy from penetrating to the heart of the country , or at least in rendering it impossible for him to maintain himself there . A base upon a broad and rapid river , both banks being held by strong works , would be as favorable as could be desired . The more extended the base , the more difficulty will there be in covering it ; but it will also be more difficult to cut the army off from it . A state whose capital is too near the frontier can not have so favorable a base in a defensive war as one whose capital is more retired . A base , to be perfect , should have two or three fortified points of sufficient capacity for the establishment of depots of supply . There should be a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ All are now agreed upon these principles ; but upon other points opinions have varied . Some have asserted that a perfect base is one parallel to that of the enemy . My opinion is that bases perpendicular to those of the enemy are more advantageous , particularly such as have two sides almost perpendicular to each other and forming a re-entrant angle , thus affording a double base if required , and which , by giving the control of two sides of the strategic field , assure two lines of retreat widely apart , and facilitate any change of the line of operations which an unforeseen turn of affairs may necessitate . The quotations which follow are from my treatise on Great Military Operations :  --  " The general configuration of the theater of war may also have a great influence upon the direction of the lines of operations , and , consequently , upon the direction of the bases . Illustration : Fig. 1 . " If every theater of war forms a figure presenting four faces more or less regular , one of the armies , at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ faces ,  --  perhaps two ,  --  while the enemy occupies the other , the fourth being closed by insurmountable obstacles . The different ways of occupying this theater will lead to widely different combinations . To illustrate , we will cite the theater of the French armies in Westphalia from 1757 to 1762 , and that of Napoleon in 1806 , both of which are represented in Fig. 1 , p. 79 . In the first case , the side A B was the North Sea , B D the line of the Weser and the base of Duke Ferdinand , C D the line of the Main and the base of the French army , A C the line of the Rhine , also guarded by French troops . The French held two faces , the North Sea being the third ; and hence it was only necessary for them , by maneuvers , to gain the side B D to be masters of the four faces , including the base and the communications of the enemy . The French army , starting from its base C D and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cut off the allied army I from its base B D ; the latter would be thrown upon the angle A , formed by the lines of the Rhine , the Ems , and the sea , while the army E could communicate with its bases on the Main and Rhine . " The movement of Napoleon in 1806 on the Saale was similar . He occupied at Jena and Naumburg the line F G H , then marched by Halle and Dessau to force the Prussian army I upon the sea , represented by the side A B. The result is well known . " The art , then , of selecting lines of operations is to give them such directions as to seize the communications of the enemy without losing one 's own . The line F G H , by its extended position , and the bend on the flank of the enemy , always protects the communications with the base C D ; and this is exactly the maneuvers of Marengo , Ulm , and Jena . " When the theater of war does not border upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ neutral state , which guards its frontiers and closes one side of the square . This may not be an obstacle insurmountable like the sea ; but generally it may be considered as an obstacle upon which it would be dangerous to retreat after a defeat : hence it would be an advantage to force the enemy upon it . The soil of a power which can bring into the field one hundred and fifty or two hundred thousand troops can not be violated with impunity ; and if a defeated army made the attempt , it would be none the less cut off from its base . If the boundary of the theater of war should be the territory of a weak state , it would be absorbed in this theater , and the square would be enlarged till it reached the frontiers of a powerful state , or the sea . The outline of the frontiers may modify the shape of the quadrilateral so as to make it approach the figure of a parallelogram or trapezoid , as in Figure 2 . In either case , the advantage of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ figure , and possesses the power of establishing upon them a double base , will be still more decided , since it will be able more easily to cut the enemy off from the shortened side ,  --  as was the case with the Prussian army in 1806 , with the side B D J of the parallelogram formed by the lines of the Rhine , the Oder , the North Sea , and the mountainous frontier of Franconia . " Illustration : Fig. 2 . The selection of Bohemia as a base in 1813 goes to prove the truth of my opinion ; for it was the perpendicularity of this base to that of the French army which enabled the allies to neutralize the immense advantages which the line of the Elbe would otherwise have afforded Napoleon , and turned the advantages of the campaign in their favor . Likewise , in 1812 , by establishing their base perpendicularly upon the Oka and Kalouga , the Russians were able to execute their flank march upon Wiazma and Krasnoi . If any thing further be required to establish these truths , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the base be perpendicular to that of the enemy , the front of operations will be parallel to his line of operations , and that hence it will be easy to attack his communications and line of retreat . It has been stated that perpendicular bases are particularly favorable in the case of a double frontier , as in the last figures . Critics may object to this that it does not agree with what is elsewhere said in favor of frontiers which are salient toward the enemy , and against double lines of operations with equality of force . ( Art . XXI . ) The objection is not well founded ; for the greatest advantage of a perpendicular base consists in the fact that it forms such a salient , which takes in reverse a portion of the theater of operations . On the other hand , a base with two faces by no means requires that both should be occupied in force : on the contrary , upon one of them it will be sufficient to have some fortified points garrisoned by small bodies , while the great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  as was done in the campaigns of 1800 and 1806 . The angle of nearly ninety degrees formed by the portion of the Rhine from Constance to Basel , and thence to Kehl , gave General Moreau one base parallel and another perpendicular to that of his antagonist . He threw two divisions by his left toward Kehl on the first base , to attract the attention of the enemy to that point , while he moved with nine divisions upon the extremity of the perpendicular face toward Schaffhausen , which carried him in a few days to the gates of Augsburg , the two detached divisions having already rejoined him . In 1806 , Napoleon had also the double base of the Rhine and Main , forming almost a right re-entrant angle . He left Mortier upon the first and parallel one , while with the mass of his forces he gained the extremity of the perpendicular base , and thus intercepted the Prussians at Gera and Naumburg by reaching their line of retreat . If so many imposing facts prove that bases with two faces , one of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are the best , it is well to recollect that , in default of such a base , its advantages may be partially supplied by a change of strategic front , as will be seen in Article XX . Another very important point in reference to the proper direction of bases relates to those established on the sea-coast . These bases may be favorable in some circumstances , but are equally unfavorable in others , as may be readily seen from what precedes . The danger which must always exist of an army being driven to the sea seems so clear , in the ease of the establishment of the base upon it , ( which bases can only be favorable to naval powers , ) that it is astonishing to hear in our day praises of such a base . Wellington , coming with a fleet to the relief of Spain and Portugal , could not have secured a better base than that of Lisbon , or rather of the peninsula of Torres-Vedras , which covers all the avenues to that capital on the land side . The sea and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the safety of his only possible line of retreat , which was upon the fleet . Blinded by the advantages which the intrenched camp of Torres-Vedras secured for the English , and not tracing effects to their real causes , many generals in other respects wise contend that no bases are good except such as rest on the sea and thus afford the army facilities of supply and refuge with both flanks secured . Fascinated by similar notions , Colonel Carion-Nizas asserted that in 1813 Napoleon ought to have posted half of his army in Bohemia and thrown one hundred and fifty thousand men on the mouths of the Elbe toward Hamburg ; forgetting that the first precept for a continental army is to establish its base upon the front farthest from the sea , so as to secure the benefit of all its elements of strength , from which it might find itself cut off if the base were established upon the coast . An insular and naval power acting on the continent would pursue a diametrically opposite course , but resulting from the same principle , viz. : to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sustained by all the resources of the country , and at the same time insure a safe retreat . A state powerful both on land and sea , whose squadrons control the sea adjacent to the theater of operations , might well base an army of forty or fifty thousand men upon the coast , as its retreat by sea and its supplies could be well assured ; but to establish a continental army of one hundred and fifty thousand men upon such a base , when opposed by a disciplined and nearly equal force , would be an act of madness . However , as every maxim has its exceptions , there is a case in which it may be admissible to base a continental army upon the sea : it is , when your adversary is not formidable upon land , and when you , being master of the sea , can supply the army with more facility than in the interior . We rarely see these conditions fulfilled : it was so , however , during the Turkish war of 1828 and 1829 . The whole attention of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Shumla was merely observed ; a plan which they could not have pursued in the presence of a European army ( even with the control of the sea ) without great danger of ruin . Despite all that has been said by triflers who pretend to decide upon the fate of empires , this war was , in the main , well conducted . The army covered itself by obtaining the fortresses of Brailoff , Varna , and Silistria , and afterward by preparing a depot at Sizeboli . As soon as its base was well established it moved upon Adrianople , which previously would have been madness . Had the season been a couple of months longer , or had the army not come so great a distance in 1828 , the war would have terminated with the first campaign . Besides permanent bases , which are usually established upon our own frontiers , or in the territory of a faithful ally , there are eventual or temporary bases , which result from the operations in the enemy 's country ; but , as these are rather temporary points of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discussed in Article XXIII . ARTICLE XIX . Strategic lines and Points , Decisive Points of the Theater of War , and Objective Points of Operations . Strategic lines and points are of different kinds . Some receive this title simply from their position , which gives them all their importance : these are permanent geographical strategic points . Others have a value from the relations they bear to the positions of the masses of the hostile troops and to the enterprises likely to be directed against them : such are strategic points of maneuver , and are eventual . Finally , there are points which have only a secondary importance , and others whose importance is constant and immense : the latter are called DECISIVE strategic points . Every point of the theater of war which is of military importance , whether from its position as a center of communication , or from the presence of military establishments or fortifications , is a geographical strategic point . A distinguished general affirms that such a point would not necessarily be a strategic point , unless situated favorably for a contemplated operation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such essentially and by nature , and , no matter how far distant it may be from the scene of the first enterprises , it may be included in the field by some unforeseen turn of events , and thus acquire its full importance . It would , then , be more accurate to state that all strategic points are not necessarily decisive points . Lines are strategic either from their geographical position or from their relation to temporary maneuvers . The first class may be subdivided as follows ,  --  viz. : geographic lines which by their permanent importance belong to the decisive points7 of the theater of war , and those which have value merely because they connect two strategic points . To prevent confusion , we will elsewhere treat of strategic lines in their relations to maneuvers ,  --  confining ourselves here to what relates to the decisive and objective points of the zone of operations upon which enterprises occur . Although these are most intimately connected , since every objective point ought necessarily to be one of the decisive points of the theater of war , there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ points can not be at the same time the objective of operations . We will , then , define the first , in order to be more easily guided in our selection of the second . I think the name of decisive strategic point should be given to all those which are capable of exercising a marked influence either upon the result of the campaign or upon a single enterprise . All points whose geographical position and whose natural or artificial advantages favor the attack or defense of a front of operations or of a line of defense are included in this number ; and large , well-located fortresses occupy in importance the first rank among them . The decisive points of a theater of war are of several kinds . The first are the geographic points and lines whose importance is permanent and a consequence of the configuration of the country . For example , take the case of the French in Belgium : whoever is master of the line of the Meuse will have the greatest advantages in taking possession of the country ; for his adversary , being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , will be exposed to the danger of total ruin if he give battle parallel to that sea. 8 Similarly , the valley of the Danube presents a series of important points which have caused it to be looked upon as the key of Southern Germany . Those points the possession of which would give the control of the junction of several valleys and of the center of the chief lines of communication in a country are also decisive geographic points . For instance , Lyons is an important strategic point , because it controls the valleys of the Rhone and Saone , and is at the center of communications between France and Italy and between the South and East ; but it would not be a decisive point unless well fortified or possessing an extended camp with tetes de pont . Leipsic is most certainly a strategic point , inasmuch as it is at the junction of all the communications of Northern Germany . Were it fortified and did it occupy both banks of the river , it would be almost the key of the country ,  --  if a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more than a decisive point . All capitals are strategic points , for the double reason that they are not only centers of communications , but also the seats of power and government . In mountainous countries there are defiles which are the only routes of exit practicable for an army ; and these may be decisive in reference to any enterprise in this country . It is well known how great was the importance of the defile of Bard , protected by a single small fort , in 1800 . The second kind of decisive points are accidental points of maneuver , which result from the positions of the troops on both sides . When Mack was at Ulm , in 1805 , awaiting the approach of the Russian army through Moravia , the decisive point in an attack upon him was Donauwerth or the Lower Lech ; for if his adversaries gained it before him he was cut off from his line of retreat , and also from the army intended to support him . On the contrary , Kray , who , in 1800 , was in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rather from the Tyrol and from the army of Melas in Italy : hence the decisive point of attack upon him was not Donauwerth , but on the opposite side , by Schaffhausen , since this would take in reverse his front of operations , expose his line of retreat , cut him off from his supporting army as well as from his base , and force him upon the Main . In the same campaign the first objective point of Napoleon was to fall upon the right of Melas by the Saint-Bernard , and to seize his line of communications : hence Saint-Bernard , Ivrea , and Piacenza were decisive points only by reason of the march of Melas upon Nice . It may be laid down as a general principle that the decisive points of maneuver are on that flank of the enemy upon which , if his opponent operates , he can more easily cut him off from his base and supporting forces without being exposed to the same danger . The flank opposite to the sea is always to be preferred , because it gives an opportunity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exception to this is in the case of an insular and inferior army , where the attempt , although dangerous , might be made to cut it off from the fleet . If the enemy 's forces are in detachments , or are too much extended , the decisive point is his center ; for by piercing that , his forces will be more divided , their weakness increased , and the fractions may be crushed separately . The decisive point of a battle-field will be determined by ,  --  1 . The features of the ground . 2 . The relation of the local features to the ultimate strategic aim . 3 . The positions occupied by the respective forces . These considerations will be discussed in the chapter on battles . OBJECTIVE POINTS . There are two classes of objective points ,  --  objective points of maneuver , and geographical objective points . A geographical objective point may be an important fortress , the line of a river , a front of operations which affords good lines of defense or good points of support for ulterior enterprises . Objective @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ derive their importance from , and their positions depend upon , the situation of the hostile masses . In strategy , the object of the campaign determines the objective point . If this aim be offensive , the point will be the possession of the hostile capital , or that of a province whose loss would compel the enemy to make peace . In a war of invasion the capital is , ordinarily , the objective point . However , the geographical position of the capital , the political relations of the belligerents with their neighbors , and their respective resources , are considerations foreign in themselves to the art of fighting battles , but intimately connected with plans of operations , and may decide whether an army should attempt or not to occupy the hostile capital . If it be concluded not to seize the capital , the objective point might be a part of the front of operations or line of defense where an important fort is situated , the possession of which would render safe the occupation of the neighboring territory . For instance , if France were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first objective point would be the line of the Ticino and Po ; the second , Mantua and the line of the Adige . In the defensive , the objective point , instead of being that which it is desirable to gain possession of , is that which is to be defended . The capital , being considered the seat of power , becomes the principal objective point of the defense ; but there may be other points , as the defense of a first line and of the first base of operations . Thus , for a French army reduced to the defensive behind the Rhine , the first objective would be to prevent the passage of the river ; it would endeavor to relieve the forts in Alsace if the enemy succeeded in effecting a passage of the river and in besieging them : the second objective would be to cover the first base of operations upon the Meuse or Moselle ,  --  which might be attained by a lateral defense as well as one in front . As to the objective points of maneuvers ,  --  that is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the hostile forces ,  --  their importance may be seen by what has already been said . The greatest talent of a general , and the surest hope of success , lie in some degree in the good choice of these points . This was the most conspicuous merit of Napoleon . Rejecting old systems , which were satisfied by the capture of one or two points or with the occupation of an adjoining province , he was convinced that the best means of accomplishing great results was to dislodge and destroy the hostile army ,  --  since states and provinces fall of themselves when there is no organized force to protect them . To detect at a glance the relative advantages presented by the different zones of operations , to concentrate the mass of the forces upon that one which gave the best promise of success , to be indefatigable in ascertaining the approximate position of the enemy , to fall with the rapidity of lightning upon his center if his front was too much extended , or upon that flank by which he could more readily seize his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , to pursue him to the last , to disperse and destroy his forces ,  --  such was the system followed by Napoleon in his first campaigns . These campaigns proved this system to be one of the very best . When these maneuvers were applied , in later years , to the long distances and the inhospitable regions of Russia , they were not so successful as in Germany : however , it must be remembered that , if this kind of war is not suitable to all capacities , regions , or circumstances , its chances of success are still very great , and it is based upon principle . Napoleon abused the system ; but this does not disprove its real advantages when a proper limit is assigned to its enterprises and they are made in harmony with the respective conditions of the armies and of the adjoining states . The maxims to be given on these important strategic operations are almost entirely included in what has been said upon decisive points , and in what will be stated in Article XXI. in discussing the choice of lines @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , every thing will generally depend upon the aim of the war and the character which political or other circumstances may give it , and , finally , upon the military facilities of the two parties . In cases where there are powerful reasons for avoiding all risk , it may be prudent to aim only at the acquisition of partial advantages ,  --  such as the capture of a few towns or the possession of adjacent territory . In other cases , where a party has the means of achieving a great success by incurring great dangers , he may attempt the destruction of the hostile army , as did Napoleon . The maneuvers of Ulm and Jena can not be recommended to an army whose only object is the siege of Antwerp . For very different reasons , they could not be recommended to the French army beyond the Niemen , five hundred leagues from its frontiers , because there would be much more to be lost by failure than a general could reasonably hope to gain by success . There is another class of decisive points to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strategic considerations : they play a great part in most coalitions , and influence the operations and plans of cabinets . They may be called political objective points . Indeed , besides the intimate connection between statesmanship and war in its preliminaries , in most campaigns some military enterprises are undertaken to carry out a political end , sometimes quite important , but often very irrational . They frequently lead to the commission of great errors in strategy . We cite two examples . First , the expedition of the Duke of York to Dunkirk , suggested by old commercial views , gave to the operations of the allies a divergent direction , which caused their failure : hence this objective point was bad in a military view . The expedition of the same prince to Holland in 1799  --  likewise due to the views of the English cabinet , sustained by the intentions of Austria on Belgium  --  was not less fatal ; for it led to the march of the Archduke Charles from Zurich upon Manheim ,  --  a step quite contrary to the interests of the allied armies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that political objective points should be subordinate to strategy , at least until after a great success has been attained . This subject is so extensive and so complicated that it would be absurd to attempt to reduce it to a few rules . The only one which can be given has just been alluded to , and is , that either the political objective points should be selected according to the principles of strategy , or their consideration should be postponed till after the decisive events of the campaign . Applying this rule to the examples just given , it will be seen that it was at Cambray or in the heart of France that Dunkirk should have been conquered in 1793 and Holland delivered in 1799 ; in other words , by uniting all the strength of the allies for great attempts on the decisive points of the frontiers . Expeditions of this kind are generally included in grand diversions ,  --  to be treated of in a separate article . FOOTNOTES : Footnote 7 : I may be reproached with inaccuracy of expression ,  --  since a line @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to lines the name of decisive or objective points . It seems almost useless to remark that objective points are not geometric points , but that the name is a form of expression used to designate the object which an army desires to attain . Footnote 8 : This only applies to continental armies , and not to the English , who , having their base on Antwerp or Ostend , would have nothing to fear from an occupation of the line of the Meuse . ARTICLE XX . Fronts of Operations , Strategic Fronts , Lines of Defense , and Strategic Positions . There are some parts of the military science that so closely resemble each other , and are so intimately allied , that they are frequently confounded , although they are decidedly distinct . Such are fronts of operations , strategic fronts , lines of defense , and strategic positions . It is proposed in this article to show the distinction between them and to expose their relations to each other . FRONTS OF OPERATIONS AND STRATEGIC FRONTS . When the masses of an army are posted in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The extent of the front occupied toward the enemy is called the strategic front . The portion of the theater of war from which an enemy can probably reach this front in two or three marches is called the front of operations . The resemblance between these two fronts has caused many military men to confound them , sometimes under one name and sometimes under the other . Rigorously speaking , however , the strategic front designates that formed by the actual positions occupied by the masses of the army , while the other embraces the space separating the two armies , and extends one or two marches beyond each extremity of the strategic front , and includes the ground upon which the armies will probably come in collision . When the operations of a campaign are on the eve of commencing , one of the armies will decide to await the attack of the other , and will undertake to prepare a line of defense , which may be either that of the strategic front or more to the rear . Hence the strategic front and line of defense @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1796 upon the Rhine , which was then a line of defense for both Austrians and French , and at the same time their strategic front and front of operations . This occasional coincidence of these lines doubtless leads persons to confound them , while they are really very different . An army has not necessarily a line of defense , as , for example , when it invades : when its masses are concentrated in a single position , it has no strategic front , but it is never without a front of operations . The two following examples will illustrate the difference between the different terms . At the resumption of hostilities in 1813 , Napoleon 's front of operations extended at first from Hamburg to Wittenberg ; thence it ran along the line of the allies toward Glogau and Breslau , ( his right being at Loewenberg , ) and followed along the frontier of Bohemia to Dresden . His forces were stationed on this grand front in four masses , whose strategic positions were interior and central and presented three different faces . Subsequently , he retired @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ extended only from Wittenberg to Dresden , with a bend to the rear toward Marienberg , for Hamburg and Magdeburg were beyond the strategic field , and it would have been fatal for him to have extended his operations to these points . The other example is his position about Mantua in 1796 . His front of operations here really extended from the mountains of Bergamo to the Adriatic Sea , while his real line of defense was upon the Adige , between Lake Garda and Legnago : afterward it was upon the Mincio , between Peschiera and Mantua , while his strategic front varied according to his positions . The front of operations being the space which separates the two armies , and upon which they may fight , is ordinarily parallel to the base of operations . The strategic front will have the same direction , and ought to be perpendicular to the principal line of operations , and to extend far enough on either flank to cover this line well . However , this direction may vary , either on account of projects that are formed , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it quite frequently happens that it is necessary to have a front perpendicular to the base and parallel to the original line of operations . Such a change of strategic front is one of the most important of all grand maneuvers , for by this means the control of two faces of the strategic field may be obtained , thus giving the army a position almost as favorable as if it possessed a base with two faces . ( See Art . XVIII . ) The strategic front of Napoleon in his march on Eylau illustrates these points . His pivots of operations were at Warsaw and Thorn , which made the Vistula a temporary base : the front became parallel to the Narew , from whence he set out , supported by Sierock , Pultusk , and Ostrolenka , to maneuver by his right and throw the Russians on Elbing and the Baltic . In such cases , if a point of support in the new direction can be obtained , the strategic front gives the advantages referred to above . It ought to be borne in mind in such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its temporary base if necessary ; in other words , that this base should be prolonged behind the strategic front , and should be covered by it . Napoleon , marching from the Narew by Allenstein upon Eylau , had behind his left Thorn , and farther from the front of the army the tete de pont of Praga and Warsaw ; so that his communications were safe , while Benningsen , forced to face him and to make his line parallel to the Baltic , might be cut off from his base , and be thrown back upon the mouths of the Vistula . Napoleon executed another very remarkable change of strategic front in his march from Gera upon Jena and Naumburg in 1806 . Moreau made another in moving by his right upon Augsburg and Dillingen , fronting the Danube and France , and thereby forcing Kray to evacuate the intrenched camp at Ulm . The change of the strategic front to a position perpendicular to the base may be a temporary movement for an operation of a few days ' duration , or it may be for an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ afforded by certain localities , to strike decisive blows , or to procure for the army a good line of defense and good pivots of operations , which would be almost equivalent to a real base . It often happens that an army is compelled to have a double strategic front , either by the features of the theater of war , or because every line of offensive operations requires protection on its flanks . As an example of the first , the frontiers of Turkey and Spain may be cited . In order to cross the Balkan or the Ebro , an army would be obliged to present a double front ,  --  in the first case , to face the valley of the Danube ; in the second , to confront forces coming from Saragossa or Leon . All extensive countries necessitate , to a greater or less degree , the same precaution . A French army in the valley of the Danube will require a double front as soon as the Austrians have thrown sufficient troops into the Tyrol or Bohemia to give rise to any anxiety . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are the only exception , since the troops left on the frontier to harass the flanks of the enemy could themselves be cut off and captured . This necessity of double strategic fronts is one of the most serious inconveniences of an offensive war , since it requires large detachments , which are always dangerous . ( See Article XXXVI . ) Of course , all that precedes relates to regular warfare . In a national or intestine war the whole country is the scene of hostilities . Nevertheless , each large fraction of an army having a defined aim would have its own strategic front determined by the features of the country and the positions occupied by the large bodies of the enemy . Thus , Suchet in Catalonia and Massena in Portugal each had a strategic front , while the front of some other corps of the army was not clearly defined . LINES OF DEFENSE . Lines of defense are classified as strategical and tactical . Strategical lines of defense are subdivided into two classes : 1 . Permanent lines of defense , which are a part of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ line of a fortified frontier ; 2 . Eventual lines of defense , which relate only to the temporary position of an army . The frontier is a permanent line of defense when it presents a well-connected system of obstacles , natural and artificial , such as ranges of mountains , broad rivers , and fortresses . Thus , the range of the Alps between France and Piedmont is a line of defense , since the practicable passes are guarded by forts which would prove great obstacles in the way of an army , and since the outlets of the gorges in the valleys of Piedmont are protected by large fortresses . The Rhine , the Oder , and the Elbe may also be considered as permanent lines of defense , on account of the important forts found upon them . Every river of any considerable width , every range of mountains , and every defile , having their weak points covered by temporary fortifications , may be regarded as eventual lines of defense , both strategic and tactical , since they may arrest for some time the progress of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ right or left in search of a weaker point ,  --  in which case the advantage is evidently strategic . If the enemy attack in front , the lines present an evident tactical advantage , since it is always more difficult to drive an army from its position behind a river , or from a point naturally and artificially strong , than to attack it on an open plain . On the other hand , this advantage must not be considered unqualified , lest we should fall into the system of positions which has been the ruin of so many armies ; for , whatever may be the facilities of a position for defense , it is quite certain that the party which remains in it passive and receiving all the attacks of his adversary will finally yield. 9 In addition to this , since a position naturally very strong10 is difficult of access it will be as difficult of egress , the enemy may be able with an inferior force to confine the army by guarding all the outlets . This happened to the Saxons in the camp of Pirna @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ There is a disposition of armies to which the name of strategic position may be applied , to distinguish from tactical positions or positions for battle . Strategic positions are those taken for some time and which are intended to cover a much greater portion of the front of operations than would be covered in an actual battle . All positions behind a river or upon a line of defense , the divisions of the army being separated by considerable distances , are of this class , such as those of Napoleon at Rivoli , Verona , and Legnago to overlook the Adige . His positions in 1813 in Saxony and Silesia in advance of his line of defense were strategic . The positions of the Anglo-Prussian armies on the frontier of Belgium before the battle of Ligny , ( 1814 , ) and that of Massena on the Limmat and Aar in 1799 , were also strategic . Even winter quarters , when compact and in face of the enemy and not protected by an armistice , are strategic positions ,  --  for instance , Napoleon on the Passarge in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beyond the reach of the enemy , which are sometimes spread out either to deceive him or to facilitate movements , are of this class . This class also includes positions occupied by an army to cover several points and positions held by the masses of an army for the purposes of observation . The different positions taken up on a line of defense , the positions of detachments on a double front of operations , the position of a detachment covering a siege , the main army in the meanwhile operating on another point , are all strategic . Indeed , all large detachments or fractions of an army may be considered as occupying strategic positions . The maxims to be given on the preceding points are few , since fronts , lines of defense , and strategic positions generally depend upon a multitude of circumstances giving rise to infinite variety . In every case , the first general rule is that the communications with the different points of the line of operations be thoroughly assured . In the defense it is desirable that the strategic fronts and lines of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ natural or artificial obstacles to serve as points of support . The points of support on the strategic front are called pivots of operations , and are practical temporary bases , but quite different from pivots of maneuver . For example , in 1796 Verona was an excellent pivot of operations for all Napoleon 's enterprises about Mantua for eight months . In 1813 Dresden was his pivot . Pivots of maneuver are detachments of troops left to guard points which it is essential to hold , while the bulk of the army proceeds to the fulfillment of some important end ; and when this is accomplished the pivot of maneuver ceases to exist . Thus , Ney 's corps was the pivot of Napoleon 's maneuver by Donauwerth and Augsburg to cut Mack from his line of retreat . A pivot of operations , on the contrary , is a material point of both strategical and tactical importance , serves as a point of support and endures throughout a campaign . The most desirable quality of a line of defense is that it should be as short as possible , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if it is compelled to take the defensive . It is also important that the extent of the strategic front should not be so great as to prevent the prompt concentration of the fractions of the army upon an advantageous point . The same does not altogether apply to the front of operations ; for if it be too contracted it would be difficult for an army on the offensive to make strategic maneuvers calculated to produce great results , since a short front could be easily covered by the defensive army . Neither should the front of operations be too extended . Such a front is unsuitable for offensive operations , as it would give the enemy , if not a good line of defense , at least ample space to escape from the results of a strategic maneuver even if well planned . Thus , the beautiful operations of Marengo , Ulm , and Jena could not have produced the same results upon a theater of the magnitude of that of the Russian War in 1812 , since the enemy , even if cut off from his line of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ zone of operations . The essential conditions for every strategic position are that it should be more compact than the forces opposed , that all fractions of the army should have sure and easy means of concentrating , free from the intervention of the enemy . Thus , for forces nearly equal , all central or interior positions would be preferable to exterior ones , since the front in the latter case would necessarily be more extended and would lead to a dangerous division of force . Great mobility and activity on the part of the troops occupying these positions will be a strong element of security or of superiority over the enemy , since it renders possible rapid concentration at different and successive points of the front . An army should never long occupy any strategic point without making selection of one or two tactical positions , for the purpose of there concentrating all the disposable force , and giving battle to the enemy when he shall have unveiled his designs . In this manner Napoleon prepared the fields of Rivoli and Austerlitz , Wellington that of Waterloo , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ either camps or goes into quarters , the general should be careful that the front be not too extended . A disposition which might be called the strategic square seems best , presenting three nearly-equal faces , so that the distance to be passed over would be about equal for all the divisions in concentrating upon the common center to receive an attack . Every strategic line of defense should always possess a tactical point upon which to rally for defense should the enemy cross the strategic front . For instance , an army guarding a bank of a river , not being able to occupy in force the whole line , ought always to have a position in rear of the center selected , upon which to collect all his divisions , so as to oppose them united to the enemy when he has succeeded in effecting a passage . For an army entering a country with the purpose either of subjugation or of temporary occupation , it would always be prudent , however brilliant may have been its earlier successes , to prepare a line of defense as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to complete the subject : the lines themselves are intimately connected with temporary bases , and will be discussed in a future article , ( XXIII . ) FOOTNOTES : Footnote 9 : This does not refer to intrenched camps , which make a great difference . They are treated of in Article XXVII . Footnote 10 : It is a question here of positions of camps , and not of positions for battle . The latter will be treated of in the chapter devoted to Grand Tactics , ( Article XXX . ) ARTICLE XXI . Zones and Lines of Operations . A zone of operations is a certain fraction of the whole theater of war , which may be traversed by an army in the attainment of its object , whether it act singly or in concert with other and secondary armies . For example , in the plan of campaign of 1796 , Italy was the zone of the right , Bavaria that of the center , Franconia that of the left army . A zone of operations may sometimes present but a single line of operations , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or of the small number of practicable routes for an army found therein . Generally , however , a zone presents several lines of operations , depending partly upon the plans of the campaign , partly upon the number of great routes of communication existing in the theater of operations . It is not to be understood from this that every road is of itself a line of operations ,  --  though doubtless it may happen that any good road in a certain turn of affairs may become for the time-being such a line ; but as long as it is only traversed by detachments , and lies beyond the sphere of the principal enterprises , it can not truly be called the real line of operations . Moreover , the existence of several routes leading to the same front of operations , and separated by one or two marches , would not constitute so many lines of operations , but , being the communications of the different divisions of the same army , the whole space bounded by them would constitute but a single line . The term zone of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ theater of war ; the term lines of operations will designate the part of this fraction embraced by the enterprises of the army . Whether it follow a single or several routes , the term strategic lines will apply to those important lines which connect the decisive points of the theater of operations either with each other or with the front of operations ; and , for the same reason , we give this name to those lines which the army would follow to reach one of these decisive points , or to accomplish an important maneuver which requires a temporary deviation from the principal line of operations . Lines of communications designate the practicable routes between the different portions of the army occupying different positions throughout the zone of operations . For example , in 1813 , after the accession of Austria to the Grand Coalition , three allied armies were to invade Saxony , one Bavaria , and another Italy : so that Saxony , or rather the country between Dresden , Magdeburg , and Breslau , formed the zone of operations of the mass of the forces . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as an objective : the first was the line of the army of Bohemia , leading from the mountains of Erzgebirge by Dresden and Chemnitz upon Leipsic ; the second was the line of the army of Silesia , going from Breslau by Dresden or by Wittenberg upon Leipsic ; the third was that of Bernadotte from Berlin by Dessau to the same objective point . Each of these armies marched upon two or more adjacent parallel routes , but it could not be said that there were as many lines of operations as roads . The principal line of operations is that followed by the bulk of the army , and upon which depots of provisions , munitions , and other supplies are echeloned , and over which , if compelled , it would retreat . If the choice of a zone of operations involves no extensive combinations , since there can never be more than two or three zones on each theater , and the advantages generally result from the localities , it is somewhat different with lines of operations , as they are divided into different classes , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enemy , to the communications upon the strategic field , and to the enterprises projected by the commander . Simple lines of operations are those of an army acting from a frontier when it is not subdivided into large independent bodies . Double lines of operations are those of two independent armies proceeding from the same frontier , or those of two nearly equal armies which are commanded by the same general but are widely separated in distance and for long intervals of time. 11 Interior lines of operations are those adopted by one or two armies to oppose several hostile bodies , and having such a direction that the general can concentrate the masses and maneuver with his whole force in a shorter period of time than it would require for the enemy to oppose to them a greater force. 12 Exterior lines lead to the opposite result , and are those formed by an army which operates at the same time on both flanks of the enemy , or against several of his masses . Concentric lines of operations are those which depart from widely-separated points and meet at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the base . Divergent lines are those by which an army would leave a given point to move upon several distinct points . These lines , of course , necessitate a subdivision of the army . There are also deep lines , which are simply long lines . The term maneuver-lines I apply to momentary strategic lines , often adopted for a single temporary maneuver , and which are by no means to be confounded with the real lines of operations . Secondary lines are those of two armies acting so as to afford each other mutual support ,  --  as , in 1796 , the army of the Sambre and Meuse was secondary to the army of the Rhine , and , in 1812 , the army of Bagration was secondary to that of Barclay . Accidental lines are those brought about by events which change the original plan and give a new direction to operations . These are of the highest importance . The proper occasions for their use are fully recognized only by a great and active mind . There may be , in addition , provisional and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adopted by an army in a preliminary , decisive enterprise , after which it is at liberty to select a more advantageous or direct line . They seem to belong as much to the class of temporary or eventual strategic lines as to the class of lines of operations . These definitions show how I differ from those authors who have preceded me . Lloyd and Bulow attribute to these lines no other importance than that arising from their relations to the depots of the army : the latter has even asserted that when an army is encamped near its depots it has no lines of operations . The following example will disprove this paradox . Let us suppose two armies , the first on the Upper Rhine , the second in advance of Dusseldorf or any other point of this frontier , and that their large depots are immediately behind the river ,  --  certainly the safest , nearest , and most advantageous position for them which could possibly be adopted . These armies will have an offensive or defensive object : hence they will certainly have lines of operations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Their defensive territorial line , starting from their positions , will extend to the second line which they are to cover , and they would both be cut off from this second line should the enemy establish himself in the interval which separates them from it . Even if Melas13 had possessed a year 's supplies in Alessandria , he would none the less have been cut off from his base of the Mincio as soon as the victorious enemy occupied the line of the Po. 2 . Their line would be double , and the enemy 's single if he concentrated his forces to defeat these armies successively ; it would be a double exterior line , and the enemy 's a double interior , if the latter divided his forces into two masses , giving them such directions as to enable him to concentrate all his forces before the two armies first referred to could unite . Bulow would have been more nearly right had he asserted that an army on its own soil is less dependent on its primitive line of operations than when on foreign ground ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some of the advantages which are sought for in the establishment of lines of operations ; it may even lose its line of operations without incurring great danger ; but that is no reason why it has no line of operations . OBSERVATIONS UPON THE LINES OF OPERATIONS IN THE WARS OF THE FRENCH REVOLUTION . At the beginning of this terrible and ever-varying struggle , Prussia and Austria were the only avowed enemies of France , and Italy was included in the theater of war only for purposes of reciprocal observation , it being too remote for decisive enterprises in view of the end proposed . The real theater extended from Huningue to Dunkirk , and comprised three zones of operations ,  --  the first reaching along the Rhine from Huningue to Landau , and thence to the Moselle ; the center consisting of the interval between the Meuse and Moselle ; the third and left was the frontier from Givet to Dunkirk . When France declared war , in April , 1792 , her intention was to prevent a union of her enemies ; and she had then one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Austria had but thirty-five thousand in Belgium . It is quite impossible to understand why the French did not conquer this country , when no effectual resistance could have been made . Four months intervened between the declaration of war and the concentration of the allied troops . Was it not probable that an invasion of Belgium would have prevented that of Champagne , and have given the King of Prussia a conception of the strength of France , and induced him not to sacrifice his armies for the secondary object of imposing upon France another form of government ? When the Prussians arrived at Coblentz , toward the end of July , the French were no longer able to invade . This role was reserved for the allies ; and it is well known how they acquitted themselves . The whole force of the French was now about one hundred and fifteen thousand men . It was scattered over a frontier of one hundred and forty leagues and divided into five corps d'armee , and could not make a good defense ; for to paralyze them and prevent their concentration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reasons were also in favor of this plan of attack : the end proposed was political , and could only be attained by rapid and vigorous measures . The line between the Moselle and Meuse , which was the center , was less fortified than the rest of the frontier , and , besides , gave the allies the advantage of the excellent fortress of Luxembourg as a base . They wisely adopted this plan of attack ; but the execution was not equal to the conception . The court of Vienna had the greatest interest in the war , for family reasons , as well as on account of the dangers to which a reverse might subject her provinces . For some reason , difficult to understand , Austria co-operated only to the extent of thirty battalions : forty-five thousand men remained as an army of observation in Brisgau , on the Rhine , and in Flanders . Where were the imposing armies she afterward displayed ? and what more useful disposition could have been made of them than to protect the flanks of the invading army ? This remarkable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so much , may account for the resolution of Prussia to retire at a later period , and quit the field , as she did , at the very moment when she should have entered it . During the campaign the Prussians did not exhibit the activity necessary for success . They spent eight days uselessly in camp at Kons . If they had anticipated Dumouriez at the Little Islands , or had even made a more serious effort to drive him from them , they would still have had all the advantage of a concentrated force against several scattered divisions , and could have prevented their junction and overthrown them separately . Frederick the Great would have justified the remark of Dumouriez at Grandpre ,  --  that , if his antagonist had been the great king , he ( Dumouriez ) would already have been driven behind Chalons . The Austrians in this campaign proved that they were still imbued with the false system of Daun and Lascy , of covering every point in order to guard every point . The fact of having twenty thousand men in Brisgau while @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they had of losing a village , and how their system led to large detachments , which are frequently the ruin of armies . Forgetting that the surest hope of victory lies in presenting the strongest force , they thought it necessary to occupy the whole length of a frontier to prevent invasion ,  --  which was exactly the means of rendering invasion upon every point feasible . I will further observe that , in thin campaign , Dumouriez foolishly abandoned the pursuit of the allies in order to transfer the theater from the center to the extreme left of the general field . Moreover , he was unable to perceive the great results rendered possible by this movement , but attacked the army of the Duke of Saxe-Teschen in front , while by descending the Meuse to Namur he might have thrown it back upon the North Sea toward Meuport or Ostend , and have destroyed it entirely in a more successful battle than that of Jemmapes . The campaign of 1793 affords a new instance of the effect of a faulty direction of operations . The Austrians were victorious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ front of operations to the gates of Rotterdam . Thus far the conduct of the allies deserves praise : the desire of reconquering these rich provinces justified this enterprise , which , moreover , was judiciously directed against the extreme right of the long front of Dumouriez . But after the French had been driven back under the guns of Valenciennes , and were disorganized and unable to resist , why did the allies remain six months in front of a few towns and permit the Committee of Public Safety to organize new armies ? When the deplorable condition of France and the destitution of the wreck of the army of Dampierre are considered , can the parades of the allies in front of the fortresses in Flanders be understood ? Invasions of a country whose strength lies mainly in the capital are particularly advantageous . Under the government of a powerful prince , and in ordinary wars , the most important point is the head-quarters of the army ; but under a weak prince , in a republic , and still more in wars of opinion , the capital is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ever doubtful , it was not so on this occasion . Paris was France , and this to such an extent that two-thirds of the nation had risen against the government which oppressed them . If , after having beaten the French army at Famars , the allies had left the Dutch and Hanoverians to observe what remained of it , while the English and the Austrians directed their operations upon the Meuse , the Sarre , and the Moselle , in concert with the Prussians and a part of the useless army of the Upper Rhine , a force of one hundred and twenty thousand men , with its flanks protected by other troops , could have been pushed forward . It is even probable that , without changing the direction of the war or running great risks , the Dutch and Hanoverians could have performed the duty of observing Maubeuge and Valenciennes , while the bulk of the army pursued the remains of Dampierre 's forces . After gaining several victories , however , two hundred thousand men were engaged in carrying on a few sieges and were not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with invasion , they placed fifteen or sixteen bodies of troops , defensively , to cover their own frontier ! When Valenciennes and Mayence capitulated , instead of falling with all their forces upon the camp at Cambray , they flew off , excentrically , to Dunkirk on one side and Landau on the other . It is not less astonishing that , after making the greatest efforts in the beginning of the campaign upon the right of the general field , they should have shifted them afterward to the extreme left , so that while the allies were operating in Flanders they were in no manner seconded or aided by the imposing army upon the Rhine ; and when , in its turn , this army took up the offensive , the allies remained inactive upon the Sambre . Do not these false combinations resemble those of Soubise and Broglie in 1761 , and all the operations of the Seven Years ' War ? In 1794 the phase of affairs is wholly changed . The French from a painful defensive pass to a brilliant offensive . The combinations of this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to represent them as forming a new system of war . To be convinced of this , it is only necessary to observe that the respective positions of the armies in this campaign and in that of 1757 were almost identical , and the direction of the operations is quite the same . The French had four corps , which constituted two armies , as the King of Prussia had four divisions , which composed two armies . These two large bodies took a concentric direction leading on Brussels , as Frederick and Schwerin had adopted in 1757 on Prague . The only difference between the two plans is that the Austrian troops in Flanders were not so much scattered as those of Brown in Bohemia ; but this difference is certainly not favorable to the plan of 1794 . The position of the North Sea was also unfavorable for the latter plan . To outflank the Austrian right , Pichegru was thrown between the sea and the mass of the enemy ,  --  a direction as dangerous and faulty as could be given to great operations . This movement was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which almost lost the Russian army in 1807 . The fate of the Prussian army , cut off from its communications and forced upon the Baltic , is another proof of this truth . If the Prince of Coburg had acted with ability , he could easily have made Pichegru suffer for this audacious maneuver , which was performed a month before Jourdan was prepared to follow it up . The center of the grand Austrian army intended to act upon the offensive was before Landrecies ; the army was composed of one hundred and six battalions and one hundred and fifty squadrons ; upon its right flank Flanders was covered by the corps d'armee of Clairfayt , and upon the left Charleroi was covered by that of the Prince de Kaunitz . The gain of a battle before Landrecies opened its gates ; and upon General Chapuis was found a plan of the diversion in Flanders : only twelve battalions were sent to Clairfayt . A long time afterward , and after the French were known to have been successful , the corps of the Duke of York marched to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the remainder of the army before Landrecies , after it was obliged by a loss of force to delay invasion ? The Prince of Coburg threw away all the advantages of his central position , by allowing the French to concentrate in Belgium and to beat all his large detachments in detail . Finally , the army moved , leaving a division at Cateau , and a part having been sent to the Prince de Kaunitz at Charleroi . If , instead of dividing this grand army , it had been directed upon Turcoing , there would have been concentrated there one hundred battalions and one hundred and forty squadrons ; and what must then have been the result of this famous diversion of Pichegru , cut off from his own frontiers and shut up between the sea and two fortresses ? The plan of invasion adopted by the French had not only the radical error of exterior lines : it also failed in execution . The diversion on Courtray took place on April 26 , and Jourdan did not arrive at Charleroi till the 3d of June ,  --  more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the Austrians to profit by their central position . If the Prussian army had maneuvered by its right and the Austrian army by its left ,  --  that is , both upon the Meuse ,  --  the state of affairs would have been different . By establishing themselves in the center of a line of scattered forces they could have prevented the junction of the different fractions . It may be dangerous in a battle to attack the center of a close line of troops when it can be simultaneously sustained by the wings and the reserves ; but it is quite different on a line of three hundred miles in extent . In 1795 Prussia and Spain retired from the coalition , and the principal theater of war was shifted from the Rhine to Italy ,  --  which opened a new field of glory for the French arms . Their lines of operations in this campaign were double ; they desired to operate by Dusseldorf and Manheim . Clairfayt , wiser than his predecessors , concentrated his forces alternately upon these points , and gained victories at Manheim and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the army of the Sambre and Meuse to recross the Rhine to cover the Moselle , and brought Pichegru back to Landau . In 1796 the lines of operations on the Rhine were copied from those of 1757 and those in Flanders in 1794 , but with different results . The armies of the Rhine , and of the Sambre and Meuse , set out from the extremities of the base , on routes converging to the Danube . As in 1794 , they were exterior lines . The Archduke Charles , more skillful than the Prince of Coburg , profited by his interior lines by concentrating his forces at a point nearer than that expected by the French . He then seized the instant when the Danube covered the corps of Latour , to steal several marches upon Moreau and attack and overwhelm Jourdan : the battle of Wurzburg decided the fate of Germany and compelled the army of Moreau to retreat . Bonaparte now commences in Italy his extraordinary career . His plan is to separate the Piedmontese and Austrian armies . He succeeds by the battle of Millesimo @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and beats them successively at Mondovi and Lodi . A formidable army is collected in the Tyrol to raise the siege of Mantua : it commits the error of marching there in two bodies separated by a lake . The lightning is not quicker than Napoleon . He raises the siege , abandons every thing before Mantua , throws the greater part of his force upon the first column , which debouches by Brescia , beats it and forces it back upon the mountains : the second column arrives upon the same ground , and is there beaten in its turn , and compelled to retire into the Tyrol to keep up its communications with the right . Wurmser , upon whom these lessons are lost , desires to cover the two lines of Roveredo and Vicenza ; Napoleon , after having overwhelmed and thrown the first back upon the Lavis , changes direction by the right , debouches by the gorges of the Brenta upon the left , and forces the remnant of this fine army to take refuge in Mantua , where it is finally compelled to surrender . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ having formed two exterior lines in 1796 , nevertheless , have three upon the Rhine and the Danube . The army on the left observes the Lower Rhine , that of the center marches upon the Danube , Switzerland , flanking Italy and Swabia , being occupied by a third army as strong as both the others . The three armies could be concentrated only in the valley of the Inn , eighty leagues from their base of operations . The archduke has equal forces : he unites them against the center , which he defeats at Stockach , and the army of Switzerland is compelled to evacuate the Grisons and Eastern Switzerland . The allies in turn commit the same fault : instead of following up their success on this central line , which cost them so dearly afterward , they formed a double line in Switzerland and on the Lower Rhine . The army of Switzerland is beaten at Zurich , while the other trifles at Manheim . In Italy the French undertake a double enterprise , which leaves thirty-two thousand men uselessly employed at Naples , while upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ given or received , their force is too weak and meets with terrible reverses . When the army of Naples returns to the North , it commits the error of adopting a strategic direction opposed to Moreau 's , and Suwaroff , by means of his central position , from which he derives full profit , marches against this army and beats it , while some leagues from the other . In 1800 , Napoleon has returned from Egypt , and every thing is again changed , and this campaign presents a new combination of lines of operations ; one hundred and fifty thousand men march upon the two flanks of Switzerland , and debouch , one upon the Danube and the other upon the Po . This insures the conquest of vast regions . Modern history affords no similar combination . The French armies are upon interior lines , affording reciprocal support , while the Austrians are compelled to adopt an exterior line , which renders it impossible for them to communicate . By a skillful arrangement of its progress , the army of the reserve cuts off the enemy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ preserving its own relations with its base and with the army of the Rhine , which forms its secondary line . Fig. 3 demonstrates this truth , and shows the respective situations of the two parties . A and A A indicate the front of operations of the armies of the Rhine and of the reserve ; B and B B , that of Kray and Melas ; C C C C , the passes of the Saint-Bernard , of the Simplon , of the Saint-Gothard , and of the Splugen ; D indicates the two lines of operations of the army of the reserve ; E , the two lines of retreat of Melas ; H J K , the French divisions preserving their line of retreat . It may thus be seen that Melas is cut off from his base , and that , on the contrary , the French general runs no risk , since he preserves all his communications with the frontiers and with his secondary lines . Illustration : Fig. 3 . THE STRATIGIC FIELD OF 1806 . The analysis of the memorable events just sketched @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of maneuver in military operations . Indeed , discretion on this point may repair the disasters of defeat , destroy the advantages of an adversary 's victory , render his invasion futile , or assure the conquest of a province . By a comparison of the combinations and results of the most noted campaigns , it will be seen that the lines of operations which have led to success have been established in conformity to the fundamental principle already alluded to ,  --  viz. : that simple and interior lines enable a general to bring into action , by strategic movements , upon the important point , a stronger force than the enemy . The student may also satisfy himself that those which have failed contained faults opposed to this principle . An undue number of lines divides the forces , and permits fractions to be overwhelmed by the enemy . MAXIMS ON LINES OF OPERATIONS . From the analysis of all the events herein referred to , as well as from that of many others , the following maxims result :  --  1 . If the art of war consists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ theater of operations the greatest possible force , the choice of the line of operations , being the primary means of attaining this end , may be regarded as the fundamental idea in a good plan of a campaign . Napoleon proved this by the direction he gave his armies in 1805 on Donauwerth and in 1806 on Gera ,  --  maneuvers that can not be too much studied by military men . Of course , it is impossible to sketch in advance the whole campaign . The objective point will be determined upon in advance , the general plan to be followed to attain it , and the first enterprise to be undertaken for this end : what is to follow will depend upon the result of this first operation and the new phases it may develop . 2 . The direction to be given to this line depends upon the geographical situation of the theater of operations , but still more upon the position of the hostile masses upon this strategic field . In every case , however , it must be directed upon the center or upon one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vastly preponderating would it be otherwise than a fatal error to act upon the center and the two extremities at the same time. 15 It may be laid down as a general principle , that , if the enemy divide his forces on an extended front , the best direction of the maneuver-line will be upon his center , but in every other case , when it is possible , the best direction will be upon one of the flanks , and then upon the rear of his line of defense or front of operations . The advantage of this maneuver arises more from the opportunity it affords of taking the line of defense in reverse than from the fact that by using it the assailant has to contend with but a part of the enemy 's force . Thus , the army of the Rhine in 1800 , gaining the extreme left of the line of defense of the Black Forest , caused it to yield almost without an effort . This army fought two battles on the right bank of the Danube , which , although not decisive , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ operations , brought about the invasion of Swabia and Bavaria . The results of the march of the army of the reserve by the Saint-Bernard and Milan upon the extreme right of Melas were still more brilliant . 3 . Even when the extremity of the enemy 's front of operations is gained , it is not always safe to act upon his rear , since by so doing the assailant in many cases will lose his own communications . To avoid this danger , the line of operations should have a geographic and strategic direction , such that the army will always find either to its rear or to the right or left a safe line of retreat . In this case , to take advantage of either of these flank lines of retreat would require a change of direction of the line of operations , ( Maxim 12 . ) The ability to decide upon such a direction is among the most important qualities of a general . The importance of a direction is illustrated by these examples . If Napoleon in 1800 , after passing the Saint-Bernard , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at Marengo without having previously protected himself on the side of Lombardy and of the left bank of the Po , he would have been more thoroughly cut off from his line of retreat than Melas from his ; but , having in his possession the secondary points of Casale and Pavia on the side of the Saint-Bernard , and Savona and Tenda toward the Apennines , in case of reverse he had every means of regaining the Var or the Valais . In 1806 , if he had marched from Gera directly upon Leipsic , and had there awaited the Prussian army returning from Weimar , he would have been cut off from the Rhine as much as the Duke of Brunswick from the Elbe , while by falling back to the west in the direction of Weimar he placed his front before the three roads of Saalfeld , Schleiz , and Hof , which thus became well-covered lines of communication . If the Prussians had endeavored to cut him off from these lines by moving between Gera and Baireuth , they would have opened to him his most natural @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ,  --  as well as the two roads which lead from Saxony by Cassel to Coblentz , Cologne , and even Wesel. 4 . Two independent armies should not be formed upon the same frontier : such an arrangement could be proper only in the case of large coalitions , or where the forces at disposal are too numerous to act upon the same zone of operations ; and even in this case it would be better to have all the forces under the same commander , who accompanies the principal army . 5 . As a consequence of the last-mentioned principle , with equal forces on the same frontier , a single line of operations will be more advantageous than a double one . 6 . It may happen , however , that a double line will be necessary , either from the topography of the seat of war , or because a double line has been adopted by the enemy , and it will be necessary to oppose a part of the army to each of his masses . 7 . In this case , interior or central lines @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ former case the fractions of the army can be concentrated before those of the enemy , and may thus decide the fate of the campaign. 16 Such an army may , by a well-combined strategic plan , unite upon and overwhelm successively the fractions of the adversary 's forces . To be assured of success in these maneuvers , a body of observation is left in front of the army to be held in check , with instructions to avoid a serious engagement , but to delay the enemy as much as possible by taking advantage of the ground , continually falling back upon the principal army . 8 . A double line is applicable in the case of a decided superiority of force , when each army will be a match for any force the enemy can bring against it . In this case this course will be advantageous ,  --  since a single line would crowd the forces so much as to prevent them all from acting to advantage . However , it will always be prudent to support well the army which , by reason of the nature @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , has the most important duty to perform . 9 The principal events of modern wars demonstrate the truth of two other maxims . The first is , that two armies operating on interior lines and sustaining each other reciprocally , and opposing two armies superior in numbers , should not allow themselves to be crowded into a too contracted space , where the whole might be overwhelmed at once . This happened to Napoleon at Leipsic. 17 The second is , that interior lines should not be abused by extending them too far , thus giving the enemy the opportunity of overcoming the corps of observation . This risk , however , may be incurred if the end pursued by the main forces is so decisive as to conclude the war ,  --  when the fate of these secondary bodies would be viewed with comparative indifference . 10 . For the same reason , two converging lines are more advantageous than two divergent . The first conform better to the principles of strategy , and possess the advantage of covering the lines of communication and supply ; but to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ armies which pass over them shall not be separately exposed to the combined masses of the enemy , before being able to effect their junction . 11 . Divergent lines , however , may be advantageous when the center of the enemy has been broken and his forces separated either by a battle or by a strategic movement ,  --  in which case divergent operations would add to the dispersion of the enemy . Such divergent lines would be interior , since the pursuers could concentrate with more facility than the pursued . 12 . It sometimes happens that an army is obliged to change its line of operations in the middle of a campaign . This is a very delicate and important step , which may lead to great successes , or to equally great disasters if not applied with sagacity , and is used only to extricate an army from an embarrassing position . Napoleon projected several of these changes ; for in his bold invasions he was provided with new plans to meet unforeseen events . At the battle of Austerlitz , if defeated , he had resolved @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or Ratisbon , which would have opened a new and rich country to him , instead of returning by Vienna , which route lay through an exhausted country and from which the Archduke Charles was endeavoring to cut him off . Frederick executed one of these changes of the line of operations after the raising of the siege of Olmutz . In 1814 Napoleon commenced the execution of a bolder maneuver , but one which was favored by the localities . It was to base himself upon the fortresses of Alsace and Lorraine , leaving the route to Paris open to the allies . If Mortier and Marmont could have joined him , and had he possessed fifty thousand more men , this plan would have produced the most decisive results and have put the seal on his military career . 13 . As before stated , the outline of the frontiers , and the geographical character of the theater of operations , exercise a great influence on the direction to be given to these lines , as well as upon the advantages to be obtained . Central positions , salient @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the most advantageous , because they naturally lead to the adoption of interior lines and facilitate the project of taking the enemy in reverse . The sides of this salient angle become so important that every means should be taken to render them impregnable . In default of such central positions , their advantages may be gained by the relative directions of maneuver-lines , as the following figure will explain . C D maneuvering upon the right of the front of the army A B , and H I upon the left flank of G F , will form two interior lines I K and C K upon an extremity of the exterior lines A B , F G , which they may overwhelm separately by combining upon them . Such was the result of the operations of 1796 , 1800 , and 1809 . Illustration : Fig. 4 . K / / / / F LLLLLLLLLLLLL G / A LLLLLLLLLLLLLL B / / / / / / / / H TTTTTTTTTTTTT I C TTTTTTTTTTTTTT D 14 . The general configuration of the bases ought also to influence the direction to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being naturally dependent upon the former . It has already been shown that the greatest advantage that can result from a choice of bases is when the frontiers allow it to be assumed parallel to the line of operations of the enemy , thus affording the opportunity of seizing this line and cutting him from his base . But if , instead of directing the operations upon the decisive point , the line of operations be badly chosen , all the advantages of the perpendicular base may be lost , as will be seen by referring to the figure on page 79 . The army E , having the double base A C and C D , if it marched toward F , instead of to the right toward G H , would lose all the strategic advantages of its base C D. The great art , then , of properly directing lines of operations , is so to establish them in reference to the bases and to the marches of the army as to seize the communications of the enemy without imperiling one 's own , and is the most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ There is another point which exercises a manifest influence over the direction to be given to the line of operations ; it is when the principal enterprise of the campaign is to cross a large river in the presence of a numerous and well-appointed enemy . In this case , the choice of this line depends neither upon the will of the general nor the advantages to be gained by an attack on one or another point ; for the first consideration will be to ascertain where the passage can be most certainly effected , and where are to be found the means for this purpose . The passage of the Rhine in 1795 , by Jourdan , was near Dusseldorf , for the same reason that the Vistula in 1831 was crossed by Marshal Paskevitch near Ossiek ,  --  viz. , that in neither case was there the bridge-train necessary for the purpose , and both were obliged to procure and take up the rivers large boats , bought by the French in Holland , and by the Russians at Thorn and Dantzic . The neutrality of Prussia permitted the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enemy was not able to prevent it . This apparently incalculable advantage led the French into the double invasions of 1795 and 1796 , which failed because the double line of operations caused the defeat of the armies separately . Paskevitch was wiser , and passed the Upper Vistula with only a small detachment and after the principal army had already arrived at Lowicz . When an army is sufficiently provided with bridge-trains , the chances of failure are much lessened ; but then , as always , it is necessary to select the point which may , either on account of its topography or the position of the enemy , be most advantageous . The discussion between Napoleon and Moreau on the passage of the Rhine in 1800 is one of the most curious examples of the different combinations presented by this question , which is both strategic and tactical . Since it is necessary to protect the bridges , at least until a victory is gained , the point of passage will exercise an influence upon the directions of a few marches immediately subsequent to the passage . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be upon the center or one of the flanks of the enemy . A united army which has forced a passage upon the center of an extended line might afterward adopt two divergent lines to complete the dispersion of the enemy , who , being unable to concentrate , would not think of disturbing the bridges . If the line of the river is so short that the hostile army is more concentrated , and the general has the means of taking up after the passage a front perpendicular to the river , it would be better to pass it upon one of the extremities , in order to throw off the enemy from the bridges . This will be referred to in the article upon the passage of rivers . 16 . There is yet another combination of lines of operations to be noticed . It is the marked difference of advantage between a line at home and one in a hostile country . The nature of the enemy 's country will also influence these chances . Let us suppose an army crosses the Alps or the Rhine to carry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the second rank ; and , even if they are in alliance , there are always rivalries or collisions of interest which will deprive them of that unity and strength possessed by a single powerful state . On the other hand , a German army invading France would operate upon a line much more dangerous than that of the French in Italy , because upon the first could be thrown the consolidated strength of Franco , united in feeling and interest . An army on the defensive , with its line of operations on its own soil , has resources everywhere and in every thing : the inhabitants , authorities , productions , towns , public depots and arsenals , and even private stores , are all in its favor . It is not ordinarily so abroad . Lines of operations in rich , fertile , manufacturing regions offer to the assailants much greater advantages than when in barren or desert regions , particularly when the people are not united against the invader . In provinces like those first named the army would find a thousand necessary supplies , while @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resources . Horses probably may obtain pasturage ; but every thing else must be carried by the army ,  --  thus infinitely increasing the embarrassments and rendering bold operations much more rare and dangerous . The French armies , so long accustomed to the comforts of Swabia and Lombardy , almost perished in 1806 in the bogs of Pultusk , and actually did perish in 1812 in the marshy forests of Lithuania . 17 . There is another point in reference to these lines which is much insisted upon by some , but which is more specious than important . It is that on each side of the line of operations the country should be cleared of all enemies for a distance equal to the depth of this line : otherwise the enemy might threaten the line of retreat . This rule is everywhere belied by the events of war . The nature of the country , the rivers and mountains , the morale of the armies , the spirit of the people , the ability and energy of the commanders , can not be estimated by diagrams on paper . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could be permitted on the flanks of the line of retreat ; but a compliance with this demand would deprive an army of every means of taking a step in a hostile country ; and there is not a campaign in recent wars , or in those of Marlborough and Eugene , which does not contradict this assertion . Was not General Moreau at the gates of Vienna when Fussen , Scharnitz , and all the Tyrol were in possession of the Austrians ? Was not Napoleon at Piacenza when Turin , Genoa , and the Col-di-Tenda were occupied by the army of Melas ? Did not Eugene march by way of Stradella and Asti to the aid of Turin , leaving the French upon the Mincio but a few leagues from his base ? OBSERVATIONS UPON INTERIOR LINES  --  WHAT HAS BEEN SAID AGAINST THEM . Some of my critics have disputed as to the meaning of words and upon definitions ; others have censured where they but imperfectly understood ; and others have , by the light of certain important events , taken it upon themselves to deny my @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ case which might modify the application of these principles were such as were supposed , or without reflecting that , even admitting what they claimed to be true , a single exception can not disprove a rule based upon the experience of ages and upon natural principles . In opposition to my maxims upon interior lines , some have quoted the famous and successful march of the allies upon Leipsic . This remarkable event , at first glance , seems to stagger the faith of those who believe in principles . At best , however , it is but one of those exceptional cases from which nothing can be inferred in the face of thousands of opposed instances . Moreover , it is easy to show that , far from overthrowing the maxims it has been brought to oppose , it will go to establish their soundness . Indeed , the critics had forgotten that in case of a considerable numerical superiority I recommended double lines of operations as most advantageous , particularly when concentric and arranged to combine an effort against the enemy at the decisive moment . Now , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and Benningsen , this case of decided superiority is found . The inferior army , to conform to the principles of this chapter , should have directed its efforts against one of the extremities of his adversary , and not upon the center as it did : so that the events quoted against me are doubly in my favor . Moreover , if the central position of Napoleon between Dresden and the Oder was disastrous , it must be attributed to the misfortunes of Culm , Katzbach , and Dennewitz ,  --  in a word , to faults of execution , entirely foreign to the principles in question . What I propose is , to act offensively upon the most important point with the greater part of the forces , but upon the secondary points to remain on the defensive , in strong positions or behind a river , until the decisive blow is struck , and the operation ended by the total defeat of an essential part of the army . Then the combined efforts of the whole army may be directed upon other points . Whenever the secondary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the mass of the army , the system is not understood ; and this was what happened in 1813 . If Napoleon , after his victory at Dresden , had vigorously pursued the allies into Bohemia , he would have escaped the disaster at Culm , have threatened Prague , and perhaps have dissolved the Coalition . To this error may be added a fault quite as great ,  --  that of fighting decisive battles when he was not present with the mass of his forces . At Katzbach his instructions were not obeyed . He ordered Macdonald to wait for Bluecher , and to fall upon him when he should expose himself by hold movements . Macdonald , on the contrary , crossed his detachments over torrents which were hourly becoming more swollen , and advanced to meet Bluecher . If he had fulfilled his instructions and Napoleon had followed up his victory , there is no doubt that his plan of operations , based upon interior strategic lines and positions and upon a concentric line of operations , would have met with the most brilliant success . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ France in 1814 shows that he knew how to apply this system . There is another circumstance , of equal importance , which shows the injustice of judging central lines by the fate of Napoleon in Saxony ,  --  viz. : that his front of operations was outflanked on the right , and even taken in reverse , by the geographical position of the frontiers of Bohemia . Such a case is of rare occurrence . A central position with such faults is not to be compared to one without them . When Napoleon made the application of these principles in Italy , Poland , Prussia , and France , he was not exposed to the attack of a hostile enemy on his flanks and rear . Austria could have threatened him in 1807 ; but she was then at peace with him and unarmed . To judge of a system of operations , it must be supposed that accidents and chances are to be as much in favor of as against it ,  --  which was by no means the case in 1813 , either in the geographic positions or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this , it is absurd to quote the reverses at Katzbach and Dennewitz , suffered by his lieutenants , as proof capable of destroying a principle the simplest application of which required these officers not to allow themselves to be drawn into a serious engagement . Instead of avoiding they sought collisions . Indeed , what advantage can be expected from the system of central lines , if the parts of the army which have been weakened in order to strike decisive blows elsewhere , shall themselves seek a disastrous contest , instead of being contented with being bodies of observation ? 18 In this case it is the enemy who applies the principle , and not he who has the interior lines . Moreover , in the succeeding campaign , the defense of Napoleon in Champagne , from the battle of Brienne to that of Paris , demonstrates fully the truth of these maxims . The analysis of these two celebrated campaigns raises a strategic question which it would be difficult to answer by simple assertions founded upon theories . It is , whether the system of central lines loses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with Montesquieu , that the greatest enterprises fail from the magnitude of the arrangements necessary to consummate them , I am disposed to answer in the affirmative . It is very clear to me that an army of one hundred thousand men , occupying a central zone against three isolated armies of thirty or thirty-five thousand men , would be more sure of defeating them successively than if the central mass were four hundred thousand strong against three armies of one hundred and thirty-five thousand each ; and for several good reasons :  --  1 . Considering the difficulty of finding ground and time necessary to bring a very large force into action on the day of battle , an army of one hundred and thirty or one hundred and forty thousand men may easily resist a much larger force . 2 . If driven from the field , there will be at least one hundred thousand men to protect and insure an orderly retreat and effect a junction with one of the other armies . 3 . The central army of four hundred thousand men requires such a quantity of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ kind , that it will possess less mobility and facility in shifting its efforts from one part of the zone to another ; to say nothing of the impossibility of obtaining provisions from a region too restricted to support such numbers . 4 . The bodies of observation detached from the central mass to hold in check two armies of one hundred and thirty-five thousand each must be very strong , ( from eighty to ninety thousand each ; ) and , being of such magnitude , if they are drawn into a serious engagement they will probably suffer reverses , the effects of which might outweigh the advantages gained by the principal army . I have never advocated exclusively either a concentric or eccentric system . All my works go to show the eternal influence of principles , and to demonstrate that operations to be successful must be applications of principles . Divergent or convergent operations may be either very good or very bad : all depends on the situation of the respective forces . The eccentric lines , for instance , are good when applied to a mass starting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to divide and separately destroy two hostile forces acting upon exterior lines . Such was the maneuver of Frederick which brought about , at the end of the campaign of 1767 , the fine battles of Rossbach and Leuthen . Such were nearly all the operations of Napoleon , whose favorite maneuver was to unite , by closely-calculated marches , imposing masses on the center , and , having pierced the enemy 's center or turned his front , to give them eccentric directions to disperse the defeated army. 19 On the other hand , concentric operations are good in two cases : 1 . When they tend to concentrate a scattered army upon a point where it will be sure to arrive before the enemy ; 2 . When they direct to the same end the efforts of two armies which are in no danger of being beaten separately by a stronger enemy . Concentric operations , which just now seem to be so advantageous , may be most pernicious ,  --  which should teach us the necessity of detecting the principles upon which systems are based , and not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , if two armies set out from a distant base to march convergently upon an enemy whose forces are on interior lines and more concentrated , it follows that the latter could effect a union before the former , and would inevitably defeat them ; as was the case with Moreau and Jourdan in 1796 , opposed to the Archduke Charles . In starting from the same points , or from two points much less separated than Dusseldorf and Strasbourg , an army may be exposed to this danger . What was the fate of the concentric columns of Wurmser and Quasdanovitch , wishing to reach the Mincio by the two banks of Lake Garda ? Can the result of the march of Napoleon and Grouchy on Brussels be forgotten ? Leaving Sombref , they were to march concentrically on this city ,  --  one by Quatre-Bras , the other by Wavre . Bluecher and Wellington , taking an interior strategic line , effected a junction before them , and the terrible disaster of Waterloo proved to the world that the immutable principles of war can not be violated with impunity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ system which is not in accordance with the principles of war can not be good . I lay no claim to the creation of these principles , for they have always existed , and were applied by Caesar , Scipio , and the Consul Nero , as well as by Marlborough and Eugene ; but I claim to have been the first to point them out , and to lay down the principal chances in their various applications . FOOTNOTES : Footnote 11 : This definition has been criticized ; and , as it has given rise to misapprehension , it becomes necessary to explain it . In the first place , it must be borne in mind that it is a question of maneuver-lines , ( that is , of strategic combinations , ) and not of great routes . It must also be admitted that an army marching upon two or three routes , near enough to each other to admit of the concentration of the different masses within forty-eight hours , would not have two or three lines of operations . When Moreau and Jourdan entered Germany with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ each other , there was a double line of operations ; but a French army of which only a detachment starts from the Lower Rhine to march on the Main , while the five or six other corps set out from the Upper Rhine to march on Ulm , would not have a double line of operations in the sense in which I use the term to designate a maneuver . Napoleon , when he concentrated seven corps and set them in motion by Bamberg to march on Gera , while Mortier with a single corps marched on Cassel to occupy Hesse and flank the principal enterprise , had but a single general line of operations , with an accessory detachment . The territorial line was composed of two arms or radii , but the operation was not double . Footnote 12 : Some German writers have said that I confound central positions with the line of operations ,  --  in which assertion they are mistaken . An army may occupy a central position in the presence of two masses of the enemy , and not have interior lines of operations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thought that I would have done better to use the term radii of operations to express the idea of double lines . The reasoning in this case is plausible if we conceive the theater of operations to be a circle ; but , as every radius is , after all , a line , it is simply a dispute about words . Footnote 13 : This assertion has been disputed . I think it is correct ; for Melas , confined between the Bormida , the Tanaro , and the Po , was unable to recruit for his army , barely able to maintain a communication by couriers with his base , and he certainly would have been obliged to cut his way out or to surrender in case he had not been reinforced . Footnote 14 : The capture of Paris by the allies decided the fate of Napoleon ; but he had no army , and was attacked by all Europe , and the French people had , in addition , separated their cause from his . If he had possessed fifty thousand more old soldiers , he would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Footnote 15 : The inferiority of an army does not depend exclusively upon the number of soldiers : their military qualities , their morale , and the ability of their commander are also very important elements . Footnote 16 : When the fractions of an army are separated from the main body by only a few marches , and particularly when they are not intended to act separately throughout the campaign , these are central strategic positions , and not lines of operations . Footnote 17 : In the movements immediately preceding the battle of Leipsic , Napoleon , strictly speaking , had but a single line of operations , and his armies were simply in central strategic positions ; but the principle is the same , and hence the example is illustrative of lines of operations . Footnote 18 : I am well aware that it is not always possible to avoid a combat without running greater risks than would result from a check ; but Macdonald might have fought Bluecher to advantage if he had better understood Napoleon 's instructions . Footnote 19 : It will not be thought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other times divergent , maneuvers , when we reflect that among the finest operations of Napoleon there are some in which he employed these two systems alternately within twenty-four hours ; for example , in the movements about Ratisbon in 1809 . ARTICLE XXII . Strategic Lines . Mention has already been made of strategic lines of maneuvers , which differ essentially from lines of operations ; and it will be well to define them , for many confound them . We will not consider those strategic lines which have a great and permanent importance by reason of their position and their relation to the features of the country , like the lines of the Danube and the Meuse , the chains of the Alps and the Balkan . Such lines can best be studied by a detailed and minute examination of the topography of Europe ; and an excellent model for this kind of study is found in the Archduke Charles 's description of Southern Germany . The term strategic is also applied to all communications which lead by the most direct or advantageous route from one important point to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the army to all of its objective points . It will be seen , then , that a theater of war is crossed by a multitude of such lines , but that at any given time those only which are concerned in the projected enterprise have any real importance . This renders plain the distinction between the general line of operations of a whole campaign , and these strategic lines , which are temporary and change with the operations of the army . Besides territorial strategic lines , there are strategic lines of maneuvers . An army having Germany as its general field might adopt as its zone of operations the space between the Alps and the Danube , or that between the Danube and the Main , or that between the mountains of Franconia and the sea . It would have upon its zone a single line of operations , or , at most , a double concentric line , upon interior , or perhaps exterior , directions ,  --  while it would have successively perhaps twenty strategic lines as its enterprises were developed : it would have at first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of operations . If it operated in the zone between the Danube and the Alps , it might adopt , according to events , the strategic line leading from Ulm on Donauwerth and Ratisbon , or that from Ulm to the Tyrol , or that which connects Ulm with Nuremberg or Mayence . It may , then , be assumed that the definitions applied to lines of operations , as well as the maxims referring to them , are necessarily applicable to strategic lines . These may be concentric , to inflict a decisive blow , or eccentric , after victory . They are rarely simple , since an army does not confine its march to a single road ; but when they are double or triple , or even quadruple , they should be interior if the forces be equal , or exterior in the case of great numerical superiority . The rigorous application of this rule may perhaps sometimes be remitted in detaching a body on an exterior line , even when the forces are equal , to attain an important result without running much risk ; but this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the important masses . Strategic lines can not be interior when our efforts are directed against one of the extremities of the enemy 's front of operations . The maxims above given in reference to lines of operations holding good for strategic lines , it is not necessary to repeat them , or to apply them to particular examples ; but there is one , however , which deserves mention ,  --  viz. : that it is important generally , in the selection of these temporary strategic lines , not to leave the line of operations exposed to the assaults of the enemy . Even this may , however , be done , to extricate the army from great danger , or to attain a great success ; but the operation must be of short duration , and care must have been taken to prepare a plan of safe retreat , by a sudden change of the line of operations , if necessary , as has already been referred to . We will illustrate this by the campaign of Waterloo . The Prussian army was based upon the Rhine , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Luxembourg and Namur ; Wellington 's base was Antwerp , and his line of operations the short road to Brussels . The sudden attack by Napoleon on Flanders decided Bluecher to receive battle parallel to the English base , and not to his own , about which he seemed to have no uneasiness . This was pardonable , because he could always have a good chance of regaining Wesel or Nimeguen , and even might seek a refuge in Antwerp in the last extremity ; but if the army had not had its powerful maritime allies it would have been destroyed . Beaten at Ligny , and seeking refuge at Gembloux and then at Wavre , Bluecher had but three strategic lines to choose from : that which led directly to Maestricht , that farther north on Venloo , or the one leading to the English army near Mont St. Jean . He audaciously took the last , and triumphed by the application of interior strategic lines ,  --  which Napoleon here , perhaps for the first time in his life , neglected . It will readily be seen that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was neither a line of operations of the Prussian army nor a line of battle , but a strategic line of maneuver , and was interior . It was bold , because he exposed fully his own natural line of operations . The fact that he sought a junction with the English made his movement accord with the principles of war . A less successful example was that of Ney at Dennewitz . Leaving Wittenberg , and going in the direction of Berlin , he moved to the right to gain the extreme left of the allies , but in so doing he left his primitive line of retreat exposed to the attacks of an enemy superior in force . His object was to gain communication with Napoleon , whose intention was to join him by Herzberg or Luckau ; but Ney should from the beginning have taken all logistic and tactical means of accomplishing this change of strategic line and of informing his army of it . He did nothing of this kind ,  --  either from forgetfulness , or on account of the feeling of aversion he had to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ losses at Dennewitz were the result . Napoleon in 1796 gave one of the best illustrations of these different combinations of strategic lines . His general line of operations extended from the Apennines to Verona . When he had driven Wurmser upon Roveredo and determined to pursue him into the Tyrol , he pushed on in the valley of the Adige to Trent and the Lavis , where he learned that Wurmser had moved by the Brenta on the Frioul , doubtless to take him in reverse . There were but three courses open to him ,  --  to remain in the narrow valley of the Adige at great risk , to retreat by Verona to meet Wurmser , or the last ,  --  which was sublime , but rash ,  --  to follow him into the valley of the Brenta , which was encircled by rugged mountains whose two passages might be held by the Austrians . Napoleon was not the man to hesitate between three such alternatives . He left Vaubois on the Lavis to cover Trent , and marched with the remainder of his forces on Bassano . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The route from Trent to Bassano was not the line of operations of the army , but a strategic line of maneuver still bolder than that of Bluecher on Wavre . However , it was an operation of only three or four days ' duration , at the end of which time Napoleon would either beat or be beaten at Bassano : in the first case , he would open direct communication with Verona and his line of operations ; in the second , he could regain in great haste Trent , where , reinforced by Vaubois , he could fall back either upon Verona or Peschiera . The difficulties of the country , which made this march audacious in one respect , were favorable in another ; for even if Wurmser had been victorious at Bassano he could not have interfered with the return to Trent , as there was no road to enable him to anticipate Napoleon . If Davidovitch on the Lavis had driven Vaubois from Trent , he might have embarrassed Napoleon ; but this Austrian general , previously beaten at Roveredo , and ignorant of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and thinking it was all upon him , would scarcely have thought of resuming the offensive before Napoleon beaten at Bassano would have been on his retreat . Indeed , if Davidovitch had advanced as far as Roveredo , driving Vaubois before him , he would there have been surrounded by two French armies , who would have inflicted upon him the fate of Vandamme at Culm . I have dwelt on this event to show that a proper calculation of time and distances , joined to great activity , may lead to the success of many adventures which may seem very imprudent . I conclude from this that it may be well sometimes to direct an army upon a route which exposes its line of operations , but that every measure must be taken to prevent the enemy from profiting by it , both by great rapidity of execution and by demonstrations which will deceive him and leave him in ignorance of what is taking place . Still , it is a very hazardous maneuver , and only to be adopted under an urgent necessity . ARTICLE XXIII . Means @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Strategic Reserves . When a general enters a country offensively , he should form eventual or temporary bases ,  --  which , of course , are neither so safe nor so strong as his own frontiers . A river with tetes de ponts , and one or two large towns secure from a coup de main to cover the depots of the army and to serve as points of assembling for the reserve troops , would be an excellent base of this kind . Of course , such a line could not be a temporary base if a hostile force were near the line of operations leading to the real base on the frontiers . Napoleon would have had a good real base on the Elbe in 1813 if Austria had remained neutral ; but , she having joined his enemies , this line was taken in reverse , and became but a pivot of operations , favorable indeed for the execution of a single enterprise , but dangerous for a prolonged occupation , particularly in case of a serious reverse . As every army which is beaten in an enemy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ off from its own frontiers if it continues to occupy the country , these distant temporary bases are rather temporary points of support than real bases , and are in a measure eventual lines of defense . In general , we can not expect to find in an enemy 's country safe positions suitable even for a temporary base ; and the deficiency must be supplied by a strategic reserve ,  --  which is purely a modern invention . Its merits and demerits deserve notice . STRATEGIC RESERVES . Reserves play an important part in modern warfare . From the executive , who prepares national reserves , down to the chief of a platoon of skirmishers , every commander now desires a reserve . A wise government always provides good reserves for its armies , and the general uses them when they come under his command . The state has its reserves , the army has its own , and every corps d'armee or division should not fail to provide one . The reserves of an army are of two kinds ,  --  those on the battle-field , and those which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ latter , while organizing , may occupy important points of the theater of war , and serve even as strategic reserves ; their positions will depend not only on their magnitude , but also on the nature of the frontiers and the distance from the base to the front of operations . Whenever an army takes the offensive , it should always contemplate the possibility of being compelled to act on the defensive , and by the posting of a reserve between the base and front of operations the advantage of an active reserve on the field of battle is gained : it can fly to the support of menaced points without weakening the active army . It is true that to form a reserve a number of regiments must be withdrawn from active service ; but there are always reinforcements to arrive , recruits to be instructed , and convalescents to be used ; and by organizing central depots for preparation of munitions and equipments , and by making them the rendezvous of all detachments going to and coming from the army , and adding to them a few good @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ capable of important service . Napoleon never failed to organize these reserves in his campaigns . Even in 1797 , in his bold march on the Noric Alps , he had first Joubert on the Adige , afterward Victor ( returning from the Roman States ) in the neighborhood of Verona . In 1805 Ney and Augereau played the part alternately in the Tyrol and Bavaria , and Mortier and Marmont near Vienna . In 1806 Napoleon formed like reserves on the Rhine , and Mortier used them to reduce Hesse . At the same time , other reserves were forming at Mayence under Kellermann , which took post , as fast as organized , between the Rhine and Elbe , while Mortier was sent into Pomerania . When Napoleon decided to push on to the Vistula in the same year , he directed , with much ostentation , the concentration of an army on the Elbe sixty thousand strong , its object being to protect Hamburg against the English and to influence Austria , whose disposition was as manifest as her interests . The Prussians established a similar reserve in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if it had been established upon the Elbe at Wittenberg or Dessau , and had done its duty , it might have saved the army by giving Prince Hohenlohe and Bluecher time to reach Berlin , or at least Stettin . These reserves are particularly useful when the configuration of the country leads to double fronts of operations : they then fulfill the double object of observing the second front , and , in case of necessity , of aiding the operations of the main army when the enemy threatens its flanks or a reverse compels it to fall back toward this reserve . Of course , care must be taken not to create dangerous detachments , and whenever these reserves can be dispensed with , it should be done , or the troops in the depots only be employed as reserves . It is only in distant invasions and sometimes on our own soil that they are useful : if the scene of hostilities be but five or six marches distant from the frontier , they are quite superfluous . At home they may generally be dispensed with : it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when new levies are organizing , that such a reserve , in an intrenched camp , under the protection of a fortress which serves as a great depot , will be indispensable . The general 's talents will be exercised in judging of the use of these reserves according to the state of the country , the length of the line of operations , the nature of the fortified points , and the proximity of a hostile state . He also decides upon their position , and endeavors to use for this purpose troops which will not weaken his main army so much as the withdrawal of his good troops . These reserves ought to hold the most important points between the base and front of operations , occupy the fortified places if any have been reduced , observe or invest those which are held by the enemy ; and if there be no fortress as a point of support , they should throw up intrenched camps or tetes de ponts to protect the depots and to increase the strength of their positions . All that has been said upon pivots @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reserves , which will be doubly valuable if they possess such well-located pivots . ARTICLE XXIV . The Old System of Wars of Position and the Modern System of Marches . By the system of positions is understood the old manner of conducting a methodical war , with armies in tents , with their supplies at hand , engaged in watching each other ; one besieging a city , the other covering it ; one , perhaps , endeavoring to acquire a small province , the other counteracting its efforts by occupying strong points . Such was war from the Middle Ages to the era of the French Revolution . During this revolution great changes transpired , and many systems of more or less value sprang up . War was commenced in 1792 as it had been in 1762 : the French encamped near their strong places , and the allies besieged them . It was not till 1793 , when assailed from without and within , that this system was changed . Thoroughly aroused , France threw one million men in fourteen armies upon her enemies . These armies had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ marches they bivouacked or were quartered in towns ; their mobility was increased and became a means of success . Their tactics changed also : the troops were put in columns , which were more easily handled than deployed lines , and , on account of the broken character of the country of Flanders and the Vosges , they threw out a part of their force as skirmishers to protect and cover the columns . This system , which was thus the result of circumstances , at first met with a success beyond all expectation : it disconcerted the methodical Austrian and Prussian troops as well as their generals . Mack , to whom was attributed the success of the Prince of Coburg , increased his reputation by directing the troops to extend their lines to oppose an open order to the fire of skirmishers . It had never occurred to the poor man that while the skirmishers made the noise the columns carried the positions . The first generals of the Republic were fighting-men , and nothing more . The principal direction of affairs was in the hands of Carnot @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sometimes judicious , but often bad . Carnot was the author of one of the finest strategic movements of the war . In 1793 he sent a reserve of fine troops successively to the aid of Dunkirk , Maubeuge , and Landau , so that this small force , moving rapidly from point to point , and aided by the troops already collected at these different points , compelled the enemy to evacuate France . The campaign of 1794 opened badly . It was the force of circumstances , and not a premeditated plan , which brought about the strategic movement of the army of the Moselle on the Sambre ; and it was this which led to the success of Fleurus and the conquest of Belgium . In 1795 the mistakes of the French were so great that they were imputed to treachery . The Austrians , on the contrary , were better commanded by Clairfayt , Chateler , and Schmidt than they had been by Mack and the Prince of Coburg . The Archduke Charles , applying the principle of interior lines , triumphed over Moreau and Jourdan in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the fronts of the French armies had been large ,  --  either to procure subsistence more easily , or because the generals thought it better to put all the divisions in line , leaving it to their commanders to arrange them for battle . The reserves were small detachments , incapable of redeeming the day even if the enemy succeeded in overwhelming but a single division . Such was the state of affairs when Napoleon made his debut in Italy . His activity from the beginning worsted the Austrians and Piedmontese : free from useless incumbrances , his troops surpassed in mobility all modern armies . He conquered the Italian peninsula by a series of marches and strategic combats . His march on Vienna in 1797 was rash , but justified by the necessity of overcoming the Archduke Charles before he could receive reinforcements from the Rhine . The campaign of 1800 , still more characteristic of the man , marked a new era in the conception of plans of campaign and lines of operations . He adopted bold objective points , which looked to nothing less than the capture or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ less extended , and the more rational organization of armies in large bodies of two or three divisions was adopted . The system of modern strategy was here fully developed , and the campaigns of 1805 and 1806 were merely corollaries to the great problem solved in 1800 . Tactically , the system of columns and skirmishers was too well adapted to the features of Italy not to meet with his approval . It may now be a question whether the system of Napoleon is adapted to all capacities , epochs , and armies , or whether , on the contrary , there can be any return , in the light of the events of 1800 and 1809 , to the old system of wars of position . After a comparison of the marches and camps of the Seven Years ' War with those of the seven weeks ' war ,  --  as Napoleon called the campaign of 1806 ,  --  or with those of the three months which elapsed from the departure of the army from Boulogne in 1805 till its arrival in the plains of Moravia , the reader @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two systems . The system of Napoleon was to march twenty-five miles a day , to fight , and then to camp in quiet . He told me that he knew no other method of conducting a war than this . It may be said that the adventurous character of this great man , his personal situation , and the tone of the French mind , all concurred in urging him to undertakings which no other person , whether born upon a throne , or a general under the orders of his government , would ever dare to adopt . This is probably true ; but between the extremes of very distant invasions , and wars of position , there is a proper mean , and , without imitating his impetuous audacity , we may pursue the line he has marked out . It is probable that the old system of wars of positions will for a long time be proscribed , or that , if adopted , it will be much modified and improved . If the art of war is enlarged by the adoption of the system of marches @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; for these rapid incursions and bivouacs of considerable masses , feeding upon the regions they overrun , are not materially different from the devastations of the barbarian hordes between the fourth and thirteenth centuries . Still , it is not likely that the system will be speedily renounced ; for a great truth has been demonstrated by Napoleon 's wars ,  --  viz. : that remoteness is not a certain safeguard against invasion ,  --  that a state to be secure must have a good system of fortresses and lines of defense , of reserves and military institutions , and , finally , a good system of government . Then the people may everywhere be organized as militia , and may serve as reserves to the active armies , which will render the latter more formidable ; and the greater the strength of the armies the more necessary is the system of rapid operations and prompt results . If , in time , social order assumes a calmer state ,  --  if nations , instead of fighting for their existence , fight only for their interests , to acquire a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ then a new right of nations may be agreed upon , and perhaps it will be possible to have armies on a less extensive scale . Then also we may see armies of from eighty to one hundred thousand men return to a mixed system of war ,  --  a mean between the rapid incursions of Napoleon and the slow system of positions of the last century . Until then we must expect to retain this system of marches , which has produced so great results ; for the first to renounce it in the presence of an active and capable enemy would probably be a victim to his indiscretion . The science of marches now includes more than details , like the following , viz. : the order of the different arms in column , the time of departure and arrival , the precautions to be observed in the march , and the means of communication between the columns , all of which is a part of the duties of the staff of an army . Outside and beyond these very important details , there is a science of marches @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the march of Napoleon by the Saint-Bernard to fall upon the communications of Melas , those made in 1805 by Donauwerth to cut off Mack , and in 1806 by Gera to turn the Prussians , the march of Suwaroff from Turin to the Trebbia to meet Macdonald , that of the Russian army on Taroutin , then upon Krasnoi , were decisive operations , not because of their relation to Logistics , but on account of their strategic relations . Indeed , these skillful marches are but applications of the great principle of throwing the mass of the forces upon the decisive point ; and this point is to be determined from the considerations given in Article XIX . What was the passage of the Saint-Bernard but a line of operations directed against an extremity of the strategic front of the enemy , and thence upon his line of retreat ? The marches of Ulm and Jena were the same maneuvers ; and what was Bluecher 's march at Waterloo but an application of interior strategic lines ? From this it may be concluded that all strategic movements which tend @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ different points of the front of operations of the enemy , will be skillful , as they apply the principle of overwhelming a smaller force by a superior one . The operations of the French in 1793 from Dunkirk to Landau , and those of Napoleon in 1796 , 1809 , and 1814 , are models of this kind . One of the most essential points in the science of modern marches , is to so combine the movements of the columns as to cover the greatest strategic front , when beyond the reach of the enemy , for the triple object of deceiving him as to the objective in view , of moving with ease and rapidity , and of procuring supplies with more facility . However , it is necessary in this case to have previously arranged the means of concentration of the columns in order to inflict a decisive blow . This alternate application of extended and concentric movements is the true test of a great general . There is another kind of marches , designated as flank marches , which deserves notice . They have always been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ever been written about them . If by the term flank marches are understood tactical maneuvers made upon the field of battle in view of the enemy , it is certain that they are very delicate operations , though sometimes successful ; but if reference is made to ordinary strategic marches , I see nothing particularly dangerous in them , unless the most common precautions of Logistics be neglected . In a strategic movement , the two hostile armies ought to be separated by about two marches , ( counting the distance which separates the advanced guards from the enemy and from their own columns . ) In such a case there could be no danger in a strategic march from one point to another . There are , however , two cases where such a march would be altogether inadmissible : the first is where the system of the line of operations , of the strategic lines , and of the front of operations is so chosen as to present the flank to the enemy during a whole operation . This was the famous project of marching upon Leipsic , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , if carried out , have proved fatal to the allies . It was modified by the Emperor Alexander upon the solicitations of the author . The second case is where the line of operations is very long , ( as was the case with Napoleon at Borodino , ) and particularly if this line affords but a single suitable route for retreat : then every flank movement exposing this line would be a great fault . In countries abounding in secondary communications , flank movements are still less dangerous , since , if repulsed , safety may be found in a change of the line of operations . The physical and moral condition of the troops and the more or less energetic characters of the commanders will , of course , be elements in the determination of such movements . The often-quoted marches of Jena and Ulm were actual flank maneuvers ; so was that upon Milan after the passage of the Chiusella , and that of Marshal Paskevitch to cross the Vistula at Ossiek ; and their successful issue is well known . A tactical maneuver by the flank @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ affair . Ney suffered for a movement of this kind at Dennewitz , and so did Marmont at Salamanca and Frederick at Kolin . Nevertheless , the celebrated maneuver of Frederick at Leuthen was a true flank movement , but it was covered by a mass of cavalry concealed by the heights , and applied against an army which lay motionless in its camp ; and it was so successful because at the time of the decisive shock Daun was taken in flank , and not Frederick . In the old system of marching in column at platoon distance , where line of battle could be formed to the right or left without deployment , ( by a right or left into line , ) movements parallel to the enemy 's line were not flank marches , because the flank of the column was the real front of the line of battle . The famous march of Eugene within view of the French army , to turn the lines of Turin , was still more extraordinary than that of Leuthen , and no less successful . In these different battles , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Eugene from Mantua to Turin was one of the greatest strategic operations of the age ; but the case above referred to was a movement made to turn the French camp the evening before the battle . ARTICLE XXV . Depots of Supplies , and their Relation to Marches . The subject most nearly connected with the system of marches is the commissariat , for to march quickly and for a long distance food must be supplied ; and the problem of supporting a numerous army in an enemy 's country is a very difficult one . It is proposed to discuss the relation between the commissariat and strategy . It will always be difficult to imagine how Darius and Xerxes subsisted their immense armies in Thrace , where now it would be a hard task to supply thirty thousand men . During the Middle Ages , the Greeks , barbarians , and more lately the Crusaders , maintained considerable bodies of men in that country . Caesar said that war should support war , and he is generally believed to have lived at the expense of the countries he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ migrations of all kinds , and it would be interesting to know the numbers of the Huns , Vandals , Goths , and Mongols who successively traversed Europe , and how they lived during their marches . The commissariat arrangements of the Crusaders would also be an interesting subject of research . In the early periods of modern history , it is probable that the armies of Francis I. , in crossing the Alps into Italy , did not carry with them large stores of provisions ; for armies of their magnitude , of forty or fifty thousand men , could easily find provisions in the rich valleys of the Ticino and Po . Under Louis XIV . and Frederick II . the armies were larger ; they fought on their own frontiers , and lived from their storehouses , which were established as they moved . This interfered greatly with operations , restricting the troops within a distance from the depots dependent upon the means of transportation , the rations they could carry , and the number of days necessary for wagons to go to the depots and return to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ abandoned from necessity . The large armies which invaded Belgium and Germany lived sometimes in the houses of the people , sometimes by requisitions laid upon the country , and often by plunder and pillage . To subsist an army on the granaries of Belgium , Italy , Swabia , and the rich banks of the Rhine and Danube , is easy ,  --  particularly if it marches in a number of columns and does not exceed one hundred or one hundred and twenty thousand men ; but this would be very difficult in some other countries , and quite impossible in Russia , Sweden , Poland , and Turkey . It may readily be conceived how great may be the rapidity and impetuosity of an army where every thing depends only on the strength of the soldiers ' legs . This system gave Napoleon great advantages ; but he abused it by applying it on too large a scale and to countries where it was impracticable . A general should be capable of making all the resources of the invaded country contribute to the success of his enterprises : he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to regulate the assessments so as to make them uniform and legal , while he himself should see to their fulfillment . If the authorities do not remain , he should create provisional ones of the leading men , and endow them with extraordinary powers . The provisions thus acquired should be collected at the points most convenient for the operations of the army . In order to husband them , the troops may be quartered in the towns and villages , taking care to reimburse the inhabitants for the extra charge thus laid upon them . The inhabitants should also be required to furnish wagons to convey the supplies to the points occupied by the troops . It is impossible to designate precisely what it will be prudent to undertake without having previously established these depots , as much depends upon the season , country , strength of the armies , and spirit of the people ; but the following may be considered as general maxims :  --  1 . That in fertile and populous regions not hostile , an army of one hundred to one hundred and twenty thousand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be able safely to recover a considerable extent of country , may draw its resources from it , during the time occupied by any single operation . As the first operation never requires more than a month , during which time the great body of the troops will be in motion , it will be sufficient to provide , by depots of provisions , for the eventual wants of the army , and particularly for those of the troops obliged to remain at a particular point . Thus , the army of Napoleon , while half of it was besieging Ulm , would need bread until the surrender of the city ; and if there had been a scarcity the operation might have failed . 2 . During this time every effort should be made to collect the supplies obtained in the country , and to form depots , in order to subserve the wants of the army after the success of the operation , whether it take a position to recruit or whether it undertake a new enterprise . 3 . The depots formed either by purchase or forced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ different lines of communication , in order to supply with more facility the wings of the army , and to extend as much as possible the area from which successive supplies are to be drawn , and , lastly , in order that the depots should be as well covered as possible . To this end , it would be well to have the depots on lines converging toward the principal line of operations , which will be generally found in the center . This arrangement has two real advantages : first , the depots are less exposed to the attempts of the enemy , as his distance from them is thereby increased ; secondly , it facilitates the movements of the army in concentrating upon a single point of the line of operations to the rear , with a view of retaking the initiative from the enemy , who may have temporarily assumed the offensive and gained some advantage . 4 . In thinly-settled and unproductive regions the army will lack its most necessary supplies : it will be prudent , in this case , not to advance too far @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ provisions to enable it , if compelled to do so , to fall back upon its lines of depots . 5 . In national wars where the inhabitants fly and destroy every thing in their path , as was the case in Spain , Portugal , Russia , and Turkey , it is impossible to advance unless attended by trains of provisions and without having a sure base of supply near the front of operations . Under these circumstances a war of invasion becomes very difficult , if not impossible . 6 . It is not only necessary to collect large quantities of supplies , but it is indispensable to have the means of conveying them with or after the army ; and this is the greatest difficulty , particularly on rapid expeditions . To facilitate their transportation , the rations should consist of the most portable articles ,  --  as biscuit , rice , &c.:; the wagons should be both light and strong , so as to pass over all kinds of roads . It will be necessary to collect all the vehicles of the country , and to insure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vehicles should be arranged in parks at different points , so as not to take the drivers too far from their homes and in order to husband the successive resources . Lastly , the soldier must he habituated to carry with him several days ' rations of bread , rice , or even of flour . 7 . The vicinity of the sea is invaluable for the transportation of supplies ; and the party which is master on this element can supply himself at will . This advantage , however , is not absolute in the case of a large continental army ; for , in the desire to maintain communications with its depots , it may be drawn into operations on the coast , thus exposing itself to the greatest risks if the enemy maneuver with the mass of his forces upon the extremity opposite the sea . If the army advance too far from the coast , there will be danger of its communications being intercepted ; and this danger increases with the progress of the army . 8 . A continental army using the sea for transportation should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of provisions independent of its ships , and a line of retreat prepared on the extremity of its strategic front opposed to the sea . 9 . Navigable streams and canals , when parallel to the line of operations of the army , render the transportation of supplies much easier , and also free the roads from the incumbrances of the numerous vehicles otherwise necessary . For this reason , lines of operations thus situated are the most favorable . The water-communications themselves are not in this case the lines of operations , as has been asserted : on the contrary , it is essential that the troops should be able to move at some distance from the river , in order to prevent the enemy from throwing back the exterior flank upon the river ,  --  which might be as dangerous as if it were the sea . In the enemy 's country the rivers can scarcely ever be used for transportation , since the boats will probably be destroyed , and since a small body of men may easily embarrass the navigation . To render it sure , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hazardous , as Mortier experienced at Dirnstein . In a friendly country the advantages of rivers are more substantial . 10 . In default of bread or biscuit , the pressing wants of an army may be fed by cattle on the hoof ; and these can generally be found , in populous countries , in numbers to last for some little time . This source of supply will , however , be soon exhausted ; and , in addition , this plan leads to plunder . The requisitions for cattle should be well regulated ; and the best plan of all is to supply the army with cattle purchased elsewhere . I will end this article by recording a remark of Napoleon which may appear whimsical , but which is still not without reason . He said that in his first campaigns the enemy was so well provided that when his troops were in want of supplies he had only to fall upon the rear of the enemy to procure every thing in abundance . This is a remark upon which it would be absurd to found a system , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enterprise , and proves how much actual war differs from narrow theory . ARTICLE XXVI . The Defense of Frontiers by Forts and Intrenched Lines .  --  Wars of Sieges . Forts serve two principal purposes : first , to cover the frontiers ; secondly , to aid the operations of the campaign . The defense of frontiers is a problem generally somewhat indeterminate . It is not so for those countries whose borders are covered with great natural obstacles , and which present but few accessible points , and these admitting of defense by the art of the engineer . The problem here is simple ; but in open countries it is more difficult . The Alps and the Pyrenees , and the lesser ranges of the Crapacks , of Riesengebirge , of Erzgebirge , of the Boehmerwald , of the Black Forest , of the Vosges , and of the Jura , are not so formidable that they can not be made more so by a good system of fortresses . Of all these frontiers , that separating France and Piedmont was best covered . The valleys of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mont-Genevre , and of Mont-Cenis ,  --  the only ones considered practicable ,  --  were covered by masonry forts ; and , in addition , works of considerable magnitude guarded the issues of the valleys in the plains of Piedmont . It was certainly no easy matter to surmount these difficulties . These excellent artificial defenses will not always prevent the passage of an army , because the small works which are found in the gorges may be carried , or the enemy , if he be bold , may find a passage over some other route hitherto deemed impracticable . The passage of the Alps by Francis I. ,  --  which is so well described by Gaillard ,  --  Napoleon 's passage of the Saint-Bernard , and the Splugen expedition , prove that there is truth in the remark of Napoleon , that an army can pass wherever a titan can set his foot ,  --  a maxim not strictly true , but characteristic of the man , and applied by him with great success . Other countries are covered by large rivers , either as a first line or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that such lines , apparently so well calculated to separate nations without interfering with trade and communication , are generally not part of the real frontier . It can not be said that the Danube divides Bessarabia from the Ottoman empire as long as the Turks have a foothold in Moldavia . The Rhine was never the real frontier of France and Germany ; for the French for long periods held points upon the right bank , while the Germans were in possession of Mayence , Luxembourg , and the tetes de ponts of Manheim and Wesel on the left bank . If , however , the Danube , the Rhine , Rhone , Elbe , Oder , Vistula , Po , and Adige be not exterior lines of the frontier , there is no reason why they should not be fortified as lines of permanent defense , wherever they permit the use of a system suitable for covering a front of operations . An example of this kind is the Inn , which separates Bavaria from Austria : flanked on the south by the Tyrolese Alps , on the north @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ covered by the three fortified places of Passau , Braunau , and Salzburg . Lloyd , with some poetic license , compares this frontier to two impregnable bastions whose curtain is formed of three fine forts and whose ditch is one of the most rapid of rivers . He has exaggerated these advantages ; for his epithet of " impregnable " was decidedly disproved by the bloody events of 1800 , 1805 , and 1809 . The majority of the European states have frontiers by no means so formidable as that of the Alps and the Inn , being generally open , or consisting of mountains with practicable passes at a considerable number of points . We propose to give a set of general maxims equally applicable to all cases . When the topography of a frontier is open , there should be no attempt to make a complete line of defense by building too many fortresses , requiring armies to garrison them , and which , after all , might not prevent an enemy from penetrating the country . It is much wiser to build fewer works , and to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ absolutely preventing the ingress of the enemy , but to multiply the impediments to his progress , and , at the same time , to support the movements of the army which is to repel him . If it be rare that a fortified place of itself absolutely prevents the progress of an army , it is , nevertheless , an embarrassment , and compels the army to detach a part of its force or to make detours in its march ; while , on the other hand , it imparts corresponding advantages to the army which holds it , covers his depots , flanks , and movements , and , finally , is a place of refuge in case of need . Fortresses thus exercise a manifest influence over military operations ; and we now propose to examine their relations to strategy . The first point to be considered is their location ; the second lies in the distinction between the cases where an army can afford to pass the forts without a siege , and those where it will be necessary to besiege ; the third point is in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which it proposes to cover . As fortresses properly located favor military operations , in the same degree those which are unfortunately placed are disadvantageous . They are an incubus upon the army which is compelled to garrison them and the state whose men and money are wasted upon them . There are many in Europe in this category . It is bad policy to cover a frontier with fortresses very close together . This system has been wrongly imputed to Vauban , who , on the contrary , had a controversy with Louvois about the great number of points the latter desired to fortify . The maxims on this point are as follow :  --  1 . The fortified places should be in echelon , on three lines , and should extend from the frontiers toward the capital. 20 There should be three in the first line , as many in the second , and a large place in the third , near the center of the state . If there be four fronts , this would require , for a complete system , from twenty-four to thirty places . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and that even Austria has not so many . It must be recollected that France has more than forty upon only a third of its frontiers , ( from Besancon to Dunkirk , ) and still has not enough on the third line in the center of the country . A Board convened for the purpose of considering the system of fortresses has decided quite recently that more were required . This does not prove that there were not already too many , but that certain points in addition should be fortified , while those on the first line , although too much crowded , may be maintained since they are already in existence . Admitting that France has two fronts from Dunkirk to Basel , one from Basel to Savoy , one from Savoy to Nice , in addition to the totally distinct line of the Pyrenees and the coast-line , there are six fronts , requiring forty to fifty places . Every military man will admit that this is enough , since the Swiss and coast fronts require fewer than the northeast . The system of arrangement of these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has a less number , because she is bordered by the small German states , which , instead of being hostile , place their own forts at her disposal . Moreover , the number above given is what was considered necessary for a state having four fronts of nearly equal development . Prussia , being long and narrow , and extending from Koenigsberg almost to the gates of Metz , should not be fortified upon the same system as France , Spain , or Austria . Thus the geographical position and extent of states may either diminish or increase the number of fortresses , particularly when maritime forts are to be included . 2 . Fortresses should always occupy the important strategic points already designated in Article XIX . As to their tactical qualities , their sites should not be commanded , and egress from them should be easy , in order to increase the difficulty of blockading them . 3 . Those which possess the greatest advantages , either as to their own defense or for seconding the operations of an army , are certainly those situated on great rivers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Strasbourg , including Kehl , are true illustrations and models of this kind . Places situated at the confluence of two great rivers command three different fronts , and hence are of increased importance . Take , for instance , Modlin . Mayence , when it had on the left bank of the Main the fort of Gustavusburg , and Cassel on the right , was the most formidable place in Europe , but it required a garrison of twenty-five thousand men : so that works of this extent must be few in number . 4 . Large forts , when encompassing populous and commercial cities , are preferable to small ones ,  --  particularly when the assistance of the citizens can be relied on for their defense . Metz arrested the whole power of Charles V , and Lille for a whole year delayed Eugene and Marlborough . Strasbourg has many times proved the security of French armies . During the last wars these places were passed without being besieged by the invading forces , because all Europe was in arms against France ; but one hundred and fifty thousand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not penetrate to the Seine with impunity , leaving behind them these well-fortified points . 5 . Formerly the operations of war were directed against towns , camps , and positions ; recently they have been directed only against organized armies , leaving out of consideration all natural or artificial obstacles . The exclusive use of either of these systems is faulty : the true course is a mean between these extremes . Doubtless , it will always be of the first importance to destroy and disorganize all the armies of the enemy in the field , and to attain this end it may be allowable to pass the fortresses ; but if the success be only partial it will be unwise to push the invasion too far . Here , also , very much depends upon the situation and respective strength of the armies and the spirit of the nations . If Austria were the sole antagonist of France , she could not follow in the footsteps of the allies in 1814 ; neither is it probable that fifty thousand French will very soon risk themselves beyond the Noric Alps @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ did in 1797. 21 Such events only occur under exceptional circumstances . 6 . It may be concluded from what precedes ,  --  1st , that , while fortified places are essential supports , abuse in their application may , by dividing an army , weaken it instead of adding to its efficiency ; 2d , that an army may , with the view of destroying the enemy , pass the line of these forts ,  --  always , however , leaving a force to observe them ; 3d , that an army can not pass a large river , like the Danube or the Rhine , without reducing at least one of the fortresses on the river , in order to secure a good line of retreat . Once master of this place , the army may advance on the offensive , leaving detachments to besiege other places ; and the chances of the reduction of those places increase as the army advances , since the enemy 's opportunities of hindering the siege are correspondingly diminished . 7 . While large places are much the most advantageous among a friendly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to arrest an enemy , who might mask them , but as they may materially aid the operations of an army in the field . The fort of Koenigstein in 1813 was as useful to the French as the fortress of Dresden , because it procured a tete de pont on the Elbe . In a mountainous country , small , well-located forts are equal in value to fortified places , because their province is to close the passes , and not to afford refuge to armies : the little fort of Bard , in the valley of Aosta , almost arrested Napoleon 's army in 1800. 8 . It follows that each frontier should have one or two large fortresses as places of refuge , besides secondary forts and small posts to facilitate military operations . Walled cities with a shallow ditch may be very useful in the interior of a country , to contain depots , hospitals , &c,; when they are strong enough to resist the attacks of any small bodies that may traverse the vicinity . They will be particularly serviceable if they can be defended by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ army . 9 . Large fortified places which are not in proper strategic positions are a positive misfortune for both the army and state . 10 . Those on the sea-coast are of importance only in a maritime war , except for depots : they may even prove disastrous for a continental army , by holding out to it a delusive promise of support . Benningsen almost lost the Russian armies by basing them in 1807 on Koenigsberg ,  --  which he did because it was convenient for supply . If the Russian army in 1812 , instead of concentrating on Smolensk , had supported itself on Dunaburg and Riga , it would have been in danger of being forced into the sea and of being cut off from all its bases . The relations between sieges and the operations of active armies are of two kinds . An invading army may pass by fortified places without attacking them , but it must leave a force to invest them , or at least to watch them ; and when there are a number of them adjacent to each other it will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a single commander , to invest or watch them as circumstances may require . When the invading army decides to attack a place , a sufficient force to carry on the siege will be assigned to this duty ; the remainder may either continue its march or take a position to cover the siege . Formerly the false system prevailed of encircling a city by a whole army , which buried itself in lines of circumvallation and contravallation . These lines cost as much in labor and expense as the siege itself . The famous case of the lines of Turin , which were fifteen miles in length , and , though guarded by seventy-eight thousand French , were forced by Prince Eugene with forty thousand men in 1706 , is enough to condemn this ridiculous system . Much as the recital of the immense labors of Caesar in the investment of Alise may excite our admiration , it is not probable that any general in our times will imitate his example . Nevertheless , it is very necessary for the investing force to strengthen its position by detached works commanding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which the siege might be disturbed from without . This was done by Napoleon at Mantua , and by the Russians at Varna . Experience has proved that the best way to cover a siege is to beat and pursue as far as possible the enemy 's forces which could interfere . If the besieging force is numerically inferior , it should take up a strategic position covering all the avenues by which succor might arrive ; and when it approaches , as much of the besieging force as can be spared should unite with the covering force to fall upon the approaching army and decide whether the siege shall continue or not . Bonaparte in 1796 , at Mantua , was a model of wisdom and skill for the operations of an army of observation . INTRENCHED LINES . Besides the lines of circumvallation and contravallation referred to above , there is another kind , which is more extended than they are , and is in a measure allied to permanent fortifications , because it is intended to protect a part of the frontiers . As a fortress or an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ army , be highly advantageous , so to the same degree is the system of intrenched lines absurd . I do not now refer to lines of small extent closing a narrow gorge , like Fussen and Scharnitz , for they may be regarded as forts ; but I speak of extended lines many leagues in length and intended to wholly close a part of the frontiers . For instance , those of Wissembourg , which , covered by the Lauter flowing in front , supported by the Rhine on the right and the Vosges on the left , seemed to fulfill all the conditions of safety ; and yet they were forced on every occasion when they were assailed . The lines of Stollhofen , which on the right of the Rhine played the same part as those of Wissembourg on the left , were equally unfortunate ; and those of the Queich and the Kinzig had the same fate . The lines of Turin , ( 1706 , ) and those of Mayence , ( 1795 , ) although intended as lines of circumvallation , were analogous to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which befell them . However well they may be supported by natural obstacles , their great extent paralyzes their defenders , and they are almost always susceptible of being turned . To bury an army in intrenchments , where it may be outflanked and surrounded , or forced in front even if secure from a flank attack , is manifest folly ; and it is to be hoped that we shall never see another instance of it . Nevertheless , in our chapter on Tactics we will treat of their attack and defense . It may be well to remark that , while it is absurd to use these extended lines , it would be equally foolish to neglect the advantages to be derived from detached works in increasing the strength of a besieging force , the safety of a position , or the defense of a defile . FOOTNOTES : Footnote 20 : The memorable campaign of 1829 is evidence of the value of such a system . If the Porte had possessed masonry forts in the defiles of the Balkan and a good fortress toward Faki , the Russians @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not have been so simple . Footnote 21 : Still , Napoleon was right in taking the offensive in the Frioul , since the Austrians were expecting a reinforcement from the Rhine of twenty thousand men , and of course it was highly important to beat the Archduke Charles before this force joined him . In view of the circumstances of the case , Napoleon 's conduct was in accordance with the principles of war . ARTICLE XXVII . The Connection of Intrenched Camps and Tetes de Ponts with Strategy . It would be out of place here to go into details as to the sites of ordinary camps and upon the means of covering them by advanced guards , or upon the advantages of field-fortifications in the defense of posts . Only fortified camps enter into the combinations of grand tactics , and even of strategy ; and this they do by the temporary support they afford an army . It may be seen by the example of the camp of Buntzelwitz , which saved Frederick in 1761 , and by those of Kehl and Dusseldorf in 1796 , that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The camp of Ulm , in 1800 , enabled Kray to arrest for a whole month the army of Moreau on the Danube ; and Wellington derived great advantages from his camp of Torres-Vedras . The Turks were greatly assisted in defending the country between the Danube and the Balkan Mountains by the camp of Shumla . The principal rule in this connection is that camps should be established on strategic points which should also possess tactical advantages . If the camp of Drissa was useless to the Russians in 1812 , it was because it was not in a proper position in reference to their defensive system , which should have rested upon Smolensk and Moscow . Hence the Russians were compelled to abandon it after a few days . The maxims which have been given for the determination of the great decisive strategic points will apply to all intrenched camps , because they ought only to be placed on such points . The influence of these camps is variable : they may answer equally well as points of departure for an offensive operation , as tetes de ponts to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for winter quarters , or as a refuge for a defeated army . However good may be the site of such a camp , it will always be difficult to locate it so that it may not be turned , unless , like the camp of Torres-Vedras , it be upon a peninsula backed by the sea . Whenever it can be passed either by the right or the left , the army will be compelled to abandon it or run the risk of being invested in it . The camp of Dresden was an important support to Napoleon for two months ; but as soon as it was outflanked by the allies it had not the advantages even of an ordinary fortress ; for its extent led to the sacrifice of two corps within a few days for want of provisions . Despite all this , these camps , when only intended to afford temporary support to an army on the defensive , may still fulfill this end , even when the enemy passes by them , provided they can not be taken in reverse ,  --  that is , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ de main . It is also important that they be established close to a fortress , where the depots may be safe , or which may cover the front of the camp nearest to the line of retreat . In general terms , such a camp on a river , with a large tete de pont on the other side to command both banks , and near a large fortified city like Mayence or Strasbourg , is of undoubted advantage ; but it will never be more than a temporary refuge , a means of gaining time and of collecting reinforcements . When the object is to drive away the enemy , it will be necessary to leave the camp and carry on operations in the open country . The second maxim as to these camps is , that they are particularly advantageous to an army at home or near its base of operations . If a French army occupied an intrenched camp on the Elbe , it would be lost when the space between the Rhine and Elbe was held by the enemy ; but if it were invested in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ little assistance resume its superiority and take the field , while the enemy in the interior of France and between the relieving force and the intrenched army would have great difficulty in recrossing the Rhine . We have heretofore considered these camps in a strategic light ; but several German generals have maintained that they are suitable to cover places or to prevent sieges ,  --  which appears to me to be a little sophistical . Doubtless , it will be more difficult to besiege a place when an army is encamped on its glacis ; and it maybe said that the forts and camps are a mutual support ; but , according to my view , the real and principal use of intrenched camps is always to afford , if necessary , a temporary refuge for an army , or the means of debouching offensively upon a decisive point or beyond a large river . To bury an army in such a camp , to expose it to the danger of being outflanked and cut off , simply to retard a siege , would be folly . The example of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be cited in opposition to this ; but did not his army perish ? And was this sacrifice really useful ? I do not think so ; for , the place having been once relieved and revictualed , and the siege-train having fallen into the hands of the Austrians , the siege was necessarily changed into a blockade , and the town could only be taken by reason of famine ; and , this being the case , Wurmser 's presence ought rather to have hastened than retarded its surrender . The intrenched camp of the Austrians before Mayence in 1795 would , indeed , have prevented the siege of the place , if the French had possessed the means of carrying on a siege , as long as the Rhine had not been crossed ; but as soon as Jourdan appeared on the Lahn , and Moreau in the Black Forest , it became necessary to abandon the camp and leave the place to its own means of defense . It would only be in the event of a fortress occupying a point such that it would be impossible for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an intrenched camp , with the object of preventing an attack upon it , would be established ; and what place in Europe is upon such a site ? So far from agreeing with these German authors , on the contrary , it seems to me that a very important question in the establishment of these camps near fortified places on a river , is whether they should be on the same bank as the place , or upon the other . When it is necessary to make a choice , by reason of the fact that the place can not be located to cover both banks , I should decidedly prefer the latter . To serve as a refuge or to favor a debouch , the camp should be on the bank of the river toward the enemy ; and in this , case the principal danger to be feared is that the enemy might take the camp in reverse by passing the river at some other point ; and if the fortress were upon the same bank us the camp , it would be of little service ; while @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it would be almost impossible to take the latter in reverse . For instance , the Russians , who could not hold for twenty-four hours their camp of Drissa , would have defied the enemy for a long time if there had been a fortification on the right bank of the Dwina , covering the rear of the camp . So Moreau for three months , at Kehl , withstood all the efforts of the Archduke Charles ; while if Strasbourg had not been there upon the opposite bank his camp would easily have been turned by a passage of the Rhine . Indeed , it would be desirable to have the protection of the fortified place upon the other bank too ; and a place holding both banks would fulfill this condition . The fortification of Coblentz , recently constructed , seems to introduce a new epoch . This system of the Prussians , combining the advantages of intrenched camps and permanent works , deserves attentive consideration ; but , whatever may be its defects , it is nevertheless certain that it would afford immense advantages to an army @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inconvenience of intrenched camps on large rivers is that they are only very useful when beyond the river ; and in this case they are exposed to the dangers arising from destruction of bridges ( as happened to Napoleon at Essling , )  --  to say nothing of the danger of losing their provisions and munitions , or even of a front attack against which the works might not avail . The system of detached permanent works of Coblentz has the advantage of avoiding these dangers , by protecting the depots on the same bank as the army , and in guaranteeing to the army freedom from attack at least until the bridges be re-established . If the city were upon the right bank of the Rhine , and there were only an intrenched camp of field-works on the left bank , there would be no certainty of security either for the depots or the army . So , if Coblentz were a good ordinary fortress without detached forts , a large army could not so readily make it a place of refuge , nor would there be such facilities for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The fortress of Ehrenbreitstein , which is intended to protect Coblentz on the right bank , is so difficult of access that it would be quite easy to blockade it , and the egress of a force of any magnitude might be vigorously disputed . Much has been recently said of a new system used by the Archduke Maximilian to fortify the intrenched camp of Linz ,  --  by masonry towers . As I only know of it by hearsay and the description by Captain Allard in the Spectateur Militaire , I can not discuss it thoroughly . I only know that the system of towers used at Genoa by the skillful Colonel Andreis appeared to me to be useful , but still susceptible of improvements ,  --  which the archduke seems to have added . We are told that the towers of Linz , situated in ditches and covered by the glacis , have the advantage of giving a concentrated horizontal fire and of being sheltered from the direct shot of the enemy . Such towers , if well flanked and connected by a parapet , may make a very @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the inconveniences of closed lines . If the towers are isolated , and the intervals carefully covered by field-works , ( to be thrown up when required , ) they will make a camp preferable to one covered by ordinary redoubts , but not so advantageous as afforded by the large detached forts of Coblentz . These towers number thirty-two , eight of which are on the left bank , with a square fort commanding the Perlingsberg . Of these twenty-four on the right bank , some seven or eight are only half-towers . The circumference of this line is about twelve miles . The towers are between five hundred and six hundred yards apart , and will be connected , in case of war , by a palisaded covered way . They are of masonry , of three tiers of guns , with a barbette battery which is the principal defense , mounting eleven twenty-four pounders . Two howitzers are placed in the upper tier . Those towers are placed in a wide and deep ditch , the deblais of which forms a high glacis which protects the tower @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be difficult to protect the artillery from direct fire . Some say that this has cost about three-fourths of what a complete bastioned enceinte , necessary to make Linz a fortress of the first rank , would have cost ; others maintain that it has not cost more than a quarter as much as a bastioned work , and that it subserves , besides , an entirely different object . If these works are to resist a regular siege , they are certainly very defective ; but , regarded as an intrenched camp to give refuge and an outlet upon both banks of the Danube for a large army , they are appropriate , and would be of great importance in a war like that of 1809 , and , if existing then , would probably have saved the capital . To complete a grand system , it would perhaps have been better to encircle Linz with a regular bastioned line , and then to have built seven or eight towers between the eastern salient and the mouth of the Traun , within a direct distance of about two and a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ camp only the curved space between Linz , the Traun , and the Danube . Then the double advantage of a fortress of the first rank and a camp under its guns would have been united , and , even if not quite so large , would have answered for a large army , particularly if the eight towers on the left bank and the fort of Perlingsberg had been preserved . TETES DE PONTS . Tetes de ponts are the most important of all field-works . The difficulties of crossing a river , particularly a large one , in the face of the enemy , demonstrate abundantly the immense utility of such works , which can be less easily dispensed with than intrenched camps , since if the bridges are safe an army is insured from the disastrous events which may attend a rapid retreat across a large river . Tetes de ponts are doubly advantageous when they are as it were keeps for a large intrenched camp , and will be triply so if they also cover the bank opposite to the location of the camp , since then @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to state that these works are particularly important in an enemy 's country and upon all fronts where there are no permanent works . It may be observed that the principal difference between the system of intrenched camps and that of tetes de ponts is that the best intrenched camps are composed of detached and closed works , while tetes de ponts usually consist of contiguous works not closed . An intrenched line to admit of defense must be occupied in force throughout its whole extent , which would generally require a large army ; if , on the contrary , the intrenchments are detached closed works , a comparatively small force can defend them . The attack and defense of these works will be discussed in a subsequent part of this volume . ARTICLE XXVIII . Strategic Operations in Mountains . A mountainous country presents itself , in the combinations of war , under four different aspects . It may be the whole theater of the war , or it may be but a zone ; it may be mountainous throughout its whole extent , or there may be a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may debouch into large and rich plains . If Switzerland , the Tyrol , the Noric provinces , some parts of Turkey and Hungary , Catalonia and Portugal , be excepted , in the European countries the mountains are in single ranges . In these cases there is but a difficult defile to cross ,  --  a temporary obstacle , which , once overcome , is an advantage rather than an objection . In fact , the range once crossed and the war carried into the plains , the chain of mountains may be regarded as an eventual base , upon which the army may fall back and find a temporary refuge . The only essential precaution to be observed is , not to allow the enemy to anticipate the army on this line of retreat . The part of the Alps between France and Italy , and the Pyrenees , ( which are not so high , though equally broad , ) are of this nature . The mountains of Bohemia and of the Black Forest , and the Vosges , belong to this class . In Catalonia the mountains @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if the war were limited to this province , the combinations would not be the same as if there were but a line of mountains . Hungary in this respect differs little from Lombardy and Castile ; for if the Crapacks in the eastern and northern part are as marked a feature as the Pyrenees , they are still but a temporary obstacle , and an army overcoming it , whether debouching in the basin of the Waag , of the Neytra , or of the Theiss , or in the fields of Mongatsch , would have the vast plains between the Danube and the Theiss for a field of operations . The only difference would be in the roads , which in the Alps , though few in number , are excellent , while in Hungary there are none of much value . In its northern part , this chain , though not so high , becomes broader , and would seem to belong to that class of fields of operations which are wholly mountainous ; but , as its evacuation may be compelled by decisive operations in the valleys @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regarded as a temporary barrier . The attack and defense of this country , however , would be a strategic study of the most interesting character . When an extremely mountainous country , such as the Tyrol or Switzerland , is but a zone of operations , the importance of these mountains is secondary , and they must be observed like a fortress , the armies deciding the great contests in the valleys . It will , of course , be otherwise if this be the whole field . It has long been a question whether possession of the mountains gave control of the valleys , or whether possession of the valleys gave control of the mountains . The Archduke Charles , a very intelligent and competent judge , has declared for the latter , and has demonstrated that the valley of the Danube is the key of Southern Germany . However , in this kind of questions much depends upon the relative forces and their arrangement in the country . If sixty thousand French were advancing on Bavaria in presence of an equal force of Austrians , and the latter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to replace them by reinforcements on its arrival on the Inn , it would be difficult for the French to push on as far as this line , leaving so large a force on its flanks masters of the outlets of Scharnitz , Fussen , Kufstein , and Lofers . But if the French force were one hundred and twenty thousand men , and had gained such successes as to establish its superiority over the army in its front , then it might leave a sufficient detachment to mask the passes of the Tyrol and extend its progress as far as Linz ,  --  as Moreau did in 1800 . Thus far we have considered these mountainous districts as only accessory zones . If we regard them as the principal fields of operations , the strategic problem seems to be more complicated . The campaigns of 1799 and 1800 are equally rich in instruction on this branch of the art . In my account of them I have endeavored to bring out their teachings by a historical exposition of the events ; and I can not do better than refer my @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the imprudent invasion of Switzerland by the French Directory , and its fatal influence in doubling the extent of the theater of operations and making it reach from the Texel to Naples , we can not too much applaud the wisdom of France and Austria in the transactions which had for three centuries guaranteed the neutrality of Switzerland . Every one will be convinced of this by carefully studying the interesting campaigns of the Archduke Charles , Suwaroff , and Massena in 1799 , and those of Napoleon and Moreau in 1800 . The first is a model for operations upon an entirely mountainous field ; the second is a model for wars in which the fate of mountainous countries is decided on the plains . I will here state some of the deductions which seem to follow from this study . When a country whose whole extent is mountainous is the principal theater of operations , the strategic combinations can not be entirely based upon maxims applicable in an open country . Transversal maneuvers to gain the extremity of the front of operations of the enemy here become always very @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a considerable army can be maneuvered only in a small number of valleys , where the enemy will take care to post advanced guards of sufficient strength to delay the army long enough to provide means for defeating the enterprise ; and , as the ridges which separate these valleys will be generally crossed only by paths impracticable for the passage of an army , transversal marches can only be made by small bodies of light troops . The important natural strategic points will be at the junction of the larger valleys or of the streams in those valleys , and will be few in number ; and , if the defensive army occupy them with the mass of its forces , the invader will generally be compelled to resort to direct attacks to dislodge it . However , if great strategic maneuvers in these cases be more rare and difficult , it by no means follows that they are less important . On the contrary , if the assailant succeed in gaining possession of one of these centers of communication between the large valleys upon the line of retreat of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ latter than it would be in an open country ; since the occupation of one or two difficult defiles will often be sufficient to cause the ruin of the whole army . If the attacking party have difficulties to overcome , it must be admitted that the defense has quite as many , on account of the necessity of covering all the outlets by which an attack in force may be made upon the decisive points , and of the difficulties of the transversal marches which it would be compelled to make to cover the menaced points . In order to complete what I have said upon this kind of marches and the difficulties of directing them , I will refer to what Napoleon did in 1805 to cut off Mack from Ulm . If this operation was facilitated by the hundred roads which cross Swabia in all directions , and if it would have been impracticable in a mountainous country , for want of transversal routes , to make the long circuit from Donauwerth by Augsburg to Memmingen , it is also true that Mack could by these same hundred @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if he had been entrapped in one of the valleys of Switzerland or of the Tyrol , from which there was but a single outlet . On the other hand , the general on the defensive may in a level country concentrate a large part of his forces ; for , if the enemy scatter to occupy all the roads by which the defensive army may retire , it will be easy for the latter to crush these isolated bodies ; but in a very mountainous country , where there are ordinarily but one or two principal routes into which other valleys open , even from the direction of the enemy , the concentration of forces becomes more difficult , since serious inconveniences may result if even one of these important valleys be not observed . Nothing can better demonstrate the difficulty of strategic defense in mountainous regions than the perplexity in which we are involved when we attempt simply to give advice in such cases ,  --  to say nothing of laying down maxims for them . If it were but a question of the defense of a single definite @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ converging valleys , the common junction of which is at a distance of two or three short marches from the summits of the ranges , it would be easier of solution . It would then be sufficient to recommend the construction of a good fort at the narrowest and least-easily turned point of each of these valleys . Protected by these forts , a few brigades of infantry should be stationed to dispute the passage , while half the army should be held in reserve at the junction , where it would be in position either to sustain the advanced guards most seriously threatened , or to fall upon the assailant with the whole force when he debouches . If to this be added good instructions to the commanders of the advanced guards , whether in assigning them the best point for rendezvous when their line of forts is pierced , or in directing them to continue to act in the mountains upon the flank of the enemy , the general on the defensive may regard himself as invincible , thanks to the many difficulties which the country offers to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this upon the right and left , all of which are to be defended , the problem is changed : the difficulties of the defense increase with the extent of the fronts , and this system of a cordon of forts becomes dangerous ,  --  while it is not easy to adopt a better one . We can not be better convinced of these truths than by the consideration of the position of Massena in Switzerland in 1799 . After Jourdan 's defeat at Stockach , he occupied the line from Basel by Schaffhausen and Rheineck to Saint-Gothard , and thence by La Furca to Mont-Blanc . He had enemies in front of Basel , at Waldshut , at Schaffhausen , at Feldkirch , and at Chur ; Bellegarde threatened the Saint-Gothard , and the Italian army menaced the Simplon and the Saint-Bernard . How was he to defend such a circumference ? and how could he leave open one of these great valleys , thus risking every thing ? From Rheinfelden to the Jura , toward Soleure , it was but two short marches , and there was the mouth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This was , then , the pivot of the defense . But how could he leave Schaffhausen unprotected ? how abandon Rheineck and the Saint-Gothard ? how open the Valais and the approach by Berne , without surrendering the whole of Switzerland to the Coalition ? And if he covered each point even by a brigade , where would be his army when he would need it to give battle to an approaching force ? It is a natural system on a level theater to concentrate the masses of an army ; but in the mountains such a course would surrender the keys of the country , and , besides , it is not easy to say where an inferior army could be concentrated without compromising it . After the forced evacuation of the line of the Rhine and Zurich , it seemed that the only strategic point for Massena to defend was the line of the Jura . He was rash enough to stand upon the Albis ,  --  a line shorter than that of the Rhine , it is true , but exposed for an immense distance to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of going into Lombardy by the Valtellina , had marched to Berne or made a junction with the archduke , Massena would have been ruined . These events seem to prove that if a country covered with high mountains be favorable for defense in a tactical point of view , it is different in a strategic sense , because it necessitates a division of the troops . This can only be remedied by giving them greater mobility and by passing often to the offensive . General Clausewitz , whose logic is frequently defective , maintains , on the contrary , that , movements being the most difficult part in this kind of war , the defensive party should avoid them , since by such a course he might lose the advantages of the local defenses . He , however , ends by demonstrating that a passive defense must yield under an active attack ,  --  which goes to show that the initiative is no less favorable in mountains than in plains . If there could be any doubt on this point , it ought to be dispelled by Massena 's campaign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the enemy at every opportunity , even when he was obliged to seek him on the Grimsel and the Saint-Gothard . Napoleon 's course was similar in 1796 in the Tyrol , when he was opposed to Wurmser and Alvinzi . As for detailed strategic maneuvers , they may be comprehended by reading the events of Suwaroff 's expedition by the Saint-Gothard upon the Muttenthal . While we must approve his maneuvers in endeavoring to capture Lecourbe in the valley of the Reuss , we must also admire the presence of mind , activity , and unyielding firmness which saved that general and his division . Afterward , in the Schachenthal and the Muttenthal , Suwaroff was placed in the same position as Lecourbe had been , and extricated himself with equal ability . Not less extraordinary was the ten days ' campaign of General Molitor , who with four thousand men was surrounded in the canton of Glaris by more than thirty thousand allies , and yet succeeded in maintaining himself behind the Linth after four admirable fights . These events teach us the vanity of all theory in details @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and heroic will is worth more than all the precepts in the world . After such lessons , need I say that one of the principal rules of this kind of war is , not to risk one 's self in the valleys without securing the heights ? Shall I say also that in this kind of war , more than in any other , operations should be directed upon the communications of the enemy ? And , finally , that good temporary bases or lines of defense at the confluence of the great valleys , covered by strategic reserves , combined with great mobility and frequent offensive movements , will be the best means of defending the country ? I can not terminate this article without remarking that mountainous countries are particularly favorable for defense when the war is a national one , in which the whole people rise up to defend their homes with the obstinacy which enthusiasm for a holy cause imparts : every advance is then dearly bought . But to be successful it is always necessary that the people be sustained by a disciplined force , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ yield , like the heroes of Stanz and of the Tyrol . The offensive against a mountainous country also presents a double case : it may either be directed upon a belt of mountains beyond which are extensive plains , or the whole theater may be mountainous . In the first case there is little more to be done than this ,  --  viz. : make demonstrations upon the whole line of the frontier , in order to lead the enemy to extend his defense , and then force a passage at the point which promises the greatest results . The problem in such a case is to break through a cordon which is strong less on account of the numbers of the defenders than from their position , and if broken at one point the whole line is forced . The history of Bard in 1800 , and the capture of Leutasch and Scharnitz in 1805 by Ney , ( who threw fourteen thousand men on Innspruck in the midst of thirty thousand Austrians , and by seizing this central point compelled them to retreat in all directions , ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mountain-ranges can generally be forced . The history of the passage of the Alps , where Francis I. turned the army which was awaiting him at Suza by passing the steep mountains between Mont-Cenis and the valley of Queyras , is an example of those insurmountable obstacles which can always be surmounted . To oppose him it would have been necessary to adopt a system of cordon ; and we have already seen what is to be expected of it . The position of the Swiss and Italians at Suza was even less wise than the cordon-system , because it inclosed them in a contracted valley without protecting the lateral issues . Their strategic plan ought to have been to throw troops into these valleys to defend the defiles , and to post the bulk of the army toward Turin or Carignano . When we consider the tactical difficulties of this kind of war , and the immense advantages it affords the defense , we may be inclined to regard the concentration of a considerable force to penetrate by a single valley as an extremely rash maneuver , and to think @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as there are practicable passes . In my opinion , this is one of the most dangerous of all illusions ; and to confirm what I say it is only necessary to refer to the fate of the columns of Championnet at the battle of Fossano . If there be five or six roads on the menaced front , they should all , of course , be threatened ; but the army should cross the chain in not more than two masses , and the routes which these follow should not be divergent ; for if they were , the enemy might be able to defeat them separately . Napoleon 's passage of the Saint-Bernard was wisely planned . He formed the bulk of his army on the center , with a division on each flank by Mont-Cenis and the Simplon , to divide the attention of the enemy and flank his march . The invasion of a country entirely covered with mountains is a much greater and more difficult task than where a denouement may be accomplished by a decisive battle in the open country ; for fields of battle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mountainous region , and the war becomes a succession of partial combats . Here it would be imprudent , perhaps , to penetrate on a single point by a narrow and deep valley , whose outlets might be closed by the enemy and thus the invading army be endangered : it might penetrate by the wings on two or three lateral lines , whose outlets should not be too widely separated , the marches being so arranged that the masses may debouch at the junction of the valleys at nearly the same instant . The enemy should be driven from all the ridges which separate these valleys . Of all mountainous countries , the tactical defense of Switzerland would be the easiest , if all her inhabitants were united in spirit ; and with their assistance a disciplined force might hold its own against a triple number . To give specific precepts for complications which vary infinitely with localities , the resources and the condition of the people and armies , would be absurd . History , well studied and understood , is the best school for this kind of warfare @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Archduke Charles , that of the campaigns which I have given in my History of the Wars of the Revolution , the narrative of the campaign of the Grisons by Segur and Mathieu Dumas , that of Catalonia by Saint-Cyr and Suchet , the campaign of the Duke de Rohan in Valtellina , and the passage of the Alps by Gaillard , ( Francis I. , ) are good guides in this study . ARTICLE XXIX . Grand Invasions and Distant Expeditions . There are several kinds of distant expeditions . The first are those which are merely auxiliary and belong to wars of intervention . The second are great continental invasions , through extensive tracts of country , which may be either friendly , neutral , doubtful , or hostile . The third are of the same nature , but made partly on land , partly by sea by means of numerous fleets . The fourth class comprises those beyond the seas , to found , defend , or attack distant colonies . The fifth includes the great descents , where the distance passed over is not very great , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the first , in a strategic point of view , a Russian army on the Rhine or in Italy , in alliance with the German States , would certainly be stronger and more favorably situated than if it had reached either of these points by passing over hostile or even neutral territory ; for its base , lines of operations , and eventual points of support will be the same as those of its allies ; it may find refuge behind their lines of defense , provisions in their depots , and munitions in their arsenals ;  --  while in the other case its resources would be upon the Vistula or the Niemen , and it might afford another example of the sad fate of many of these great invasions . In spite of the important difference between a war in which a state is merely an auxiliary , and a distant invasion undertaken for its own interest and with its own resources , there are , nevertheless , dangers in the way of these auxiliary armies , and perplexity for the commander of all the armies ,  --  particularly if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ party ; as may be learned from the campaign of 1805 . General Koutousoff advanced on the Inn to the boundaries of Bavaria with thirty thousand Russians , to effect a junction with Mack , whose army in the mean time had been destroyed , with the exception of eighteen thousand men brought back from Donauwerth by Kienmayer . The Russian general thus found himself with fifty thousand men exposed to the impetuous activity of Napoleon with one hundred and fifty thousand , and , to complete his misfortune , he was separated from his own frontiers by a distance of about seven hundred and fifty miles . His position would have been hopeless if fifty thousand men had not arrived to reinforce him . The battle of Austerlitz  --  due to a fault of Weyrother  --  endangered the Russian army anew , since it was so far from its base . It almost became the victim of a distant alliance ; and it was only peace that gave it the opportunity of regaining its own country . The fate of Suwaroff after the victory of Novi , especially in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at Bergen in Holland , are examples which should be well studied by every commander under such circumstances . General Benningsen 's position in 1807 was less disadvantageous , because , being between the Vistula and the Niemen , his communications with his base were preserved and his operations were in no respect dependent upon his allies . We may also refer to the fate of the French in Bohemia and Bavaria in 1742 , when Frederick the Great abandoned them and made a separate peace . In this case the parties were allies rather than auxiliaries ; but in the latter relation the political ties are never woven so closely as to remove all points of dissension which may compromise military operations . Examples of this kind have been cited in Article XIX. , on political objective points . History alone furnishes us instruction in reference to distant invasions across extensive territories . When half of Europe was covered with forests , pasturages , and flocks , and when only horses and iron were necessary to transplant whole nations from one end of the continent to the other , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Tartars overran empires in succession . But since the invention of powder and artillery and the organization of formidable standing armies , and particularly since civilization and statesmanship have brought nations closer together and have taught them the necessity of reciprocally sustaining each other , no such events have taken place . Besides these migrations of nations , there were other expeditions in the Middle Ages , which were of a more military character , as those of Charlemagne and others . Since the invention of powder there have been scarcely any , except the advance of Charles VIII . to Naples , and of Charles XII . into the Ukraine , which can be called distant invasions ; for the campaigns of the Spaniards in Flanders and of the Swedes in Germany were of a particular kind . The first was a civil war , and the Swedes were only auxiliaries to the Protestants of Germany ; and , besides , the forces concerned in both were not large . In modern times no one but Napoleon has dared to transport the armies of half of Europe from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that he will be imitated . Apart from the modifications which result from great distances , all invasions , after the armies arrive upon the actual theater , present the same operations as all other wars . As the chief difficulty arises from these great distances , we should recall our maxims on deep lines of operations , strategic reserves , and eventual bases , as the only ones applicable ; and here it is that their application is indispensable , although even that will not avert all danger . The campaign of 1812 , although so ruinous to Napoleon , was a model for a distant invasion . His care in leaving Prince Schwarzenberg and Reynier on the Bug , while Macdonald , Oudinot , and Wrede guarded the Dwina , Victor covered Smolensk , and Augereau was between the Oder and Vistula , proves that he had neglected no humanly possible precaution in order to base himself safely ; but it also proves that the greatest enterprises may fail simply on account of the magnitude of the preparations for their success . If Napoleon erred in this contest , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under one commander the different bodies of troops on the Dwina and Dnieper ; in remaining ten days too long at Wilna ; in giving the command of his right to his brother , who was unequal to it ; and in confiding to Prince Schwarzenberg a duty which that general could not perform with the devotedness of a Frenchman . I do not speak now of his error in remaining in Moscow after the conflagration , since then there was no remedy for the misfortune ; although it would not have been so great if the retreat had taken place immediately . He has also been accused of having too much despised distances , difficulties , and men , in pushing on as far as the Kremlin . Before passing judgment upon him in this matter , however , we ought to know the real motives which induced him to pass Smolensk , instead of wintering there as he had intended , and whether it would have been possible for him to remain between that city and Vitebsk without having previously defeated the Russian army . It is doubtless true @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Prussia , and Sweden , and counted too surely upon a denouement between Wilna and the Dwina . Although he fully appreciated the bravery of the Russian armies , he did not realize the spirit and energy of the people . Finally , and chiefly , instead of procuring the hearty and sincere concurrence of a military state , whose territories would have given him a sure base for his attack upon the colossal power of Russia , he founded his enterprise upon the co-operation of a brave and enthusiastic but fickle people , and besides , he neglected to turn to the greatest advantage this ephemeral enthusiasm . The fate of all such enterprises makes it evident that the capital point for their success , and , in fact , the only maxim to be given , is " never to attempt them without having secured the hearty and constant alliance of a respectable power near enough the field of operations to afford a proper base , where supplies of every kind may be accumulated , and which may also in case of reverse serve as a refuge and afford @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the precautions to be observed in these operations , the reader is referred to Articles XXI. and XXII. , on the safety of deep lines of operations and the establishment of eventual bases , as giving all the military means of lessening the danger ; to these should be added a just appreciation of distances , obstacles , seasons , and countries ,  --  in short , accuracy in calculation and moderation in success , in order that the enterprise may not be carried too far . We are far from thinking that any purely military maxims can insure the success of remote invasions : in four thousand years only five or six have been successful , and in a hundred instances they have nearly ruined nations and armies . Expeditions of the third class , partly on land , partly by sea , have been rare since the invention of artillery , the Crusades being the last in date of occurrence ; and probably the cause is that the control of the sea , after having been held in succession by several secondary powers , has passed into the hands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but without the land-forces necessary for such expeditions . It is evident that from both of these causes the condition of things now is very different from that existing when Xerxes marched to the conquest of Greece , followed by four thousand vessels of all dimensions , or when Alexander marched from Macedonia over Asia Minor to Tyre , while his fleet coasted the shore . Nevertheless , if we no longer see such invasions , it is very true that the assistance of a fleet of men-of-war and transports will always be of immense value to any army on shore when the two can act in concert . Still , sailing-ships are an uncertain resource , for their progress depends upon the winds ,  --  which may be unfavorable : in addition , any kind of fleet is exposed to great dangers in storms , which are not of rare occurrence . The more or less hostile tone of the people , the length of the line of operations , and the great distance of the principal objective point , are the only points which require any deviation from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , if less dangerous than distant ones , are still not without great danger of failure . A French army attacking Cadiz might find a tomb on the Guadalquivir , although well based upon the Pyrenees and possessing intermediate bases upon the Ebro and the Tagus . Likewise , the army which in 1809 besieged Komorn in the heart of Hungary might have been destroyed on the plains of Wagram without going as far as the Beresina . The antecedents , the number of disposable troops , the successes already gained , the state of the country , will all be elements in determining the extent of the enterprises to be undertaken ; and to be able to proportion them well to his resources , in view of the attendant circumstances , is a great talent in a general . Although diplomacy does not play so important a part in these invasions as in those more distant , it is still of importance ; since , as stated in Article VI. , there is no enemy , however insignificant , whom it would not be useful to convert into an ally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Duke of Savoy in 1706 exercised over the events of that day , and the effects of the stand taken by Maurice of Saxony in 1551 , and of Bavaria in 1813 , prove clearly the importance of securing the strict neutrality of all states adjoining the theater of war , when their co-operation can not be obtained . EPITOME OF STRATEGY * * * * * The task which I undertook seems to me to have been passably fulfilled by what has been stated in reference to the strategic combinations which enter ordinarily into a plan of campaign . We have seen , from the definition at the beginning of this chapter , that , in the most important operations in war , strategy fixes the direction of movements , and that we depend upon tactics for their execution . Therefore , before treating of these mixed operations , it will be well to give here the combinations of grand tactics and of battles , as well as the maxims by the aid of which the application of the fundamental principle of war may be made . By this method @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be better comprehended as a whole ; but , in the first place , I will give a synopsis of the contents of the preceding chapter . From the different articles which compose it , we may conclude that the manner of applying the general principle of war to all possible theaters of operations is found in what follows :  --  1 . In knowing how to make the best use of the advantages which the reciprocal directions of the two bases of operations may afford , in accordance with Article XVIII . 2 . In choosing , from the three zones ordinarily found in the strategic field , that one upon which the greatest injury can be done to the enemy with the least risk to one 's self . 3 . In establishing well , and giving a good direction to , the lines of operations ; adopting for defense the concentric system of the Archduke Charles in 1796 and of Napoleon in 1814 ; or that of Soult in 1814 , for retreats parallel to the frontiers . On the offensive we should follow the system which led @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and 1806 , when he directed his line upon the extremity of the strategic front ; or we might adopt his plan which was successful in 1796 , 1809 , and 1814 , of directing the line of operations upon the center of the strategic front : all of which is to be determined by the respective positions of the armies , and according to the maxims presented in Article XXI. 4 . In selecting judicious eventual lines of maneuver , by giving them such directions as always to be able to act with the greater mass of the forces , and to prevent the parts of the enemy from concentrating or from affording each other mutual support . 5 . In combining , in the same spirit of centralization , all strategic positions , and all large detachments made to cover the most important strategic points of the theater of war . 6 . In imparting to the troops the greatest possible mobility and activity , so as , by their successive employment upon points where it may be important to act , to bring superior force to bear upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and continuous marches multiplies the effect of an army , and at the same time neutralizes a great part of that of the enemy 's , and is often sufficient to insure success ; but its effect will be quintupled if the marches be skillfully directed upon the decisive strategic points of the zone of operations , where the severest blows to the enemy can be given . However , as a general may not always be prepared to adopt this decisive course to the exclusion of every other , he must then be content with attaining a part of the object of every enterprise , by rapid and successive employment of his forces upon isolated bodies of the enemy , thus insuring their defeat . A general who moves his masses rapidly and continually , and gives them proper directions , may be confident both of gaining victories and of securing great results therefrom . The oft-cited operations of 1809 and 1814 prove these truths most satisfactorily , as also does that ordered by Carnot in 1793 , already mentioned in Article XXIV. , and the details of which may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Wars of the Revolution . Forty battalions , carried successively from Dunkirk to Menin , Maubeuge , and Landau , by reinforcing the armies already at those points , gained four victories and saved France . The whole science of marches would have been found in this wise operation had it been directed upon the decisive strategic point . The Austrian was then the principal army of the Coalition , and its line of retreat was upon Cologne : hence it was upon the Meuse that a general effort of the French would have inflicted the most severe blow . The Committee of Public Safety provided for the most pressing danger , and the maneuver contains half of the strategic principle ; the other half consists in giving to such efforts the most decisive direction , as Napoleon did at Ulm , at Jena , and at Ratisbon . The whole of strategy is contained in these four examples . It is superfluous to add that one of the great ends of strategy is to be able to assure real advantages to the army by preparing the theater of war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in its own country , by the location of fortified places , of intrenched camps , and of tetes de ponts , and by the opening of communications in the great decisive directions : these constitute not the least interesting part of the science . We have already seen how we are to recognize these lines and these decisive points , whether permanent or temporary . Napoleon has afforded instruction on this point by the roads of the Simplon and Mont-Cenis ; and Austria since 1815 has profited by it in the roads from the Tyrol to Lombardy , the Saint-Gothard , and the Splugen , as well as by different fortified places projected or completed . CHAPTER IV . GRAND TACTICS AND BATTLES . Battles are the actual conflicts of armies contending about great questions of national policy and of strategy . Strategy directs armies to the decisive points of a zone of operations , and influences , in advance , the results of battles ; but tactics , aided by courage , by genius and fortune , gains victories . Grand tactics is the art of making good combinations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The guiding principle in tactical combinations , as in those of strategy , is to bring the mass of the force in hand against a part of the opposing army , and upon that point the possession of which promises the most important results . Battles have been stated by some writers to be the chief and deciding features of war . This assertion is not strictly true , as armies have been destroyed by strategic operations without the occurrence of pitched battles , by a succession of inconsiderable affairs . It is also true that a complete and decided victory may give rise to results of the same character when there may have been no grand strategic combinations . The results of a battle generally depend upon a union of causes which are not always within the scope of the military art : the nature of the order of battle adopted , the greater or less wisdom displayed in the plan of the battle , as well as the manner of carrying out its details , the more or less loyal and enlightened co-operation of the officers subordinate to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proportions and quality of the troops , their greater or less enthusiasm , superiority on the one side or the other in artillery or cavalry , and the manner of handling these arms ; but it is the morale of armies , as well as of nations , more than any thing else , which makes victories and their results decisive . Clausewitz commits a grave error in asserting that a battle not characterized by a maneuver to turn the enemy can not result in a complete victory . At the battle of Zama , Hannibal , in a few brief hours , saw the fruits of twenty years of glory and success vanish before his eyes , although Scipio never had a thought of turning his position . At Rivoli the turning-party was completely beaten ; nor was the maneuver more successful at Stockach in 1799 , or at Austerlitz in 1805 . As is evident from Article XXXII. , I by no means intend to discourage the use of that maneuver , being , on the contrary , a constant advocate of it ; but it is very important @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and I am , moreover , of opinion that if it be a general 's design to make himself master of his enemy 's communications while at the same time holding his own , he would do better to employ strategic than tactical combinations to accomplish it . There are three kinds of battles : 1st , defensive battles , or those fought by armies in favorable positions taken up to await the enemy 's attack ; 2d , offensive battles , where one army attacks another in position ; 3d , battles fought unexpectedly , and resulting from the collision of two armies meeting on the march . We will examine in succession the different combinations they present . ARTICLE XXX . Positions and Defensive Battles . When an army awaits an attack , it takes up a position and forms its line of battle . From the general definitions given at the beginning of this work , it will appear that I make a distinction between lines of battle and orders of battle ,  --  things which have been constantly confounded . I will designate as a line of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in columns of attack , which an army will take up to hold a camp and a certain portion of ground where it will await attack , having no particular project in view for the future : it is the right name to give to a body of troops formed with proper tactical intervals and distances upon one or more lines , as will be more fully explained in Article XLIII . On the contrary , I will designate as an order of battle an arrangement of troops indicating an intention to execute a certain maneuver ; as , for example , the parallel order , the oblique order , the perpendicular order . This nomenclature , although new , seems necessary to keeping up a proper distinction between two things which should by no means be confounded. 22 From the nature of the two things , it is evident that the line of battle belongs especially to defensive arrangements ; because an army awaiting an attack without knowing what or where it will be must necessarily form a rather indefinite and objectless line of battle . Order of battle , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with an intention of fighting while executing some maneuver previously determined upon , belongs more particularly to offensive dispositions . However , it is by no means pretended that the line of battle is exclusively a defensive arrangement ; for a body of troops may in this formation very well proceed to the attack of a position , while an army on the defensive may use the oblique order or any other . I refer above only to ordinary cases . Without adhering strictly to what is called the system of a war of positions , an army may often find it proper to await the enemy at a favorable point , strong by nature and selected beforehand for the purpose of there fighting a defensive battle . Such a position may be taken up when the object is to cover an important objective point , such as a capital , large depots , or a decisive strategic point which controls the surrounding country , or , finally , to cover a siege . There are two kinds of positions ,  --  the strategic , which has been discussed in Article @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , are subdivided . In the first place , there are intrenched positions occupied to await the enemy under cover of works more or less connected ,  --  in a word , intrenched camps . Their relations to strategic operations have been treated in Article XXVII. , and their attack and defense are discussed in Article XXXV . Secondly , we have positions naturally strong , where armies encamp for the purpose of gaining a few days ' time . Third and last are open positions , chosen in advance to fight on the defensive . The characteristics to be sought in these positions vary according to the object in view : it is , however , a matter of importance not to be carried away by the mistaken idea , which prevails too extensively , of giving the preference to positions that are very steep and difficult of access ,  --  quite suitable places , probably , for temporary camps , but not always the best for battle-grounds . A position of this kind , to be really strong , must be not only steep and difficult of access , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in occupying it , should offer as many advantages as possible for the kind of troops forming the principal strength of the army , and , finally , the obstacles presented by its features should be more disadvantageous for the enemy than for the assailed . For example , it is certain that Massena , in taking the strong position of the Albis , would have made a great error if his chief strength had been in cavalry and artillery ; whilst it was exactly what was wanted for his excellent infantry . For the same reason , Wellington , whose whole dependence was in the fire of his troops , made a good choice of position at Waterloo , where all the avenues of approach were well swept by his guns . The position of the Albis was , moreover , rather a strategic position , that of Waterloo being simply a battle-ground . The rules to be generally observed in selecting tactical positions are the following :  --  1 . To have the communications to the front such as to make it easier to fall upon the enemy at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of battle . 2 . To give the artillery all its effect in the defense . 3 . To have the ground suitable for concealing the movements of troops between the wings , that they may be massed upon any point deemed the proper one . 4 . To be able to have a good view of the enemy 's movements . 5 . To have an unobstructed line of retreat . 6 . To have the flanks well protected , either by natural or artificial obstacles , so as to render impossible an attack upon their extremities , and to oblige the enemy to attack the center , or at least some point of the front . This is a difficult condition to fulfill ; for , if an army rests on a river , or a mountain , or an impenetrable forest , and the smallest reverse happens to it , a great disaster may be the result of the broken line being forced back upon the very obstacles which seemed to afford perfect protection . This danger  --  about which there can be no doubt  --  gives rise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ better on a battle-field than insurmountable obstacles. 23 7 . Sometimes a want of proper support for the flanks is remedied by throwing a crotchet to the rear . This is dangerous ; because a crotchet stuck on a line hinders its movements , and the enemy may cause great loss of life by placing his artillery in the angle of the two lines prolonged . A strong reserve in close column behind the wing to be guarded from assault seems better to fulfill the required condition than the crotchet ; but the nature of the ground must always decide in the choice between the two methods . Full details on this point are given in the description of the battle of Prague , ( Chapter II . of the Seven Years ' War. ) 8 . We must endeavor in a defensive position not only to cover the flanks , but it often happens that there are obstacles on other points of the front , of such a character as to compel an attack upon the center . Such a position will always be one of the most advantageous for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Great obstacles are not essential for this purpose , as the smallest accident of the ground is sometimes sufficient : thus , the insignificant rivulet of Papelotte forced Ney to attack Wellington 's center , instead of the left as he had been ordered . When a defense is made of such a position , care must be taken to hold ready for movement portions of the wings thus covered , in order that they may take part in the action instead of remaining idle spectators of it . The fact can not be concealed , however , that all these means are but palliatives ; and the best thing for an army standing on the defensive is to know how to take the offensive at a proper time , and to take it . Among the conditions to be satisfied by a defensive position has been mentioned that of enabling an easy and safe retreat ; and this brings us to an examination of a question presented by the battle of Waterloo . Would an army with its rear resting upon a forest , and with a good road @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ compromised , as Napoleon imagined , if it should lose the battle ? My own opinion is that such a position would be more favorable for a retreat than an entirely open field ; for a beaten army could not cross a plain without exposure to very great danger . Undoubtedly , if the retreat becomes a rout , a portion of the artillery left in battery in front of the forest would , in all probability , be lost ; but the infantry and cavalry and a great part of the artillery could retire just as readily as across a plain . There is , indeed , no better cover for an orderly retreat than a forest ,  --  this statement being made upon the supposition that there are at least two good roads behind the line , that proper measures for retreat have been taken before the enemy has had an opportunity to press too closely , and , finally , that the enemy is not permitted by a flank movement to be before the retreating army at the outlet of the forest , as was the case at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as at Waterloo , the forest formed a concave line behind the center ; for this re-entering would become a place of arms to receive the troops and give them time to pass off in succession on the main roads . When discussing strategic operations , mention was made of the varying chances which the two systems , the defensive and the offensive , give rise to ; and it was seen that especially in strategy the army taking the initiative has the great advantage of bringing up its troops and striking a blow where it may deem best , whilst the army which acts upon the defensive and awaits an attack is anticipated in every direction , is often taken unawares , and is always obliged to regulate its movements by those of the enemy . We have also seen that in tactics these advantages are not so marked , because in this case the operations occupy a smaller extent of ground , and the party taking the initiative can not conceal his movements from the enemy , who , instantly observing , may at once counteract them by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ party advancing upon the enemy has against him all the disadvantages arising from accidents of ground that he must pass before reaching the hostile line ; and , however flat a country it may be , there are always inequalities of the surface , such as small ravines , thickets , hedges , farm-houses , villages , &c.,; which must either be taken possession of or be passed by . To these natural obstacles may also be added the enemy 's batteries to be carried , and the disorder which always prevails to a greater or less extent in a body of men exposed to a continued fire either of musketry or artillery . Viewing the matter in the light of these facts , all must agree that in tactical operations the advantages resulting from taking the initiative are balanced by the disadvantages . However undoubted these truths may be , there is another , still more manifest , which has been demonstrated by the greatest events of history . Every army which maintains a strictly defensive attitude must , if attacked , be at last driven from its position ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ system , and holding itself ready to take the offensive when occasion offers , it may hope for the greatest success . A general who stands motionless to receive his enemy , keeping strictly on the defensive , may fight ever so bravely , but he must give way when properly attacked . It is not so , however , with a general who indeed waits to receive his enemy , but with the determination to fall upon him offensively at the proper moment , to wrest from him and transfer to his own troops the moral effect always produced by an onward movement when coupled with the certainty of throwing the main strength into the action at the most important point ,  --  a thing altogether impossible when keeping strictly on the defensive . In fact , a general who occupies a well-chosen position , where his movements are free , has the advantage of observing the enemy 's approach ; his forces , previously arranged in a suitable manner upon the position , aided by batteries placed so as to produce the greatest effect , may make the enemy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the two armies ; and when the assailant , after suffering severely , finds himself strongly assailed at the moment when the victory seemed to be in his hands , the advantage will , in all probability , be his no longer , for the moral effect of such a counter-attack upon the part of an adversary supposed to be beaten is certainly enough to stagger the boldest troops . A general may , therefore , employ in his battles with equal success either the offensive or defensive system ; but it is indispensable ,  --  1st , that , so far from limiting himself to a passive defense , he should know how to take the offensive at favorable moments ; 2d , that his coup-d'oeil be certain and his coolness undoubted ; 3d , that he be able to rely surely upon his troops ; 4th , that , in retaking the offensive , he should by no means neglect to apply the general principle which would have regulated his order of battle had he done so in the beginning ; 5th , that he strike his blows upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ course at Rivoli and Austerlitz , as well as by Wellington 's at Talavera , at Salamanca , and at Waterloo . FOOTNOTES : Footnote 22 : It is from no desire to make innovations that I have modified old terms or made new . In the development of a science , it is wrong for the same word to designate two very different things ; and , if we continue to apply the term order of battle to the disposition of troops in line , it must be improper to designate certain important maneuvers by the terms oblique order of battle , concave order of battle , and it becomes necessary to use instead the terms oblique system of battle , &c.; I prefer the method of designation I have adopted . The order of battle on paper may take the name plan of organization , and the ordinary formation of troops upon the ground will then be called line of battle . Footnote 23 : The park of Hougoumont , the hamlet of La Haye Sainte , and the rivulet of Papelotte were for Ney more serious obstacles than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ passage of the Danube , in 1805 , upon the ruins of a burnt bridge . It may perhaps be said that the courage of the defenders in the two cases was not the same ; but , throwing out of consideration this chance , it must be granted that the difficulties of a position , when properly taken advantage of , need not be insurmountable in order to render the attack abortive . At Elchingen the great height and steepness of the banks , rendering the fire almost ineffectual , were more disadvantageous than useful in the defense . ARTICLE XXXI . Offensive Battles , and Different Orders of Battle . We understand by offensive battles those which an army fights when assaulting another in position. 24 An army reduced to the strategic defensive often takes the offensive by making an attack , and an army receiving an attack may , during the progress of the battle , take the offensive and obtain the advantages incident to it . History furnishes numerous examples of battles of each of these kinds . As defensive battles have been discussed in the preceding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out , we will now proceed to the consideration of offensive movements . It must be admitted that the assailant generally has a moral advantage over the assailed , and almost always acts more understandingly than the latter , who must be more or less in a state of uncertainty . As soon as it is determined to attack the enemy , some order of attack must be adopted ; and that is what I have thought ought to be called order of battle . It happens also quite frequently that a battle must be commenced without a detailed plan , because the position of the enemy is not entirely known . In either case it should be well understood that there is in every battle-field a decisive point , the possession of which , more than of any other , helps to secure the victory , by enabling its holder to make a proper application of the principles of war : arrangements should therefore be made for striking the decisive blow upon this point . The decisive point of a battle-field is determined , as has been already stated , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ different localities upon the strategic object in view , and , finally , by the arrangement of the contending forces . For example , suppose an enemy 's flank to rest upon high ground from which his whole line might be attained , the occupation of this height seems most important , tactically considered ; but it may happen that the height in question is very difficult of access , and situated exactly so as to be of the least importance , strategically considered . At the battle of Bautzen the left of the allies rested upon the steep mountains of Bohemia , which province was at that time rather neutral than hostile : it seemed that , tactically considered , the slope of these mountains was the decisive point to be held , when it was just the reverse , because the allies had but one line of retreat upon Reichenbach and Gorlitz , and the French , by forcing the right , which was in the plain , would occupy this line of retreat and throw the allies into the mountains , where they might have lost all their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ army . This course was also easier for them on account of the difference in the features of the ground , led to more important results , and would have diminished the obstacles in the future . The following truths may , I think , be deduced from what has been stated : 1 . The topographical key of a battle-field is not always the tactical key ; 2 . The decisive point of a battle-field is certainly that which combines strategic with topographical advantages ; 3 . When the difficulties of the ground are not too formidable upon the strategic point of the battle-field , this is generally the most important point ; 4 . It is nevertheless true that the determination of this point depends very much upon the arrangement of the contending forces . Thus , in lines of battle too much extended and divided the center will always be the proper point of attack ; in lines well closed and connected the center is the strongest point , since , independently of the reserves posted there , it is easy to support it from the flanks : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the extremities of the line . When the numerical superiority is considerable , an attack may be made simultaneously upon both extremities , but not when the attacking force is equal or inferior numerically to the enemy 's . It appears , therefore , that all the combinations of a battle consist in so employing the force in hand as to obtain the most effective action upon that one of the three points mentioned which offers the greatest number of chances of success ,  --  a point very easily determined by applying the analysis just mentioned . The object of an offensive battle can only be to dislodge the enemy or to cut his line , unless it is intended by strategic maneuvers to ruin his army completely . An enemy is dislodged either by overthrowing him at some point of his line , or by outflanking him so as to take him in flank and rear , or by using both these methods at once ; that is , attacking him in front while at the same time one wing is enveloped and his line turned . To accomplish these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the most suitable order of battle for the method to be used . At least twelve orders of battle may be enumerated , viz. : 1 . The simple parallel order ; 2 . The parallel order with a defensive or offensive crotchet ; 3 . The order reinforced upon one or both wings ; 4 . The order reinforced in the center ; 5 . The simple oblique order , or the oblique reinforced on the attacking wing ; 6 and 7 . The perpendicular order on one or both wings ; 8 . The concave order ; 9 . The convex order ; 10 . The order by echelon on one or both wings ; 11 . The order by echelon on the center ; 12 . The order resulting from a strong combined attack upon the center and one extremity simultaneously . ( See Figs. 5 to 16 . ) Illustration : Fig. 5. 25 Each of these orders may be used either by itself or , as has been stated , in connection with the maneuver of a strong column intended to turn the enemy 's line @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of each , it becomes necessary to test each by the application of the general principles which have been laid down . For example , it is manifest that the parallel order ( Fig. 5 ) is worst of all , for it requires no skill to fight one line against another , battalion against battalion , with equal chances of success on either side : no tactical skill is needed in such a battle . There is , however , one important case where this is a suitable order , which occurs when an army , having taken the initiative in great strategic operations , shall have succeeded in falling upon the enemy 's communications and cutting off his line of retreat while covering its own ; when the battle takes place between them , that army which has reached the rear of the other may use the parallel order , for , having effected the decisive maneuver previous to the battle , all its efforts should now be directed toward the frustration of the enemy 's endeavor to open a way through for himself . Except for this single @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . I do not mean to say that a battle can not be gained while using this order , for one side or the other must gain the victory if the contest is continued ; and the advantage will then be upon his side who has the best troops , who best knows when to engage them , who best manages his reserve and is most favored by fortune . Illustration : Fig. 6 . The parallel order with a crotchet upon the flank ( Fig. 6 ) is most usually adopted in a defensive position . It may be also the result of an offensive combination ; but then the crotchet is to the front , whilst in the case of defense it is to the rear . The battle of Prague is a very remarkable example of the danger to which such a crotchet is exposed if properly attacked . Illustration : Fig. 7 . The parallel order reinforced upon one wing , ( Fig. 7 , ) or upon the center , ( Fig. 8 , page 190 , ) to pierce that of the enemy , is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is also much more in accordance with the general principles which have been laid down ; although , when the contending forces are about equal , the part of the line which has been weakened to reinforce the other may have its own safety compromised if placed in line parallel to the enemy . Illustration : Fig. 8 . Illustration : Fig. 9 . The oblique order ( Fig. 9 ) is the best for an inferior force attacking a superior ; for , in addition to the advantage of bringing the main strength of the forces against a single point of the enemy 's line , it has two others equally important , since the weakened wing is not only kept back from the attack of the enemy , but performs also the double duty of holding in position the part of his line not attacked , and of being at hand as a reserve for the support , if necessary , of the engaged wing . This order was used by the celebrated Epaminondas at the battles of Leuctra and Mantinea . The most brilliant example of its use @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the battle of Leuthen . ( See Chapter VII . of Treatise on Grand Operations . ) Illustration : Fig. 10 . C / / / C B- Illustration : Fig. 11 . A -B B- The perpendicular order on one or both wings , as seen in Figs. 10 and 11 , can only be considered an arrangement to indicate the direction along which the primary tactical movements might be made in a battle . Two armies will never long occupy the relative perpendicular positions indicated in these figures ; for if the army B were to take its first position on a line perpendicular to one or both extremities of the army A , the latter would at once change the front of a portion of its line ; and even the army B , as soon as it extended itself to or beyond the extremity of A , must of necessity turn its columns either to the right or the left , in order to bring them near the enemy 's line , and so take him in reverse , as at C , the result being two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inference is that one division of the assailing army would take a position perpendicular to the enemy 's wing , whilst the remainder of the army would approach in front for the purpose of annoying him ; and this would always bring us back to one of the oblique orders shown in Figures 9 and 16 . The attack on both wings , whatever be the form of attack adopted , may be very advantageous , but it is only admissible when the assailant is very decidedly superior in numbers ; for , if the fundamental principle is to bring the main strength of the forces upon the decisive point , a weaker army would violate it in directing a divided attack against a superior force . This truth will be clearly demonstrated farther on . Illustration : Fig. 12 . The order concave in the center ( Fig. 12 ) has found advocates since the day when Hannibal by its use gained the battle of Can nae . This order may indeed be very good when the progress of the battle itself gives rise to it ; that is , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him , and he suffers himself to be enveloped by the wings . But , if this order is adopted before the battle begins , the enemy , instead of falling on the center , has only to attack the wings , which present their extremities and are in precisely the same relative situation as if they had been assailed in flank . This order would , therefore , be scarcely ever used except against an enemy who had taken the convex order to fight a battle , as will be seen farther on . Illustration : Fig. 12 , bis . An army will rarely form a semicircle , preferring rather a broken line with the center retired , ( Fig. 12 , bis . ) If several writers may be believed , such an arrangement gave the victory to the English on the famous days of Crecy and Agincourt . This order is certainly better than a semicircle , since it does not so much present the flank to attack , whilst allowing forward movement by echelon and preserving all the advantages of concentration of fire . These advantages @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon the retired center , is content to watch it from a distance and makes his greatest effort upon one wing . Essling , in 1809 , is an example of the advantageous use of a concave line ; but it must not be inferred that Napoleon committed an error in attacking the center ; for an army fighting with the Danube behind it and with no way of moving without uncovering its bridges of communication , must not be judged as if it had been free to maneuver at pleasure . Illustration : Fig. 13 . The convex order with the center salient ( Fig. 13 ) answers for an engagement immediately upon the passage of a river when the wings must be retired and rested on the river to cover the bridges ; also when a defensive battle is to be fought with a river in rear , which is to be passed and the defile covered , as at Leipsic ; and , finally , it may become a natural formation to resist an enemy forming a concave line . If an enemy directs his efforts against the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cause the ruin of the whole army. 26 The French tried it at Fleurus in 1794 , and were successful , because the Prince of Coburg , in place of making a strong attack upon the center or upon a single extremity , divided his attack upon five or six diverging lines , and particularly upon both wings at once . Nearly the same convex order was adopted at Essling , and during the second and third days of the famous battle of Leipsic . On the last occasion it had just the result that might have been expected . Illustration : Fig. 14 A **40;27;TOOLONG B The order by echelon upon the two wings Fig. 14 is of the same nature as the perpendicular order , ( Fig. 11 , ) being , however , better than that , because , the echelons being nearest each other in the direction where the reserve would be placed , the enemy would be less able , both as regards room and time , to throw himself into the interval of the center and make at that point a threatening counter-attack . Illustration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ echelon on the center ( Fig. 15 ) may be used with special success against an army occupying a position too much cut up and too extended , because , its center being then somewhat isolated from the wings and liable to overthrow , the army thus cut in two would be probably destroyed . But , applying the test of the same fundamental principle , this order of attack would appear to be less certain of success against an army having a connected and closed line ; for the reserve being generally near the center , and the wings being able to act either by concentrating their fire or by moving against the foremost echelons , might readily repulse them . If this formation to some extent resembles the famous triangular wedge or boar 's head of the ancients , and the column of Winkelried , it also differs from them essentially ; for , instead of forming one solid mass ,  --  an impracticable thing in our day , on account of the use of artillery ,  --  it would have a large open space in the middle , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suitable , as has been said , for penetrating the center of a line too much extended , and might be equally successful against a line unavoidably immovable ; but if the wings of the attacked line are brought at a proper time against the flanks of the foremost echelons , disagreeable consequences might result . A parallel order considerably reinforced on the center might perhaps be a much better arrangement , ( Figs. 8 and 16 ; ) for the parallel line in this case would have at least the advantage of deceiving the enemy as to the point of attack , and would hinder the wings from taking the echelons of the center by the flank . This order by echelons was adopted by Laudon for the attack of the intrenched camp of Buntzelwitz . ( Treatise on Grand Operations , chapter xxviii . ) In such a case it is quite suitable ; for it is then certain that the defensive army being forced to remain within its intrenchments , there is no danger of its attacking the echelons in flank . But , this formation having the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ line which it is desired to attack , false attacks should be made upon the wings , to mislead him as to the true point of attack . Illustration Fig 16 . The order of attack in columns on the center and on one extremity at the same time ( Fig. 16 ) is better than the preceding , especially in an attack upon an enemy 's line strongly arranged and well connected . It may even be called the most reasonable of all the orders of battle . The attack upon the center , aided by a wing outflanking the enemy , prevents the assailed party falling upon the assailant and taking him in flank , as was done by Hannibal and Marshal Saxe . The enemy 's wing which is hemmed in between the attacks on the center and at the extremity , having to contend with nearly the entire opposing force , will be defeated and probably destroyed . It was this maneuver which gave Napoleon his victories of Wagram and Ligny . This was what he wished to attempt at Borodino ,  --  where he obtained only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Russian left and the division of Paskevitch in the famous central redoubt , and on account of the arrival of Baggavout 's corps on the wing he hoped to outflank . He used it also at Bautzen ,  --  where an unprecedented success would have been the result , but for an accident which interfered with the maneuver of the left wing intended to cut off the allies from the road to Wurschen , every arrangement having been made with that view . It should be observed that these different orders are not to be understood precisely as the geometrical figures indicate them . A general who would expect to arrange his line of battle as regularly as upon paper or on a drill-ground would be greatly mistaken , and would be likely to suffer defeat . This is particularly true as battles are now fought . In the time of Louis XIV . or of Frederick , it was possible to form lines of battle almost as regular as the geometrical figures , because armies camped under tents , almost always closely collected together , and were in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time for opening roads and clearing spaces to enable the columns to be at regular distances from each other . But in our day ,  --  when armies bivouac , when their division into several corps gives greater mobility , when they take position near each other in obedience to orders given them while out of reach of the general 's eye , and often when there has been no time for thorough examination of the enemy 's position ,  --  finally , when the different arms of the service are intermingled in the line of battle ,  --  under these circumstances , all orders of battle which must be laid out with great accuracy of detail are impracticable . These figures have never been of any other use than to indicate approximate arrangements . If every army were a solid mass , capable of motion as a unit under the influence of one man 's will and as rapidly as thought , the art of winning battles would be reduced to choosing the most favorable order of battle , and a general could reckon with certainty upon the success of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; for the great difficulty of the tactics of battles will always be to render certain the simultaneous entering into action of the numerous fractions whose efforts must combine to make such an attack as will give good ground to hope for victory : in other words , the chief difficulty is to cause these fractions to unite in the execution of the decisive maneuver which , in accordance with the original plan of the battle , is to result in victory . Inaccurate transmission of orders , the manner in which they will be understood and executed by the subordinates of the general-in-chief , excess of activity in some , lack of it in others , a defective coup-d'oeil militaire ,  --  every thing of this kind may interfere with the simultaneous entering into action of the different parts , without speaking of the accidental circumstances which may delay or prevent the arrival of a corps at the appointed place . Hence result two undoubted truths : 1 . The more simple a decisive maneuver is , the more sure of success will it be ; 2 . Sudden maneuvers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than those determined upon in advance , unless the latter , relating to previous strategic movements , will bring up the columns which are to decide the day upon those points where their presence will secure the expected result . Waterloo and Bautzen are proofs of the last . From the moment when Bluecher and Bulow had reached the heights of Frichermont , nothing could have prevented the loss of the battle by the French , and they could then only fight to make the defeat less complete . In like manner , at Bautzen , as soon as Ney had reached Klix , the retreat of the allies during the night of the 20th of May could alone have saved them , for on the 21st it was too late ; and , if Ney had executed better what he was advised to do , the victory would have been a very great one . As to maneuvers for breaking through a line and calculations upon the co-operation of columns proceeding from the general front of the army , with the intention of effecting large detours around an enemy 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ always doubtful , since it depends upon such an accurate execution of carefully-arranged plans as is rarely seen . This subject will be considered in Art . XXXII . Besides the difficulty of depending upon the exact application of an order of battle arranged in advance , it often happens that battles begin without even the assailant having a well-defined object , although the collision may have been expected . This uncertainty results either from circumstances prior to the battle , from ignorance of the enemy 's position and plans , or from the fact that a portion of the army may be still expected to arrive on the field . From these things many people have concluded that it is impossible to reduce to different systems the formations of orders of battle , or that the adoption of either of them can at all influence the result of an engagement ,  --  an erroneous conclusion , in my opinion , even in the cases cited above . Indeed , in battles begun without any predetermined plan it is probable that at the opening of the engagement the armies will occupy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ point ; the party acting upon the defensive , not knowing in what quarter the storm will burst upon him , will hold a large part of his forces in reserve , to be used as occasion may require ; the assailant must make similar efforts to have his forces well in hand ; but as soon as the point of attack shall have been determined , the mass of his troops will be directed against the center or upon one wing of the enemy , or upon both at once . Whatever may be the resulting formation , it will always bear a resemblance to one of the figures previously exhibited . Even in unexpected engagements the same thing would happen ,  --  which will , it is hoped , be a sufficient proof of the fact that this classification of the different systems or orders of battle is neither fanciful nor useless . There is nothing even in Napoleon 's battles which disproves my assertion , although they are less susceptible than any others of being represented by lines accurately laid down . We see him , however , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concentrating his forces toward the center to be ready at the favorable moment to fall upon the enemy . At the Pyramids he formed an oblique line of squares in echelon . At Leipsic , Essling , and Brienne he used a kind of convex order very like Fig. 11 . At Wagram his order was altogether like Fig. 16 , bringing up two masses upon the center and right , while keeping back the left wing ; and this he wished to repeat at Borodino and at Waterloo before the Prussians came up . At Eylau , although the collision was almost entirely unforeseen on account of the very unexpected return and offensive movement of the Russians , he outflanked their left almost perpendicularly , whilst in another direction he was endeavoring to break through the center ; but these attacks were not simultaneous , that on the center being repulsed at eleven o'clock , whilst Davoust did not attack vigorously upon the left until toward one . At Dresden he attacked by the two wings , for the first time probably in his life , because his center was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in addition , the attack of his left was combined with that of Vandamme upon the enemy 's line of retreat . At Marengo , if we may credit Napoleon himself , the oblique order he assumed , resting his right at Castel Ceriole , saved him from almost inevitable defeat . Ulm and Jena were battles won by strategy before they were fought , tactics having but little to do with them . At Ulm there was not even a regular battle . I think we may hence conclude that if it seems absurd to desire to mark out upon the ground orders of battle in such regular lines as would be used in tracing them on a sketch , a skillful general may nevertheless bear in mind the orders which have been indicated above , and may so combine his troops on the battle-field that the arrangement shall be similar to one of them . He should endeavor in all his combinations , whether deliberately arranged or adopted on the spur of the moment , to form a sound conclusion as to the important point of the battle-field @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the direction of the enemy 's line of battle , and not forgetting the direction in which strategy requires him to operate . He will then give his attention and efforts to this point , using a third of his force to keep the enemy in check or watch his movements , while throwing the other two-thirds upon the point the possession of which will insure him the victory . Acting thus , he will have satisfied all the conditions the science of grand tactics can impose upon him , and will have applied the principles of the art in the most perfect manner . The manner of determining the decisive point of a battle-field has been described in the preceding chapter , ( Art . XIX . ) Having now explained the twelve orders of battle , it has occurred to me that this would be a proper place to reply to several statements made in the Memoirs of Napoleon published by General Montholon . The great captain seems to consider the oblique order a modern invention , a theorist 's fancy ,  --  an opinion I can by no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as Thebes and Sparta , and I have seen it used with my own eyes . This assertion of Napoleon 's seems the more remarkable because Napoleon himself boasted of having used , at Marengo , the very order of which he thus denies the existence . If we understand that the oblique order is to be applied in the rigid and precise manner inculcated by General Ruchel at the Berlin school . Napoleon was certainly right in regarding it as an absurdity ; but I repeat that a line of battle never was a regular geometrical figure , and when such figures are used in discussing the combinations of tactics it can only be for the purpose of giving definite expression to an idea by the use of a known symbol . It is nevertheless true that every line of battle which is neither parallel nor perpendicular to the enemy 's must be oblique of necessity . If one army attacks the extremity of another army , the attacking wing being reinforced by massing troops upon it while the weakened wing is kept retired from attack , the direction of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ since one end of it will be nearer the enemy than the other . The oblique order is so far from being a mere fancy that we see it used when the order is that by echelons on one wing , ( Fig. 14 . ) As to the other orders of battle explained above , it can not be denied that at Essling and Fleurus the general arrangement of the Austrians was a concave line , and that of the French a convex . In these orders parallel lines may be used as in the case of straight lines , and they would be classified as belonging to the parallel system when no part of the line was more strongly occupied or drawn up nearer to the enemy than another . Laying aside for the present further consideration of these geometrical figures , it is to be observed that , for the purpose of fighting battles in a truly scientific manner , the following points must be attended to :  --  1 . An offensive order of battle should have for its object to force the enemy from his position @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by art are those intended to overwhelm one wing only , or the center and one wing at the same time . An enemy may also be dislodged by maneuvers for outflanking and turning his position . 3 . These attempts have a much greater probability of success if concealed from the enemy until the very moment of the assault . 4 . To attack the center and both wings at the same time , without having very superior forces , would be entirely in opposition to the rules of the art , unless one of these attacks can be made very strongly without weakening the line too much at the other points . 5 . The oblique order has no other object than to unite at least half the force of the army in an overwhelming attack upon one wing , while the remainder is retired to the rear , out of danger of attack , being arranged either in echelon or in a single oblique line . 6 The different formations , convex , concave , perpendicular , or otherwise , may all be varied by having the lines @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one point . 7 . The object of the defense being to defeat the plans of the attacking party , the arrangements of a defensive order should be such as to multiply the difficulties of approaching the position , and to keep in hand a strong reserve , well concealed , and ready to fall at the decisive moment upon a point where the enemy least expect to meet it . 8 . It is difficult to state with precision what is the best method to use in forcing a hostile army to abandon its position . An order of battle would be perfect which united the double advantages of the fire of the arms and of the moral effect produced by an onset . A skillful mixture of deployed lines and columns , acting alternately as circumstances require , will always be a good combination . In the practical use of this system many variations must arise from differences in the coup-d'oeil of commanders , the morale of officers and soldiers , their familiarity with maneuvers and firings of all sorts , from varying localities , &c.; 9 . As @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enemy from his position and to cut him up as much as possible , the best means of accomplishing this is to use as much material force as can be accumulated against him . It sometimes happens , however , that the direct application of main force is of doubtful utility , and better results may follow from maneuvers to outflank and turn that wing which is nearest the enemy 's line of retreat . He may when thus threatened retire , when he would fight strongly and successfully if attacked by main force . History is full of examples of the success of such maneuvers , especially when used against generals of weak character ; and , although victories thus obtained are generally less decisive and the hostile army is but little demoralized , such incomplete successes are of sufficient importance not to be neglected , and a skillful general should know how to employ the means to gain them when opportunity offers , and especially should he combine these turning movements with attacks by main force . 10 . The combination of these two methods  --  that is to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the turning maneuver  --  will render the victory more certain than the use of either separately ; but , in all cases , too extended movements must be avoided , even in presence of a contemptible enemy . 11 . The manner of driving an enemy from his position by main force is the following :  --  Throw his troops into confusion by a heavy and well-directed fire of artillery , increase this confusion by vigorous charges of cavalry , and follow up the advantages thus gained by pushing forward masses of infantry well covered in front by skirmishers and flanked by cavalry . But , while we may expect success to follow such an attack upon the first line , the second is still to be overcome , and , after that , the reserve ; and at this period of the engagement the attacking party would usually be seriously embarrassed , did not the moral effect of the defeat of the first line often occasion the retreat of the second and cause the general in command to lose his presence of mind . In fact , the attacking troops @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and it will often be very difficult to replace them by those of the second line , because they generally follow the first line at such a distance as not to come within musket-range of the enemy ; and it is always embarrassing to substitute one division for another in the heat of battle , at the moment when the enemy is putting forth all his strength in repelling the attack . These considerations lead to the belief that if the general and the troops of the defensive army are equally active in the performance of their duty , and preserve their presence of mind , if their flanks and line of retreat are not threatened , the advantage will usually be on their side at the second collision of the battle ; but to insure that result their second line and the cavalry must be launched against the victorious battalions of the adversary at the proper instant ; for the loss of a few minutes may be irreparable , and the second line may be drawn into the confusion of the first . 12 . From the preceding facts may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ difficult as well as the most certain of all the means the assailant may use to gain the victory consists in strongly supporting the first line with the troops of the second line , and these with the reserve , and in a proper employment of masses of cavalry and of batteries , to assist in striking the decisive blow at the second line of the enemy ; for here is presented the greatest of all the problems of the tactics of battles . " In this important crisis of battles , theory becomes an uncertain guide ; for it is then unequal to the emergency , and can never compare in value with a natural talent for war , nor be a sufficient substitute for that intuitive coup-d'oeil imparted by experience in battles to a general of tried bravery and coolness . The simultaneous employment of the largest number of troops of all arms combined , except a small reserve of each which should be always held in hand , 27 will , therefore , at the critical moment of the battle , be the problem which every skillful general @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his whole attention . This critical moment is usually when the first line of the parties is broken , and all the efforts of both contestants are put forth ,  --  on the one side to complete the victory , on the other to wrest it from the enemy . It is scarcely necessary to say that , to make this decisive blow more certain and effectual , a simultaneous attack upon the enemy 's flank would be very advantageous . 13 . In the defensive the fire of musketry can be much more effectively used than in the offensive , since when a position is to be carried it can be accomplished only by moving upon it , and marching and firing at the same time can be done only by troops as skirmishers , being an impossibility for the principal masses . The object of the defense being to break and throw into confusion the troops advancing to the attack , the fire of artillery and musketry will be the natural defensive means of the first line , and when the enemy presses too closely the columns of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against him . There will then be a strong probability of his repulse . FOOTNOTES : Footnote 24 : In every battle one party must be the assailant and the other assailed . Every battle is hence offensive for one party and defensive for the other . Footnote 25 : The letter A in this and other figures of the twelve orders indicates the defensive army , and B the offensive . The armies are represented each in a single line , in order not to complicate the figures too much ; but it should be observed that every order of battle ought to be in two lines , whether the troops are deployed in columns of attack , in squares , or checkerwise . Footnote 26 : An attack upon the two extremities might succeed also in some cases , either when the force was strong enough to try it , or the enemy was unable to weaken his center to support the wings . As a rule , a false attack to engage the center , and a strong attack against one extremity , would be the best method @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The great reserves must , of course , be also engaged when it is necessary ; but it is always a good plan to keep back , as a final reserve , two or three battalions and five or six squadrons . Moreau decided the battle of Engen with four companies of infantry ; and what Kellermann 's cavalry accomplished at Marengo is known to every reader of history . ARTICLE XXXII . Turning Maneuvers , and too extended Movement in Battles . We have spoken in the preceding article of maneuvers undertaken to turn an enemy 's line upon the battle-field , and of the advantages which may be expected from them . A few words remain to be said as to the wide detours which these maneuvers sometimes occasion , causing the failure of so many plans seemingly well arranged . It may be laid down as a principle that any movement is dangerous which is so extended as to give the enemy an opportunity , while it is taking place , of beating the remainder of the army in position . Nevertheless , as the danger depends very @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ general , as well as upon the style of warfare to which he is accustomed , it is not difficult to understand why so many maneuvers of this kind have failed against some commanders and succeeded against others , and why such a movement which would have been hazardous in presence of Frederick , Napoleon , or Wellington might have entire success against a general of limited capacity , who had not the tact to take the offensive himself at the proper moment , or who might himself have been in the habit of moving in this manner . It seems , therefore , difficult to lay down a fixed rule on the subject . The following directions are all that can be given . Keep the mass of the force well in hand and ready to act at the proper moment , being careful , however , to avoid the danger of accumulating troops in too large bodies . A commander observing these precautions will be always prepared for any thing that may happen . If the opposing general shows little skill and seems inclined to indulge in extended movements @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ examples drawn from history will serve to convince the reader of the truth of my statements , and to show him how the results of these extended movements depend upon the characters of the generals and the armies concerned in them . In the Seven Years ' War , Frederick gained the battle of Prague because the Austrians had left a feebly-defended interval of one thousand yards between their right and the remainder of their army ,  --  the latter part remaining motionless while the right was overwhelmed . This inaction was the more extraordinary as the left of the Austrians had a much shorter distance to pass over in order to support their right than Frederick had to attack it ; for the right was in the form of a crotchet , and Frederick was obliged to move on the arc of a large semicircle to reach it . On the other hand , Frederick came near losing the battle of Torgau , because he made with his left a movement entirely too extended and disconnected ( nearly six miles ) with a view of turning the right of Marshal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ movement to the heights of Siptitz , where he rejoined the king , whose line was thus reformed . The battle of Rivoli is a noted instance in point . All who are familiar with that battle know that Alvinzi and his chief of staff Weyrother wished to surround Napoleon 's little army , which was concentrated on the plateau of Rivoli . Their center was beaten ,  --  while their left was piled up in the ravine of the Adige , and Lusignan with their right was making a wide detour to get upon the rear of the French army , where he was speedily surrounded and captured . No one can forget the day of Stockach , where Jourdan conceived the unfortunate idea of causing an attack to be made upon a united army of sixty thousand men by three small divisions of seven thousand or eight thousand men , separated by distances of several leagues , whilst Saint-Cyr , with the third of the army , ( thirteen thousand men , ) was to pass twelve miles beyond the right flank and get in rear of this army @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ victorious over these divided fractions , and should certainly have captured the part in their rear . Saint-Cyr 's escape was indeed little less than a miracle . We may call to mind how this same General Weyrother , who had desired to surround Napoleon at Rivoli , attempted the same maneuver at Austerlitz , in spite of the severe lesson he had formerly received . The left wing of the allied army , wishing to outflank Napoleon 's right , to cut him off from Vienna , ( where he did not desire to return , ) by a circular movement of nearly six miles , opened an interval of a mile and a half in their line . Napoleon took advantage of this mistake , fell upon the center , and surrounded their left , which was completely shut up between Lakes Tellnitz and Melnitz . Wellington gained the battle of Salamanca by a maneuver very similar to Napoleon 's , because Marmont , who wished to cut off his retreat to Portugal , left an opening of a mile and a half in his line ,  --  seeing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , that had no support . If Weyrother had been opposed to Jourdan at Rivoli or at Austerlitz , he might have destroyed the French army , instead of suffering in each case a total defeat ; for the general who at Stockach attacked a mass of sixty thousand men with four small bodies of troops so much separated as to be unable to give mutual aid would not have known how to take proper advantage of a wide detour effected in his presence . In the same way , Marmont was unfortunate in having at Salamanca an adversary whose chief merit was a rapid and practiced tactical coup-d'oeil . With the Duke of York or Moore for an antagonist , Marmont would probably have been successful . Among the turning maneuvers which have succeeded in our day , Waterloo and Hohenlinden had the most brilliant results . Of these the first was almost altogether a strategic operation , and was attended with a rare concurrence of fortunate circumstances . As to Hohenlinden , we will search in vain in military history for another example of a single brigade venturing into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and there performing such astonishing feats as Richepanse effected in the defile of Matenpoet , where he might have expected , in all probability , to lay down his arms . At Wagram the turning wing under Davoust contributed greatly to the successful issue of the day ; but , if the vigorous attack upon the center under Macdonald , Oudinot , and Bernadotte had not rendered opportune assistance , it is by no means certain that a like success would have been the result . So many examples of conflicting results might induce the conclusion that no rule on this subject can be given ; but this would be erroneous ; for it seems , on the contrary , quite evident that , by adopting as a rule an order of battle well closed and well connected , a general will find himself prepared for any emergency , and little will be left to chance ; but it is specially important for him to have a correct estimate of his enemy 's character and his usual style of warfare , to enable him to regulate his own actions accordingly . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may be attempted which would be imprudent were the forces equal or the commanders of the same capacity . A maneuver to outflank and turn a wing should be connected with other attacks , and opportunely supported by an attempt of the remainder of the army on the enemy 's front , either against the wing turned or against the center . Finally , strategic operations to cut an enemy 's line of communications before giving battle , and attack him in rear , the assailing army preserving its own line of retreat , are much more likely to be successful and effectual , and , moreover , they require no disconnected maneuver during the battle . FOOTNOTES : Footnote 28 : For an account of these two battles , see Chapters II . and XXV. of the Treatise on Grand Military Operations . ARTICLE XXXIII . Unexpected Meeting of Two Armies on the March . The accidental and unexpected meeting of two armies on the march gives rise to one of the most imposing scenes in war . In the greater number of battles , one party awaits his enemy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after a reconnoissance as close and accurate as possible . It often happens , however ,  --  especially as war is now carried on ,  --  that two armies approach each other , each intending to make an unexpected attack upon the other . A collision ensues unexpected by both armies , since each finds the other where it does not anticipate a meeting . One army may also be attacked by another which has prepared a surprise for it ,  --  as happened to the French at Rossbach . A great occasion of this kind calls into play all the genius of a skillful general and of the warrior able to control events . It is always possible to gain a battle with brave troops , even where the commander may not have great capacity ; but victories like those of Lutzen , Luzzara , Eylau , Abensberg , can only be gained by a brilliant genius endowed with great coolness and using the wisest combinations . There is so much chance in these accidental battles that it is by no means easy to lay down precise rules concerning them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is necessary to keep clearly before the mind the fundamental principles of the art and the different methods of applying them , in order to a proper arrangement of maneuvers that must be decided upon at the instant and in the midst of the crash of resounding arms . Two armies marching , as they formerly did , with all their camp-equipage , and meeting unexpectedly , could do nothing better at first than cause their advanced guard to deploy to the right or left of the roads they are traversing . In each army the forces should at the same time be concentrated so that they may be thrown in a proper direction considering the object of the march . A grave error would be committed in deploying the whole army behind the advanced guard ; because , even if the deployment were accomplished , the result would be nothing more than a badly-arranged parallel order , and if the enemy pressed the advanced guard with considerable vigor the consequence might be the rout of the troops which were forming . ( See the account of the battle of Rossbach @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ system , when armies are more easily moved , marching upon several roads , and divided into masses which may act independently , these routs are not so much to be feared ; but the principles are unchanged . The advanced guard must always be halted and formed , and then the mass of the troops concentrated in that direction which is best suited for carrying out the object of the march . Whatever maneuvers the enemy may then attempt , every thing will be in readiness to meet him . ARTICLE XXXIV . Of Surprises of Armies . I shall not speak here of surprises of small detachments ,  --  the chief features in the wars of partisan or light troops , for which the light Russian and Turkish cavalry are so well adapted . I shall confine myself to an examination of the surprise of whole armies . Before the invention of fire-arms , surprises were more easily effected than at present ; for the reports of artillery and musketry firing are heard to so great a distance that the surprise of an army is now next to an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the enemy is in the midst of the army before his presence is known because there are no outposts to give the alarm . The Seven Years ' War presents a memorable example in the surprise of Hochkirch . It shows that a surprise does not consist simply in falling upon troops that are sleeping or keeping a poor look-out , but that it may result from the combination of a sudden attack upon , and a surrounding of , one extremity of the army . In fact , to surprise an army it is not necessary to take it so entirely unawares that the troops will not even have emerged from their tents , but it is sufficient to attack it in force at the point intended , before preparations can be made to meet the attack . As armies at the present day seldom camp in tents when on a march , prearranged surprises are rare and difficult , because in order to plan one it becomes necessary to have an accurate knowledge of the enemy 's camp . At Marengo , at Lutzen , and at Eylau @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should only be applied to an entirely unexpected attack . The only great surprise to be cited is the case of Taroutin , in 1812 , where Murat was attacked and beaten by Benningsen . To excuse his imprudence , Murat pretended that a secret armistice was in force ; but there was really nothing of the kind , and he was surprised through his own negligence . It is evident that the most favorable manner of attacking an army is to fall upon its camp just before daybreak , at the moment when nothing of the sort is expected . Confusion in the camp will certainly take plac//                     