@@7842

Shillaber , B. P. ( Benjamin Penhallow ) , 1814-1890 : A Vision about New Hampshire . from A Vision about New Hampshire ( 1854 ) ' T was on a time  --  no matter when  --  I hate all stiff precision  --  There came across my dreaming ken A very truthful vision . And this the rhymer 's art confest  --  A great one he esteems it  --  A thought is ripe to be expressed  --  He goes straightway and dreams it . And I , like Job , upon my bed , With midnight fancies teeming , Had crotchets dancing through my head , That wove themselves in dreaming . I saw enthroned in matron guise , Our mother State , God bless her , And beamed within her gentle eyes The love that did possess her . A smile played kindly round her mouth , And spread her features over ; Her breath was sweet as breezes south That waft o'er fields of clover . She sat upon a " gentle rise "  --  Mount Washington , it may be  --  A seat a stately @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Her feet reposed upon the plain , Where golden flowers were shining ; Her glance embraced her broad domain , In peace and joy reclining . She called her children far and near , And then , from many quarters , Her guiding matron voice to hear , Came troops of sons and daughters . They filled the valleys ' fertile length , They thronged the mountains hoary , The ground shook ' neath their sturdy strength , That told a granite story . Then rose the dame , her mighty arm In graceful power extended : " Children ! " she spoke , and through the calm Her gentle tones descended . " Children , I 've called you to my side , To test your warm devotion ; To send you on a mission wide , O'er many a land and ocean ; To act in forum or in mart , Where duty 's voice is loudest ; mingle in life 's active part If humblest or if proudest ; To make my name an honored word , Where'er that word is spoken ; A guaranty wherever heard , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' t was but a dream  --  A figment all ideal  --  And yet so truthful did it seem I could but deem it real . heard a sound  --  the nations spoke  --  And , as if thunders muttered , One voice in mighty accents broke  --  ' T was Webster 's name it uttered . saw on many a battle plain Where Freedom 's star was beaming , Mid falling showers of deadly rain , New Hampshire 's banner streaming ; Where busy science tried its skill , Where art essayed its cunning ; Where trade contrived its pouch to fill , Where railway wheels were running ; Where poesy its numbers sung , Where eloquence was thrilling ; Where white-winged ships like coursers sprung , Where fertile lands were tilling ; Where wealth delighted turned to flowers , Where health dispensed its treasures ; Where love made glad domestic bowers , The crown of all our pleasures  --  New Hampshire 's honored name was known , And crowned with many a token ; Her fame had like her eagles flown  --  Was reverenced where'er spoken . ' T @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ me in dreaming ; But may not waking retrospect Now reconcile its seeming ? I drop the metaphor and wake  --  I heed your looks imploring  --  ' T were too great sacrifice to make Your holocaust by boring ! May we around our natal State Stand , like those ramparts Grecian , A wall whose strength shall ne'er abate , But stick with firm adhesion . Should foes around her gather thick , Or trouble 's clouds enfold her , Each in that wall would prove a brick  --  An adamantine boulder . May peace within her bosom reign  --  No violence distress her ; Let every son this toast now drain , Our mother State ! God bless her !                     