@@758845

txt //er , it is that of being pen-free . It is Sismondi , I think , who says that " time prepares for a long flight , by relieving himself of every superfluous load , and by casting away everything that he possibly can . " The author certainly would not ask him to carry an onerous weight . But , in the history of the settlement of such a country and such a population as this , there must be little , as well as great labors , before the result to be sent forward to posterity can be prepared by the dignified pen of polished history ; and the writer seeks nothing more than to furnish some illustrative memoranda for that ultimate task , whoever may perform it . He originally went to the west for the purpose of science . His mineralogical rambles soon carried him into wide and untrodden fields ; and the share he was called on to take in the exploration of the country , its geography , geology , and natural features , have thrown him in positions of excitement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an appropriate apology , if apology be necessary , for the publication of these memoirs . But whatever degree of interest and originality may have been connected with his early observations and discoveries in science , geography , or antiquities , the circumstances which directed his attention to the Indian tribes  --  their history , manners and customs , languages , and general ethnology , have been deemed to lay his strongest claim to public respect . The long period during which these observations have been continued to be made , his intimate relations with the tribes , the favorable circumstances of his position and studies , and the ardor and assiduity with which he has availed himself of them , have created expectations in his case which few persons , it is believed , in our history , have excited . It is under these circumstances that the following selections from his running journal are submitted . They form , as it were , a thread connecting acts through a long period , and are essential to their true understanding and development . A word may be said respecting the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The time is fixed by quoting exactly the dates , and the names of persons are invariably given wherever they could , with propriety , be employed ; often , indeed , in connection with what may be deemed trivial occurrences ; but these were thought essential to the proper relief and understanding of more important matters . Indeed , a large part of the journal consists of extracts from the letters of the individuals referred to ; and in this way it is conceived that a good deal of the necessarily offensive character of the egotism of journalism is got rid of . No one will object to see his name in print while it is used to express a kind , just , or noble sentiment , or to advance the cause of truth ; and , if private names are ever employed for a contrary purpose , I have failed in a designed cautiousness in this particular . Much that required disapprobation has been omitted , which a ripening judgment and more enlarged Christian and philosophic view has passed over ; and much more that invited condemnation was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the passages which are omitted , but approved , to keep the work in a compact shape , will be hereafter added , with some pictorial illustrations of the scenery . The period referred to , is one of considerable interest . It is the thirty years that succeeded the declaration of war by the United States , in 1812 , against Great Britain , and embraces a large and important part of the time of the settlement of the Mississippi Valley , and the great lake basins . During this period ten States have been added to the Union . Many actors who now slumber in their graves are called up to bear witness . Some of the number were distinguished men ; others the reverse . Red and white men alike express their opinions . Anecdotes and incidents succeed each other without any attempt at method . The story these incidentally tell , is the story of a people 's settling the wilderness . It is the Anglo-Saxon race occupying the sites of the Indian wigwams . It is a field in which plumed sachems , farmers , legislators @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and missionaries of the gospel , figure in their respective capacities . Nobody seems to have set down to compose an elaborate letter , and yet the result of the whole , viewed by the philosophic eye , is a broad field of elaboration . HENRY R. SCHOOLCRAFT . PHILADELPHIA , Sept. 12th , 1851 . CONTENTS . CHAPTER I. Brief reminiscences of scenes from 1809 to 1817  --  Events preliminary to a knowledge of western life  --  Embarkation on the source of the Alleghany River  --  Descent to Pittsburgh  --  Valley of the Monongahela ; its coal and iron  --  Descent of the Ohio in an ark  --  Scenes and incidents by the way  --  Cincinnati  --  Some personal incidents which happened there . CHAPTER II . Descent of the Ohio River from Cincinnati to its mouth  --  Ascent of the Mississippi , from the junction to Herculaneum  --  Its rapid and turbid character , and the difficulties of stemming its current by barges  --  Some incidents by the way . CHAPTER III . Reception at Herculaneum , and introduction to the founder of the first American colony in Texas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ journey on foot to St. Louis  --  Incidents by the way  --  Trip to the mines  --  Survey of the mine country  --  Expedition from Potosi into the Ozark Mountains , and return , after a winter 's absence , to Potosi . CHAPTER IV . Sit down to write an account of the mines  --  Medical properties of the Mississippi water  --  Expedition to the Yellow Stone  --  Resolve to visit Washington with a plan of managing the mines  --  Descend the river from St. Genevieve to New Orleans  --  Incidents of the trip  --  Take passage in a ship for New York  --  Reception with my collection there  --  Publish my memoir on the mines , and proceed with it to Washington  --  Result of my plan  --  Appointed geologist and mineralogist on an expedition to the sources of the Mississippi . CHAPTER V. Set out on the expedition to the north-west  --  Remain a few weeks at New York  --  Visit Niagara Falls , and reach Detroit in the first steamer  --  Preparations for a new style of traveling  --  Correspondents  --  General sketch of the route pursued @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Albany , and publish my narrative  --  Journal of it  --  Preparation for a scientific account of the observations . CHAPTER VI . Reception by the country on my return  --  Reasons for publishing my narrative without my reports for a digested scientific account of the expedition  --  Delays interposed to this  --  Correspondents  --  Locality of strontian  --  Letter from Dr. Mitchell  --  Report on the copper mines of Lake Superior  --  Theoretical geology  --  Indian symbols  --  Scientific subjects  --  Complete the publication of my work  --  Its reception by the press and the public  --  Effects on my mind  --  Receive the appointment of Secretary to the Indian Commission at Chicago  --  Result of the expedition , as shown by a letter of Dr. Mitchell to General Cass . CHAPTER VII . Trip through the Miami of the lakes , and the Wabash Valley  --  Cross the grand prairie of Illinois  --  Revisit the mines  --  Ascend the Illinois  --  Fever  --  Return through the great lakes  --  Notice of the " Trio "  --  Letter from Professor Silliman  --  Prospect of an appointment under government  --  Loss @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Murder of Dr. Madison by a Winnebago Indian . CHAPTER VIII . New-Yearing  --  A prospect opened  --  Poem of Ontwa  --  Indian biography  --  Fossil tree  --  Letters from various persons  --  Notice of Ontwa  --  Professor Silliman  --  Gov . Clinton  --  Hon. J. Meigs  --  Colonel Benton  --  Mr. Dickenson  --  Professor Hall  --  Views of Ex-presidents Madison , Jefferson , and Adams on geology  --  Geological notices  --  Plan of a gazetteer  --  Opinions of my Narrative Journal by scientific gentlemen  --  The impostor John Dunn Hunter  --  Trip up the Potomac  --  Mosaical chronology  --  Visit to Mount Vernon . CHAPTER IX . Appointed an agent of Indian affairs for the United States at Saint Mary 's  --  Reasons for the acceptance of the office  --  Journey to Detroit  --  Illness at that point  --  Arrival of a steamer with a battalion of infantry to establish a new military post at the foot of Lake Superior  --  Incidents of the voyage to that point  --  Reach our destination , and reception by the residents and Indians  --  A European and man of honor fled to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ establishment of the now post at St. Mary 's  --  Life in a nut-shell  --  Scarcity of room  --  High prices of everything  --  State of the Indians  --  Their rich and picturesque costume  --  Council and its incidents  --  Fort site selected and occupied  --  The evil of ardent spirits amongst the Indians  --  Note from Governor De Witt Clinton  --  Mountain ash  --  Curious superstitions of the Odjibwas  --  Language  --  Manito poles  --  Copper  --  Superstitious regard for Venus  --  Fine harbor in Lake Superior  --  Star family  --  A locality of necromancers  --  Ancient Chippewa capital  --  Eating of animals . CHAPTER XI . Murder of Soan-ga-ge-zhick , a Chippewa , at the head of the falls  --  Indian mode of interment  --  Indian prophetess  --  Topic of interpreters and interpretation  --  Mode of studying the Indian language  --  The Johnston family  --  Visits  --  Katewabeda , chief of Sandy Lake  --  Indian mythology , and oral tales and legends  --  Literary opinion  --  Political opinion  --  Visit of the chief Little Pine  --  Visit of Wabishkepenais  --  A despairing Indian  --  Geography . CHAPTER XII . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Canoe  --  Scenery  --  Descent of St. Mary 's Falls  --  Etymology of the Indian names of Sault Ste. Marie , and Lake Superior  --  The wild rice plant  --  Indian trade  --  American Fur Company  --  Distribution of presents  --  Death of Sassaba  --  Epitaph  --  Indian capacity to count  --  Oral literature  --  Research  --  Self-reliance . CHAPTER XIII . My first winter at the foot of Lake Superior  --  Copper mines  --  White fish  --  A poetic name for a fish  --  Indian tale  --  Polygamy  --  A reminiscence  --  Taking of Fort Niagara  --  Mythological and allegorical tales among the aborigines  --  Chippewa language  --  Indian vowels  --  A polite and a vulgar way of speaking the language  --  Public worship  --  Seclusion from the world . CHAPTER XIV . Amusements during the winter months , when the temperature is at the lowest point  --  Etymology of the word Chippewa  --  A meteor  --  The Indian " fireproof "  --  Temperature and weather  --  Chippewa interchangeables  --  Indian names for the seasons  --  An incident in conjugating verbs  --  Visiting  --  Gossip  --  The fur trade  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the English and Odjibwa syntax  --  Close of the year . CHAPTER XV . New Year 's day among the descendants of the Norman French  --  Anti-philosophic speculations of Brydone  --  Schlegel on language  --  A peculiar native expression evincing delicacy  --  Graywacke in the basin of Lake Superior  --  Temperature  --  Snow shoes  --  Translation of Gen. i.3  --  Historical reminiscences  --  Morals of visiting  --  Odjibwa numerals  --  Harmon 's travels  --  Mackenzie 's vocabularies  --  Criticism  --  Mungo Park . CHAPTER XVI . Novel reading  --  Greenough 's " Geology "  --  The cariboo  --  Spiteful plunder of private property on a large scale  --  Marshall 's Washington  --  St. Clair 's " Narrative of his Campaign "  --  Etymology of the word totem  --  A trait of transpositive languages  --  Polynesian languages  --  A meteoric explosion at the maximum height of the winter 's temperature  --  Spafford 's " Gazetteer "  --  Holmes on the Prophecies  --  Foreign politics  --  Mythology  --  Gnomes  --  The Odjibwa based on monosyllables  --  No auxiliary verbs  --  Pronouns declined for tense  --  - Esprella 's letters  --  Valerius  --  Gospel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ politics  --  Prospect of being appointed superintendent of the lead mines of Missouri . CHAPTER XVII . Close of the winter solstice , and introduction of a northern spring  --  News from the world  --  The Indian languages  --  Narrative Journal  --  Semi-civilization of the ancient Aztec tribes  --  Their arts and languages  --  Hill 's ironical review of the " Transactions of the Royal Society "  --  A test of modern civilization  --  Sugar making  --  Trip to one of the camps  --  Geology of Manhattan Island  --  Ontwa , an Indian poem  --  Northern ornithology  --  Dreams  --  The Indian apowa  --  Printed queries of General Cass  --  Prospect of the mineral agency  --  Exploration of the St. Peter 's  --  Information on that head . CHAPTER XVIII . Rapid advance of spring  --  Troops commence a stockade  --  Principles of the Chippewa tongue  --  Idea of a new language containing the native principles of syntax , with a monosyllabic method  --  Indian standard of value  --  Archaeological evidences in growing trees  --  Mount Vernon  --  Signs of spring in the appearance of birds  --  Expedition to St. Peter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ orthography of Jefferson  --  True sounds of the consonants  --  Philology  --  Advent of the arrival of a vessel  --  Editors and editorials  --  Arrival from Fort William  --  A hope fled  --  Sudden completion of the spring , and ushering in of summer  --  Odjibwa language , and transmission of Inquiries . CHAPTER XIX . Outlines of the incidents of the summer of 1823  --  Glance at the geography of the lake country  --  Concretion of aluminous earth  --  General Wayne 's body naturally embalmed by this property of the soil of Erie  --  Free and easy manners  --  Boundary Survey  --  An old friend  --  Western commerce  --  The Austins of Texas memory  --  Collision of civil and military power  --  Advantages of a visit to Europe . CHAPTER XX . Incidents of the year 1824  --  Indian researches  --  Diverse idioms of the Ottawa and Chippewa  --  Conflict of opinion between the civil and military authorities of the place  --  A winter of seclusion well spent  --  St. Paul 's idea of languages  --  Examples in the Chippewa  --  The Chippewa a pure form of the Algonquin  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Commercial view of the copper mine question  --  Trip to Tackwymenon Falls , in Lake Superior . CHAPTER XXI . Oral tales and legends of the Chippewas  --  First assemblage of a legislative council in Michigan  --  Mineralogy and geology  --  Disasters of the War of 1812  --  Character of the new legislature  --  Laconic note  --  Narrative of a war party , and the disastrous murders committed at Lake Pepin in July 1824  --  Speech of a friendly Indian chief from Lake Superior on the subject  --  Notices of mineralogy and geology in the west  --  Ohio and Erie Canal  --  Morals  --  Lafayette 's progress  --  Hooking minerals  --  A philosophical work on the Indians  --  Indian biography by Samuel S. Conant  --  Want of books on American archaeology  --  Douglass 's proposed work on the expedition of 1820 . CHAPTER XXII . Parallelism of customs  --  Home scenes  --  Visit to Washington  --  Indian work respecting the Western Tribes  --  Indian biography  --  Professor Carter  --  Professor Silliman  --  Spiteful prosecution  --  Publication of Travels in the Mississippi Valley  --  A northern Pocahontas  --  Return to the Lakes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ feet in rock  --  Surrender of the Chippewa war party , who committed the murders in 1824 , at Lake Pepin  --  Their examination , and the commitment of the actual murderers . CHAPTER XXIII . Trip to Prairie du Chien on the Mississippi  --  Large assemblage of tribes  --  Their appearance and character  --  Sioux , Winnebagoes , Chippewas , &c.;  --  Striking and extraordinary appearance of the Sacs and Foxes , and of the Iowas  --  Keokuk  --  Mongazid 's speech  --  Treaty of limits  --  Whisky question  --  A literary impostor  --  Journey through the valleys of the Fox and Wisconsin rivers  --  Incidents  --  Menomonies  --  A big nose  --  Wisconsin Portage . CHAPTER XXIV . Descent of Fox River  --  Blackbirds  --  Menomonies  --  Rice fields  --  Starving Indians  --  Thunder storm  --  Dream  --  An Indian struck dead with lightning  --  Green Bay  --  Death of Colonel Haines  --  Incidents of the journey from Green Bay to Michilimackinack  --  Reminiscences of my early life and travels  --  Choiswa  --  Further reminiscences of my early life  --  Ruins of the first mission of Father Marquette  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Sault Ste. Marie  --  Outard Point  --  Head winds  --  Lake Huron in a rage  --  Desperate embarkation  --  St. Vital  --  Double the Detour  --  Return to St. Mary 's  --  Letters  --  " Indian girl "  --  New volume of travels  --  Guess ' Cherokee alphabet  --  New views of the Indian languages and their principles of construction  --  Georgia question  --  Post-office difficulties  --  Glimpses from the civilized world . CHAPTER XXVI . General aspects of the Indian cause  --  Public criticism on the state of Indian researches , and literary storm raised by the new views  --  Political rumor  --  Death of R. Pettibone , Esq .  --  Delegate election  --  Copper mines of Lake Superior  --  Instructions for a treaty in the North  --  Death of Mr. Pettit  --  Denial of post-office facilities  --  Arrival of commissioners to hold the Fond du Lac treaty  --  Trip to Fond du Lac through Lake Superior  --  Treaty  --  Return  --  Deaths of John Adams and Thomas Jefferson . CHAPTER XXVII . Epidemical condition of the atmosphere at Detroit  --  Death of Henry J. Hunt and A.G. Whitney @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ St. Mary 's Agency  --  Indian affairs on the frontier under the supervision of Col. McKenney  --  Criticisms on the state of Indian questions  --  Topic of Indian eloquence  --  State of American researches in natural science  --  Dr. Saml . L. Mitchell . CHAPTER XXVIII . Mineralogy  --  Territorial affairs  --  Vindication of the American policy by its treatment of the Indians  --  New York spirit of improvement  --  Taste for cabinets of natural history  --  Fatalism in an Indian  --  Death of a first born son  --  Flight from the house  --  Territorial matters  --  A literary topic  --  Preparations for another treaty  --  Consolations  --  Boundary in the North-west under the treaty of Ghent  --  Natural history  --  Trip to Green Bay  --  Treaty of Butte des Morts  --  Winnebago outbreak  --  Intrepid conduct of General Cass  --  Indian stabbing  --  Investment of the petticoat  --  Mohegan language . CHAPTER XXIX . Treaty of Butte des Morts  --  Rencontre of an Indian with grizzly bears  --  Agency site at Elmwood  --  Its picturesque and sylvan character  --  Legislative council of the Territory  --  Character of its parties , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ CHAPTER XXX . Retrospect  --  United States Exploring Expedition to the South Sea  --  Humanity of an Indian  --  Trip to Detroit from the Icy Straits  --  Incidental action of the Massachusetts and Rhode Island Historical Societies , and of the Montreal Natural History Society  --  United States Exploring Expedition  --  Climatology  --  Lake vessels ill found  --  Poetic view of the Indian  --  United States Exploring Expedition  --  Theory of the interior world  --  Natural History  --  United States Exploring Expedition  --  History of early legislation in Michigan  --  Return to St. Mary 's  --  Death of Governor De Witt Clinton . CHAPTER XXXI . Official journal of the Indian intercourse  --  Question of freedmen , or persons not bonded for  --  Indian chiefs , Chacopee , Neenaby , Mukwakwut , Tems Couvert , Shingabowossin , Guelle Plat , Grosse Guelle  --  Further notice of Wampum-hair  --  Red Devil  --  Biographical notice of Guelle Plat , or Flat Mouth  --  Brechet  --  Meeshug , a widow  --  Iauwind  --  Mongazid , chief of Fond du Lac  --  Chianokwut  --  White Bird  --  Annamikens , the hero of a bear fight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ north-west  --  Northern zoology  --  Fox  --  Owl  --  Reindeer  --  A dastardly attempt at murder by a soldier  --  Lawless spread of the population of northern Illinois over the Winnebago land  --  New York Lyceum of Natural History  --  U.S. Ex . Ex.  --  Fiscal embarrassments in the Department  --  Medical cause of Indian depopulation  --  Remarks of Dr. Pitcher  --  Erroneous impressions of the Indian character  --  Reviews  --  Death of John Johnston , Esq . CHAPTER XXXIII . Treaty of St. Joseph  --  Tanner  --  Visits of the Indians in distress  --  Letters from the civilized world  --  Indian code projected  --  Cause of Indian suffering  --  The Indian cause  --  Estimation of the character of the late Mr. Johnston  --  Autobiography  --  Historical Society of Michigan  --  Fiscal embarrassments of the Indian Department . CHAPTER XXXIV . Political horizon  --  Ahmo Society  --  Incoming of Gen. Jackson 's administration  --  Amusements of the winter  --  Peace policy among the Indians  --  Revival at Mackinack  --  Money crisis  --  Idea of Lake tides  --  New Indian code  --  Anti-masonry  --  Missions among the Indians  --  Copper mines  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  Fur trade  --  Legislative council  --  Mackinack mission  --  Officers of Wayne 's war  --  Historical Society of Michigan  --  Improved diurnal press . CHAPTER XXXV . The new administration  --  Intellectual contest in the Senate  --  Sharp contest for mayoralty of Detroit  --  Things shaping at Washington  --  Perilous trip on the ice  --  Medical effects of this exposure  --  Legislative Council  --  Visit to Niagara Falls  --  A visitor of note  --  History  --  - Character of the Chippewas  --  Ish-ko-da-wau-bo  --  Rotary sails  --  Hostilities between the Chippewas and Sioux  --  Friendship and badinage  --  Social intercourse  --  Sanillac  --  Gossip  --  Expedition to Lake Superior  --  Winter Session of the Council  --  Historical disclosure  --  Historical Society of Rhode Island  --  Domestic  --  French Revolution . CHAPTER XXXVI . Lecture before the Lyceum  --  Temperature in the North  --  Rum and taxes  --  A mild winter adverse to Indians  --  Death of a friend  --  Christian atonement  --  Threats of a Caliban , or an Indianized white man  --  Indian emporium  --  Bringing up children  --  Youth gone astray  --  Mount Hope Institution  --  Expedition into the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A reminiscence  --  Voyage inland . CHAPTER XXXVII . Lake Superior  --  Its shores and character  --  Geology  --  Brigade of boats  --  Dog and porcupine  --  Burrowing birds  --  Otter  --  Keweena Point  --  Unfledged ducks  --  Minerals  --  Canadian resource in a tempest of rain  --  Tramp in search of the picturesque  --  Search for native copper  --  Isle Royal descried  --  Indian precaution  --  Their ingenuity  --  Lake action  --  Nebungunowin River  --  Eagles  --  Indian tomb  --  Kaug Wudju . CHAPTER XXXVIII . Lake shores  --  Sub-Indian agency  --  Indian transactions  --  Old fort , site of a tragedy  --  Maskigo River ; its rapids and character  --  Great Wunnegum Portage  --  Botany  --  Length of the Mauvais  --  Indian carriers  --  Lake Kagenogumaug  --  Portage lakes  --  Namakagun River , its character , rapids , pine lands , &c.;  --  Pukwaewa village  --  A new species of native fruit  --  Incidents on the Namakagun ; its birds , plants , &c.; CHAPTER XXXIX . Council with the Indians at Yellow Lake  --  Policy of the Treaty of Prairie du Chien of 1825  --  Speech of Shaiwunegunaibee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  Pictography  --  Natural history  --  Nude Indians  --  Geology  --  Portage to Lac Courtorielle  --  Lake of the Isles  --  Ottawa Lake  --  Council  --  War party  --  Mozojeed 's speech  --  Tecumseh  --  Mozojeed 's lodge  --  Indian movements  --  Trip to the Red Cedar Fork  --  Ca Ta  --  Lake Chetac  --  Indian manners . CHAPTER XL . Betula Lake  --  Larch Lake  --  A war party surprised  --  Indian manners  --  Rice Lake  --  Indian council  --  Red Cedar Lake  --  Speeches of Wabezhais and Neenaba  --  Equal division of goods  --  Orifice for treading out rice  --  A live beaver  --  Notices of natural history  --  Value of the Follavoine Valley  --  A medal of the third President  --  War dance  --  Ornithology  --  A prairie country , fertile and abounding in game  --  Saw mills  --  Chippewa River  --  Snake  --  La Garde Mountain  --  Descent of the Mississippi  --  Sioux village  --  General impression of the Mississippi  --  Arrival at Prairie du Chien . CHAPTER XLI . Death of Mr. Monroe  --  Affair of the massacre of the Menomonies by the Foxes  --  Descent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Fort Winnebago  --  Gratiot 's Grove  --  Sac and Fox disturbances  --  Black Hawk  --  Irish Diggings  --  Willow Springs  --  Vanmater 's lead  --  An escape from falling into a pit  --  Mineral Point  --  Ansley 's copper mine  --  Gen. Dodge 's  --  Mr. Brigham 's  --  Sugar Creek  --  Four Lakes  --  Seven Mile Prairie  --  A night in the woods  --  Reach Port Winnebago  --  Return to the Sault  --  Political changes in the cabinet  --  Gov . Cass called to Washington  --  Religious changes  --  G.B. Porter appointed Governor  --  Natural history  --  Character of the new governor  --  Arrival of the Rev. Jeremiah Porter  --  Organization of a church . CHAPTER XLII . Revival of St. Mary 's  --  Rejection of Mr. Van Buren as Minister to England  --  Botany and Natural History of the North-west  --  Project of a new expedition to find the Sources of the Mississippi  --  Algic Society  --  Consolidation of the Agencies of St. Mary 's and Michilimackinack  --  Good effects of the American Home Missionary Society  --  Organization of a new inland exploring expedition committed to me  --  Its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ XLIII . Expedition to , and discovery of , Itasca Lake , the source of the Mississippi River  --  Brief notice of the journey to the point of former geographical discovery in the basin of Upper Red Cedar , or Cass Lake  --  Ascent and portage to Queen Anne 's Lake  --  Lake Pemetascodiac  --  The Ten , or Metoswa Rapids  --  Pemidgegomag , or Cross-water Lake  --  Lake Irving  --  Lake Marquette  --  Lake La Salle  --  Lake Plantagenet  --  Ascent of the Plantagenian Pork  --  Naiwa , or Copper-snake River  --  Agate Rapids and portage  --  Assawa Lake  --  Portage over the Hauteur des Terres  --  Itasca Lake  --  Its picturesque character  --  Geographical and astronomical position  --  Historical data . CHAPTER XLIV . Descent of the Mississippi River , from Itasca Lake to Cass Lake  --  Traits of its bank  --  Kabika Falls  --  Upsetting of a canoe  --  River descends by steps , and through narrow rocky passes  --  Portage to the source of the Crow-Wing River  --  Moss Lake  --  Shiba Lake  --  Leech Lake  --  Warpool Lake  --  Long Lake Mountain portage  --  Kaginogomanug  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ River  --  Long Prairie River  --  Kioskk , or Gull River  --  Arrival at its mouth  --  Descent to the Falls of St. Anthony , and St. Peter 's  --  Return to St. Mary 's . CHAPTER XLV . Letter from a mother  --  Cholera  --  Indian war  --  Royal Geographical Society  --  Determine to leave the Sault  --  Death of Miss Cass  --  Death of Rev. Mr. Richard  --  Notice of the establishment of a Methodist Mission at the Sault  --  The Sault a religions place  --  Botany and Natural History  --  New York University organized  --  Algic Society  --  Canadian boat song  --  Chaplains in the army  --  Letter from a missionary  --  Affairs at Mackinack  --  Hazards of lake commerce  --  Question of the temperance reform  --  Dr. D. Houghton  --  South Carolina resists  --  Gen. Jackson re-elected President . CHAPTER XLVI . An Indian woman builds a church  --  Conchology  --  South Carolina prepares to resist the revenue laws  --  Moral affairs  --  Geography  --  Botany  --  Chippewas and Sioux  --  A native evangelist in John Sunday  --  His letter in English ; its philological value  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ affairs  --  South Carolina affairs  --  Tariff compromise of Mr. Clay  --  Algic Society ; it employs native evangelists  --  Plan of visiting Europe  --  President 's tour  --  History of Detroit  --  Fresh-water shells  --  Lake tides  --  Prairie  --  Country  --  Reminiscence . CHAPTER XLVII . Earliest point of French occupancy in the area of the Upper Lakes  --  Removal of my residence from the Sault St. Marie to the island of Michilimackinack  --  Trip to New York  --  Its objects  --  American Philosophical Society  --  Michilimackinack ; its etymology  --  The rage for investment in western lands begins  --  Traditions of Saganosh  --  Of Porlier  --  Of Perrault  --  Of Captain Thorn  --  Of the chief , Old Wing  --  Of Mudjekewis , of Thunder Bay  --  Character of Indian tradition respecting the massacre at old Fort Mackinack in 1763 . CHAPTER XLVIII . Anniversary of the Algic Society  --  Traditions of Chusco and Mukudapenais respecting Gen. Wayne 's treaty  --  Saliferous column in American geology  --  Fact in lake commerce  --  Traditions of Mrs. Dousman and Mr. Abbott respecting the first occupation of the Island of Michilimackinack @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  Meteoric phenomena during the month of December  --  Historical fact  --  Minor incidents . CHAPTER XLIX . Population of Michilimackinack  --  Notices of the weather  --  Indian name of the Wolverine  --  Harbor closed  --  Intensity of temperature which can be borne  --  Domestic incidents  --  State of the weather  --  Fort Mackinack unsuccessfully attacked in 1814  --  Ossiganoc  --  Death of an Indian woman  --  Death of my sister  --  Harbor open  --  Indian name of the Sabbath day  --  Horticultural amusement  --  Tradition of the old church door  --  Turpid conduct of Thomas Shepard , and his fate  --  Wind , tempests , sleet , snow  --  A vessel beached in the harbor  --  Attempt of the American Fur Company to force ardent spirits into the country , against the authority of the agent . CHAPTER L. Visit to Isle Bond  --  Site of an ancient Indian village  --  Ossarie  --  Indian prophet  --  Traditions of Chusco and Yon respecting the ancient village and bone deposit  --  Indian speech  --  Tradition of Mrs. La Fromboise respecting Chicago  --  Etymology of the name  --  Origin of the Bonga family @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  Of the chief Aishquagonaibe , and of Sagitondowa  --  Evidences of antique cultivation on the Island of Mackinack  --  View of affairs at Washington  --  The Senate an area of intellectual excitement  --  A road directed to be cut through the wilderness from Saginaw  --  Traditions of Ossaganac and of Little Bear Skin respecting the Lake Tribes . CHAPTER LI . Trip to Detroit  --  American Fur Company ; its history and organization  --  American Lyceum ; its objects  --  Desire to write books on Indian subjects by persons not having the information to render them valuable  --  Reappearance of cholera  --  Mission of Mackinack ; its history and condition  --  Visit of a Russian officer of the Imperial Guards  --  Chicago ; its prime position for a great entrepot  --  Area and destiny of the Mississippi Valley . CHAPTER LII . Philology  --  Structure of the Indian languages  --  Letter from Mr. Duponceau  --  Question of the philosophy of the Chippewa syntax  --  Letter from a Russian officer on his travels in the West  --  Queries on the physical history of the North  --  Leslie Duncan , a maniac @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the sources of the Mississippi  --  Letter from Mr. Boutwell  --  Theological Review  --  The Territory of Michigan , tired of a long delay , determines to organize a State Government . CHAPTER LIII . Indications of a moral revolution in the place  --  Political movements at Detroit  --  Review of the state of society at Michilimackinack , arising from its being the great central power of the north-west fur trade  --  A letter from Dr. Greene  --  Prerequisites of the missionary function  --  Discouragements  --  The state of the Mackinack Mission  --  Problem of employing native teachers and evangelists  --  Letter of Mr. Duponceau  --  Ethnological gossip  --  Translation of the Bible into Algonquin  --  Don M. Najera  --  Premium offered by the French Institute  --  Persistent Satanic influence among the Indian tribes  --  Boundary dispute with Ohio  --  Character of the State Convention . CHAPTER LIV . Requirements of a missionary laborer  --  Otwin  --  American quadrupeds  --  Geological question  --  Taste of an Indian chief for horticulture  --  Swiss missionaries to the Indians  --  Secretary of War visits the island  --  Frivolous literary , diurnal , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  Lost boxes of minerals and fresh-water shells  --  Geological visit of Mr. Featherstonehaugh and Lieut . Mather  --  Mr. Hastings  --  A theological graduate . CHAPTER LV . Rage for investment in western lands  --  - Habits of the common deer  --  Question of the punishment of Indian murders committed in the Indian country  --  A chief calls to have his authority recognized on the death of a predecessor  --  Dr. Julius , of Prussia  --  Gen. Robert Patterson  --  Pressure of emigration  --  Otwin  --  Dr. Gilman and Mr. Hoffman  --  Picturesque trip to Lake Superior  --  Indians desire to cede territory  --  G.W. Featherstonehaugh  --  Sketch of his geological reconnoissance of the St. Peter 's River  --  Dr. Thomas H. Webb  --  Question of inscriptions on American rocks  --  Antiquities  --  Embark for Washington , and come down the lakes in the great tempest of 1835 . CHAPTER LVI . Florida war  --  Startling news of the Massacre of Dade  --  Peoria on the Illinois  --  Abanaki language  --  Oregon  --  Things shaping for a territorial claim  --  Responsibility of claim in an enemy 's country  --  A true @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Missouri  --  Indian portfolio of Lewis  --  Literary gossip  --  Sir Francis Head  --  The Crane and Addik totem  --  Treaty of March 28th , 1836 , with the Ottawas and Chippewas  --  Treaty with the Saginaws of May 20th  --  Treaty with the Swan Creek and Black River Chippewas of May 9th  --  Return to Michilimackinack  --  Death of Charlotte , the daughter of Songageezhig . CHAPTER LVII . Home matters  --  Massachusetts Historical Society  --  Question of the U.S. Senate 's action on certain treaties of the Lake Indians  --  Hugh L. White  --  Dr. Morton 's Crania Americana  --  Letter from Mozojeed  --  State of the pillagers  --  Visit of Dr. Follen and Miss Martineau  --  Treaty movements  --  Young Lord Selkirk  --  Character and value of Upper Michigan  --  Hon. John Norvell 's letter  --  Literary items  --  Execution of the treaty of March 28th  --  Amount of money paid  --  Effects of the treaty  --  Baron de Behr-Ornithology . CHAPTER LVIII . Value of the equivalent territory granted to Michigan , by Congress , for the disputed Ohio boundary  --  Rapid improvement of Michigan  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a very aged chief at St. Mary 's  --  New system of writing Indian , proposed by Mr. Nash  --  Indian names for new towns  --  A Bishop 's notion of the reason for applying to Government for education funds under Indian treaties  --  Mr. Gallatin 's paper on the Indians  --  The temperance movement . CHAPTER LIX . Difficulties resulting from a false impression of the Indian character  --  Treaty with the Saginaws  --  Ottawas of Grand River establish themselves in a colony in Barry County  --  Payments to the Ottawas of Maumee , Ohio  --  Temperance  --  Assassination of young Aitkin by an Indian at Leech Lake  --  Mackinack mission abandoned  --  Wyandots complain of a trespass from a mill-dam  --  Mohegans of Green Bay apply for aid on their way to visit Stockbridge , Mass.  --  Mohegan traditions  --  Historical Society  --  Programme of a tour in the East  --  Parental disobedience  --  Indian treaties  --  Dr. Warren 's Collection of Crania  --  Hebrew language  --  Geology  --  " Goods offer "  --  Mrs. Jameson  --  Mastodon 's tooth in Michigan  --  Captain Marryatt  --  The Icelandic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , or Mukonsewyan . CHAPTER LX . Notions of foreigners about America  --  Mrs. Jameson  --  Appraisements of Indian property  --  Le Jeune 's early publication on the Iroquois  --  Troops for Florida  --  A question of Indian genealogy  --  Annuity payments  --  Indians present a claim of salvage  --  Death of the Prophet Chusco  --  Indian sufferings  --  Gen. Dodge 's treaty  --  Additional debt claims  --  Gazetteer of Michigan  --  Stone 's Life of Brant  --  University of Michigan  --  Christian Keepsake  --  Indian etymology  --  Small-pox breaks out on the Missouri  --  Missionary operations in the north-west  --  Treaty of Flint River with the Saginaws . CHAPTER LXI . Tradition of Pontiac 's conspiracy and death  --  Patriot war  --  Expedition of a body of 250 men to Boisblanc  --  Question of schools and missions among the Indians  --  Indian affairs  --  Storm at Michilimackinack  --  Life of Brant  --  Interpreterships and Indian language  --  A Mohegan  --  Affair of the " Caroline "  --  Makons  --  Plan of names for new towns  --  Indian legends  --  Florida war  --  Patriot war  --  Arrival of Gen. Scott on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war  --  Natural history and climate of Florida  --  Death of Dr. Lutner . CHAPTER LXII . Indians tampered with at Grand River  --  Small-pox in the Missouri Valley  --  Living history at home  --  Sunday schools  --  Agriculture  --  Indian names  --  Murder of the Glass family  --  Dr. Morton 's inquiries respecting Indian crania  --  Necessity of one 's writing his name plain  --  Michigan Gazetteer in preparation  --  Attempt to make the Indian a political pack-horse  --  Return to the Agency of Michilimackinack  --  Indian skulls phrenologically examined  --  J. Toulmin Smith  --  Cherokee question  --  Trip to Grand River  --  Treaty and annuity payments  --  The department accused of injustice to the Indians . CHAPTER LXIII . Missions  --  Hard times , consequent on over-speculation  --  Question of the rise of the lakes  --  Scientific theory  --  Trip to Washington  --  Trip to Lake Superior and the Straits of St. Mary  --  John Tanner  --  Indian improvements north of Michilimackinack  --  Great cave  --  Isle Nabiquon  --  Superstitious ideas of the Indians connected with females  --  Scotch royals  --  McKenzie  --  Climate of the United States  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ County , Ohio  --  Royal Society of Northern Antiquaries  --  Statistics of lands purchased from the Indians  --  Sun 's eclipse  --  Government payments . CHAPTER LXIV . Descendant of one spared at the massacre of St. Bartholomew 's  --  Death of Gen. Clarke  --  Massacre of Peurifoy 's family in Florida  --  Gen. Harrison 's historical discourse  --  Death of an emigrant on board a steamboat  --  Murder of an Indian  --  History of Mackinack  --  Incidents of the treaty of 29th July , 1837  --  Mr. Fleming 's account of the missionaries leaving Georgia , and of the improvements of the Indians west  --  Death of Black Hawk  --  Incidents of his life and character  --  Dreadful cruelty of the Pawnees in burning a female captive  --  Cherokee emigration  --  Phrenology  --  Return to Detroit  --  University  --  Indian affairs  --  Cherokee removal  --  Indians shot at Fort Snelling . CHAPTER LXV . Embark for New York  --  A glimpse of Texan affairs  --  Toltecan monuments  --  Indian population of Texas  --  Horrible effects of drinking ardent spirits among the Indians  --  Mr. Gallatin  --  His opinions on various @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  Philadelphia  --  Washington  --  Indian affairs  --  Debt claim  --  Leave to visit Europe  --  Question of neutrality  --  Mr. Van Buren  --  American imaginative literature  --  Knickerbocker  --  Resume of the Indian question of sovereignty . CHAPTER LXVI . Sentiments of loyalty  --  Northern Antiquarian Society  --  Indian statistics  - -  Rhode Island Historical Society  --  Gen. Macomb  --  Lines in the Odjibwa language by a mother on placing her children at school  --  Mehemet Ali  --  Mrs. Jameson 's opinion on publishers and publishing  --  Her opinion of my Indian legends  --  False report of a new Indian language  --  Indian compound words  --  Delafield 's Antiquities  --  American Fur Company  --  State of Indian disturbances in Texas and Florida  --  Causes of the failure of the war in Florida , by an officer  --  Death of an Indian chief  --  Mr. Bancroft 's opinion on the Dighton Rook inscription  --  Skroellings not in New England  --  Mr. Gallatin 's opinion on points of Esquimaux language , connected with our knowledge of our archaeology . CHAPTER LXVII . Workings of unshackled mind  --  Comity of the American Addison  --  Lake @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Texas  --  Wood 's New England 's Prospect  --  Philological and historical comments  --  Death of Ningwegon  --  Creeks  --  Brothertons made citizens  --  Charles Fenno Hoffman  --  Indian names for places on the Hudson  --  Christians Indians  --  Etymology  --  Theodoric  --  Appraisements of Indian property  --  Algic researches  --  Plan and object . CHAPTER LXVIII . American antiquities  --  Michilimackinack a summer resort  --  Death of Ogimau Keegido  --  Brothertons  --  An Indian election  --  Cherokee murders  --  Board of Regents of the Michigan University  --  Archaeological facts and rumors  --  Woman of the Green Valley  --  A new variety of fish  --  Visits of the Austrian and Sardinian Ministers to the U.S.  --  Mr. Gallup  --  Sioux murders  --  A remarkable display of aurora borealis  --  Ottawas of Maumee  --  Extent of auroral phenomena  --  Potawattomie cruelty  --  Mineralogy  --  Death of Ondiaka  --  Chippewa tradition  --  Fruit trees  --  Stone 's preparation of the Life and Times of Sir William Johnson  --  Dialectic difference between the language of the Ottawas and the Chippewas  --  Philological remarks on the Indian languages  --  Mr. T. Hulbert . CHAPTER @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  Remarkable superstition  --  Theodoric  --  A missionary choosing a wild flower  --  Piety and money  --  A fiscal collapse in Michigan  --  Mission of Grand Traverse  --  Simplicity of the school-girl 's hopes  --  Singular theory of the Indians respecting story-telling  --  Oldest allegory on record  --  Political aspects  --  Seneca treaty  --  Mineralogy  --  Farming and mission station on Lake Michigan . CHAPTER LXX . Death of Col. Lawrence Schoolcraft  --  Perils of the revolutionary era  --  Otwin  --  Mr. Bancroft 's history in the feature of its Indian relations  --  A tradition of a noted chief on Lake Michigan  --  The collection of information for a historical volume  --  Opinions of Mr. Paulding , Dr. Webster , Mr. Duer , John Quincy Adams  --  Holyon and Alholyon  --  Family monument  --  Mr. Stevenson , American Minister at London  --  Joanna Baillie  --  Wisconsin  --  Ireland  --  Detroit  --  Michilimackinack . CHAPTER LXXI . Philology of the Indian tongues  --  Its difficulties  --  Belles lettres and money  --  Michigan and Georgia  --  Number of species in natural history  --  Etymology  --  Nebahquam 's dream  --  Trait in Indian legends @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Upper Lakes  --  Love of one 's native tongue  --  Death of Gen. Harrison  --  Rush for office on his inauguration  --  Ornamental and shade trees  --  Historical collections  --  Mission of " Old Wing " . CHAPTER LXXII . Popular common school education  --  Iroquois name for Mackinack  --  Its scenic beauties poetically considered  --  Phenomenon of two currents of adverse wind meeting  --  Audubon 's proposed work on American quadrupeds  --  Adario  --  Geographical range of the mocking-bird  --  Removal from the West to the city of New York  --  An era accomplished  --  Visit to Europe . SKETCHES OF THE LIFE OF HENRY A. SCHOOLCRAFT. * * * * * The early period at which Mr. Schoolcraft entered the field of observation in the United States as a naturalist ; the enterprise he has from the outset manifested in exploring the geography and geology of the Great West ; and his subsequent researches as an ethnologist , in investigating the Indian languages and history , are well known to the public , and may be appropriately referred to as the grounds of the present design , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ family , studies , and literary labors . He is an example of what early and continued zeal , talent , and diligence , united with energy of character and consistent moral habits , may accomplish in the cause of letters and science , by the force of solitary application , without the advantage of hereditary wealth , the impulse of patronage , or the prestige of early academic honors . Ardent in the pursuit of whatever engaged his attention , quick in the observation of natural phenomena , and assiduous in the accumulation of facts ; with an ever present sense of their practical and useful bearing  --  few men , in our modern history , have accomplished so much , in the lines of research he has chosen , to render science popular and letters honorable . To him we are indebted for our first accounts of the geological constitution , and the mineral wealth and resources of the great valley beyond the Alleghanies , and he is the discoverer of the actual source of the Mississippi River in Itasca Lake . For many years , beginning with 1817 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one end of the land to the other , and , after his settlement in the West , he was a point of approach for correspondents , as his personal memoirs denote , not only on these topics , but for all that relates to the Indian tribes , in consequence of which he has been emphatically pronounced " The Red Man 's FRIEND . " Mr. Schoolcraft is a native of New York , and is the descendant in the third generation , by the paternal line , of an Englishman . James Calcraft had served with reputation in the armies of the Duke of Marlborough during the reign of Queen Anne , and was present in that general 's celebrated triumphs on the continent , in one of which he lost an eye , from the premature explosion of the priming of a cannon . Owing to these military services he enjoyed and cherished a high reputation for bravery and loyalty . He was a descendant of a family of that name , who came to England with William the Conqueror  --  and settled under grants from the crown @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ family having received the honor of knighthood for their military services . In the reign of George the Second , consequently after 1727 , he embarked at Liverpool in a detachment of veteran troops , intended to act against Canada . He was present in the operations connected with the building of Forts Anne and Edwards , on the North River , and Fort William Henry on Lake George . At the conclusion of these campaigns he settled in Albany county , N.Y. , which has continued to be the residence of the family for more than a century . Being a man of education , he at first devoted himself to the business of a land surveyor , in which capacity he was employed by Col. Vroman , to survey the boundaries of his tract of land in the then frontier settlement of Schoharie . At the latter place he married the only daughter and child of Christian Camerer , one of the Palatines  --  a body of determined Saxons who had emigrated from the Upper Rhine in 1712 , under the assurance or expectation of a patent from Queen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , James , Christian , John , Margaret , Elizabeth , Lawrence , William , and Helen . Footnote 1 : Simms ' Schoharie . For many years during his old age , he conducted a large school in this settlement , being the first English school that was taught in that then frontier part of the country . This appears to be the only tenable reason that has been assigned for the change of the family name from Calcraft to Schoolcraft . When far advanced in life , he went to live with his son William , on the New York grants on Otter Creek , in the rich agricultural region south of Lake Champlain  --  which is now included in Vermont . Here he died at the great age of one hundred and two , having been universally esteemed for his loyalty to his king , his personal courage and energy , and the uprightness of his character . After the death of his father , when the revolutionary troubles commenced , William , his youngest son , removed into Lower Canada . The other children all remained in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ jangling land disputes and conflicts of titles arose in Schoharie , followed Conrad Wiser , Esq . ( a near relative ) , to the banks of the Susquehanna . He appears eventually to have pushed his way to Buchanan River , one of the sources of the Monongahela , in Lewis County , Virginia , where some of his descendants must still reside . It appears that they became deeply involved in the Indian wars which the Shawnees kept up on the frontiers of Virginia . In this struggle they took an active part , and were visited with the severest retribution by the marauding Indians . It is stated by Withers that , between 1770 and 1779 , not less than fifteen of this family , men , women , and children , were killed or taken prisoners , and carried into captivity. 2 Footnote 2 : Chronicles of the Border Warfare in North-western Virginia . By Alex Withers , Clarksbury , Virginia , 1831. 1 vol. 12mo. page 319 . Of the other children of the original progenitor , James , the eldest son , died a bachelor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ name in Schoharie County . Elizabeth and Helen married , in that county , in the families of Rose and Haines , and , Margaret , the eldest daughter , married Col. Green Brush , of the British army , at the house of Gen. Bradstreet , Albany . Her daughter , Miss Francis Brush , married the celebrated Col. Ethan Allen , after his return from the Tower of London . JOHN , the third son , settled in Watervleit , in the valley of the Norman 's Kill  --  or , as the Indians called it , Towasentha  --  Albany County . He served in a winter 's campaign against Oswego , in 1757 , and took part also in the successful siege and storming of Fort Niagara , under Gen. Prideaux 3 and Sir William Johnson , in the summer of 1759 . He married a Miss Anna Barbara Boss , by whom he had three children , namely , Anne , Lawrence , and John . He had the local reputation of great intrepidity , strong muscular power , and unyielding decision of character . He died @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ son , had entered his seventeenth year when the American Revolution broke out . He embraced the patriotic sentiments of that era with great ardor , and was in the first revolutionary procession that marched through and canvassed the settlement with martial music , and the Committee of Safety at its head , to determine who was Whig or Tory . Footnote 3 : This officer was shot in the trenches , which devolved the command on Sir William . The military element had always commanded great respect in the family , and he did not wait to be older , but enrolled himself among the defenders of his country . He was present , in 1776 , when the Declaration of Independence was read to the troops drawn up in hollow square at Ticonderoga . He marched under Gen. Schuyler to the relief of Montgomery , at Quebec , and continued to be an indomitable actor in various positions , civil and military , in the great drama of the Revolution during its entire continuance . In 1777 , the darkest and most hopeless period of our revolutionary contest , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up the Mohawk Valley , then alive with hostile Indians and Tories , and escaped them all , and he was in this fort , under Col. Ganzevoort , during its long and close siege by Col. St. Leger and his infuriated Indian allies . The whole embodied militia of the Mohawk Valley marched to its relief , under the bold and patriotic Gen. Herkimer . They were met by the Mohawks , Onondagas , and Senecas , and British loyalists , lying in ambush on the banks of the Oriskany , eight miles from the fort . A dreadful battle ensued . Gen. Herkimer was soon wounded in the thigh , his leg broken , and his horse shot under him . With the coolness of a Blucher , he then directed his saddle to be placed on a small knoll , and , drawing out his tobacco-box , lit his pipe and calmly smoked while his brave and unconquerable men fought around him . This was one of the most stoutly contested battles of the Revolution . Campbell says : " This battle made orphans of half the inhabitants @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ desperate struggle between neighbors , who were ranged on opposite sides as Whig and Tory , and it was a triumph , Herkimer remaining master of the field . During the hottest of the battle , Col. Willett stepped on to the esplanade of the fort , where the troops were paraded , and requested all who were willing to fight for liberty and join a party for the relief of Herkimer , to step forward one pace . Schoolcraft was the first to advance . Two hundred and fifty men followed him . An immediate sally was made . They carried the camp of Sir John Johnson ; took all his baggage , military-chest , and papers ; drove him through the Mohawk River ; and then turned upon the howling Mohawks and swept and fired their camp . The results of this battle were brilliant . The plunder was immense . The lines of the besiegers , which had been thinned by the forces sent to Oriskany , were carried , and the noise of firing and rumors of a reinforcement , animated the hearts of the indomitable men @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ County . After the victory , Herkimer was carried by his men , in a litter , thirty or forty miles to his own house , below the present town of Herkimer , where he died , from an unskillful amputation , having just concluded reading to his family the 38th Psalm . But the most dangerous enemy to the cause of freedom was not to be found in the field , but among neighbors who were lurking at midnight around the scenes of home . The districts of Albany and Schoharie was infested by Tories , and young Schoolcraft was ever on the qui vive to ferret out this most insidious and cruel of the enemy 's power . On one occasion he detected a Tory , who had returned from Canada with a lieutenant 's commission in his pocket . He immediately clapped spurs to his horse , and reported him to Gov . George Clinton , the Chairman of the Committee of Safety at Albany . Within three days the lieutenant was seized , tried , condemned and hanged . Indeed , a volume of anecdotes might be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to say , that he was a devoted , enthusiastic , enterprizing soldier and patriot , and came out of the contest with an adjutant 's commission and a high reputation for bravery . About the close of the Revolutionary war , he married Miss Margaret Anne Barbara Rowe , a native of Fishkill , Duchess County , New York , by whom he had thirteen children . His disciplinary knowledge and tact in the government of men , united to amenity of manners , led to his selection in 1802 , by the Hon. Jeremiah Van Rensselaer , as director of his extensive glass works at Hamilton , near Albany , which he conducted with high reputation so many years , during which time he bore several important civil and military trusts in the county . The importance of this manufacture to the new settlements at that early day , was deeply felt , and his ability and skill in the management of these extensive works were widely known and appreciated . When the war of 1812 appeared inevitable , Gen. Ganzevoort , his old commanding officer at Fort Stanwix @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ army , placed him in command of the first regiment of uniformed volunteers , who were mustered into service for that conflict . His celebrity in the manufacture of glass , led capitalists in Western New York to offer him large inducements to remove there , where he first introduced this manufacture during the settlement of that new and attractive part of the State , in which a mania for manufactories was then rife . In this new field the sphere of his activity and skill were greatly enlarged , and he enjoyed the consideration and respect of his townsmen for many years . He died at Vernon , Oneida County , in 1840 , at the age of eighty-four , having lived long to enjoy the success of that independence for which he had ardently thirsted and fought . A handsome monument on the banks of the Skenando bears the inscription " A patriot , a Christian , and an honest man . " A man who was never governed by expediency but by right , and in all his expressions of opinion , original and fearless of consequences . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Schoolcraft , appeared proper in proceeding to speak of one of his sons , who has for so considerable a period occupied the public attention as an actor in other fields , requiring not less energy , decision , enterprise and perseverance of character . Henry Rowe Schoolcraft was born in Albany County , on the 28th of March , 1793 , during the second presidential term of Washington . His childhood and youth were spent in the village of Hamilton , a place once renowned for its prosperous manufactories , but which has long since verified the predictions of the bard  --  " That trade 's proud empire hastes to swift decay , As ocean sweeps the labored mole away . " Its location is on one of the beautiful and sparkling affluents of the Towasentha or Norman 's Kill , popularly called the Hongerkill , which he has in one of his occasional publications called the Iosco , from an aboriginal term . That picturesque and lofty arm of the Catskills , which is called the Helderberg , bounds the landscape on the west and south , while the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Mohawk and the Hudson , bearing the cities of Albany and Schenectady respectively on its opposite edges . Across this crescent-like Plain of Pines , by a line of sixteen miles , was the ancient Iroquois war and trading path . The Towasentha lies on the south borders of this plain , and was , on the first settlement of the country , the seat of an Indian population . Here , during the official term of Gen. Hamilton , whose name the village bears , the capitalists of Albany planted a manufacturing village . The position is one where the arable forest and farming lands are bounded by the half arabic waste of the pine plains of the Honicroisa , whose deep gorges are still infested by the wolf and smaller animals . The whole valley of the Norman 's Kill abounds in lovely and rural scenes , and quiet retreats and waterfalls , which are suited to nourish poetic tastes . In these he indulged from his thirteenth year , periodically writing , and as judgment ripened , destroying volumes of manuscripts , while at the same time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The poetic talent was , indeed , strongly developed . His power of versification was early and well formed , and the pieces which were published anonymously at a maturer period , as " Geehale , " and " The Iroquois , " &c.,; have long been embodied without a name in our poetic literature . But this faculty , of which we have been permitted to see the manuscript of some elaborate and vigorous trains of thought , did not impede a decided intellectual progress in sterner studies in the sciences and arts . His mind was early imbued with a thirst of knowledge , and he made such proficiency as to attract the notice of persons of education and taste . There was developed , too , in him , an early bias for the philosophy of language . Mr. Van Kleeck , a townsman , in a recent letter to Dr. R.W. Griswold , says :  --  " I revert with great pleasure to the scenes of my residence , in the part of Albany County which was also the residence of Henry R. Schoolcraft . I went @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ town of Guilderland , in 1803 . Col. Lawrence Schoolcraft , the father of Henry , had then the direction of the large manufactories of glass , for which that place was long noted . The standing of young Henry , I remember , at his school , for scholarship , was then very noted , and his reputation in the village most prominent . He was spoken of as a lad of great promise , and a very learned boy at twelve . Mr. Robert Buchanan , a Scotchman , and a man of learning , took much pride in his advances , and finally came to his father and told him that he had taught him all he knew . In Latin , I think he was taught by Cleanthus Felt . He was at this age very arduous and assiduous in the pursuit of knowledge . He discovered great mechanical ingenuity . He drew and painted in water colors , and attracted the notice of the Hon. Jeremiah Van Rensselaer , Lt. Governor of the State , who became so much interested in his advancement , that he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ master . At an early age he manifested a taste for mineralogy and natural science , which was then ( I speak of about 1808 ) almost unknown in the country . He was generally to be found at home , at his studies , when other boys of his age were attending horseraces , cock-fights , and other vicious amusements for which the village was famous . " At this time he organized with persevering effort , a literary society , in which discussions took place by the intelligent inhabitants on subjects of popular and learned interests . At an early age , I think sixteen , he went to the west , and the first that was afterwards heard of him was his bringing to New York a splendid collection of the mineralogy and natural history of the west . " 5 Footnote 5 : Letter of L.L. Van Kleeck , Esq. , to Dr. R.W. Griswold , June 4th , 1851 . In a part of the country where books were scarce , it was not easy to supply this want . He purchased several editions of English @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ten Broeck , Esq. , of Albany , and his room in a short time showed the elements of a library and a cabinet of minerals , and drawings , which were arranged with the greatest care and neatness . Having finished his primary studies , with high reputation , he prepared , under an improved instructor , to enter Union College . It was at the age of fifteen that he set on foot , as Mr. Van Kleeck mentions , an association for mental improvement . These meetings drew together persons of literary tastes and acquirements in the vicinity . The late John V. Veeder , Wm . McKown , and L.L. Van Kleeck , Esqs. , Mr. Robert Alsop , the late John Schoolcraft , Esq. , G. Batterman , John Sloan , and other well-known gentlemen of the town , all of whom were his seniors in age , attended these meetings . Mineralogy was at that time an almost unknown science in the United States . At first the heavy drift stratum of Albany County , as seen in the bed of Norman 's Kill ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , were his field of mineralogical inquiries . Afterwards , while living at Lake Dunmore , in Addison County , Vermont , he revised and systematized the study under the teaching of Professor Hall , of Middlebury College , to which he added chemistry , natural philosophy and medicine . Having now the means , he erected a chemical furnace , and ordered books , apparatus , and tests from the city of New York . By these means he perfected the arts which were under his direction in the large way ; and he made investigations of the phenomena of the fusion of various bodies , which he prepared for the press under the name of Vitriology , an elaborate work of research . Amongst the facts brought to light , it is apprehended , were revealed the essential principles of an art which is said to have been discovered and lost in the days of Tiberius Caesar . He taught himself the Hebrew and German , with the aid only of grammars and lexicons ; and , with the assistance of instructors , the reading of French . His @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he attached to time , and his perseverance in whatever study or research he undertook , were indeed indomitable , and serve to prove how far they will carry the mind , and how much surer tests they are of ultimate usefulness and attainment , than the most dazzling genius without these moral props . Self-dependent , self-acting , and self-taught , it is apprehended that few men , with so little means and few advantages , have been in so peculiar a sense the architect of their own fortunes . He commenced writing for the newspapers and periodicals in 1808 , in which year he also published a poetic tribute to a friend , which excited local notice , and was attributed to a person of literary celebrity . For , notwithstanding the gravity of his studies and researches , he had indulged an early poetic taste for a series of years , by compositions of an imaginative character , and might , it should seem , have attained distinction in that way . His remarks in the " Literary and Philosophical Repertory , " on the evolvement of hydrogen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the name of Burning Springs , evinced an early aptitude for philosophical discussion . In a notice of some archaeological discoveries made in Hamburgh , Erie County , which were published at Utica in 1817 , he first denoted the necessity of discriminating between the antique French and European , and the aboriginal period in our antiquities ; for the want of which discrimination , casual observers and discoverers of articles in our tumuli are perpetually over-estimating the state of ancient art . About 1816 he issued proposals , and made arrangements to publish his elaborated work on vitreology , which , so far as published , was favorably received . In 1817 he was attracted to go to the Valley of the Mississippi . A new world appeared to be opening for American enterprise there . Its extent and resources seemed to point it out as the future residence of millions ; and he determined to share in the exploration of its geography , geology , mineralogy and general ethnology , for in this latter respect also it offered , by its curious mounds and antiquities and existing Indian tribes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ approached this field of observation by descending the Alleghany River from Western New York to the Ohio . He made Pittsburgh , Cincinnati , and Louisville centres of observation . At the latter place he published in the papers an account of the discovery of a body of the black oxide of manganese , on the banks of the Great Sandy River of Kentucky , and watched the return papers from the old Atlantic States , to see whether notices of this kind would be copied and approved . Finding this test favorable , he felt encouraged in his mineralogical researches . Having descended the Ohio to its mouth one thousand miles , by its involutions below Pittsburgh , and entered the Mississippi , he urged his way up the strong and turbid channel of the latter , in barges , by slow stages of five or six miles a day , to St. Louis . This slowness of travel gave him an opportunity of exploring on foot the whole of the Missouri shore , so noted , from early Spanish and French days , for its mines . After visiting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the mineral district of Missouri . Making Potosi the centre of his survey and the deposit of his collections , he executed a thorough examination of that district , where he found some seventy mines scattered over a large surface of the public domain , which yielded , at the utmost , by a very desultory process , about three millions of pounds of lead annually . Having explored this region very minutely , he wished to ascertain its geological connection with the Ozark and other highland ranges , which spread at the foot of the Rocky Mountains , and he planned an exploratory expedition into that region . This bold and hazardous journey he organized and commenced at Potosi early in the month of November , 1818 , and prosecuted it under many disadvantages during that fall and the succeeding winter . Several expert and practiced woodsmen were to have been of this party , but when the time for setting out came all but two failed , under various excuses . One of these was finally obliged to turn back from Mine au Breton with a continued attack of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with a strong desire to extend the dominions of science , he determined to push on with a single companion , and a single pack-horse , which bore the necessary camp conveniences , and was led alternately by each from day to day . A pocket compass guided their march by day , and they often slept in vast caverns in limestone cliffs at night . Gigantic springs of the purest crystaline water frequently gushed up from the soil or rocks . This track laid across highlands , which divide the confluent waters of the Missouri from those of the Mississippi . Indians , wild beasts , starvation , thirst , were the dangers of the way . This journey , which led into the vast and desolate parts of Arkansas , was replete with incidents and adventures of the highest interest . While in Missouri , and after his return from this adventurous journey , he drew up a description of the mines , geology , and mineralogy of the country . Conceiving a plan for the better management of the lead mines as a part of the public domain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the government . Packing up his collections of mineralogy and geology , he ordered them to the nearest point of embarkation on the Mississippi , and , getting on board a steamer at St. Genevieve , proceeded to New Orleans . Thence he took shipping for New York , passing through the Straits of Florida , and reached his destination during the prevalence of the yellow fever in that city . He improved the time of his quarantine at Staten Island by exploring its mineralogy and geology , where he experienced a kind and appreciating reception from the health officer , Dr. De Witt . His reception also from scientific men at New York was most favorable , and produced a strong sensation . Being the first person who had brought a collection of its scientific resources from the Mississippi Valley , its exhibition and diffusion in private cabinets gave an impulse to these studies in the country . Men of science and gentlemen of enlarged minds welcomed him . Drs . Mitchell and Hosack , who were then at the summit of their influence , and many other leading @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appreciation . Gov . De Witt Clinton was one of his earliest and most constant friends . The Lyceum of Natural History and the New York Historical Society admitted him to membership . Late in the autumn of 1819 , he published his work on the mines and mineral resources of Missouri , and with this publication as an exponent of his views , he proceeded to Washington , where he was favorably received by President Monroe , and by Mr. Calhoun and Mr. Crawford , members of his cabinet . At the request of the latter he drew up a memoir on the reorganization of the western mines , which was well received . Some legislation appeared necessary . Meantime Mr. Calhoun , who was struck by the earnestness of his views and scientific enterprise , offered him the situation of geologist and mineralogist to an exploring expedition , which the war department was about dispatching from Detroit to the sources of the Mississippi under the orders of Gen. Cass . This he immediately accepted , and , after spending a few weeks at the capital , returned in Feb. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opening of the interior navigation . As soon as the lakes opened he proceeded to Detroit , and in the course of two or three weeks embarked on this celebrated tour of exploration . The great lake basins were visited and explored , the reported copper mines on Lake Superior examined , and the Upper Mississippi entered at Sandy Lake , and , after tracing it in its remote mazes to the highest practical point , he descended its channel by St. Anthony 's Falls to Prairie du Chien and the Du Buque lead mines . The original outward track north-westward was then regained , through the valleys of the Wisconsin and Fox Rivers , and the extended shores of Lake Michigan and Huron elaborately traced . In this he was accompanied by the late Professor David B. Douglass , who collected the materials for a correct map of the great lakes and the sources of the Mississippi . It was late in the autumn when Mr. Schoolcraft returned to his residence at New York , when he was solicited to publish his " narrative journal . " This he completed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which evinces accurate and original powers of observation , established his reputation as a scientific and judicious traveler . Copies of it found their way to England , where it was praised by Sir Humphrey Davy and the veteran geographer , Major Rennel . His report to the Secretary of War on the copper mines of Lake Superior , was published in advance by the American Journal of Science , and by order of the Senate of the United States , and gives the earliest scientific account of the mineral affluence of the basin of that lake . His geological report to the same department made subsequently , traces the formations of that part of the continent , which gives origin to the Mississippi River , and denotes the latitudes where it is crossed by the primitive and volcanic rocks . The ardor and enthusiasm which he evinced in the cause of science , and his personal enterprise in traversing vast regions , awakened a corresponding spirit ; and the publication of his narratives had the effect to popularize the subject of mineralogy and geology throughout the country . In 1821 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Lakes and the River Wabash , tracing those streams minutely to the entrance of the latter into the Ohio River . He then proceeded to explore the Oshawanoe Mountains , near Cave-in-Rock , with their deposits of the fluate of lime , galena , and other mineral treasures . From this range he crossed over the grand prairies of the Illinois to St. Louis , revisited the mineral district of Potosi , and ascended the Illinois River and its north-west fork , the Des Plaines , to Chicago , where a large body of Indians were congregated to confer on the cession of their lands . At these important conferences , he occupied the position of secretary . He published an account of the incidents of this exploratory journey , under the title of Travels in the Central Portions of the Mississippi Valley . He found , in passing up the river Des Plaines , a remarkably well characterized specimen of a fossil tree , completely converted to stone , of which he prepared a descriptive memoir , which had the effect further to direct the public mind to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these first steps of his energetic course in the early investigation of our natural history and geography . In 1822 , while the lead-mine problem was under advisement at Washington , he was appointed by Mr. Monroe to the semi-diplomatic position of Agent for Indian Affairs on the North-west Frontiers . This opened a new field of inquiry , and , while it opposed no bar to the pursuits of natural science , it presented a broad area of historical and ethnological research . On this he entered with great ardor , and an event of generally controlling influence on human pursuits occurred to enlarge these studies , in his marriage to Miss Jane Johnston , a highly cultivated young lady , who was equally well versed in the English and Algonquin languages , being a descendant , by the mother 's side , of Wabojeeg , a celebrated war sachem , and ruling cacique of his nation . Her father , Mr. John Johnston , was a gentleman of the highest connections , fortune , and standing , from the north of Ireland , who had emigrated to America during @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ romance of character , united with poetic tastes , and became deeply enamored of the beautiful daughter of Wabojeeg , married her , and had eight children . His eldest daughter , Jane , was sent , at nine years of age , to Europe to be thoroughly educated under the care of his relatives there , and , when she returned to America , was placed at the head of her father 's household , where her refined dignified manners and accomplishments attracted the notice and admiration of numerous visitors to that seat of noble hospitality . Mr. Schoolcraft was among the first suitors for her hand , and married her in October , 1823 . Mr. Johnston was a fine belles lettres scholar , and entered readily into the discussions arising from the principles of the Indian languages , and plans for their improvement . Mr. Schoolcraft 's marriage into an aboriginal family gave no small stimulus to these inquiries , which were pursued under such singularly excellent advantages , and with untiring ardor in the seclusion of Elmwood and Michilimackinack , for a period of nearly twenty years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which happened during a visit to her sister , at Dundas , Canada West , in the year 1842 , and while he himself was absent on a visit to England . Mr. Schoolcraft has not , at any period of his life , sought advancement in political life , but executed with energy and interest various civic offices , which were freely offered to him . From 1828 to 1832 , he was an efficient member of the Territorial Legislature , where he introduced a system of township and county names , formed on the basis of the aboriginal vocabulary , and also procured the incorporation of a historical society , and , besides managing the finances , as chairman of an appropriate committee , he introduced and secured the passage of several laws respecting the treatment of the native tribes . In 1828 , the Navy Department offered him a prominent situation in the scientific corps of the United States Exploring Expedition to the South Seas . This was urged in several letters written to him at St. Mary 's , by Mr. Reynolds , with the approbation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ flattering such an offer was to his ambition , his domestic relations did not permit his acceptance of the place . He appeared to occupy his advanced position on the frontier solely to further the interests of natural history , American geography , and growing questions of philosophic moment . These particulars will enable the reader to appreciate the advantages with which he commenced and pursued the study of the Indian languages , and American ethnology . He made a complete lexicon of the Algonquin language , and reduced its grammar to a philosophical system . " It is really surprising , " says Gen. Cass , in a letter , in 1824 , in view of these researches , " that so little valuable information has been given to the world on these subjects . " Mr. Duponceau , President of the American Philosophical Society , translated two of Mr. Schoolcraft 's lectures before the Algic Society , on the grammatical structure of the Indian language , into French , for the National Institute of France , where the prize for the best essay on Algonquin language was awarded to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in reference to these lectures : " His description of the composition of words in the Chippewa language , is the most elegant I have yet seen . He is an able and most perspicuous writer , and treats his subject philosophically . " Approbation from these high sources had only the effect to lead him to renewed diligence and deeper exertions to further the interests of natural science , geography , and ethnology ; and , while engaged in the active duties of an important government office , he maintained an extensive correspondence with men of science , learning , and enterprise throughout the Union . The American Philosophical , Geological , and Antiquarian Societies , with numerous state and local institutions , admitted him to membership . The Royal Geographical Society of London , the Royal Society of Northern Antiquaries at Copenhagen , and the Ethnological Society of Paris , inscribed his name among their foreign members . In 1846 , the College of Geneva conferred on him the degree of LL.D . While the interests of learning and science thus occupied his private hours , the state @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exertions , and journeys , and expeditions through remote regions . The introduction of a fast accumulating population into the Mississippi Valley , and the great lake basins , continually subjected the Indian tribes to causes of uneasiness , and to a species of reflection , of which they had had no examples in the long centuries of their hunter state . In 1825 , 1826 , and 1827 , he attended convocations of the tribes at very remote points , which imposed the necessity of passing through forests , wildernesses , and wild portages , where none but the healthy , the robust , the fearless , and the enterprising can go . In 1831 , circumstances inclined the tribes on the Upper Mississippi to hostilities and extensive combinations . He was directed by the Government to conduct an expedition through the country lying south and west of Lake Superior , reaching from its banks , which have from the earliest dates been the fastnesses of numerous warlike tribes . This he accomplished satisfactorily , visiting the leading chiefs , and counseling them to the policy of peace . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which they had previously relinquished in the Rock River Valley . This brought them into collision with the citizens and militia of Illinois . The result was a general conflict , which , from its prominent Indian leader , has been called the Black Hawk war . From accounts of the previous year , its combinations embraced nine of the leading tribes . It was uncertain how far they extended . Mr. Schoolcraft was selected by the Indian and War Department , to conduct a second expedition into the region embracing the entire Upper Mississippi , north and west of St. Anthony 's Falls . He pursued this stream to the points to which it had been explored in 1806 , by Lieut . Pike , and in 1820 , by Gen. Cass ; and finding the state of the water favorable for ascending , traced the river up to its ultimate forks , and to its actual source in Itasca Lake . This point he reached on the 23d July , 1832 ; but a fraction under 300 years after the discovery of its lower portions by De Soto . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which he published an account , with maps , in 1833 . He is believed to be the only man in America who has seen the Mississippi from its source in Itasca Lake to its mouth in the Gulf of Mexico . In 1839 , he published his collection of oral legends from the Indian wigwams , under the general cognomen of Algic Researches . In these volumes is revealed an amount of the Indian idiosyncrasies , of what may be called their philosophy and mode of reasoning on life , death , and immortality , and their singular modes of reasoning and action , which makes this work one of the most unique and original contributions to American literature . His love of investigation has always been a characteristic trait . The writer of this sketch , who is thoroughly acquainted with Mr. Schoolcraft 's character , habits , and feelings , has long regarded him the complete embodiment of industry and temperance in all things . He rises early and retires early , eats moderately of simple food , never uses a drop of stimulant , and does not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the happiest of human beings , always looks at the bright side of circumstances  --  loves to hear of the prosperity of his neighbors , and hopes for favorable turns of character , even in the most depraved . The exaltation of his intellectual pursuits , and his sincere piety , have enabled him to rise above all the petty disquietudes of everyday life , and he seems utterly incapable of envy or detraction , or the indulgence of any ignoble or unmanly passions . Indeed , one of his most intimate friends remarked " that he was the beau-ideal of dignified manliness and truthfulness of character . " His manners possess all that unostentatious frankness , and self-possessed urbanity and quietude , that is indicative of refined feelings . That such a shining mark has not escaped envy , detraction , and persecution , will surprise no one who is well acquainted with the materials of which human nature is composed . " Envy is the toll that is always paid to greatness . " Mr. Schoolcraft has had enemies , bitter unrelenting enemies , from the wiles of whom @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ succeeded , in spite of all their efforts , in depriving him of an honored name , that will live as the friend of the red man and an aboriginal historian , for countless ages . Some twenty years ago he became a professor of religion , and the ennobling influences of Bible truth have mellowed , and devoted to the most unselfish and exalted aims his natural determination and enthusiasm of character . God has promised to his people " that their righteousness shall shine as the light , and their just dealing as the noonday . " Protected in such an impregnable tower of defence from the strife of tongues , Mr. Schoolcraft has been enabled freely to forgive , and even befriend , those narrow-minded calumniators who have aimed so many poisoned arrows at his fame , his character , and his success in life . These are they who hate all excellence that they themselves can never hope to reach . Mr. Schoolcraft 's persevering industry is so indomitable , that he has been known to write from sun to sun almost every day for many consecutive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ habits of untiring application being regulated by system , have not impaired the digestive functions of his usually robust health . One of his family remarks , " that she believed that if his meals were weighed every day in the year they would average the same amount every twenty-four hours . " He has , however , been partly lame for the last two years , from the effects , it is thought , of early exposure in his explorations in the west , where he used frequently to lie down in the swamps to sleep , with no pillow save clumps of bog , and no covering but a traveling Indian blanket , which sometimes when he awoke was cased in snow . This local impediment , however , being entirely without neuralgic or rheumatic symptoms , has had no effect whatever upon his mental activity , as every moment of his time is still consecrated to literary pursuits . In 1841 he removed his residence from Michilimackinack to the city of New York , where he was instrumental , with Mr. John R. Bartlett , Mr. H. C. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the American Ethnological Society  --  which , under the auspices of the late Mr. Albert Gallatin , has produced efficient labors . In 1842 he visited England and the Continent . He attended the twelfth meeting of the British Association for the Advancement of Science at Manchester . He then visited France , Germany , Prussia , Belgium , and Holland . On returning to New York he took an active interest in the deliberations of the New York Historical Society , made an antiquarian tour to Western Virginia , Ohio , and the Canadas , and published in numbers the first volume of an Indian miscellany under the title of " Oneota , or the Indian in his Wigwam . " In 1845 the Legislature of New York authorized him to take a census , and collect the statistics of the Iroquois , or Six Nations , which were published , together with materials illustrating their history and character , in a volume entitled , NOTES ON THE IROQUOIS . This work was highly approved by the Legislature , and copies eagerly sought by persons taking an interest in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their numbers were found to be considerable , and their advance in agriculture and civilization of a highly encouraging character ; and the State has since made liberal appropriations for their education . In 1846 he brought the subject of the American aborigines to the notice of the members of Congress , expressing the opinion , and enforcing it by facts drawn from many years ' experience and residence on the frontiers , that it was misunderstood , that the authentic published materials from which the Indians were to be judged were fragmentary and scanty , and that the public policy respecting them , and the mode of applying their funds , and dealing with them , was in many things false and unjust . These new views produced conviction in enlightened minds , and , during the following session , in the winter of 1847 , an appropriation was made , authorizing the Secretary of War to collect the statistics of all the tribes within the Union ; together with materials to illustrate their history , condition , and prospects . Mr. Schoolcraft was selected by the government to conduct @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ And he immediately prepared and issued blank forms , calling on the officers of the department for the necessary statistical facts . At the same time a comprehensive system of interrogatories was distributed , intended to bring out the true state and condition of the Indian tribes from gentlemen of experience , in all parts of the Union . These interrogatories are founded on a series of some thirty years ' personal observations on Indian society and manners , which were made while living in their midst on the frontiers , and on the data preserved in his well-filled portfolios and journals ; and the comprehensive character of the queries , consequently , evince a complete mastery of his subject , such as no one could have been at all prepared to furnish , who had had less full and favorable advantages . In these queries he views the Indian race , not only as tribes having every claim on our sympathy and humanity , but as one of the races of the human family , scattered by an inscrutable Providence , whose origin and destiny is one of the most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The first part of this work , in an elaborate quarto volume , was published in the autumn of 1850 , with illustrations from the pencil of Capt . Eastman , a gentleman of the army of the United States , and has been received by Congress and the diurnal and periodical press with decided approbation . It is a work which is national in its conception and manner of execution ; and , if carried out according to the plan exhibited , will do ample justice , at once to the Indian tribes , their history , condition , and destiny , and to the character of the government as connected with them . We have been reproached by foreign pens for our treatment of these tribes , and our policy , motives , and justice impugned . If we are not mistaken , the materials here collected will show how gratuitous such imputations have been . It is believed that no stock of the aborigines found by civilized nations on the globe , have received the same amount of considerate and benevolent and humane treatment , as denoted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Indian affairs , from the establishment of the Constitution , and this too , in the face of the most hostile , wrongheaded , and capricious conduct on their part , that ever signalized the history of a barbarous people . In January , 1847 , he married Miss Mary Howard , of Beaufort District , South Carolina , a lady of majestic stature , high toned moral sentiment , dignified polished manners , gifted conversational powers and literary tastes . This marriage has proved a peculiarly fortunate and happy one , as they both highly appreciate and respect each other , and she warmly sympathizes in his literary plans . She also relieves him of all domestic care by her judicious management of his household affairs . Most of her time , however , is spent with him in his study , where she revises and copies his writings for the press . She is the descendant of a family who emigrated to South Carolina from England , in the reign of George the Second , from whom they received a large grant of land , situated near the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from generation to generation continued to reside . It is now a flourishing cotton and rice growing plantation , and is at present owned by her brother , Gen. John Howard . Her sister married a grandnephew of Gen. William Moultrie , who was so distinguished in the revolutionary war , and her brother a granddaughter of Judge Thomas Heyward , who was a ripe scholar and one of the signers of the Declaration of Independence . Although one of her brothers was in the battle of San Jacinto , she is herself the first permanent emigrant of her family from South Carolina to the North , having accompanied her husband to Washington , D.C. , where he has ever since been engaged in conducting the national work on the history of the Indians . To this work , of which the second part is now in the press , every power of his extensive observation and ripe experience is devoted , and with results which justify the highest anticipations which have been formed of it . Meantime it is understood that the present memoirs is the first volume of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , reviews , papers on natural history , Indian tales , and miscellanies . To this rapid sketch of a man rising to distinction without the adventitious aids of hereditary patrimony , wealth , or early friends , it requires little to be added to show the value of self-dependence . Such examples must encourage all whose ambitions are sustained by assiduity , temperance , self-reliance , and a consistent perseverance in well weighed ends . PERSONAL MEMOIRS . CHAPTER I. Brief reminiscences of scenes from 1809 to 1817  --  Events preliminary to a knowledge of western life  --  Embarkation on the source of the Alleghany River  --  Descent to Pittsburgh  --  Valley of the Monongahela ; its coal and iron  --  Descent of the Ohio in an ark  --  Scenes and incidents by the way  - -  Cincinnati  --  Some personal incidents which happened there . Late in the autumn of 1809 , being then in my seventeenth year , I quitted the village of Hamilton , Albany County ( a county in which my family had lived from an early part of the reign of George II. ) , and , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ PINE PLAINS , accompanied by some friends , reached the city of Schenectady , and from thence took the western stage line , up the Valley of the Mohawk , to the village of Utica , where we arrived , I think , on the third day , the roads being heavy . The next day I proceeded to Vernon , the site of a busy and thriving village , where my father had recently engaged in the superintendency of extensive manufacturing operations . I was here within a few miles of Oneida Castle , then the residence of the ancient Oneida tribe of Iroquois . There was , also , in this town , a remnant of the old Mohigans , who , under the name of Stockbridges , had , soon after the Revolutionary War , removed from the Valley of the Housatonic , in Massachusetts , to Oneida . Throngs of both tribes were daily in the village , and I was thus first brought to notice their manners and customs ; not dreaming , however , that it was to be my lot to pass so many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Indian race . Early in the spring of 1810 , I accompanied Mr. Alexander Bryan Johnson , of Utica , a gentleman of wealth , intelligence , and enterprise , to the area of the Genesee country , for the purpose of superintending a manufactory for a company incorporated by the State Legislature . After visiting Sodus Bay , on Lake Ontario , it was finally resolved to locate this company 's works near Geneva , on the banks of Seneca Lake . During my residence here , the War of 1812 broke out ; the events of which fell with severity on this frontier , particularly on the lines included between the Niagara and Lake Champlain , where contending armies and navies operated . While these scenes of alarm and turmoil were enacting , and our trade with Great Britain was cut off , an intense interest arose for manufactures of first necessity , needed by the country , particularly for that indispensable article of new settlements , window glass . In directing the foreign artisans employed in the making of this product of skill , my father @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ period after the American Revolution , acquired celebrity , by the general superintendency of the noted works of this kind near Albany , and afterwards in Oneida County . Under his auspices , I directed the erection of similar works in Western New York and in the States of Vermont and New Hampshire . While in Vermont , I received a salary of eighteen hundred dollars per annum , which enabled me to pursue my studies , ex academia , at Middlebury College . In conversation with President Davis , I learned that this was the highest salary paid in the State , he himself receiving eleven hundred , and the Governor of the State but eight hundred . The extensive and interesting journeys connected with the manufacturing impulse of these engagements , reaching over a varied surface of several hundred miles , opened up scenes of life and adventure which gave me a foretaste of , and preparedness for , the deeper experiences of the western wilderness ; and the war with England was no sooner closed than I made ready to share in the exploration of the FAR WEST @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its fertility , extent , and resources  --  inspired a wish to see it for myself , and to this end I made some preliminary explorations in Western New York , in 1816 and 1817 . I reached Olean , on the source of the Alleghany River , early in 1818 , while the snow was yet upon the ground , and had to wait several weeks for the opening of that stream . I was surprised to see the crowd of persons , from various quarters , who had pressed to this point , waiting the opening of the navigation . It was a period of general migration from the East to the West . Commerce had been checked for several years by the war with Great Britain . Agriculture had been hindered by the raising of armies , and a harassing warfare both on the seaboard and the frontiers ; and manufactures had been stimulated to an unnatural growth , only to be crushed by the peace . Speculation had also been rife in some places , and hurried many gentlemen of property into ruin . Banks exploded , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was indeed very striking . The very elements seemed leagued against the interests of agriculture in the Atlantic States , where a series of early and late frosts , in 1816 and 1817 , had created quite a panic , which helped to settle the West . I mingled in this crowd , and , while listening to the anticipations indulged in , it seemed to me that the war had not , in reality , been fought for " free trade and sailors ' rights " where it commenced , but to gain a knowledge of the world beyond the Alleghanies . Many came with their household stuff , which was to be embarked in arks and flat boats . The children of Israel could scarcely have presented a more motley array of men and women , with their " kneading troughs " on their backs , and their " little ones , " than were there assembled , on their way to the new land of promise . To judge by the tone of general conversation , they meant , in their generation , to plough the Mississippi Valley @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an idea short of it . What a world of golden dreams was there ! I took passage in the first ark that attempted the descent for the season . This ark was built of stout planks , with the lower seams caulked , forming a perfectly flat basis on the water . It was about thirty feet wide and sixty long , with gunwales of some eighteen inches . Upon this was raised a structure of posts and boards about eight feet high , divided into rooms for cooking and sleeping , leaving a few feet space in front and rear , to row and steer . The whole was covered by a flat roof , which formed a promenade , and near the front part of this deck were two long " sweeps , " a species of gigantic oars , which were occasionally resorted to in order to keep the unwieldy vessel from running against islands or dangerous shores . We went on swimmingly , passing through the Seneca reservation , where the picturesque costume of the Indians seen on shore served to give additional interest to scenes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tied our ark to a tree , and built a fire on shore . Sometimes we narrowly escaped going over falls , and once encountered a world of labor and trouble by getting into a wrong channel . I made myself as useful and agreeable as possible to all . I had learned to row a skiff with dexterity during my residence on Lake Dunmore , and turned this art to account by taking the ladies ashore , as we floated on with our ark , and picked up specimens while they culled shrubs and flowers . In this way , and by lending a ready hand at the " sweeps " and at the oars whenever there was a pinch , I made myself agreeable . The worst thing we encountered was rain , against which our rude carpentry was but a poor defence . We landed at everything like a town , and bought milk , and eggs , and butter . Sometimes the Seneca Indians were passed , coming up stream in their immensely long pine canoes . There was perpetual novelty and freshness in this mode of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ran high , with a strong spring current , and the hills frequently rose in most picturesque cliffs . 1818 . I do not recollect the time consumed in this descent . We had gone about three hundred miles , when we reached Pittsburgh . It was the 28th of March when we landed at this place , which I remember because it was my birthday . And I here bid adieu to the kind and excellent proprietor of the ark , L. Pettiborne , Esq. , who refused to receive any compensation for my passage , saying , prettily , that he did not know how they could have got along without me . I stopped at one of the best hotels , kept by a Mrs. McCullough , and , after visiting the manufactories and coal mines , hired a horse , and went up the Monongahela Valley , to explore its geology as high as Williamsport . The rich coal and iron beds of this part of the country interested me greatly ; I was impressed with their extent , and value , and the importance which they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trip , I completed my visits to the various workshops and foundries , and to the large glassworks of Bakewell and of O'Hara . I was now at the head of the Ohio River , which is formed by the junction of the Alleghany and Monongahela . My next step was to descend this stream ; and , while in search of an ark on the borders of the Monongahela , I fell in with a Mr. Brigham , a worthy person from Massachusetts , who had sallied out with the same view . We took passage together on one of these floating houses , with the arrangements of which I had now become familiar . I was charmed with the Ohio ; with its scenery , which was every moment shifting to the eye ; and with the incidents of such a novel voyage . Off Wheeling we made fast to another ark , from the Monongahela , in charge of Capt . Hutchinson , an intelligent man . There were a number of passengers , who , together with this commander , added to our social circle , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ person was Dr. Selman , of Cincinnati , who had been a surgeon in Wayne 's army , and who had a fund of information of this era . My acquaintance with subjects of chemistry and mineralogy enabled me to make my conversation agreeable , which was afterwards of some advantage to me . We came to at Grave Creek Fleets , and all went up to see the Great Mound , the apex of which had a depression , with a large tree growing in it having the names and dates of visit of several persons carved on its trunk . One of the dates was , I think , as early as 1730 . We also stopped at Gallipolis  --  the site of a French colony of some notoriety . The river was constantly enlarging ; the spring was rapidly advancing , and making its borders more beautiful ; and the scenery could scarcely have been more interesting . There was often , it is true , a state of newness and rudeness in the towns , and villages , and farms , but it was ever accompanied with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had seldom to look at old things , save the Indian antiquities . The most striking works of this kind were at Marietta , at the junction of the Muskingum . This was , I believe , the earliest point of settlement of the State of Ohio . But to us , it had a far more interesting point of attraction in the very striking antique works named , for which it is known . We visited the elevated square and the mound . We gazed and wondered as others have done , and without fancying that we were wiser than our predecessors had been . At Marietta , a third ark from the waters of the Muskingum was added to our number , and making quite a flotilla . This turned out to be the property of Hon. J.B. Thomas , of Illinois , a Senator in Congress , a gentleman of great urbanity of manners and intelligence . By this addition of deck , our promenade was now ample . And it would be difficult to imagine a journey embracing a greater number of pleasing incidents and prospects . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Island , which recalled for a moment the name of Aaron Burr , and the eloquent language of Mr. Wirt on the treasonable schemes of that bold , talented , but unchastened politician . All was now ruin and devastation on the site of forsaken gardens , into the shaded recesses of which a basilisk had once entered . Some stacks of chimneys were all that was left to tell the tale . It seemed remarkable that twelve short years should have worked so complete a desolation . It would appear as if half a century had intervened , so thorough had been the physical revolution of the island . One night we had lain with our flotilla on the Virginia coast . It was perceived , at early daylight , that the inner ark , which was Mr. Thomas 's , and which was loaded with valuable machinery , was partly sunk , being pressed against the bank by the other arks , and the water was found to be flowing in above the caulked seams . A short time must have carried the whole down . After a good @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cut loose and abandoned . It occurred to me that two men , rapidly bailing , would be able to throw out a larger quantity of water than flowed through the seams . Willing to make myself useful , I told my friend Brigham that I thought we could save the boat , if he would join in the attempt . My theory proved correct . We succeeded , by a relief of hands , in the effort , and saved the whole machinery unwetted . This little affair proved gratifying to me from the share I had in it . Mr. Thomas was so pleased that he ordered a sumptuous breakfast at a neighboring house for all . We had an abundance of hot coffee , chickens , and toast , which to voyagers in an ark was quite a treat ; but it was still less gratifying than the opportunity we had felt of doing a good act . This little incident had a pleasing effect on the rest of the voyage , and made Thomas my friend . But the voyage itself was now drawing to a close @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . We were now five hundred miles below Pittsburgh , and the Valley of the Ohio was , if possible , every day becoming an object of more striking physical interest . By the advice of Dr. Sellman , who invited me to dine with a large company of gentlemen , I got a good boarding-house , and I spent several weeks very pleasantly in this city and its immediate environs . Among the boarders were Dr. Moorhead ( Dr. S. 's partner ) , and John C.S. Harrison ( the eldest son of Gen. Harrison ) , with several other young gentlemen , whose names are pleasingly associated in my memory . It was customary , after dinner , to sit on a wooden settle , or long bench , in front of the house , facing the open esplanade on the high banks of the river , at the foot of which boats and arks were momentarily arriving . One afternoon , while engaged in earnest conversation with Harrison , I observed a tall , gawky youth , with white hair , and a few stray patches just appearing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ approach furtively , and assume a listening attitude . He had evidently just landed , and had put on his best clothes , to go up and see the town . The moment he stopped to listen , I assumed a tone of earnest badinage . Harrison , instantly seeing our intrusive and raw guest , and humoring the joke , responded in a like style . In effect we had a high controversy , which could only be settled by a duel , in which our raw friend must act as second . He was strongly appealed to , and told that his position as a gentleman required it . So far all was well . We adjourned to an upper room ; the pistols were charged with powder , and shots were exchanged between Harrison and myself , while the eyeballs of young Jonathan seemed ready to start from their sockets . But no sooner were the shots fired than an undue advantage was instantly alleged , which involved the responsibility of my antagonist 's friend ; and thus the poor fellow , who had himself been inveigled in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ second exchange of shots , while all but himself were ready to die with smothered laughter ; and he was at last glad to escape from the house with his life , and made the best of his way back to his ark . This settle , in front of the door , was a capital point to perpetrate tricks on the constantly arriving throngs from the East , who , with characteristic enterprise , often stopped to inquire for employment . A few days after the sham duel , Harrison determined to play a trick on another emigrant , a shrewd , tolerably well-informed young man , who had evinced a great deal of self-complacency and immodest pertinacity . He told the pertinacious emigrant , who inquired for a place , that he had not , himself , anything that could engage his attention , but that he had a friend ( alluding to me ) who was now in town , who was extensively engaged in milling and merchandizing on the Little Miami , and was in want of a competent , responsible clerk . He added that , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would be in , and he would introduce him . Meantime , I was informed of the character I was to play in rebuking assumption . The man came , punctual to his appointment , in the evening , and was formally introduced . I stated the duties and the peculiar requisites and responsibilities of the trust . These he found but little difficulty in meeting . Other difficulties were stated . These , with a little thought , he also met . He had evidently scarcely any other quality than presumption . I told him at last that , from the inhabitants in the vicinity , it was necessary that he should speak Dutch . This seemed a poser , but , after some hesitancy and hemming , and the re-mustering of his cardinal presumption , he thought he could shortly render himself qualified to speak . I admired the very presumption of the theory , and finally told him to call the next day on my agent , Mr. Schenck , at such a number ( Martin Baum 's ) in Maine Street , to whom , in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ informing Schenck of the affair ; and I do not recollect , at this time , how he shuffled him off . CHAPTER II . Descent of the Ohio River from Cincinnati to its mouth  --  Ascent of the Mississippi , from the junction to Herculaneum  --  Its rapid and turbid character , and the difficulties of stemming its current by barges  --  Some incidents by the way . 1818 . At Cincinnati , I visited a sort of gigantic chimney or trunk , constructed of wood , which had been continued from the plain , and carried up against the side of one of the Walnut Hills , in order to demonstrate the practicability of obtaining a mechanical power from rarefied atmospheric air . I was certain that this would prove a failure , although Captain Bliss , who had conducted the work under the auspices of General Lytle , felt confident of success . When I was ready to proceed down the Ohio , I went to the shore , where I met a Mr. Willers , who had come there on the same errand as myself . Our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Ohio . We were pleased with a well-constructed skiff , which would conveniently hold our baggage , and , after examination , purchased it , for the purpose of making this part of the descent . I was expert with a light oar , and we agreed in thinking that this would be a very picturesque , healthful , and economical mode of travel . It was warm weather , the beginning of May , I think , and the plan was to sleep ashore every night . We found this plan to answer expectation . The trip was , in every respect , delightful . Mr. Willers lent a ready hand at the oars and tiller by turns . He possessed a good share of urbanity , had seen much of the world , and was of an age and temper to vent no violent opinions . He gave me information on some topics . We got along pleasantly . One day , a sleeping sawyer , as it is called , rose up in the river behind us in a part of the course we had just @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ earlier , would have pitched us in the air , and knocked our skiff in shivers . We stopped at Vevay , to taste the wine of the vintage of that place , which was then much talked of , and did not think it excellent . We were several days  --  I do not recollect how many  --  in reaching Louisville , in Kentucky . I found my fellow-voyager was a teacher of military science , late from Baltimore , Maryland ; he soon had a class of militia officers , to whom he gave instructions , and exhibited diagrams of military evolutions . Louisville had all the elements of city life . I was much interested in the place and its environs , and passed several weeks at that place . I found organic remains of several species in the limestone rocks of the falls , and published , anonymously , in the paper some notices of its mineralogy . When prepared to continue my descent of the river , I went to the beautiful natural mall , which exists between the mouth of the Beargrass Creek and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a fine ark , which had just come down from the waters of the Monongahela . It was owned and freighted by two adventurers from Maryland , of the names of Kemp and Keen . A fine road existed to the foot of the falls at Shippensport , a distance of two miles , which my new acquaintances pursued ; but , when I understood that there was a pilot present , I preferred remaining on board , that I might witness the descent of the falls : we descended on the Indiana side . The danger was imminent at one part , where the entire current had a violent side action , but we went safely and triumphantly down ; and , after taking our owners on board , who were unwilling to risk their lives with their property , we pursued our voyage . It was about this point , or a little above , that we first noticed the gay and noisy parroquet , flocks of which inhabited the forests . The mode of attaching vessels of this kind into flotillas was practiced on that part of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ persons . At Shawneetown , where we lay a short time , I went out hunting about the mouth of the Wabash with one Hanlon , a native of Kentucky , who was so expert in the use of the rifle that he brought down single pigeons and squirrels , aiming only at their heads or necks . After passing below the Wabash , the Ohio assumed a truly majestic flow . Its ample volume , great expanse , and noble shores , could not fail to be admired . As we neared the picturesque Cavein-Rock shore , I took the small boat , and , with some others , landed to view this traveler 's wonder . It recalled to me the dark robber era of the Ohio River , and the tales of blood and strife which I had read of . The cave itself is a striking object for its large and yawning mouth , but , to the geologist , presents nothing novel . Its ample area appears to have been frequently encamped in by the buccaneers of the Mississippi . We were told of narrow and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not find anything of much interest . The mouth of the cave was formerly concealed by trees , which favored the boat robbers ; but these had been mostly felled . As the scene of a tale of imaginative robber-life , it appeared to me to possess great attractions . Our conductor steered for Smithfield , I think it was called , at the mouth of the Cumberland River , Tennessee , which was thought a favorable place for transferring the cargo from an ark to a keel-boat , to prepare it for the ascent of the Mississippi River ; for we were now drawing closely towards the mouth of the Ohio . Here ensued a delay of many days . During this time , I made several excursions in this part of Tennessee , and always with the rifle in hand , in the use of which I had now become expert enough to kill small game without destroying it . While here , some of General Jackson 's volunteers from his wars against the Creeks and Seminoles returned , and related some of the incidents of their perilous campaign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , under the command of Captain Ensminger , of Saline , which discharged its cargo at this point , and took on board the freight of Kemp and Keen , bound to St. Louis , in Missouri . We pursued our way , under the force of oars , which soon brought us to the mouth of the Ohio , where the captain paused to prepare for stemming the Mississippi . It was now the first day of July , warm and balmy during the mornings and evenings , but of a torrid heat at noon . We were now one thousand miles below Pittsburgh  --  a distance which it is impossible for any man to realize from the mere reading of books . This splendid valley is one of the prominent creations of the universe . Its fertility and beauty are unequaled ; and its capacities of sustaining a dense population can not be overrated . Seven States border on its waters , and they are seven States which are destined to contribute no little part to the commerce , wealth , and power of the Union . It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Europe , of some two or three hundred miles in length , compared to the Ohio . There is nothing like it in all Europe for its great length , uninterrupted fertility , and varied resources , and consequent power to support an immense population . Yet its banks consist not of a dead level , like the lower Nile and Volga , but of undulating plains and hills , which afford a lively flow to its waters , and supply an amount of hydraulic power which is amazing . The river itself is composed of some of the prime streams of the country . The Alleghany , the Monongahela , the Muskingum , the Miami , the Wabash , the Cumberland , and the Tennessee , are rivers of the most noble proportions , and the congregated mass of water rolls forward , increasing in volume and magnificence , until the scene delights the eye by its displays of quiet , lovely , rural magnitude and physical grandeur . Yet all this is but an element in the vast system of western waters . It reaches the Mississippi , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and rapid stream , which , like some gaping , gigantic monster , running wild from the Rocky Mountains and the Itasca summit , stands ready to gulp it down . The scene is truly magnificent , and the struggle not slight . For more than twenty miles , the transparent blue waters of the Ohio are crowded along the Tennessee coast ; but the Mississippi , swollen by its summer flood , as if disdainful of its rural and peace-like properties , gains the mastery before reaching Memphis , and carries its characteristic of turbid geologic power for a thousand miles more , until its final exit into the Mexican Gulf . I had never seen such a sight . I had lost all my standards of comparison . Compared to it , my little home streams would not fill a pint cup ; and , like a man suddenly ushered into a new world , I was amazed at the scene before me . Mere amplitude of the most ordinary elements of water and alluvial land has done this . The onward rush of eternal waters was an idea @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have embodied this idea in the word Mississippi . Ensminger was a stout manly fellow , of the characteristic traits of Anglo-Saxon daring ; but he thought it prudent not to plunge too hastily into this mad current , and we slept at the precise point of embouchure , where , I think , Cairo is now located . Early the next morning the oarsmen were paraded , like so many militia , on the slatted gunwales of the barge , each armed with a long and stout setting pole , shod with iron . Ensminger himself took the helm , and the toil and struggle of pushing the barge up stream began . We were obliged to keep close to the shore , in order to find bottom for the poles , and whenever that gave out , the men instantly resorted to oars to gain some point on the opposite side , where bottom could be reached . It was a struggle requiring the utmost activity . The water was so turbid that we could not perceive objects an inch below the surface . The current rushed with a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ worst effect was its perpetual tendency to undermine its banks . Often heavy portions of the banks plunged into the river , endangering boats and men . The banks consisted of dark alluvion ten to fifteen feet above the water , bearing a dense growth of trees and shrubbery . The plunging of these banks into the stream often sounded like thunder . With every exertion , we advanced but five miles the first day , and it was a long July day . As evening came on , the mosquitos were in hordes . It was impossible to perform the offices of eating or drinking , without suffering the keenest torture from their stings . The second day we ascended six miles , the third day seven miles , the fourth day six miles , and the fifth eight miles , which brought us to the first settlement on the Missouri shore , called Tyawapaty Bottom . The banks in this distance became more elevated , and we appeared to be quitting the more nascent region . We noticed the wild turkey and gray squirrel ashore . The following day @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ caused some of the hands to give out . Ensminger was a man not easily discouraged . He lay by during the day , and the next morning found means to move ahead . At an early hour we reached the head of the settlement , and came to at a spot called the Little Chain of Rocks . The fast lands of the Missouri shore here jut into the river , and I examined , at this point , a remarkable bed of white clay , which is extensively employed by the local mechanics for chalk , but which is wholly destitute of carbonic acid . We ascended , this day , ten miles ; and the next day five miles , which carried us to Cape Girardeau  --  a town estimated to be fifty miles above the mouth of the Ohio . Here were about fifty houses , situated on a commanding eminence . We had been landed but a short time , when one of the principal merchants of the place sent me word that he had just received some drugs and medicines which he wished me to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when it turned out that he was no druggist at all , nor wished my skill in this way , but , having heard there was a doctor aboard , he had taken this facetious mode of inviting me to partake of some refreshments . I regret that I have forgotten his name . The next day we ascended seven miles , and next the same distance , and stopped at the Moccason Spring , a basin of limpid water occupying a crevice in the limestone rock . The day following we ascended but five miles , and the next day seven miles , in which distance we passed the Grand Tower , a geological monument rising from the bed of the river , which stands to tell of some great revolution in the ancient face of the country . The Mississippi River probably broke through one of its ancient barriers at this place . We made three unsuccessful attempts to pass Garlic Point , where we encountered a very strong current , and finally dropped down and came to , for the night , below it , the men being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with a cordelle the next morning , with success , but not without exhausting the men so much that two of them refused to proceed , who were immediately paid off , and furnished provisions to return . We succeeded in going to the mouth of the Obrazo , about half a mile higher , when we lay by all day . This delay enabled Ensminger to recruit his crew , and during the three following days we ascended respectively six , seven , and ten miles , which brought us to the commencement of Bois-brule bottom . This is a fertile , and was then a comparatively populous , settlement . We ascended along it about seven miles , the next day seven more , and the next eleven , which completed the ascent to the antique town of St. Genevieve . About three hundred houses were here clustered together , which , with their inhabitants , had the looks which we may fancy to belong to the times of Louis XIV . of France . It was the chief mart of the lead mines , situated in the interior @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about the warehouses . We remained here the next day , which was the 20th of July , and then went forward twelve miles , the next day thirteen , and the next five , which brought us , at noon , to the town of Herculaneum , containing some thirty or forty buildings , excluding three picturesque-looking shot towers on the top of the rocky cliffs of the river . This was another mart of the lead mines . I determined to land definitively at this point , purposing to visit the mines , after completing my ascent by land to St. Louis . It was now the 23d of July , the whole of which , from the 1st , we had spent in a diligent ascent of the river , by setting pole and cordelle , from the junction of the Ohio  --  a distance of one hundred and seventy miles . We were still thirty miles above St. Louis . I have detailed some of the incidents of the journey , in order to denote the difficulties of the ascent with barges prior to the introduction of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ motion gave me of becoming acquainted with the physical character of this river and its shores . A large part of the west banks I had traveled on foot , and gleaned several facts in its mineralogy and geology which made it an initial point in my future observations . The metalliferous formation is first noticed at the little chain of rocks . From the Grand Tower , the western shores become precipitous , showing sections and piled-up pinnacles of the series of horizontal sandstones and limestones which characterize the imposing coast . Had I passed it in a steamer , downward bound , as at this day , in forty-eight hours , I should have had none but the vaguest and most general conceptions of its character . But I went to glean facts in its natural history , and I knew these required careful personal inspection of minute as well as general features . There may be a sort of horseback theory of geology ; but mineralogy , and the natural sciences generally , must be investigated on foot , hammer or goniometer in hand . CHAPTER III . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the first American colony in Texas , Mr. Austin  --  His character  --  Continuation of the journey on foot to St. Louis  --  Incidents by the way  --  Trip to the mines  --  Survey of the mine country  --  Expedition from Potosi into the Ozark Mountains , and return , after a winter 's absence , to Potosi. 1818 . The familiar conversation on shore of my friendly associates , speaking of a doctor on board who was inquiring into the natural history and value of the country at every point , procured me quite unexpectedly a favorable reception at Herculaneum , as it had done at Cape Girardeau . I was introduced to Mr. Austin , the elder , who , on learning my intention of visiting the mines , offered every facility in his power to favor my views . Mr. Austin was a gentleman of general information , easy and polite manners , and enthusiastic character . He had , with his connections , the Bates , I believe , been the founder of Herculaneum , and was solicitous to secure it a share of the lead trade @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ St. Genevieve . He was a man of very decided enterprise , inclined to the manners of the old school gentlemen , which had , I believe , narrowed his popularity , and exposed him to some strong feuds in the interior , where his estates lay . He was a diligent reader of the current things of the day , and watched closely the signs of the times . He had lived in the capital of Virginia , where he married . He had been engaged extensively as a merchant and miner in Wyeth county , in the western part of that State . He had crossed the wilderness west of the Ohio River , at an early day , to St. Louis , then a Spanish interior capital . He had been received by the Spanish authorities with attentions , and awarded a large grant of the mining lands . He had remained under the French period of supremacy , and had been for about sixteen years a resident of the region when it was transferred by purchase to the United States . The family had been from an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the country . And as his position seemed to wane , and clouds to hover over his estates , he seemed restless , and desirous to transfer his influence to another theatre of action . From my earliest conversations with him , he had fixed his mind on Texas , and spoke with enthusiasm about it . I left my baggage , consisting of two well-filled trunks , in charge of Mr. Ellis , a worthy innkeeper of the town , and when I was ready to continue my way on foot for St. Louis , I was joined in this journey by Messrs . Kemp and Keen , my fellow-voyagers on the water from Louisville . We set out on the 26th of the month . The weather was hot and the atmosphere seemed to be lifeless and heavy . Our road lay over gentle hills , in a state of nature . The grass had but in few places been disturbed by the plough , or the trees by the axe . The red clay soil seemed fitter for the miner than the farmer . At the distance of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ springs strongly impregnated with sulphur , which bubbled up from the ground . They were remarkably clear and cold , and deposited a light sediment of sulphur , along the little rills by which they found an outlet into a rapid stream , which was tributary to the Mississippi . Five miles beyond these springs , we reached the valley of the Merrimack , just at nightfall ; and notwithstanding the threatening atmosphere , and the commencement of rain , before we descended to the stream , we prevailed with the ferryman to go down and set us over , which we urged with the view of reaching a house within less than a mile of the other bank . He landed us at the right spot ; but the darkness had now become so intense that we could not keep the road , and groped our way along an old wheel-track into the forest . It also came on to rain hard . We at last stood still . We were lost in utter darkness , and exposed to a pelting storm . After a while we heard a faint @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it was repeated at long intervals , but faintly , as if the animal was housed . It gave us the direction , which was quite different from the course we had followed . No obstacle , though there were many , prevented us from reaching the house , where we arrived wet and hungry , and half dead with fatigue . The Merrimack , in whose valley we were thus entangled , is the prime outlet of the various streams of the mine country , where Renault , and Arnault , and other French explorers , expended their researches during the exciting era of the celebrated illusory Mississippi scheme . The next day we crossed an elevated arid tract for twelve miles to the village of Carondalet , without encountering a house , or an acre of land in cultivation . On this tract , which formed a sort of oak orchard , with high grass , and was a range for wild deer , Jefferson Barracks have since been located . Six miles further brought us to the town of St. Louis , over an elevated brushy plain , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ We arrived about four o'clock in the afternoon , and had a pleasant evening to view its fine site , based as it is on solid limestone rock , where no encroachment of the headlong Mississippi can ever endanger its safety . I was delighted with the site , and its capacity for expansion , and can not conceive of one in America , situated in the interior , which appears destined to rival it in population , wealth , power , and resources . It is idle to talk of any city of Europe or Asia , situated as this is , twelve hundred miles from the sea , which can be named as its future equal . It was now the 27th of July , and the river , which had been swollen by the Missouri flood , was rapidly falling , and almost diminished to its summer minimum . It left a heavy deposit of mud on its immediate shores , which , as it dried in the sun , cracked into fragments , which were often a foot thick . These cakes of dried sediment consisted chiefly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ body of the deposit adhesive . I was kindly received by R. Pettibone , Esq. , a townsman from New York , from whom I had parted at Pittsburgh . This gentleman had established himself in business with Col. Eastman , and as soon as he heard of my arrival , invited me to his house , where I remained until I was ready to proceed to the mines . I examined whatever seemed worth notice in the town and its environs . I then descended the Mississippi in a skiff about thirty miles to Herculaneum , and the next day set out , on foot , at an early hour , for the mines . I had an idea that every effective labor should be commenced right , and , as I purposed examining the mineralogy and geology of the mine tract , I did not think that could be more thoroughly accomplished than on foot . I ordered my baggage to follow me by the earliest returning lead teams . True it was sultry , and much of the first part of the way , I was informed , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , sixteen miles , and reached the head of Joachim Creek . In this distance , I did not , after quitting the environs of the town , pass a house . The country lay in its primitive state . For the purpose of obtaining a good road , an elevated arid ridge had been pursued much of the way . In crossing this , I suffered severely from heat and thirst , and the only place where I saw water was in a rut , which I frightened a wild turkey from partaking of , in order to stoop down to it myself . As soon as I reached the farm house , where I stopped at an early hour , I went down to the creek , and bathed in its refreshing current . This , with a night 's repose , perfectly restored me . The next day I crossed Grand River , and went to the vicinity of Old mines , when a sudden storm compelled me to take shelter at the first house , where I passed my second night . In this distance I visited @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Shibboleth . Smith was a bold and indomitable man , originally from Tennessee , who possessed a marked individuality of character , and being a great shot with pistol and rifle , had put the country in dread of him . After crossing Big or Grand River , I was fairly within the mine country , and new objects began to attract my attention on every hand . The third day , at an early hour , I reached Potosi , and took up my residence at Mr. W. Ficklin 's , a most worthy and estimable Kentuckian , who had a fund of adventurous lore of forest life to tell , having , in early life , been a spy and a hunter " on the dark and bloody ground . " With him I was soon at home , and to him I owe much of my early knowledge of wood-craft . The day after my arrival was the general election of the ( then ) Territory of Missouri , and the district elected Mr. Stephen F. Austin to the local legislature . I was introduced to him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , on the day of the election , which brought them together . Mr. Austin , the elder , also arrived . This gathering was a propitious circumstance for my explorations ; no mineralogist had ever visited the country . Coming from the quarter I did , and with the object I had , there was a general interest excited on the subject , and each one appeared to feel a desire to show me attentions . Mr. Stephen F. Austin invited me to take rooms at the old Austin mansion ; he requested me to make one of them a depot for my mineralogical collections , and he rode out with me to examine several mines . He was a gentleman of an acute and cultivated mind , and great suavity of manners . He appreciated the object of my visit , and saw at once the advantages that might result from the publication of a work on the subject . For Missouri , like the other portions of the Mississippi Valley , had come out of the Late War with exhaustion . The effects of a peace were to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ she also severely felt the reaction of the paper money system , which had created extensive derangement and depression . He possessed a cautious , penetrating mind , and was a man of elevated views . He had looked deeply into the problem of western settlement , and the progress of American arts , education , and modes of thinking and action over the whole western world , and was then meditating a movement on the Red River of Arkansas , and eventually Texas . He foresaw the extension in the Mississippi Valley of the American system of civilization , to the modification and exclusion of the old Spanish and French elements . Mr. Austin accompanied me in several of my explorations . On one of these excursions , while stopping at a planter 's who owned a mill , I saw several large masses of sienite , lying on the ground ; and on inquiry where this material could come from , in the midst of a limestone country , was informed that it was brought from the waters of the St. Francis , to serve the purpose of millstones @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stream , which resulted in the discovery of the primitive tract , embracing the sources of the St. Francis and Big Rivers . I found rising of forty principal mines scattered over a district of some twenty miles , running parallel to , and about thirty miles west of , the banks of the Mississippi . I spent about three months in these examinations , and as auxiliary means thereto , built a chemical furnace , for assays , in Mr. Austin 's old smelting-house , and collected specimens of the various minerals of the country . Some of my excursions were made on foot , some on horseback , and some in a single wagon . I unwittingly killed a horse in these trips , in swimming a river , when the animal was over-heated ; at least he was found dead next morning in the stable . In the month of October I resolved to push my examinations west beyond the line of settlement , and to extend them into the Ozark Mountains . By this term is meant a wide range of hill country running from the head @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this enterprise several persons agreed to unite . I went to St. Louis , and interested a brother of my friend Pettibone in the plan . I found my old fellow-voyager , Brigham , on the American bottom in Illinois , where he had cultivated some large fields of corn , and where he had contracted fever and ague . He agreed , however , to go , and reached the point of rendezvous , at Potosi ; but he had been so enfeebled as to be obliged to return from that point . The brother of Pettibone arrived . He had no tastes for natural history , but it was a season of leisure , and he was prone for the adventure . But the experienced woodsmen who had agreed to go , and who had talked largely of encountering bears and Osage Indians , and slaughtering buffalo , one by one gave out . I was resolved myself to proceed , whoever might flinch . I had purchased a horse , constructed a pack saddle with my own hands , and made every preparation that was deemed necessary . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ficklin , my good host , accompanied me to the outskirts of the settlement . He was an old woodsman , and gave me proper directions about hobbling my horse at night , and imparted other precautions necessary to secure a man 's life against wild animals and savages . My St. Louis auxiliary stood stoutly by me . If he had not much poetry in his composition , he was a reliable man in all weathers , and might be counted upon to do his part willingly . This journey had , on reflection , much daring and adventure . It constitutes my initial point of travels ; but , as I have described it from my journal , in a separate form , it will not be necessary here to do more than say that it was successfully accomplished . After spending the fall of 1818 , and the winter of 1819 , in a series of adventures in barren , wild , and mountainous scenes , we came out on the tributary waters of the Arkansas , down which we descended in a log canoe . On the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by leaping from a wall of rock while hunting in the Green Mountains four years before , inflamed , and caused me to lie by a few days ; which was the only injury I received in the route . I returned to Potosi in February . The first man I met ( Major Hawking ) , on reaching the outer settlements , expressed surprise at seeing me , as he had heard from the hunters , who had been on my trail about eighty miles to the Saltpetre caves on the Currents River , that I had been killed by the Indians . Every one was pleased to see me , and no one more so than my kind Kentucky host , who had been the last to bid me adieu on the verge of the wilderness . CHAPTER IV . Sit down to write an account of the mines  --  Medical properties of the Mississippi water  --  Expedition to the Yellow Stone  --  Resolve to visit Washington with a plan of managing the mines  --  Descend the river from St. Genevieve to New Orleans  --  Incidents of the trip @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Reception with my collection there  --  Publish my memoir on the mines , and proceed with it to Washington  --  Result of my plan  - -  Appointed geologist and mineralogist on an expedition to the sources of the Mississippi . 1819 . I now sat down to draw up a description of the mine country and its various mineral resources . Having finished my expedition to the south , I felt a strong desire to extend my observations up the Mississippi to St. Anthony 's Falls , and into the copper-bearing regions of that latitude . Immediately I wrote to the Hon. J.B. Thomas , of Illinois , the only gentleman I knew at Washington , on the subject , giving him a brief description of my expedition into the Ozarks . I did not know that another movement , in a far distant region , was then on foot for exploring the same latitudes , with which it was my fortune eventually to be connected . I allude to the expedition from Detroit in 1820 , under General Cass . I had , at this time , personally visited every mine or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ traced its geological relations into Arkansas . I was engaged on this paper assiduously . When it was finished , I read it to persons well acquainted with the region , and sought opportunities of personal criticism upon it . The months of February and March had now glided away . Too close a confinement to my room , however , affected my health . The great change of life from camping out , and the rough scenes of the forest , could not fail to disturb the functional secretions . An obstruction of the liver developed itself in a decided case of jaundice . After the usual remedies , I made a journey from Potosi to the Mississippi River , for the purpose of ascending that stream on a barge , in order that I might be compelled to drink its turbid , but healthy waters , and partake again of something like field fare . The experiment succeeded . The trip had the desired effect , and I returned in a short time from St. Louis to Mine au Breton in completely restored health . At Herculaneum , I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States Topographical Engineers , who was now on his way , in the small steamer Western Pioneer , up the Missouri to the Yellow Stone . I went on board the boat and was also introduced to Mr. Say , the entomologist and conchologist , Mr. Jessup the geologist , and other gentlemen composing the scientific corps . This expedition was the first evidence to my mind of the United States Government turning attention , in connection with practical objects , to matters of science , and the effort was due , I understand , to the enlightened mind of Mr. Calhoun , then Secretary of War . It occurred tome , after my return to Potosi , that the subject of the mines which I had been inquiring about , so far as relates to their management as a part of the public domain , was one that belonged properly to the United States Government ; Missouri was but a territory having only inchoate rights . The whole mineral domain was held , in fee , by the General Government , and whatever irregularity had been seen about the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could only solve . I determined to visit Washington , and lay the subject before the President . As soon as I had made this determination , everything bowed to this idea . I made a rapid visit , on horseback , to St. Louis , with my manuscript , to consult a friend , who entirely concurred in this view . If the mines were ever to be put on a proper basis , and the public to derive a benefit from them , the government must do it . As soon as I returned to Potosi , I packed my collection of mineralogy , &c.; I ordered the boxes by the lead teams to St. Genevieve . I went to the same point myself , and , taking passage in the new steamer " St. Louis , " descended the Mississippi to New Orleans . The trip occupied some days . I repassed the junction of the Ohio with deep interest . It is not only the importance of geographical events that impresses us . The nature of the phenomena is often of the highest moral moment . An @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the steamer . The captain handed me a letter . I opened it , and found it to contain money from the secretary of a secret society . I was surprised at such an occurrence , but I confess not displeased . I had kept my pecuniary affairs to myself . My wardrobe and baggage were such as everywhere to make a respectable appearance . If I economized in travel and outlay , I possessed the dignity of keeping my own secret . One night , as I lay sleepless in a dark but double-bedded room , an old gentleman  --  a disbanded officer , I think , whose health disturbed his repose  --  began a conversation of a peculiar kind , and asked me whether I was not a Freemason . Darkness , and the distance I was from him , induced a studiedly cautious reply . But a denouement the next day followed . This incident was the only explanation the unwonted and wholly unexpected remittance admitted . A stranger , traveling to a southern and sickly city to embark for a distant State , perhaps never to return @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and it reveals a trait which should wipe away many an error of judgment or feeling . The voyage down this stream was an exciting one , and replete with novel scenes and incidents . The portion of the river above the mouth of the Ohio , which it had taken me twenty days to ascend in a barge , we were not forty-eight hours in descending . Trees , points of land , islands , every physical object on shore , we rushed by with a velocity that left but vague and indistinct impressions . We seemed floating , as it were , on the waters of chaos , where mud , trees , boats , were carried along swiftly by the current , without any additional impulse of a steam-engine , puffing itself off at every stroke of the piston . The whole voyage to New Orleans had some analogy to the recollection of a gay dream , in which objects were recollected as a long line of loosely-connected panoramic fragments . At New Orleans , where I remained several days , I took passage in the brig @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ While at anchor at the Balize , we were one night under apprehensions from pirates , but the night passed away without any attack . The mud and alluvial drift of the Mississippi extend many leagues into the gulf . It was evident that the whole delta had been formed by the deposits made in the course of ages . Buried trees , and other forms of organic life , which have been disinterred from the banks of the river , as high , not only as New Orleans and Natchez , but to the mouth of the Ohio , show this . It must be evident to every one who takes the trouble to examine the phenomena , that an arm of the gulf anciently extended to this point ; and that the Ohio , the Arkansas , Red River , and other tributaries of the present day , as well as the main Mississippi , had at that epoch entered this ancient arm of the gulf . I landed at the light-house at the Balize . We had to walk on planks supported by stakes in the water . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and extended as far as the eye could reach . About twelve or fourteen inches depth of water spread over the land . A light-house of brick or stone , formerly built on this mud plain , east of the main pass , had partially sunk , and hung in a diagonal line to the horizon , reminding the spectator of the insecurity of all solid structures on such a nascent basis . The present light-house was of wood . It was evident , however , that here were deposited millions of acres of the richest alluvion on the globe , and in future times another Holland may be expected to be rescued from the dominions of the ocean . As we passed out into the gulf , another evidence of the danger of the channel met our view , in the wreck of a stranded vessel . The vast stain of mud and alluvial filth extended for leagues into the gulf . As the vessel began to take the rise and swell of the sea , I traversed the deck diligently , and , by dint of perseverance in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been at sea before . When the land had vanished at all points , and there was nothing in sight but deep blue water around us and a sky above , the scene was truly sublime ; there was a mental reaction , impressing a lesson of the insignificance of man , which I had never before felt . We passed the Gulf of Florida , heaving in sight on one side , as we passed , of the Tortugas , and , on the other , of the Mora Castle of Havana , after which there was little to be noticed , but changes in the Gulf Stream , fishes , sea-birds , ships , and the constant mutations from tempests to the deep blue waters of a calm , till we hove in sight of the Neversinks , and entered the noble bay of New York . It was the third of August when I reached the city , having stayed out my quarantine faithfully on Staten Island , the mineralogy and geological structure of which I completely explored during that period of municipal regimen  --  for it was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rigid quarantine . Dr. Dewitt , the health officer , who had known my father , received me very kindly , and my time wore off imperceptibly , while I footed its serpentine vales and magnesian plains . On reaching the city , I fixed my lodgings at a point on the banks of the Hudson , or rather at its point of confluence with the noble bay ( 71 Courtland ) , where I could overlook its islands and busy water craft , ever in motion . I had now completed , by land and water , a circuit of the Union , having traveled some 6000 miles . My arrival was opportune . No traveler of modern times had thrown himself upon the success of his scientific observations , and I was hailed , by the scientific public , as the first one who had ever brought a collection of the mineral productions of the Mississippi Valley . My collection , which was large and splendid , was the means of introducing me to men of science at New York and elsewhere . Dr. Samuel L. Mitchell and Dr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their fame , cordially received me . The natural sciences were then chiefly in the hands of physicians , and there was scarcely a man of note in these departments of inquiry who was not soon numbered among my acquaintances . Dr. John Torrey was then a young man , who had just published his first botanical work . Dr. A.W . Ives warmly interested himself in my behalf , and I had literary friends on every side . Among these Gov . De Witt Clinton was prominent . I had fixed my lodgings where the Hudson River , and the noble bay of New York and its islands , were in full view from my window . Here I opened my collection , and invited men of science to view it , I put to press my observations on the mines and physical geography of the West . I also wrote a letter on its resources , which was published by the Corresponding Association of Internal Improvements , The Lyceum of Natural History , and the Historical Society , each admitted me to membership . My work was published about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ announced , I took copies of it , and proceeded to Washington , where I was favorably received . I lost no time in calling on Mr. Monroe , and the Secretaries of War and of the Treasury . Mr. Monroe took up his commonplace-book , and made memorandums of my statements respecting the mines . Mr. Calhoun received me cordially , and said that the jurisdiction of the mines was not in his department . But he had received a memoir from General Cass , Governor of Michigan , proposing to explore the sources of the Mississippi , through the Lakes , and suggesting that a naturalist , conversant with mineralogy , should accompany him , to inquire into the supposed value of the Lake Superior copper mines . He tendered me the place , and stated the compensation . The latter was small , but the situation appeared to me to be one which was not to be overlooked . I accepted it . It seemed to be the bottom step in a ladder which I ought to climb . Small events , it has been said , lead @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and whether this step was important in mine , may be better judged of , perhaps , when these notes shall have been read . In the mean time , while I accepted this place , the subject of the management and superintendence of the western mines appeared to be fully appreciated by Mr. Calhoun and Mr. Crawford , the latter of whom requested a written statement on the subject ; and it was held for further consideration. 6 I found during this , my first visit to the capital , that the intelligence of my favorable reception at New York , and of my tour in the West , had preceded me . Friends appeared , of whom , at this distance of time , I may name the Vice-President , D.D . Tompkins , Judge Smith Thompson , of the Supreme Court , Colonel Benton , Senator elect from Missouri , Hon. John Scott , the delegate , Hon. Jesse B. Thomas , Senator from Illinois , John D. Dickinson , Esq. , Representative from Troy , N.Y. , Hon. Josiah Meigs , Commissioner of the General Land Office @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Rep. from Pennsylvania . To each of these , I have ever supposed myself to be under obligations for aiding me in my object of exploration , and I certainly was for civilities and attentions . Footnote 6 : This effort became the cause of the government finally taking definite action on the subject . Mr. Monroe presented it to the consideration of Congress in the fall , and a superintendent was subsequently appointed . Mr. Calhoun addressed a letter to Governor Cass , of Michigan , and I proceeded immediately to the North , to be ready to avail myself of the first opportunity of ascending the lakes to the place of departure . CHAPTER V. Set out on the expedition to the north-west  --  Remain a few weeks at New York  --  Visit Niagara Falls , and reach Detroit in the first steamer  --  Preparations for a new style of traveling  --  Correspondents  --  General sketch of the route pursued by the expedition , and its results  --  Return to Albany , and publish my narrative  --  Journal of it  --  Preparation for a scientific account of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of February , exactly one year from my return to Potosi from the Ozarks ; proceeded to New York , where I remained till early in March ; traveled by sleigh over the Highlands , was at Niagara Falls on the 1st of May , and reached Detroit in the steamer " Walk-in-the-water " on the 8th of May . Captain D.B. Douglass , of West Point Academy , was appointed topographer , and joined me at Buffalo . We proceeded up Lake Erie in company , and were received in a most cordial manner by General Cass and the citizens generally of that yet remote and gay military post . Arrangements were not completed for immediate embarkation . We were to travel in the novel Indian bark canoe . Many little adaptations were necessary , and while these things were being done we spent a couple of weeks very agreeably , in partaking of the hospitalities of the place . My correspondence now began to accumulate , and I took this occasion of a little pause to attend to it . The publication of my work on the mines had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Mississippi Valley , and the subject of geographical and geological explorations . It also brought me a class of correspondents who are simply anxious for practical information , and always set about getting it in the most direct way , whether they are personal or introduced acquaintances or not . I determined at once to reply to these , wherever they appeared to be honest inquiries for geographical facts , which I only , and not books , could communicate . Mr. Robert Bright , of Charleston , S.C. , an English emigrant , having got a copy of my work , wrote ( Jan. 11 ) as to the business prospects of St. Louis , intending apparently to go thither . Not knowing my correspondent , but , on a moment 's reflection , believing the communication of such information would not make me poorer and might be important to him , by helping him on in his fortunes in the world , I wrote to him , giving the desired information , assigning to that spot , in my estimation , a highly important central influence on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hon. John Scott , delegate in Congress , from Missouri , speaking of the work on the mineralogy , &c.,; of that territory , says , " Those sources of individual and national wealth , which I have no doubt you have well developed , have been too long neglected , and I trust that your well-directed efforts to bring them to notice will be amply rewarded , not only in the emoluments derived from the work , but what is still more gratifying to the author , and the enlightened and patriotic statesman , in seeing this portion of our resources brought into full operation . " Mr. Robert C. Bruffey , of Missouri , writes ( March 14th ) , giving a sketch of a recent tour into the southern part of Arkansas :  --  " Health of Southern Climates.  --  When I returned from the Arkansas , which was not till the 6th of October , with some few others , I brought a particular ' specimen ' of the country , namely , the ague and fever , which I endured for two months , and until @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ three weeks at the Springs ( Hot Springs of Wachita ) ; could I have spent the whole summer in the use of the water , no doubt I should have been much benefited , if not entirely relieved from my irksome complaint . I saw your friend Stephen P. Austin , at the Springs , just recovered from a dangerous sickness , namely , fever and vomiting blood . He inquired after you particularly . " A New Field for Exploration .  --  When I was in the lower country , I was sorry you had not time to visit that interesting section of country previous to the publication of your work ( which , I understand , has been received and appreciated with avidity ) ; for I assure you , as relates to scientific researches , you would have collected materials that would have come within its purview , and repaid you liberally for your labor , and the specimens added richly to your collection . " I will now give you a description , so far as my feeble abilities will admit , of the things which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In the first place , the springs are worthy of notice , in a natural as well as medical point of view . They contain in their different issues all the different temperatures , from boiling , down to a pleasure bath . They contain a combining principle , or the quality of petrifying and uniting various substances that may come in contact with them , such as flint , earth , stone , iron , &c.; The bluff from which they flow out is principally of an apparent calcareous substance , formed by the water . In some of the springs a red , in others a green and yellow , sediment is produced . The waters will remove rheumatism , purge out mercury , and produce salivation , in those who have it in their system previously ; cure old sores and consumptions , in their early stages ; cure dropsies , palsies , &c.,; if taken in time . " The next curiosity is the loadstone , a specimen of which I have with me ; you can examine it when you visit this country . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 7 The fourth is alum , of which I procured a small quantity , as I did not visit the cave where it is to be obtained . The fifth is oil and whetstone , of which there is a great abundance in that quarter . The sixth is asbestus . In a word , the subjects are worthy the attention of those who wish to be instrumental in enlarging or developing that branch of science . " Footnote 7 : Now in my cabinet . Mr. William Ficklin , one of the pioneers of Kentucky , but now a resident of Missouri , writes : " I am pleased to hear of your appointment , and wish I could be with you on the route , as you will visit a section of the country but little known to our government . I must advise you to be on your guard against the Indians , the best of whom will murder a man for a trifle , if they can meet him alone , or off his guard . " A Mr. Nabb , a few months ago , brought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he smelted in a common forge  --  it was as bright as silver , but too hard to bear the hammer . I think it must be zinc . " March 18th.  --  Mr. Amos Eaton writes from Troy : " A second edition of my Index to Geology is in the press  --  about thirty-six pages struck off . I have written the whole over anew , and extended it to about two hundred and fifty pages 12mo . I have taken great pains to collect facts , in this district , during the two years since my first edition was published . But I am rather deficient in my knowledge of secondary and alluvial formations ; I wish to trouble you with a few inquiries upon that subject . " From what knowledge I have been able to obtain in that department , I am inclined to arrange the secondary class thus :  --  " Breccia : compact , or shell limestone ; gypsum , secondary sandstone . " I leave much , also , for peculiar local formations . " A gentleman presented specimens to the Troy Lyceum @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and informed me that the latter overlaid the former in regular structure . Myron Holly , and others , have given me similar specimens , which they represent as being similarly situated , from several localities in the western part of this State . This secondary sandstone is sometimes more or less calcareous . I believe it is used for a cement by the Canal Company , which hardens under water . Will you do me the favor to settle this question ? " On your way to Detroit , you may perhaps , without material inconvenience , collect facts of importance to me , in relation to secondary and alluvial formations . Anything transmitted to me by the middle of April on these subjects will be in season , because I shall not have printed all the transition part before that time . " Have you any knowledge of the strata constituting Rocky Mountains ? Is it primitive , or is it graywacke like Catskill Mountains ? I have said , in a note , that , after you and Dr. E. James set foot upon it , we shall @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to kindle a blaze of geological zeal before you return . I have adapted the style of my index to the capacities of ladies , plough-joggers , and mechanics . " March 28th.  --  While here , I received a notice of my election as a member of the Academy of Natural Sciences at Philadelphia . April 28th.  --  James T. Johnston , Esq. , of N.Y. , writes on the interesting character of the mineralogy of the interior of Georgia . The spirit of inquiry denoted by these letters gives but a faint idea of the interest which was now awakened in the public mind , on the exploration of the west , and it would require a reference to the public prints of the day to denote this . If the delay had served no other purpose , it had brought us into a familiar acquaintance with our commander , who was frank and straightforward in his manners , and fully disposed , not only to say , but to do everything to facilitate the object . He put no veto on any request of this kind , holding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with any order . He was not a man , indeed , who dealt in hems and haws  --  did not require to sleep upon a simple question  --  and is not a person whose course is to be stopped , as many little big men are , by two straws crossed . At length the canoes , which were our principal cause of delay , arrived from Lake Huron , where they were constructed , and all things were ready for our embarkation . It was the 24th of May when we set out . A small detachment of infantry had been ordered to form a part of the expedition , under Lieutenant Aeneas Mackay . Eight or ten Chippewa and Ottowa Indians were taken in a separate canoe , as hunters , and gave picturesqueness to the brigade by their costume . There were ten Canadian voyagers of the north-west stamp . Professor Douglass and myself were the only persons to whom separate classes of scientific duties were assigned . A secretary and some assistants made the governor 's mess consist of nine persons . Altogether , we numbered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a truly formidable number of mouths to feed in the " waste howling wilderness . " Having kept and published a journal of the daily incidents of the expedition , I refer to it for details. 8 To plunge into the wilderness is truly to take one 's life in his hand . But nobody thought of this . The enterprise was of a kind to produce exhilaration . The route lay up the Detroit and St. Clair Rivers , and around the southern shores of Lakes Huron and Superior to Fond du Lac . Thence up the St. Louis River in its rugged passage through the Cabotian Mountains to the Savannah summit which divides the great lakes from the Mississippi Valley . The latter was entered through the Comtaguma or Sandy Lake River . From this point the source of the Mississippi was sought up rapids and falls , and through lakes and savannahs , in which the channel winds . We passed the inlet of the Leech Lake , which was fixed upon by Lieutenant Pike as its probable source , and traced it through Little Lake Winnipeg to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or Cass Lake , in north lat. 47 deg .. On reaching this point , the waters were found unfavorable to proceeding higher . The river was then descended to the falls of St. Anthony , St. Peters , and Prairie du Chien . From the latter point we ascended the Wisconsin to the portage into Fox River , and descended the latter to Green Bay . At this point , the expedition was divided , a part going north , in order to trace the shores to Michilimackinack , and part steering south , by the shores of Lake Michigan to Chicago . At the latter place , another division was made , Governor Cass and suite proceeding on horseback , across the peninsula of Michigan , and Captain Douglass and myself completing the survey of the eastern coast of Michigan , and rejoining the party detached to strike Michilimackinack . The Huron shores were coasted to the head of the River St. Clair and Detroit . Footnote 8 : A Narrative Journal of Travels through the American Lakes to the Sources of the Mississippi River . 1 vol. 8vo. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ miles were traversed . Of this distance the topography was accurately traced by Captain Douglass and his assistant , Mr. Trowbridge . This officer also took observations for the latitude at every practical point , and collected with much labor the materials for a new and enlarged map . Its geology and mineralogy were the subjects of a detailed report made by me to the War Department in 1822 . Of the copper deposits on Lake Superior , a detailed report was made to the same department in November 1820 . The Indian tribes were the subject of observation made by General Cass . Its botany , its fresh water conchology , and its zoology and ichthyology , received the attention that a rapid transit permitted . Its soil , productions , and climate were the topics of daily observation . In short , no exploration had before been made which so completely revealed the features and physical geography of so large a portion of the public domain . And the literary and scientific public waited with an intense desire for the result of these observations in every department . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eventful tour , was at the post of Green Bay , where a letter from J.T. Johnston , Esq. , of New York , awaited me : " Since you departed , " he observes , " nothing of importance has occurred , either in the moral or political world . The disturbances which disgrace the kingdom of Great Britain are , and still continue to be , favored by a few factionists . Thistlewood , and the members of the Cato Street conspiracy , have been tried for high treason , and condemned , and I presume the next arrivals must bring us an account of their execution . The Cortes has been established in Spain , and there floats a rumor that the Saint , the adored Ferdinand , has fled to France . The public debates in France seem to me to thunder forth , as the precursor of some event which will yet violently agitate the country . ( Napoleon was now in St. Helena . ) The stormy wave of discord has not subsided . The temple of ambition is not overthrown , and party spirit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ independence in the South ( America ) still continues , but civil war appears about to interrupt its progress . At home all is quiet . A virtuous chief magistrate and a wise administration must benefit a people so PRONE TO DOMESTIC FACTION . " This gave me the first glimpse of home and its actualities , and the letter was refreshing for the sympathies it expresses , after long months of tugging over portages , and looking about to arrange in the mind stratifications , to gather specimens of minerals , and fresh water shells , and watch the strange antics which have been cut over the whole face of the north-west by the Boulder Group of Rocks . Sept. 6 . Mr. C.C. Trowbridge writes from Michilimackinack : " I forward the specimens collected by Mr. Doty and myself , on the tour ( from Green Bay , on the north shore , to Michilimackinack ) . The most interesting will probably be the organic remains . They were collected in Little Noquet Bay , on the N.E. side , where ridges of limestone show themselves frequently . Near @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ limestone weighing about two pounds , of which the upper stratum was composed ; there are two pieces of the lower stratum , resembling blue pipestone . The middle stratum was composed of these remains . About ten miles N.E. of Great Bay de Noquet , we found flint , or hornstone , in small quantities in the limestone rocks . There is also a specimen of the marble , which we saw little of ; but since our arrival I am informed that a large bluff , composed of the same , is seen 30 to 40 miles from this . The gypsum I picked up on St. Martin 's Islands . " On reaching Detroit , Gov . Cass invited Capt . Douglass and myself to recruit ourselves a few days at his " old mansion of the ancient era . " I examined and put in order my collection of specimens , selecting such as were designed for various institutions . A local association of persons inclined to foster literary efforts , under the name of " Detroit Lyceum , " elected me a member . The intrepid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of western exploration gave me a copy of his official letter to the Secretary of War , warmly approbating the conduct of Capt . Douglass and myself , as members of the expedition . All its results were attended with circumstances of high personal gratification . I left Detroit on the 13th of October at 4 o'clock P.M. , in the steamer " Walk-in-the-Water , " the first boat built on the Lake waters , and reached Black Rock at 7 o'clock in the morning of the 17th , being a stormy passage , in a weak but elegant boat , of eighty-seven hours . Glad to set my foot on dry land once more , I hurried on by stage and canal , and reached Oneida Creek Depot on the 21st at 4 o'clock in the morning , stopped for breakfast there , and then proceeded on foot , through the forest , by a very muddy path , to Oneida Castle , a distance of three miles  --  my trunk being carried by a man on horseback . Thence I took a conveyance for Mr. W.H. Shearman 's , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Capt . Douglass , who had preceded me , wrote from West Point Military Academy , on the 27th , that in the sudden change of habits he had been affected with a dreadful influenza . My own health continued to be unimpaired , and my spirits were buoyant . After a few days ' rest , I wrote a report ( Nov. 6th ) to the Secretary of War on the metalliferous character of the Lake Superior country , particularly in relation to its reported wealth in copper . I proceeded to Albany on the 7th of December , and arrived the day following , and was cordially greeted by all my friends and acquaintances . It was my intention to have gone immediately to New York , but the urgent entreaties of Mr. Carter and others induced me to defer it . Very little had been said by the members of the party about a publication . We looked to Capt . Douglass , who was the topographer and a professor at West Point , to take the lead in the matter . The death of Mr. Ellicott , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ father-in-law , and his appointment to the vacant chair , from that of engineering , placed him in a very delicate and arduous situation . He has never received credit for the noble manner in which he met this crisis . He was not only almost immediately required to teach his class the differential calculus , but the French copy  --  a language with which he was not familiar  --  was the only one employed . He was therefore not only obliged to study a comparatively new science , but to do it in a new language ; and when the course began , he had to instruct his class daily in tasks which he committed nightly . Most men would have sunk under the task , but he went triumphantly through it , and I have never heard that the students or others ever had cause to suspect his information or question his abilities . He wrote to me , and perhaps to me only , on this subject . There was something like a public clamor for the results of the expedition , and the narrative was hurried into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of mineralogy and geology . A friend wrote to me on the mineral affluence of upper Georgia . Several letters from the western district of the State , transmitting specimens , were received . " The unexampled success of your expedition , " observes one of these correspondents , " in all respects is a subject of high congratulation , not only for those of whom it was composed , but also to a great portion of the people of the United States , and to this State in particular , as we are the grand link that unites that vast region to our Atlantic border . " 9 These feelings appear in letters from near and far . Captain Douglass was aware of this interest , and anxious , amidst his arduous duties , to get the necessary time to arrange his notes and materials . He wrote to me ( December 25 ) to furnish Professor Silliman some sketches for the American Journal of Science . On the topic of topography he says :  --  Footnote 9 : W.S.D.Z. , 9th Dec. 1820 . " With regard to our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I intended to have had a conversation with Governor Cass and yourself on the subject before I parted from you , but it escaped me , and I have since written about it . " I should be glad to receive your delineation of the Mississippi below Prairie du Chien , and your levels through the Fox and Wisconsin ( I believe in these we agree pretty nearly ) would enable me to consolidate mine . " While I think of it , let me tell you I have made some calculations about the height of the Porcupine Mountains . My data are the distance at which they were seen from Kewewena portage , under the influence of great refraction , and the distance on the following day without unusual refraction , and I am convinced they can not be less than 2000 feet high ; if , however , this staggers you , say 1800 , and I am confident you are within the real elevation . " Estimates of heights , breadths of rivers , &c.,; and , in looking over your journal , any other topographical facts which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ acceptable to me . Will you be able to spare me ( that is , to let me copy ) any of your drawings ? You know , I believe , my views in asking are to embellish my map and memoir with landscape views in a light style . " CHAPTER VI . Reception by the country on my return  --  Reasons for publishing my narrative without my reports for a digested scientific account of the expedition  --  Delays interposed to this  --  Correspondents  --  Locality of strontian  --  Letter from Dr. Mitchell  --  Report on the copper mines of Lake Superior  --  Theoretical geology  --  Indian symbols  --  Scientific subjects  --  Complete the publication of my work  --  Its reception by the press and the public  --  Effects on my mind  --  Receive the appointment of Secretary to the Indian Commission at Chicago  --  Result of the expedition , as shown by a letter of Dr. Mitchell to General Cass. 1821 . Governor Clinton offered me the use of his library while preparing my journal for the press . Mr. Henry Inman , who was then beginning to paint @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leading booksellers made me favorable proposals , which I agreed early in January to accept . I began to transcribe my journal on the 8th of the month , and very assiduously devoted myself to that object , sending off the sheets hurriedly as they were written . The engravings were immediately put in hands . In this way , the work went rapidly on ; and I kept up , at the same time , an industrious correspondence with scientific men in various places . It was at this time an object of moment , doubtless , that the results of this expedition should have been combined in an elaborate and joint work by the scientific gentlemen of the party . The topography and astronomy had been most carefully attended to by Captain Douglass , and the materials collected for an improved map . Its geology and mineralogy had formed the topic of my daily notes . Its aboriginal population had been seen under circumstances rarely enjoyed . Its fresh water conchology had been carefully observed by Douglass and myself , and fine collections made . Something had been done @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was ready to be linked together in a striking manner . But there was no one to take the initiative . Governor Cass , who had led the expedition , did not think of writing . Professor Douglass , who was my senior , and who occupied the post of topographer , by no means underrated the subject , but deferred it , and , by accepting the Professorship of Mathematics at West Point , assumed a duty which made it literally impossible , though he did not see it immediately , that he should do justice to his own notes . I simply went forward because no one of the members of the expedition offered to . I had kept a journal from the first to the last day , which I believe no one else had . I had been diligent in the morning and evening in observing every line of coast and river . I never allowed the sun to catch me asleep in my canoe or boat . I had kept the domestic , as well as the more grave and important events . I was importuned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Douglass about it , but he was dilatory in answering me , and when at last he did , and approved my suggestion for a joint work in which our observations should be digested , it was too late , so far as my narrative went , to withdraw it from my publishers . But I pledged to him at once my geological and mineralogical reports , and I promptly sent him my portfolio of sketches to embellish his map . This is simply the history of the publication of my narrative journal . My position was , at this time , personally agreeable . My room was daily visited by literary and scientific men . I was invited to the mansions of distinguished men , who spoke of my recent journey as one implying enterprise . Nothing , surely , when I threw myself into the current of western emigration , in 1817 , was farther from my thoughts than my being an instrumental cause , to much extent , in stirring up and awakening a zeal for scientific explorations and researches . The diurnal press , however , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an extract :  --  10 Footnote 10 : A New York Statesman , Jan. 1821 . " During the last year , an expedition was authorized by the National Government , which left Detroit some time in the month of May , under the personal orders of Governor Cass , of the Michigan Territory , provided with the necessary means of making observations upon the topography , natural history , and aborigines of the country . We have had an opportunity of conversing with one of the gentlemen who accompanied Governor Cass in the expedition , Mr. H.R. Schoolcraft , who has recently returned to this city , bringing a large collection of mineral and other substances , calculated to illustrate the natural history of the regions visited . We learn that the party passed through Lake Superior , and penetrated to the sources of the Mississippi , which have been , for the first time , satisfactorily ascertained . In returning , they passed down the Mississippi to Prairie du Chien , and thence came across to Green Bay , by means of the Ouisconsin and Fox Rivers . Indian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , by whom they were generally well received , except at the Sault St. Marie , where a hostile disposition was manifested . The country was found to present a great variety in its soil , climate , productions , and the character of the savages , and the information collected must prove highly interesting both to men of business and men of science . " It will be seen , by referring to an advertisement in our paper of to-day , that Mr. Schoolcraft contemplates publishing an account of the expedition , under the form of a personal narrative , embracing notices of interesting scenery , the Indian tribes , topographical discoveries , the quadrupeds , mineral productions , and geology of the country , accompanied by an elegant map and a number of picturesque views . From an inspection of the manuscript map and views , we are persuaded that no analogous performances , of equal merit , have ever been submitted to the hands of the engraver in this country . We have always been surprised that , while we have had so many travelers through the Valley @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have thought of filling up the chasm in our north-western geography . The field is certainly a very ample one  --  we can not but felicitate the public in having a person of the acknowledged talents , industry , and original views of Mr. S. to supply the deficiency . " At length Professor Douglass ( Feb. 9th ) responded to my proposition to club our wits in a general work . " Your propositions relative to a joint publication , meet my views precisely , and of course I am inclined to believe we may make an interesting ' work . ' In addition to the usual heads of topographical and geographical knowledge , which I propose to treat of , in my memoir on that subject , I am promised by Dr. Torrey some of the valuable aid which it will be in his power to render for the article ' Botany , ' and our collections should furnish the materials of a description of the fresh water conchology . " His proposition was based on giving a complete account of the animal and mineral constituents of the country @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aboriginal tribes to be contributed by General Cass . A difficulty is , however , denoted . " My duties here , " he writes , " as they engross everything at present , will force me to delay a little , and I am in hopes , by so doing , to obtain some further data . I enter , in a few days , on the discharge of my professional duties , under considerable disadvantages , owing to the late introduction into our courses of some French works on the highest branches of mathematics , which it falls to my lot first to teach . Between French , therefore , and fluxions , and moreover , the French method of fluxions , which is somewhat peculiar , I have had my hands pretty full . I look forward to a respite in April . " The professor had , in fact , to teach his class as he taught himself , and just kept ahead of them  --  a very hard task . In the mean time , while this plan of an enlarged publication was kept in view @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ going through the press , almost every mail brought me something of interest respecting the progress of scientific discovery . A few items may be noticed . Discovery of Strontian on Lake Erie .  --  Mr. William A. Bird , of Troy , of the Boundary Survey , writes ( Jan. 22d ) :  --  " On our return down the lake , last fall , we were becalmed near the islands in Lake Erie . I took a boat , and , accompanied by Major Delafield , Mr. A. Stevenson , and Mr. De Russey ( who was to be our guide ) , went in search of the strontian to the main shore , where Mr. De Russey says it was found in the summer of 1819 . After an unsuccessful search of an hour , we gave it up , and determined to return to our vessel . On our way we stopped at Moss Island , when , immediately on landing , we found the mineral in question . I wandered a little from the others , and found the large bed of which I spoke to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ large crystals . " This strontian was on the south side of Moss Island , in a horizontal vein of three feet in thickness , and from forty to fifty feet in length . I had no means of judging its depth into the rock . The base of the island is wholly composed of limestone , in which shells scarcely , if ever , appear . " Conchology  --  Mineralized Fungus , &c._;  --  Dr. Samuel L. Mitchell , of New York , writes ( Jan. 30th ) : " I was glad to receive your letter and the accompanying articles , by the hand of Colonel Gardiner ; but I am sorry your business is such as to prevent your meditated visit to the city until spring . " I had a solemn conference with Mr. Barnes , our distinguished conchologist , on the subject of your shells . We had Say 's publication on the land and fresh water molluscas before us . We believed the univalves had been chiefly described by him ; one , or probably two of the species were not contained in his memoir @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ complete collection of those molluscas . I gave Mr. Barnes , who is an indefatigable collector , such duplicates as I could spare . " I showed your sandy fungus to my class at the college yesterday . Our medical school was never so flourishing , there being nearly two hundred students . In the evening , I showed it to the lyceum . All the members regretted your determination to stay the residue of the winter in Albany . " The little tortoise is referred , with a new and singular bird , to a zoological committee for examination . The sulphate of strontian is elegant . " I am forming a parcel for Professor Schreibers , curator of the Austrian emperor 's cabinet at Vienna ; the opportunity will be excellent to send a few . " Report on the Copper of Lake Superior .  --  Professor Silliman , in announcing a notice of my work on the mines , for the next number of the Journal of Science , Feb. 5th , says : " I have written to the Secretary of War , and he has given @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Science . " Governor Cass , of Michigan ( Feb. 20th ) , expresses his thanks for a manuscript copy of the MS. report . " I trust , " he adds , " the report will be published by the government . It would be no less useful and satisfactory to the public than honorable to yourself . " Geology of Western New York .  --  Mr. Andrew McNabb , of Geneva ( Feb. 26th ) , sends me two separate memoirs on the mineralogy and geology of the country , to be employed as materials in my contemplated memoir . The zeal and intelligence of this gentleman have led him to outstrip every observer who has entered into this field of local knowledge . Its importance to the value of the lands , their mines , ores , resources , water power , and general character , has led him to take the most enlarged views of the subject . " Pursue , " he says , " my dear sir , your career , for it is an honorable one . The world , bad as it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; and through the great reading public , there are many generous souls , whose views are not confined to sordidness and self . May all your laudable exertions be crowned with ample success  --  with pleasure and profit to yourself and fellow-citizens ! " Boulder of Copper .  --  A large specimen of native copper from Lake Superior , procured by me , forwarded to Mr. Calhoun , by General Stephen Van Rensselaer , representative in Congress , was cut up by his directions , and presented to the foreign ministers and gentlemen from abroad ; and thus the resources of the country made known . In a letter of Feb. 27th , Mr. Calhoun acknowledges the receipt of it . Theoretical Geology .  --  Mr. McNabb , in forwarding additional papers relative to western geology , observes : " Have you seen Greenough 's Essays on Geology ? The reviewers speak of it as well as critics usually do on such occasions . President Greenough has given a shock to the ' Wernerian system ; ' his battery is pretty powerful , but he seems more intent on leveling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , ingenious , and plausible , and I would almost regret its demolition , unless it should be found to stand in the way of truth . " Without some system or order in the investigation of nature 's works and nature 's laws , the mind is puzzled and confounded , wandering , like Noah 's dove , over the face of the deep , without finding a resting-place . What a pity that human knowledge and human powers are so limited ! " Indian Symbolic Figures .  --  Professor Douglass ( March 17th ) writes , making some inquiries about certain symbolic figures on the Sioux bark letter , found above Sank River . Expedition to the Yellow Stone .  --  I fancy those western expeditions intend to beat us all hollow , in tough yarn , as the sailors have it ; for it seems the Indian affair has got into the form of a newspaper controversy already : vide Aurora and National Gazette . Mineralogy of Georgia .  --  J. T. Johnston , Esq. , of New York , writes ( March 23d ) that he has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ part of the Union . Scientific Subjects .  --  Mr. McNabb writes ( March 27th ) : " I deeply regret that so little attention is bestowed by our legislatures ( State and National ) on objects of such importance as those which engage your thoughts , while so much time , breath , and treasure are wasted on frivolous subjects and party objects . How long must the patriot and philanthropist sigh for the termination of such driveling and delusion ! " After a labor at my table of about fourteen weeks , the manuscript was all delivered to my printers ; and I returned to New York , and took up my abode in my old quarters at 71 Courtland . The work was brought out on the 20th of May , making an octavo volume of 419 pages , with six plates , a map , and engraved title-page . Marks of the haste with which it was run through the press were manifest , and not a few typographical errors . Nobody was more sensible of this than myself , and of the value that more time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it with avidity , and the whole edition was disposed of in a short time . Approbatory notices appeared in the principal papers and journals . The New York Columbian says :  --  " The author has before given the public a valuable work upon the Lead Mines of Missouri , and , if we mistake not , a book of instructions upon the manufacture of glass . He is advantageously known as a man of science and literary research , and well qualified to turn to beneficial account the mass of information he must have collected in his tour through that interesting part of the country , which has attracted universal attention , though our knowledge of it has hitherto been extremely limited . We think there is no fear that the just expectations of the public will be disappointed ; but that the book will be found to furnish all the valuable and interesting information that the subject and acquirements of the writer promised , conveyed in a chaste and easy style appropriate for the journalist  --  occasionally enlivened by animating descriptions of scenery . The author has not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to win applause as a fine writer , when the great object should be to give the reader a view of what he describes , as far as language will permit , in the same light in which he beheld it himself . He aims to give you a just and true account of what he has seen and heard , and his book will be referred to as a record of facts by the learned and scientific at home and abroad . It is a production honorable to the country , and , if we mistake not , will advance her reputation in the opinion of the fastidious reviewers of Scotland and England , in spite of their deep-rooted prejudices . " Mr. Walsh , of the National Gazette , deems it a valuable addition to this class of literature . " Public attention , " he remarks , " was much excited last year by the prospectus of the expedition , of which Mr. Schoolcraft formed a part as mineralogist , and whose journey he has now described . He remarks , in his introduction , with truth , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ extreme north-western region of the Union  --  of the great chain of lakes  --  and of the sources of the Mississippi River , which continued to be a subject of dispute between geographical writers . In the autumn of 1819 Governor Cass , of Michigan Territory , projected an expedition for exploring what was so imperfectly known , and yet so worthy of being industriously surveyed . " The Secretary of War  --  to whom Mr. Schoolcraft 's book is appropriately dedicated , with a just testimony to the liberal and enlightened character of his official administration  --  not only admitted the plan of Governor Cass , but furnished him with the means of carrying it into full effect by providing an escort of soldiers and directing the commandants of the frontier garrisons to furnish every aid , of whatever description , which the party might require . To the Governor , as chief of the expedition , he associated several gentlemen qualified to accomplish its objects ; which were  --  a more correct knowledge of the names , numbers , customs , history , mode of subsistence , and dispositions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an accurate map of the country  --  the investigation of the subject of the north-western copper and lead mines , and gypsum quarries ; and the acquisition , from the Indians , of such tracts as might be necessary to secure the benefit of them to the United States . " In the course of last March , we published a letter of Governor Cass to the Secretary of War , describing in a happy manner some of the scenes and occurrences which fell within the observation or inquiry of the expedition . Mr. Schoolcraft states , at the end of his introductory remarks , that he does not profess to communicate all the topographical information collected , and that a special topographical report and map may be expected , together with other reports and the scientific observations of the expedition in general . We anticipate , therefore , an ample and valuable accession to our stock of knowledge respecting so important a portion of the American territory ; and such evidence of the utility of enterprises of the kind , as will inspire every branch of the government with a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the most comprehensive research , and fitted to render them creditable in their fruits to the national character abroad . " The present narrative does not exhibit the author in his capacity of mineralogist alone . In this he appears indeed more distinctively , and to particular advantage ; but he writes also as a general describer and relater , and has furnished lively and ample accounts of the natural objects , and novel , magnificent scenery which he witnessed ; and of the history , character , condition , and habits of the various Indian bands whom he encountered in his route , or who belong especially to our north-western territories . " I was deeply sensible of the exalted feelings and enlarged sentiments with which these and other notices were written . The effect on my mind was a sense of literary humility , and a desire to prove myself in any future attempts of the kind in some measure worthy of them . Literary candidates are not ever , perhaps , so much pleased or gratified by those who render them exact justice , of which there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , or high-minded thoughts and commendations , which are incentives to future labors . May 22d.  --  General Cass had , before leaving Detroit , offered me the situation of Secretary to the Commissioners appointed to confer with the Indians at Chicago in the summer of 1821 , with a view , primarily , to the interesting and circuitous journey which it was his intention to make , in order to reach the place of meeting . This offer , as the time drew on , he now put in the shape of a letter , which I determined at once to accept , and made my arrangements to leave the city without loss of time . It was proposed to be at Detroit the 1st of July . The tour would lie through the valleys of the Miami of the lakes , and the Wabash , which interlock at the Fort Wayne summit ; then across the Grand Prairie of the Illinois to St. Louis , and up the Illinois River from its mouth to its source . This would give me a personal knowledge of three great valleys , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ former southern explorations in Arkansas and Missouri with those of the great lake basins and the upper Mississippi . I had been at the sources and the mouth of that great river , and I had now the opportunity to complete the knowledge of its central portions . It was with the utmost avidity , therefore , that I turned my face again towards the West . Mr. Calhoun , who was written to on the subject , concurred in this plan , and extended the time for the completion of my geological report . Joint Work on the Scientific Results of the Expedition of 1820.  - -  General Cass , who had been written to , thus expresses himself on this subject :  --  " Captain Douglass has informed me that you and he meditate a joint work , which shall comprise those objects , literary and scientific , which could not properly find a place in a diurnal narrative . At what time is this work to appear , and what are its plan and objects ? My observations and inquiries respecting the Indians will lead me much further than I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that subject prior to the appearance of the work , I shall be happy to do it . " Geological Survey of Dutchess County .  --  Dr. Benjamin Allen , of Hyde Park , writes to me ( June 4th ) on this subject , urging me to undertake the survey ; but the necessity of closing my engagements in the West rendered it impossible . Expedition of 1820.  --  Dr. Mitchell furnishes me opinions upon some of the scientific objects collected by me and my associates in the north-west in 1820 :  --  " The Squirrel sent by General Cass is a species not heretofore described , and has been named by Dr. Mitchell the federation squirrel , or sciurus tredecem striatus . " The Pouched Rat , or mus bursarius , has been seen but once in Europe . This was a specimen sent to the British Museum from Canada , and described by Dr. Shaw . But its existence is rather questioned by Charles Cuvier . " Both animals have been described and the descriptions published in the 21st Vol. of the Medical Repository of New York , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in my museum . Drawings have been executed by the distinguished artist Milbert , and forwarded by him at my request to the administrators of the King 's Museum , at Paris , of which he is a corresponding member . My descriptions accompany them . The originals are retained as too valuable to be sent out of the country . " The Paddle Fish is the spatularia of Shaw and polyodon of Lacepede . It lives in the Mississippi only , and the skeleton , though incomplete , is better than any other person here possesses . It is carefully preserved in my collection . " The Serpent is a species of the Linnaean genus Anguis , the orveto of the French , and the blind worm of the English . The loss of the tail of this fragile creature may render an opinion a little dubious , but it is supposed to be an ophias aureus of Dandin , corresponding to the Anguis ventralis of Linn , figured by Catesby . " The shells afford a rich amount of undescribed species . The whole of the univalves and bivalves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assembled , and examined with all I possessed before , and with Mr. Stacy Collins 's molluscas brought from Ohio . Mr. Barnes is charged with describing and delineating all the species not contained in Mr. Say 's memoir on these productions of the land and fresh waters of North America . The finished work will be laid before the Lyceum , and finally be printed in Silliman 's New Haven Journal . The species with which zoology will be enriched will amount probably to nine or ten . We shall endeavor to be just to our friends and benefactors . " The pipe adorns my mantelpiece , and is much admired by connoisseurs . " CHAPTER VII . Trip through the Miami of the lakes , and the Wabash Valley  --  Cross the grand prairie of Illinois  --  Revisit the mines  --  Ascend the Illinois  --  Fever  --  Return through the great lakes  --  Notice of the " Trio "  --  Letter from Professor Silliman  --  Prospect of an appointment under government  --  Loss of the " Walk-in-the-Water "  --  Geology of Detroit  --  Murder of Dr. Madison by a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chicago on the 16th June  --  hurried rapidly through the western part of that State  --  passed up Lake Erie from Buffalo , and reached Detroit just in season to embark , on the 4th of July . General Cass was ready to proceed , with his canoe-elege in the water . We passed , the same day , down the Detroit River , and through the head of Lake Erie into the Maumee Bay to Port Lawrence , the present site , I believe , of the city of Toledo . This was a distance of seventy miles , a prodigious day 's journey for a canoe . But we were shot along by a strong wind , which was fair when we started , but had insensibly increased to a gale in Lake Erie , when we found it impossible to turn to land without the danger of filling . The wind , though a gale , was still directly aft . On one occasion I thought we should have gone to the bottom , the waves breaking in a long series , above our heads , and rolling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at General Cass , who sat close on my right , but saw no alarm in his countenance . " That was a fatherly one , " was his calm expression , and whatever was thought , little was said . We weathered and entered the bay silently , but with feelings such as a man may be supposed to have when there is but a step between him and death . We ascended the Miami Valley , through scenes renowned by the events of two or three wars . I walked over the scene of Dudley 's defeat in 1812 ; of Wayne 's victory in 1793 ; and of the sites of forts Deposit and Defiance , and other events celebrated in history . From Fort Defiance , which is at the junction of the River Auglaize , we rode to Fort Wayne , sleeping in a deserted hut half way . We passed the summit to the source of the Wabash , horseback , sleeping at an Indian house , where all the men were drunk , and kept up a howling that would have done credit to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ managed our canoe , in the mean time brought it from water to water on their shoulders , and we again embarked , leaving our horses at the forks of the Wabash . The whole of this long and splendid valley , then wild and in the state of nature , till below the Tippecanoe , we traversed , day by day , stopping at Vincennes , Terrehaute , and a hundred other points , and entered the Ohio and landed safely at Shawneetown . Here it was determined to send the Canadians with our canoe , round by water to St. Louis , while we hired a sort of stage-wagon to cross the prairies . I visited the noted locality of fluor spar in Pope County , Illinois , and crossing the mountainous tract called the Knobs , rejoined the party at the Saline . Here I found my old friend Enmenger , of Kemp and Keen memory , to be the innkeeper . On reaching St. Louis , General Cass rode over the country to see the Missouri , while I , in a sulky , revisited the mines @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rich minerals . We proceeded in our canoe up the River Illinois to the rapids , at what is called Fort Rock , or Starved Rock , and from thence , finding the water low , rode on horseback to Chicago , horses having been sent , for this purpose , from Chicago to meet us . There was not a house from Peoria to John Craft 's , four miles from Chicago . I searched for , and found , the fossil tree , reported to lie in the rocks in the bed of the river Des Plaines . The sight of Lake Michigan , on nearing Chicago , was like the ocean . We found an immense number of Indians assembled . The Potawattomies , in their gay dresses and on horseback , gave the scene an air of Eastern magnificence . Here we were joined by Judge Solomon Sibley , the other commissioner from Detroit , whence he had crossed the peninsula on horseback , and we remained in negotiation with the Indians during fifteen consecutive days . A treaty was finally signed by them on the 24th @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in annuities and goods , they ceded to the United States about five millions of acres of choice lands . Before this negotiation was finished , I was seized with bilious fever , and consequently did not sign the treaty . It was of the worst bilious type , and acute in its character . I did not , indeed , ever expect to make another entry in a human journal . But a vigorous constitution at length prevailed , and weeks after all the party had left the ground , I was permitted to embark in a vessel called the Decatur on the 23d of September for Detroit . We reached Michilimackinack the seventh day of our voyage , and returned to Detroit on the 6th of October . The incidents and observations of this journey have been given to the public under the title " Travels in the Central Portions of the Mississippi Valley " ( 1 vol. pp. 459 , 8vo. : New York ) . I still felt the effects of my illness on reaching Detroit , where I remained a few days before setting out for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stopped to recruit my strength , I learned that some envious persons , who shielded themselves under the name of " Trio , " had attacked my Narrative Journal , in one of the papers during my absence . The attack was not of a character to demand a very grave notice , and was happily exposed by Mr. Carter , in some remarks in the columns of the Statesman , which first called my attention to the subject . " A trio of writers , " he observes , in his paper of 17th August , " in the Daily Advertiser of Wednesday , have commenced an attack on the Narrative Journal of Mr. Schoolcraft , lately published in this city . We should feel excessively mortified for the literary reputation of our country , if it took any three of our writers to produce such a specimen of criticism as the article alluded to ; and ' for charity 's sweet sake , ' we will suppose that by a typographical error the signature is printed Trio instead of Tyro . At any rate , the essay , notwithstanding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being the effort of one smatterer , rather than the joint production of three critics , as the name imports . " The Trio ( if we admit there are tria juncta in uno , in this knot of savans ) pretend to be governed by patriotic motives in attacking Mr. Schoolcraft . ' In what we have said , our object has been to expose error , and to shield ourselves from the imputation which would justly be thrown upon ourselves . ' The construction of this sentence reminds us of the exordium of Deacon Strong 's speech at Stonington  --  ' the generality of mankind in general endeavor to try to take the disadvantage of the generality of mankind in general . ' But not to indulge in levities on so grave a subject , we are happy in the belief that the reputation of our country does not demand the condemnation of Schoolcraft 's Journal , as a proof of our taste , nor need such a shield as the trio have interposed , to protect it from the attacks of foreign reviewers :  --  ' Non tali @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ affords us great pleasure to relieve the anxiety of the Trio on the subject of shielding ' ourselves from the imputation which would be justly thrown upon ourselves , ' by stating that one of the most scientific gentlemen in the United States wrote to the publishers of Schoolcraft 's Journal , not a week since , for a copy of the work to send to Paris , adding to his request , the work is so valuable that I doubt not it would be honorably noticed . " We have not taken the trouble to examine the passages to which the Trio have referred ; for , admitting that a trifling error has been detected in an arithmetical calculation  --  that a few plants ( or vegetables , as this botanist calls them ) have been described as new , which were before known  --  and that in the haste of composition some verbal errors may have escaped the author , yet these slight defects do not detract essentially from the merit of the work , or prove that it has improperly been denominated a scientific , valuable , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many and whom they include in the denunciation of ' a few men who pretend to all the knowledge , all the wisdom of the country ; ' if by a few they mean all who have spoken in the most favorable terms of Mr. Schoolcraft 's book . " One word in respect to the ' candor ' of the Trio , and we have done . It would seem to have been more candid , and the disavowal of ' an intention to injure ' would have been more plausible , if the attack had been commenced when the author was present to defend himself , and not when he is in the depth of a wilderness , remote from his assailants and ignorant of their criticisms . But we trust he has left many friends behind who will promptly and cheerfully defend his reputation till his return . " On reading the pieces , I found them to be based in a petty spirit of fault-finding , uncandid , illiberal , and without wit , science , or learning . It is said in a book , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of  --  " Should not the multitude of words be answered , and should a man fall if talk be justified ? Should thy lies make men hold their peace , and when thou mockest shall no man make thee ashamed ? " ( Job xi . 2 , 3 . ) My blood boiled . I could have accepted and approved candid and learned and scientific criticism . I replied in the papers , pointing out the gross illiberality of the attack , and tried to provoke a discovery of the authors . But they were still as death ; the mask that had been assumed to shield envy , hypercriticism , and falsehood , there was neither elevation of moral purpose , courage , nor honor , to lay aside . In the mean time , all my correspondents and friends sustained me . Men of the highest standing in science and letters wrote to me . A friend of high standing , in a note from Washington ( Oct. 24th ) congratulating me on my recovery from the fever at Chicago , makes the following allusion to this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ procured from Mr. Webster copies of them ( the pieces ) , with a view to say something in the papers , had it been necessary . But , from their character and effect , this would have been wholly unnecessary . They have fallen still-born from the press . " Mr. Carter ( Oct. 28th ) says : " G. C. was at my room , and spoke of the numbers with the utmost contempt , and thought they were not worth noticing . The same opinion is entertained by everyone whom I have heard speak on the subject . Chancellor Kent told me that your book is the most interesting he has ever read , and that the attack on it amounts to nothing . Others have paid it the same compliment , and I think your fame is in no danger of being injured by the Trio . " Mr. Baldwin , a legal gentleman of high worth and standing , made the following observations in one of the city papers , under the signature of " Albanian " :  --  " True criticism is a liberal and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and admire what is deserving of applause , than to detect and expose blemishes and defects . If this be a correct definition of criticism , and ' Trio ' were capable of filling the office he has assumed , I am of opinion that a different judgment would have been pronounced upon Mr. Schoolcraft 's book of travels ; and that they would have been justly eulogized , and held up for the perusal of every person at all anxious about acquiring an intimate knowledge of the interesting country through which he traveled , and which he so ably and beautifully described . It is certainly true , that we abound in snarling critics , whose chief delight is in finding fault with works of native production ; and though it is not my business to tread upon their corns , I could wish they might ever receive that castigation and contempt which they merit from a liberal and enlightened public . In the first article which appeared in your useful paper , over the signature of ' Trio , ' I thought I discovered only the effervescence of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that writer making false and erroneous statements , and drawing deductions therefrom unfavorable to Mr. Schoolcraft , I deprecate the evil , and invite the public to a free and candid investigation of the truth . Not satisfied with detracting from the merits of Mr. Schoolcraft 's work , ' Trio ' indulges in some bitter and illiberal remarks upon those gentlemen who composed the Yellow Stone River expedition ; and to show how little qualified he is for the subject , I will venture to declare him ignorant of the very first principles upon which that expedition was organized . " So much for the " Trio . " No actual discovery of the authors was made ; but from information subsequently obtained , it is believed that their names are denoted under the anagram LENICTRA . Other criticisms of a different stamp were , however , received from high sources , speaking well of the work , which may here be mentioned . Professor Silliman writes from New Haven , November 22d : " I perused your travels with great satisfaction ; they have imparted to me a great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of yours ( Captain Douglass , for instance ) prepare a notice , or a review , I would cheerfully insert it . " In reading your travels , I marked with a pencil the scientific notices , and especially those on mineralogy and geology , thinking that I might at a future period embody them into an article for the journal . Would it not be consistent with your time and occupations to do this , and forward me the article ? I would be greatly pleased also to receive from you a notice of the fluor spar from Illinois ; of the fossil tree ; and , in short , any of your scientific or miscellaneous observations , which you may see fit to intrust to the pages of the journal , I shall be happy to receive , and trust they would not have a disadvantageous introduction to the world . " How different is this in its spirit and temper from the flimsy thoughts of the Trio ! Literary Honors.  --  Dr. Alfred S. Monson , of New Haven , informs me ( November 23d ) of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Mr. Austin Abbott communicates notice of my election as a member of the Hudson Lyceum of Natural History . Appointment under Government .  --  A friend in high confidence at Washington writes ( November 4th ) : " The proposition to remove from Sackett 's Harbor to the Sault of St. Mary a battalion of the army , and to establish a military post at the latter place , has been submitted by Mr. Calhoun to the President . The pressure of other subjects has required an investigation and decision since his return ; so that he has not yet been able to examine this matter . Mr. Calhoun is himself decidedly in favor of the measure , and I have no doubt but that such will be the result of the Presidential deliberation . The question is too plain , and the considerations connected with it too obvious and important , to allow any prominent difficulties to intrude themselves between the conception and the execution of the measure . If a post be established , it is almost certain that an Indian agency will be located there , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you will be appointed the agent . " Loss of the " Walk-in-the-water. "  --  This fine steamer was wrecked near the foot of Lake Erie , in November . A friend in Detroit writes ( November 17th ) : " This accident maybe considered as one of the greatest misfortunes which have ever befallen Michigan , for in addition to its having deprived us of all certain and speedy communication with the civilized world , I am fearful it will greatly check the progress of emigration and improvement . They speak of three new boats on Lake Erie next season ; I hope they may be erected , but such reports are always exaggerated . " Geology of Detroit .  --  " No accurate measurement that I can find has ever been made of the height of the bank of the river at this place . As near as I can ascertain , however , from those who have endeavored to obtain correct information respecting it , and from my own judgment , I should suppose the base of the pillars at the upper end of the market-house , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be thirty-three feet above the surface of the river . The bank is of a gentle descent towards the water , and gradually recedes from the river for one mile above the lower line of the city . " In digging a well in the north-east part of the city , in the street near the Council House , the loam appeared to be about a foot and a half deep . The workmen then passed through a stratum of blue clay of eight or ten feet , when they struck a vein of coarse sand , eight inches in thickness , through which the water entered so fast , as to almost prevent them from going deeper . They , however , proceeded through another bed of blue clay , twenty or twenty-two feet , and came to a fine yellow sand , resembling quicksand , into which they dug three feet and stopped , having found sufficient water . The whole depth of the well was thirty-three feet . " The water is clear , and has no bad taste . No vegetable or other remains were found @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such as are on the shores of the river . A little coarse dark sand and gravel were found below the last bed of clay , on the top of the yellow sand . " The boring for water in 1830 was extended , on the Fort Shelby plateau , 260 feet . After passing ten feet of alluvion , the auger passed through 115 feet of blue clay , with quicksand , then two of beach sand and pebbles , when the limestone rock was struck . It was geodiferous for sixty feet , then lies sixty-five , then a carbonate of lime eight feet , at which depth the effort was relinquished unsuccessfully .  --  Historical and Scientific Sketches of Michigan . " Bed of the Detroit River .  --  I am induced to believe the bed of the River Detroit is clay , from the fact that it affords good anchorage for vessels . Neither limestone nor any other rock has ever been discovered in it . " Murder of Dr. Madison.  --  A gentleman at the West writes to me ( Nov. 17 ) : " As @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , that he started from Green Bay , with three soldiers , to go to Chicago , and from thence to his wife in Kentucky , who , during his absence , had added ' one ' to the family . The Indian Ke-taw-kah had left the bay the day previous , had passed the Indian village on the Manatoowack River , on his way to Chebiogan on the west side of Lake Michigan , to see a relative , but had turned back . When the Doctor met him , he was standing by the side of a tree , apparently unemployed . The Indian , says the Doctor , addressed him , and said something , from which he understood they wanted them to guide him to Chicago . As he knew he should get something to eat from them , he concluded he would go with them as far as Chebiogan . Accordingly , he fell in with the party about 2 P.M. , and walked on until they had passed the Manatoowack River , about three miles . " They came to a small rise of ground @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the other was by the side of the Doctor 's horse , and both were just on the top . The Indian was about two rods in the rear , and was at the foot of the hill , when a gun was fired in the rear , and Madison received the charge in his shoulders and in the back of his neck , and immediately fell from his horse . The Indian instantly disappeared . The Doctor exclaimed , ' Oh ! why has that Indian shot me ? I never did him or any of them any injury . To kill me , too , when I was just returning to my wife and my little child , which I have never seen ! It is more painful than death . ' His conversation was very pathetic , as related by the soldier , and all who heard him were greatly affected . " The Indian says he shot him without any cause or malice ; that the thought came into his head , about two minutes before , that he would kill one of the four ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the hill , he concluded he would fire at him , to see how pretty he would fall off his horse . " These things transpired late in the fall . I did not reach Albany till late in December , and immediately began to prepare my geological report . CHAPTER VIII . New-Yearing  --  A prospect opened  --  Poem of Ontwa  --  Indian biography  --  Fossil tree  --  Letters from various persons  --  Notice of Ontwa  --  Professor Silliman  --  Gov . Clinton  --  Hon. J. Meigs  --  Colonel Benton  --  Mr. Dickenson  --  Professor Hall  --  Views of Ex-presidents Madison , Jefferson , and Adams on geology  --  Geological notices  --  Plan of a gazetteer  --  Opinions of my Narrative Journal by scientific gentlemen  --  The impostor John Dun Hunter  --  Trip up the Potomac  --  Mosaical chronology  --  Visit to Mount Vernon . 1822 . Jan. 1st.  --  I spent this day a New-Yearing . Albany is a dear place for the first of January ; not only the houses of every one , but the hearts of every one seem open on this day . It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the three hundred and sixty-five is consecrated to general hospitality and warm-hearted cordiality . If St. Nicholas was the author of this custom , he was a social saint ; and the custom seems to be as completely kept up on the banks of the Hudson as it ever could have been on the banks of the Rhine . Jan. 5th.  --  My experience is that he who would rise , in science or knowledge , must toil incessantly ; it is the price at which success sells her favors . During the last four years , I have passed not less than ten thousand miles , and in all this time I have scarcely lain down one night without a feeling that the next day 's success must depend upon a fresh appeal to continued effort . My pathway has certainly not lain over beds of gold , nor my pillow been composed of down . And yet my success has served to raise the envy and malignity of some minds . True , these have been small minds ; while a just appreciation and approval have marked the course @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Washington , this day , assuring me that I am not forgotten in high quarters . " The occupation , " he says , " of the Sault has been decided on , and I have but little doubt of your appointment to the agency . Make your mind easy . I am certain the government will not forget you , and I never can . I shall not lose sight of your interest a moment . " Thus , while an envious little clique here has , in my absence , clandestinely thrown most uncandid censure upon me and my labors , a vista of honor is presented to my hopes from a higher source . While recovering from the prostrating effects of my Chicago fever , I had drawn up a memoir for the American Geological Society , which had made me a member , on the fossil tree observed in the stratification of the Des Plaines , of the Illinois , and took the occasion of being detained here in making my report , to print it , and circulate copies . It appeared to be a good @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to connect it with the system of secondary rocks , as explained by geologists . In this way , the occurrence of perhaps a not absolutely unique phenomenon is made a vehicle of conveying geological information , which is now sought with avidity in the country . This step brought me many correspondents of note . Mr. Madison ( Ex-President United States ) writes ( Jan. 22 ) : " The present is a very inquisitive age , and its researches of late have been ardently directed to the primitive composition and structure of our globe , as far as it has been penetrated , and to the processes by which succeeding changes have been produced . The discoveries already made are encouraging ; but vast room is left for the further industry and sagacity of geologists . This is sufficiently shown by the opposite theories which have been espoused ; one of them regarding water , the other fire , as the great agent employed by nature in her work . " It may well be expected that this hemisphere , which has been least explored , will yield its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ zealous efforts to share in the contributions do credit to your love of truth and devotion to the cause of science , and I wish they may be rewarded with the success they promise , and with all the personal gratifications to which they entitle you . " Mr. Jefferson ( Ex-President United States ) sends a note of thanks ( Jan. 26th ) in the following words : " It is a valuable element towards the knowledge we wish to obtain of the crust of the globe we inhabit ; and , as crust alone is immediately interesting to us , we are only to guard against drawing our conclusions deeper than we dig . You are entitled to the thanks of the lovers of science for the preservation of this fact . " Mr. John Adams ( Ex-President United States , Jan. 27th ) says : " I thank you for your memoir on the fossil tree , which is very well written ; and the conjectures on the processes of nature in producing it are plausible and probable . " I once lay a week wind-bound in Portland @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and ascended the mountain from whence they get all the Portland stone that they employ in building . In a morning walk with some of the American passengers from the Lucretia , Captain Calehan , we passed by a handsome house , at the foot of the hill , with a handsome front yard before it . Upon the top of one of the posts of this yard lay a fish , coiled up in a spiral figure , which caught my eye . I stopped and gazed at it with some curiosity . Presently a person , in the habit and appearance of a substantial and well-bred English gentleman , appeared at his door and addressed me . ' Sir , I perceive that your attention is fixed on my fish . That is a conger eel  --  a species that abounds in these seas ; we see them repeatedly , at the depth of twelve feet water , lying exactly in that position . That stone , as it now appears , was dug up from the bowels of this mountain , at the depth of twenty feet below @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Now , sir , ' said he , ' at the time of the deluge , these neighboring seas were thrown up into that mountain , and this fish , lying at the bottom , was thrown up with the rest , and then petrified , in the very posture in which he lay . ' " I was charmed with the eloquence of this profound philosopher , as well as with his civility , and said that I could not account for the phenomenon by any more plausible or probable hypothesis . " This is a lofty hill and very steep , and in the road up and down , there are flat and smooth rocks of considerable extent . The commerce in Portland stone frequently calls for huge masses , from ten to fifteen tons weight . These are loaded on very strong wheels , and drawn by ten or twelve pair of horses . When they come to one of those flat rocks on the side of the hill where the descent is steep , they take off six or eight pair of horses , and attach them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ while one or two pair of horses in front have to drag the wagon and its load and six or eight pair of horses behind it , backwards . " I give you this history by way of comment on Dr. Franklin 's famous argument against a mixed government . That great man ought not to have quoted this as a New England custom , because it was an English practice before New England existed , and is a happy illustration of the necessity of a balanced government . " And since I have mentioned Dr. Franklin , I will relate another fact which I had from his mouth . When he lived at Passy , a new quarry of stone was opened in the garden of Mr. Ray de Chaumont , and , at the depth of twenty feet , was found among the rocks a shark 's tooth , in perfect preservation , which I suppose my Portland friend would account for as he did for his conger eel , though the tooth was not petrified . " Thus , my memoir was the cause of the expression of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interest distinct from the bearing of such opinions on geology . Mr. Carter , who has just transferred the publication of the Statesman from Albany to New York , writes ( Jan. 10th ) from the latter city , urging me to hasten my return to that city . Poem on the theme of the Aborigines.  --  " I have , " he remarks , " read Ontwa , the Indian poem you spoke to me about last summer . The notes by Governor Cass are extremely interesting , and written in a superior style . I shall notice the work in a few days . " Geology of New York Island .  --  " I wish you to give me an article on the mineralogy and geology of Manhattan Island , in the form of a letter purporting to be by a foreign traveler . ( See Appendix , No. 2 . ) It is my intention to give a series of letters , partly by myself and partly by others , which shall take notice of everything in and about the city which may be deemed interesting . I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and geological sketch of the Island . " Indian Biography .  --  " Colonel Haines also wishes you to unite with him and myself , in writing a series of sketches of celebrated Indians . " Professor Silliman writes ( Jan. 20th ) , acknowledging the receipt of a memoir on the fossil tree of the River Des Plaines , which was prepared for the American Geological Society . He requests me to furnish him a copy of my memoir on the geology of the regions visited by the recent expedition , or , if it be too long for the purposes of the American Journal , an abstract of it . Animal Impressions in Limestone .  --  " I am much obliged to you for your kind intention of furnishing me with a paper on the impressions in limestone , and I hope you will bear it in mind , and execute it accordingly . " I have observed the appointment which the newspapers state that you have received from the government , and regret that it carries you so far south , 11 into an unhealthy climate ; wishing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ studies which you have hitherto prosecuted so successfully . " Footnote 11 : This is evidently an allusion to St. Mary 's , in Georgia , instead of Michigan . Professor Frederick Hall , of Middlebury College , addresses me ( Jan. 14th ) on the same subject . He alludes to my treatise " On the Mines , Minerals , &c.,; of the western section of the United States ; " a work for which our country and the world are deeply indebted to your enlightened enterprise and unrelaxing zeal . Before reading it , I had a very inadequate conception of the actual extent and riches of the lead mines of the West . It seems , according to your account , that these mines are an exhaustless source of wealth to the United States . " I should feel glad to have them put under your superintendence ; and to have you nurture up a race of expert mineralogists , and become a Werner among them . " Professor Silliman writes ( Jan. 25th ) : " When I wrote you last , I had not been able @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ read it , however , immediately after , and was so much pleased with it , that I extracted the most important parts in the American Journal , giving credit , of course , to you and to the Geological Society . " Jan. 29th . Chester Dewy , Professor , &c.,; in Williams College , Mass. , writes a most kind and friendly letter , in which he presents various subjects , in the great area of the West , visited by me . Chalk Formation .  --  " Mr. Jessup , of Philadelphia , told me that he believed you doubted respecting the chalk of Missouri , in which you found nodules of flints . I wish to ask if this be fact . From the situation , and characters and uses , you might easily be led into a mistake , for such a bed of any other earth would be far less to be expected , and be also a far greater curiosity . " Petrosilex , &c._;  --  " By the way , I received from Dr. Torrey a curious mixture of petrosilex and prehnite in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and collected at the West . He did not tell me the name , but examination showed me what it was . " Tufa from Western New York .  --  " To day , a Quaker from Sempronius , New York , has shown me some fine tufa . I mention it , because you may , in your travels , be able to see it . He says it covers an acre or more to a great depth , is burned into excellent lime with great ease , and is very valuable , as no good limestone is found near them . Some of it is very soft , like agaric mineral , and would be so called , were it not associated with beautiful tufa of a harder kind . " Geology of America .  --  " You have explored in fine situations , to extend the knowledge of the geology of our country , and have made great discoveries . I congratulate you on what you have been able to do ; I hope you may be able , if you wish it , to add still more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ says : " I have just received a specimen of excellent pit-coal from Tioga county , Pennsylvania , near the head of the south branch of the Tioga River , and about twenty miles south from Painted Post , in Steuben County . The quantity is said to be inexhaustible , and what renders it of still greater importance is , that arks and rafts descend from within four or five miles of the mines . " New Gazetteer of New York .  --  Mr. Carter writes ( Feb. 5th ) inauspiciously of the course of affairs at Washington , as not favoring the spirit of exploration . He proposes , in the event of my not receiving the contemplated appointment , the plan of a Gazetteer of New York , on an enlarged and scientific basis . " I have often expressed to you my opinion of the Spafford Gazetteer of this State . It is wholly unworthy of public patronage , and would not stand in the way of a good work of the kind ; and such a one , I have the vanity to believe , our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ work , with slight alterations , as the State might undergo changes . My plan would be for you to travel over the State , and make a complete mineralogical , and geological , and statistical survey of it , which would probably take you a year or more . In the mean time , I would devote all my leisure to the collection and arrangement of such other materials as we should need in the compilation of the work . " Feb. 18th . Professor Dewy writes , vindicating my views of the Huttonian doctrines , respecting the formation of secondary rocks , which he had doubted , on the first perusal of my memoir of the fossil tree of Illinois . Feb. 20th . Caleb Atwater , Esq. , of Circleville , Ohio , the author of the antiquarian papers in the first volume of Archaeologiae Americana , writes on the occasion of my geological memoir . He completely confounds the infiltrated specimen of an entire tree , in the external strata , and of a recent age , which is prominently described in my paper , with ordinary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rock column . Feb. 24th . Mr. McNabb communicates further facts and discoveries of the mineral wealth , resources , and prospects of Western New York and Pennsylvania . * * * * * Narrative Journal .  --  Professor Silliman ( March 5th ) communicates an extract of a letter to him from Daniel Wadsworth , Esq. , of Hartford , to whom he had loaned my Narrative . " I have been very much entertained with the tour to the western lakes . I think Mr. Schoolcraft writes in a most agreeable manner ; there is such an entire absence of affectation in all he says , as well as his manner of saying it , that no one can help being exceedingly pleased , even if the book had not in any other respect a great deal of merit . The whole seems such real and such absolute matter of fact , that I feel as if I had performed the journey with the traveller . " All I regret about it is that it was not consistent with his plans to tell us more of what might be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and conduct of those who were of the party , their health , difficulties , opinions , and treatment of each other , &c.; &c.; As his book was a sort of official work , I suppose he thought this would not do , and I wish he now would give his friends ( and let us be amongst them ) a manuscript of the particulars that are not for the public . Mrs. W. has also been as much pleased as myself . " Under the date of March 22d , Sir Humphrey Davy , in a private letter to Dr. Hosack , says :  --  " Mr. Schoolcraft 's narrative is admirable , both for the facts it develops and for the simplicity and clearness of the details ; he has accomplished great things by such means , and offers a good model for a traveler in a new country . I lent his book to our veteran philosophical geographer , Major Rennel , who was highly pleased with it ; copies of it would sell well in England . " Dr. Silliman apprises me that Professor Douglass expects @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now finished my geological report , I determined to take it to Washington . On reaching New York , I took lodgings at the Franklin House , then a private boarding-house , where my friends , Mr. Carter and Colonel Haines , had rooms . While here , I was introduced one day to a man who subsequently attracted a good deal of notice as a literary impostor . This was a person named Hunter . He said that he derived this name from his origin in the Indian country . He had a soft , compliant , half quizzical look , and appeared to know nothing precisely , but dealt in vague accounts and innuendoes . Having gone to London , the booksellers thought him , it appears , a good subject for a book , and some hack was employed to prepare it . It had a very slender basis in any observations which this man was capable of furnishing ; but abounded in misstatements and vituperation of the policy of this government respecting the Indians . This fellow is handled in the Oct . No. of the North @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gives very little encouragement to literary adventurers and cheats . The very man , John Dunn , of Missouri , after whom he affected to have been named , denies that he ever heard of him . I had , thus far , seen but little of the Atlantic , except what could be observed in a trip from New Orleans to New York , and knew very little of its coasts by personal examination . I had never seen more of the Chesapeake than could be shown from the head of that noble bay , and wished to explore the Valley of the Potomac . For this purpose , I took passage in a coasting vessel at New York , and had a voyage of a novel and agreeable kind , which supplied me with the desired information . At Old Point Comfort , I remained at the hotel while the vessel tarried . In ascending the Potomac one night , while anchored , a negro song was wafted in the stillness of the atmosphere . I could distinctly hear the following words :  --  Gentlemen , he come from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Go , gray , go , Go , gray , go ; See how massa gray mare go . I reached Washington late in March , and sent in my geological report on the 2d of April . Mr. Calhoun , who acknowledged it on the 6th , referred it to the Topographical Bureau . Some question , connected with the establishment of an agency in Florida , complicated my matter . Otherwise it appeared to be a mere question of time . The Secretary of War left me no room to doubt that his feelings were altogether friendly . Mr. Monroe was also friendly . Additional Judicial District in Michigan .  --  J.D. Doty , Esq. , wrote to me ( April 8th ) on this subject . So far as my judgment and observation went , they were favorable to this project . Besides , if I was to become an inhabitant of the district , as things now boded , it would be desirable to me to dwell in a country where the laws , in their higher aspects , were periodically administered . I had , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Mosaical Chronology .  --  Baptiste Irvine , Esq. , in referring to some criticism of his in relation to the discovery of fossils by a distinguished individual , brings this subject forward in a letter of April 19th . This individual had written to him , impugning his criticisms . " I regret , " he observes , " the cause , and shall endeavor to give publicity to his ( my friend 's ) observations ; though hardly necessary to him , they may yet awaken some ideas in the minds of the people on the wonders of physics I had almost said the slow miracles of creation . For if ever there was a time when matter existed not , it is pretty evident that millions of years were necessary to establish order on chaos , instead of six days . Let Cuvier , &c.,; temporize as they may . However , it is the humble allotment of the herd to believe or stare ; it is the glory of intelligent men to acquire and admire . " " For the memoir I am very thankful , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 22d . Mount Vernon .  --  In a pilgrimage to this spot , if political veneration may assume that name , I was accompanied by Honorable Albert H. Tracy , Mr. Ruggles , and Mr. Alfred Conkling of the House of Representatives , all of New York . We took a carriage , and reached the hallowed place in good season , and were politely admitted to all the apartments and grounds , which give interest to every tread . I brought some pebbles of common quartz and bits of brown oxide of iron , from the top of the rude tomb , and we all broke branches of the cedars growing there . We gazed into the tomb , through an aperture over the door , where bricks had been removed , and thought , at last , that we could distinguish the coffin . Human Feet figured on Rock at St. Louis .  --  The Honorable Thomas H. Benton , in a letter of 29th April , expresses the opinion that these are antiquities , and not " prints , " and that they are of the age of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Doty , Esq. , transmits ( May 6th ) from the vicinity of Martinsburg , New York , specimens of the geological structure of that neighborhood . Austin 's Colony .  --  " What you have said to me heretofore , concerning Mr. Austin 's settlement in Texas , has rather turned my attention in that direction . Have you any means of communicating with your friend ? What are your views of that country ? " CHAPTER IX . Appointed an agent of Indian affairs for the United States at Saint Mary 's  --  Reasons for the acceptance of the office  --  Journey to Detroit  --  Illness at that point  --  Arrival of a steamer with a battalion of infantry to establish a new military post at the foot of Lake Superior  --  Incidents of the voyage to that point  --  Reach our destination , and reception by the residents and Indians  --  A European and man of honor fled to the wilderness . 1822 . At length Congress passed an act , which left Mr. Calhoun free to carry out his intentions respecting me , by the creation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to transfer one of the western agencies , namely , at Vincennes , Indiana , where the Indian business had ceased , to the foot of the basin of Lake Superior , at the ancient French village of Sault de Ste. Marie , Michigan . Had not this act passed , it would have been necessary to transfer this agency to Florida , for which Mr. Gad Humphreys was the recognized appointee . Mr. Monroe immediately sent in my nomination for this old agency to the Senate , by whom it was favorably acted on the 8th of May . The gentleman ( Mr. J.B. Thomas , Senator from Illinois ) whose boat I had been instrumental in saving in my descent of the Ohio in the spring of 1818 , I believe , moved its confirmation . It was from him , at any rate , that I the same day obtained the information of the Senate 's action . I had now attained a fixed position ; not such as I desired in the outset , and had striven for , but one that offered an interesting class of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wide field for honorable exertion , and , if it was embraced , also of historical inquiry and research . The taste for natural history might certainly be transferred to that point , where the opportunity for discovery was the greatest . At any rate , the trial of a residence on that remote frontier might readily be made , and I may say it was in fact made only as a temporary matter . It was an ancient agency in which General Harrison had long exercised his superior authority over the fierce and wild tribes of the West , which was an additional stimulus to exertion , after its removal to Lake Superior . I called the next day on Mr. Calhoun , to express my obligation , and to request instructions . For the latter object , he referred me to General Cass , of Detroit , who was the superintendent of Indian affairs on the North-Western frontier , and to whom the policy of pushing an agency and a military post to that point is , I believe , due . I now turned my face to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hurried through the western part of that State to Buffalo , and ascended Lake Erie to Detroit . At this point I was attacked with fever and ague , which I supposed to have been contracted during a temporary landing at Sandusky . I directed my physician to treat it with renewed doses of mercury , in quick succession , which terminated the fever , but completely prostrated my strength , and induced , at first tic douloureux , and eventually a paralysis of the left cheek . The troops destined for the new post arrived about the beginning of July . They consisted of a battalion of the 2d Regiment of Infantry , under Colonel Brady , from garrison duty at Sackett 's Harbor , and they possessed every element of high discipline and the most efficient action , under active officers . Brady was himself an officer of Wayne 's war against the Indians , and had looked danger steadily in the face on the Niagara frontier , in the Late War . In this condition , I hastily snatched up my instructions , and embarked on board the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the government for the occasion . It was now the 2d of July . Before speaking of the voyage from this point , it may be well to refer to another matter . The probability of Professor Douglass publishing the joint results of our observations on the expedition of 1820 , appeared now unfavorable . Among the causes of this , I regarded my withdrawal to a remote point as prominent but not decisive . Two years had already elapsed ; the professor was completely absorbed in his new professorship , in which he was required to teach a new subject in a new language . Governor Cass , who had undertaken the Indian subject , had greatly enlarged the platform of his inquiries , which rendered it probable that there would be a delay . My memoir on the geology and mineralogy only was ready . Dr. Barnes had the conchology nearly ready , and the botany , which was in the hands of Dr. Torrey , was well advanced . But it required a degree of labor , zeal , and energy to push forward such a work , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to absorb all the attention of the highest mind ; and could not be expected from the professor , already overtasked . Among the papers which were put in my hands at Detroit , I found a printed copy of Governor Cass 's Indian queries , based on his promise to Douglass , by which I was gratified to perceive that his mind was earnestly engaged in the subject , which he sought a body of original materials to illustrate . I determined to be a laborer in this new field . Our voyage up Lake Huron to Michilimackinack , and thence east to the entrance of the Straits of St. Mary 's , at Detour , was one of pleasant excitement . We ascended the straits and river , through Muddy Lake and the narrow pass at Sailor 's Encampment , to the foot of the great Nibeesh 12 rapids . Here the steamer came to anchor from an apprehension that the bar of Lake George 13 could not be crossed in the existing state of the water . Footnote 12 : This name signifies strong water , meaning bad @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the derogative form of Nebee , water . Footnote 13 : The depth of water on this bar was then stated to be but six feet two inches . It was early in the morning of the 6th of July when this fact was announced . Colonel Brady determined to proceed with his staff in the ship 's yawl , by the shorter passage of the boat channel , and invited me to a seat . Captain Rogers , of the steamer , himself took the helm . After a voyage of about four or five hours , we landed at St. Mary 's at ten o'clock in the morning . Men , women , children , and dogs had collected to greet us at the old wharf opposite the Nolan House  --  the ancient " chateau " of the North-West Company . And the Indians , whose costume lent an air of the picturesque to the scene , saluted us with ball , firing over our heads as we landed . The Chemoquemon had indeed come ! Thus the American flag was carried to this point , and it was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ east of Mr. Johnston 's premises , where the troops , as they came up , marched with inspiring music , and regularly encamped . The roll of the drum was now the law for getting up and lying down . It might be 168 or 170 years since the French first landed at this point . It was just 59 since the British power had supervened , and 39 since the American right had been acknowledged by the sagacity of Dr. Franklin 's treaty of 1783 . But to the Indian , who stood in a contemplative and stoic attitude , wrapped in his fine blanket of broadcloth , viewing the spectacle , it must have been equally striking , and indicative that his reign in the North-West , that old hive of Indian hostility , was done . And , had he been a man of letters , he might have inscribed , with equal truth , as it was done for the ancient Persian monarch , " MENE , MENE , TEKEL . " To most persons on board , our voyage up these wide straits , after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ point of indefiniteness , been something like searching after the locality of the north pole . We wound about among groups of islands and through passages which looked so perfectly in the state of nature that , but for a few ruinous stone chimneys on St. Joseph 's , it could not be told that the foot of man had ever trod the shores . The whole voyage , from Buffalo and Detroit , had indeed been a novel and fairy scene . We were now some 350 miles north-west of the latter city . We had been a couple of days on board , in the area of the sea-like Huron , before we entered the St. Mary 's straits . The Superior , being the second steamer built on the Lakes , 14 had proved herself a staunch boat . Footnote 14 : The first steamer built on the Lakes was called the " Walk-in-the-Water , " after an Indian chief of that name ; it was launched at Black Rock , Niagara River , in 1818 , and visited Michilimackinack in the summer of that year . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a detachment of the army to so remote a point in a time of profound peace , had stimulated migratory enterprise . The measure was , in truth , one of the results of the exploring expedition to the North-West in 1820 , and designed to curb and control the large Indian population on this extreme frontier , and to give security to the expanding settlements south of this point . It was in this light that Mr. Calhoun , the present enlightened Secretary of War , viewed the matter , and it may be said to constitute a part of his plan for throwing a cordon of advanced posts in front of the wide area of our western settlements . From expressions heard on our route , the breaking up in part of the exceedingly well-quartered garrison of Madison barracks at Sackett 's Harbor , N.Y. , was not particularly pleasing to the officers of this detachment , most of whom were married gentlemen , having families , and all of whom were in snug quarters at that point , surrounded as it is by a rich , thriving @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ market of meats and vegetables . To be ordered off suddenly a thousand miles or more , over three of the great series of lakes , and pitched down here , on the verge of the civilized world , at the foot of Lake Superior , amid Indians and Indian traders , where butchers ' meat is a thing only to be talked about , and garden vegetables far more rare than " blackberries , " was not , certainly , an agreeable prospect for officers with wives and mothers with babies . It might , I am inclined to think from what I heard , be better justified on the grounds of national than of domestic policy . They determined , however , on the best possible course under the circumstances , and took their ladies and families along . This has given an air of gayety and liveliness to the trip , and , united with the calmness of the season , and the great novelty and beauty of the scenery , rendered the passage a very agreeable one . The smoothness of the lakes , the softness and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the scenes , and the perfect transparency of the waters , have been so many themes of perpetual remark and admiration . The occasional appearance of the feather-plumed Indian in his sylph-like canoe , or the flapping of a covey of wild-fowl , frightened by the rushing sound of a steamboat , with the quick pulsation of its paddle-strokes on the water , but served to heighten the interest , and to cast a kind of fairy spell over the prospect , particularly as , half shrouded in mist , we passed among the green islands and brown rocks , fringed with fir trees , which constituted a perfect panorama as we entered and ascended the Straits of the St. Mary 's . We sat down to our Fourth-of-July dinner on board the Superior , a little above the Thunder Bay Islands , in Lake Huron , and as we neared the once sacred island of Michilimackinack , and saw its tall cliffs start up , as it were by magic , from the clear bosom of the pellucid lake , a true aboriginal , whose fancy had been well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have supposed he was now , indeed , approaching his fondly-cherished " Island of the Blest . " Apart from its picturesque loveliness , we found it , however , a very flesh and blood and matter-of-fact sort of place , and having taken a pilot on board , who knew the sinuosities of the Saint Mary 's channel , we veered around , the next day , and steered into the capes of that expanded and intricate strait , where we finally anchored on the morning denoted , and where the whole detachment was quickly put under orders to ascend the river the remainder of the distance , about fifteen miles , in boats , each company under its own officers , while the colonel pushed forward in the yawl . It was settled , at the same time , that the ladies and their " little ones " should remain on board , till matters had assumed some definite shape for their reception . We were received by the few residents favorably , as has been indicated . Prominent among the number of residents who came to greet us @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Ireland , of whose romantic settlement and adventures here we had heard at Detroit . He gave us a warm welcome , and freely offered every facility in his power to contribute to the personal comfort of the officers and their families , and the general objects of the government . Mr. J. is slightly lame , walking with a cane . He is of the medium stature , with blue eyes , fair complexion , hair which still bears traces of its original light brown , and possesses manners and conversation so entirely easy and polite as to impress us all very favorably . Colonel Brady selected some large open fields , not susceptible of a surprise , for his encampment . To this spot , as boat after boat came up , in fine style , with its complement of men from the steamer , the several companies marched down , and before nightfall , the entire command was encamped in a square , with their tents handsomely pitched , and the whole covered by lines of sentinels , and under the exact government of troops in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but little attention on the steamer , assumed a deeper tone , as it was re-echoed from the adjoining woods , and now distinctly announced , from time to time , the placing of sentinels , the hour for supper , and other offices of a clock , in civil life . The French population evinced , by their countenances and gestures , as they clustered round , a manifest satisfaction at the movement ; the groups of Indians had gazed in a sort of silent wonder at the pageant ; they seemed , by a certain air of secrecy and suspicion , to think it boded some evil to their long supremacy in the land . Night imperceptibly threw her dark mantle over the scene ; the gazers , group by group , went to their lodges , and finally the sharp roll of the tattoo bid every one within the camp to his tent . Captain Alexander R. Thompson , who had claimed the commandant as his guest , invited me also to spend the night in his tent . We could plainly hear the deep murmur of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also the monotonous thump of the distant Indian wabeno drum . Yet at this remote point , so far from the outer verge of civilization , we found in Mr. Johnston a man of singular energy and independence of character , from one of the most refined circles of Europe ; who had pushed his way here to the foot of Lake Superior about the year 1793 ; had engaged in the fur trade , to repair the shattered fortunes of his house ; had married the daughter of the ruling Ogima or Forest King of the Chippewas ; had raised and educated a large family , and was then living , in the only building in the place deserving the name of a comfortable residence , with the manners and conversation of a perfect gentleman , the sentiments of a man of honor , and the liberality of a lord . He had a library of the best English works ; spent most of his time in reading and conducting the affairs of an extensive business ; was a man of social qualities , a practical philanthropist , a well-read @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Europe and its connections as things from which he was probably forever separated , and looked back towards it only as the land of reminiscences . CHAPTER X. Incidents of the summer during the establishment of the new post at St. Mary 's  --  Life in a nut-shell  --  Scarcity of room  --  High prices of everything  --  State of the Indians  --  Their rich and picturesque costume  --  Council and its incidents  --  Fort site selected and occupied  --  The evil of ardent spirits amongst the Indians  --  Note from Governor De Witt Clinton  --  Mountain ash  --  Curious superstitions of the Odjibwas  --  Language  --  Manito poles  --  Copper  --  Superstitious regard for Venus  --  Fine harbor in Lake Superior  --  Star family  --  A locality of necromancers  --  Ancient Chippewa capital  --  Eating of animals . 1822 . July 7th . We left our pallets at the sound of the reveille , and partook of a rich cup of coffee , with cream , which smoked on the camp breakfast-board of our kind entertainer , Captain Thompson. 15 The ladies and children came up from the steamer , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ variously accommodated with temporary quarters . Dr. Wheaton and lady , Captain Brant , quartermaster , and myself , were received eventually at the table of Mr. Johnston . Captain Brant and myself hired a small room hard by for an office to be used between us . This room was a small log tenement , which had been occupied by one of Mr. J. 's hands . It was about twelve by fourteen feet , with a small window in front and in rear , and a very rural fire-place in one corner . It is astonishing how much comfort can be enjoyed in a crowded and ill-fitted place on a pinch . We felicitated ourselves at even this . We really felt that we were quite fortunate in getting such a locality to hail from . Captain N.S. Clark got an adjoining tenement , of similar construction and use , but much larger , for his numerous family . Some of the ladies took shelter at the domicil of an intelligent American family ( Mr. E.B. Allen 's ) who had preceded us a short time with an adventure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ temporarily in the tents of their husbands . The unmarried officers looked for nothing better than life in camp . I accepted an invitation at the mess-table of the officers . Besides this sudden influx of population , there were followers and hucksters of various hues who hoped to make their profits from the soldiery . There was not a nook in the scraggy-looking little antique village but what was sought for with avidity and thronged with occupants . Whoever has seen a flock of hungry pigeons , in the spring , alight on the leaf-covered ground , beneath a forest , and apply the busy powers of claw and beak to obtain a share of the hidden acorns that may be scratched up from beneath , may form some just notion of the pressing hurry and bustle that marked life in this place . The enhanced price that everything bore was one of the results of this sudden influx of consumers and occupants . Footnote 15 : This officer fell at the battle of Ochechubby , in Florida , as colonel of the sixth infantry , gallantly leading his men @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the heavy murmuring sound of the falls in my ears , broken at short intervals by the busy thump-thump-thump of the Indian drum ; for it is to be added , to the otherwise crowded state of the place , that the open grounds and river-side greens of the village , which stretch along irregularly for a mile or two , are filled with the lodges of visiting Indian bands from the interior . The last month of spring and the early summer constitute , in fact , a kind of carnival for the natives . It is at this season that the traders , who have wintered in the interior , come out with their furs to the frontier posts of St. Mary 's , Drummond Island , and Michilimackinack , to renew their stocks of goods . The Indians , who have done hunting at this season , as the furred animals are now changing their hair , and the pelt becomes bad , follow them to enjoy themselves along the open shores of the lakes , and share in the good things that may fall to their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ outfit , from presents issued by the British or American governments at their chief posts , or from merchants in the towns , to whom a few concealed skins are still reserved to trade . An Indian 's time appears to be worth but little to him at this season , if at any season . He lives most precariously on small things , such as he can pick up as he travels loitering along the lake shores , or strolls , with easy footsteps , about the forest precincts of his lodge . A single fish , or a bird or squirrel , now and then , serves to mitigate , if it does not satisfy , hunger . He has but little , I am told , at the best estate ; but , to make amends for this , he is satisfied and even happy with little . This is certainly a philosophic way of taking life , but it is , if I do not mistake it , stoic philosophy , and has been learned , by painful lessons of want , from early youth and childhood @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of endurance which the race have must be a common attainment . 9th . This day I hired an interpreter for the government , to attend at the office daily , a burly-faced , large man of some five-and-forty , by the name of Yarns . He tells me that he was born at Fort Niagara , of Irish parentage , to which an originally fair skin , blue eyes , and sandy hair , bear testimony . He has spent life , it seems , knocking about trading posts , in the Indian country , being married , has metif children , and speaks the Chippewa tongue fluently  --  I do not know how accurately . The day which has closed has been a busy day , having been signalized as the date of my first public council with the Indians . It has ushered in my first diplomatic effort . For this purpose , all the bands present were invited to repair to camp , where Colonel Brady , at the appointed hour , ordered his men under arms , in full dress . They were formed in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ flag waved from a lofty staff . The day was bright and fine , and everything was well arranged to have the best effect upon the minds of the Indians . As the throng of both resident and foreign bands approached , headed by their chiefs , they were seated in the square . It was noticed that the chiefs were generally tall and striking-looking persons , of dignified manners , and well and even richly dressed . One of the chiefs of the home band , called Sassaba , who was generally known by the sobriquet of the Count , appeared in a scarlet uniform , with epaulets and a sword . The other chiefs observed their native costume , which is , with this tribe , a toga of blue broadcloth , folded and held by one hand on the breast , over a light-figured calico shirt , red cloth leggins and beaded moccasons , a belt or baldric about the waist , sustaining a knife-sheath and pouch , and a frontlet of skin or something of the sort , around the forehead , environed generally with eagles ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ informed them that I had been sent by their great father the President to reside among them , that respect was due me in that capacity , and that I would now address them . I had directed a quantity of tobacco to be laid before them ; and offered them the pipe with the customary ceremonies . Being a novice in addresses of this kind , I had sat down early in the morning , in my crowded log hut , and written an address , couched in such a manner , and with such allusions and appeals , as I supposed would be most appropriate . I was not mistaken , if I could judge by the responses made at the close of each sentence , as it was interpreted . The whole address was evidently well received , and responded to in a friendly manner , by the ruling chief , a tall , majestic , and graceful person named Shingabawossin , or the Image Stone , and by all who spoke except the Count . He made use of some intemperate , or ill-timed expressions , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rebuke from Mr. Johnston , who , being familiar with the Indian language , gave vent in their tongue to his quick and high-toned feelings of propriety on the occasion . Colonel Brady then made some remarks to the chiefs , dictated by the position he occupied as being about to take post , permanently , in their country . He referred to the treaty of purchase made at these falls two years before by Governor Cass . He told the Indians that he should not occupy their ancient encamping and burial-ground on the hill , but would select the next best site for his troops . This announcement was received with great satisfaction , as denoted by a heavy response of approbation on the part of the Indians ; and the council closed to the apparent mutual satisfaction of all . I augured well from all I heard respecting it , as coming from the Indians , and was resolved to follow it up zealously , by cultivating the best understanding with this powerful and hitherto hostile tribe , namely the Chippewas , or , as they call themselves , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ my amusement , I commenced a vocabulary , and resolved to study their language , manners , customs , &c.; Footnote 16 : This word has its pluraling thus , Od-jib-waeig. 10th . On examining the topography and advantages of the ground , Colonel Brady determined to take possession of a lot enclosed and dwelling , originally the property of the North West Company , and known as the Nolin House , but now the property of Mr. C.O. Ermatinger. 17 To this place the troops were marched , soon after the close of the Indian council mentioned , and encamped within the area . This area was enclosed with cedar pickets . The dwelling-house , which occupied an eminence some eighth of a mile below the falls , was in old times regarded as a princely chateau of the once powerful lords of the North West Fur Trade , but is now in a decayed and ruinous state . It was nick-named " Hotel Flanagan . " Dilapidated as it was , there was a good deal of room under its roof , and it afforded quarters for most of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in open tents . The enclosure had also one or two stone houses , which furnished accommodations to the quartermaster 's and subsistence and medical departments . Every nerve was now directed to fit up the place , complete the enclosure , and furnish it with gates ; to build a temporary guard-house , and complete other military fixtures of the new cantonment . The edifice also underwent such repairs as served to fence out , as much as possible , the winds and snows of a severe winter  --  a winter which every one dreads the approach of , and the severity of which was perhaps magnified in proportion as it was unknown . Footnote 17 : For the property thus taken possession of , the United States Government , through the Quartermaster 's Department , paid the claimant the just and full amount awarded by appraisers. 11th . What my eyes have seen and my ears have heard , I must believe ; and what is their testimony respecting the condition of the Indian on the frontiers ? He is not , like Falstaff 's men , " food @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Whisky is the great means of drawing from him his furs and skins . To obtain it , he makes a beast of himself , and allows his family to go hungry and half naked . And how feeble is the force of law , where all are leagued in the golden bonds of interest to break it ! He is indeed " Like some neglected shrub at random cast That shades the steep and sighs at every blast . " 12th . I received by to-day 's mail a note from De Witt Clinton , Governor of New York . America has produced few men who have united civic and literary tastes and talents of a high order more fully than he does . He early and ably investigated the history and antiquities of Western New York . He views with a comprehensive judgment the great area of the West , and knows that its fertility and resources must render it , at no distant day , the home of future millions . He was among the earliest to appreciate the mineralogical and geographical researches which I made in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a New Yorker , he felt in my history and fortunes , after my return from the head of the Mississippi in 1820 . He opened his library and house to me freely ; and I have to notice his continued interest since my coming here . In the letter which has just reached me , he encloses a favorable notice of my recent Narrative of the Expedition to the Sources of the Mississippi , from Sir Humphrey Davy . If there were nothing else , in such a notice from such a source but the stimulus it gives to exertion , that alone is worth to a man in my position " pearls and diamonds . " Colonel Brady , who is active in daily perambulating the woods , to make himself acquainted with the environs , seeking , at the same time , the best places of finding wood and timber , for the purposes of his command , brought me a twig of the Sorbus Americana , a new species of tree to him , in the American forest , of which he asked me the name @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the region of the upper Lake latitudes , where it is called the mountain ash . In the expedition to the sources of the Mississippi in 1820 , it was observed on the southern shores of Lake Superior , which are on the average a little north of latitude 36 deg. 30 ' . This tree does not in these straits attain much size ; a trunk of six to eight inches diameter is large . Its leaves , flowers , and fruit all tend to make it a very attractive species for shade and ornament . It must have a rich soil , but , this requisite granted , it delights in wet moist lands , and will thrive with its roots in springy grounds . 15th . One of the curious superstitions of the Chippewas , respecting the location of spiritual existences , revealed itself to-day . There is quite an eminence nearly a mile back of the new cantonment , which is called La Butte de Terre by the French , and Wudjuwong , 18 or Place of the Mountain , by the natives . This eminence is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lies in the track of an ancient Indian hunting path . About half way between the brow of the hill and the cantonment , there formerly stood a large tree of this species , partly hollow , from the recesses of which , Indian tradition says , there issued , on a calm day , a sound like the voice of a spirit or monedo . It resembled the sounds of their own drum . It was therefore considered as the residence of some powerful spirit , and deemed sacred . To mark their regard for the place , they began to deposit at its foot bows and twigs of the same species of tree , as they passed it , from year to year , to and from their hunting-grounds . These offerings began long before the French came to the country , and were continued up to this time . Some years ago , the tree had become so much decayed that it blew down during a storm , but young shoots came up from its roots , and the natives continued to make these offerings of twigs , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ few days ago , Colonel Brady directed a road to be cut from the cantonment to the hill , sixty feet wide , in order to procure wood from the hill for the garrison . This road passed over the site of the sacred tree , and the men , without knowing it , removed the consecrated pile of offerings . It may serve to show a curious coincidence in the superstitions of nations , between whom , however , there is not the slightest probability of national affiliation , or even intercourse , to remark that this sacred manito tree was a very large species of the Scottish rowan or mountain ash . Footnote 18 : Wudijoo , a mountain  --  ong denotes locality. 16th . I this day left the mess-table of my kind friends , the officers of the second infantry , and went to the hospitable domicil of Mr. Johnston , who has the warm-hearted frankness of the Irish character , and offers the civilities of life with the air and manner of a prince . I flatter myself with the opportunity of profiting greatly while under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and in his ripe experience and knowledge of the Indian character , manners , and customs , and in the curious philosophical traits of the Indian language . It is refreshing to find a person who , in reference to this language , knows the difference between the conjugation of a verb and the declension of a noun . There is a prospect , at least , of getting at the grammatical principles , by which they conjoin and build up words . It has been intolerable to me to converse with Indian traders and interpreters here , who have , for half their lives , been using a language without being able to identify with precision person , mood , tense , or any of the first laws of grammatical utterance . 17th . It is customary with the Chippewas at this place , when an inmate of the lodge is sick , to procure a thin sapling some twenty to thirty feet long , from which , after it has been trimmed , the bark is peeled . Native paints are then smeared over it as caprice dictates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scarlet , blue cloth , beads , or some other objects which are deemed acceptable to the manito or spirit , who has , it is believed , sent sickness to the lodge as a mark of his displeasure . The pole is then raised in front of the lodge and firmly adjusted in the ground . The sight of these manito poles gives quite a peculiar air to an Indian encampment . Not knowing , however , the value attached to them , one of the officers , a few days after our arrival , having occasion for tent poles , sent one of his men for one of these poles of sacrifice ; but its loss was soon observed by the Indians , who promptly reclaimed it , and restored it to the exact position which it occupied before . There is , in fact , such a subtle and universal belief in the doctrine and agency of minor spirits of malign or benignant influence among the Indians who surround the cantonment , or visit the agency , and who are encamped at this season in great numbers in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that we are in constant danger of trespassing against some Indian custom , and of giving offence where it was least intended . It is said that one cause of the preference which the Indians have ever manifested for the French , is the respect which they are accustomed to pay to all their religious or superstitious observances , whereas an Englishman or an American is apt , either to take no pains to conceal his disgust for their superstitions , or to speak out bluntly against them . 18th . Sulphuret of Copper .  --  I received a specimen of this mineral , which is represented to have been obtained on the Island of Saint Joseph 's , in these straits ( Saint Mary 's ) . It has the usual brass yellow color of the sulphurets of this metal , and furnishes a hint for seeking that hitherto undiscovered , but valuable species of the ore in this vicinity . Hitherto , we have found the metal chiefly in the native form , or in the condition of a carbonate , the first being a form of it which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the second not containing a sufficient per percentage to repay well the cost of smelting . 20th . Superstitious regard for Woman .  --  Some of the rites and notions of these northern barbarians are curious . The following custom is stated to me to have been formerly prevalent among the Chippewas : After their corn-planting , a labor which falls to the share of the women , and as soon as the young blades began to shoot up from the hills , it was customary for the female head of the family to perform a circuit around the field in a state of nudity . For this purpose , she chose a dark evening , and after divesting herself of her machecota , held it in her hands dragging it behind her as she ran , and in this way compassed the field . This singular rite was believed to protect the corn from blight and the ravages of worms and vermin , and to insure a good crop . It was believed that neither worms nor vermin could cross the mystic or enchanted ring made by the nocturnal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ affect the growing stalks and ears . 21st . Grand Island , in Lake Superior , lies transversely in the lake , just beyond the termination of the precipitous coast of the Pictured Rocks . Its southern end is crescent-shaped , and forms a singularly fine harbor for vessels , which will one day be appreciated . The Indian band occupying it was formerly numerous . There are many stories still current of their former prowess and traits of hospitality and generosity , and of the skill of their old seers , and divining-men , i.e. Jossakeeds . Its present Indian population is reduced to forty-six souls , of whom ten are men , sixteen women , and twenty children . Of the men , nine are married , one of whom has two wives , and there are two widows . Of this band the Star family , so called , have long possessed the chieftainship , and are remarkable on several accounts . There are eleven children of them now living , five of whom are males , all by one mother , who is still living . Sabboo @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ elder , and the ruling chief , has removed to Bay de Nocquet . At this island , story says , formerly lived the noted warrior and meta , Sagima ; and it was also , according to Indian mythology , the residence of Mishosha , who owned a magic canoe , that would shoot through the water by uttering a charmed word . 22d . I have heard much of the ancient Chippewa capital of La Pointe , as the French call it , or Chegoimegon , in Lake Superior , situated near its west end , or head . The Chippewas and their friends , the old traders and Boisbrules , and Canadians , are never tired of telling of it . All their great men of old times are located there . It was there that their Mudjekewis , king or chief ruler , lived , and , as some relate , that an eternal fire was kept up with a sort of rude temple service . At that place lived , in comparatively modern times , Wabojeeg and Andaigweos , and there still lives one of their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as he is familiarly called , Pezhickee , or the Buffalo , a chief decorated with British insignia . His band is estimated at one hundred and eighteen souls , of whom thirty-four are adult males , forty-one females , and forty-three children . Mizi , the Catfish , one of the heads of families of this band , who has figured about here this summer , is not a chief , but a speaker , which gives him some eclat . He is a sort of petty trader too , being credited with little adventures of goods by a dealer on the opposite , or British shores . 23d . There are few animals which the Indians reject as food . On this subject they literally fulfil the declaration of Paul , " that every creature of God is good , and nothing to be refused ; " but I fear the poor creatures , in these straits , do anything but show the true spirit of thanksgiving in which the admonition is given . There is nothing apparently in the assertion respecting Indians distinguishing between clean and unclean @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and vultures are not eaten , but , when they are pushed by hunger , whatever can sustain life is taken . The truth is , the calls of hunger are often so pressing to these northern Indians , that anything in the shape of animal fibre , that will keep soul and body together , is eaten in times of their greatest want . A striking instance of this kind has just occurred , in the case of a horse killed in the public service . The animal had , to use the teamster 's phrase , been snagged , and was obliged to be shot . To prevent unpleasant effects in hot summer weather , the carcass was buried in the sand ; but as soon as the numerous bands of Indians , who are encamped here , learned the fact , they dug up the animal , which was , however , nowise diseased , and took it to their camp for food . CHAPTER XI . Murder of Soan-ga-ge-zhick , a Chippewa , at the head of the falls  --  Indian mode of interment  --  Indian prophetess @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Indian language  --  The Johnston family  --  Visits  --  Katewabeda , chief of Sandy Lake  --  Indian mythology , and oral tales and legends  --  Literary opinion  --  Political opinion  --  Visit of the chief Little Pine  --  Visit of Wabishkepenais  --  A despairing Indian  --  Geography . 1822 . July 26th . A tragic occurrence took place last night , at the head of the portage , resulting in the death of a Chippewa , which is believed to be wholly attributable to the use of ardent spirits in the Indian camps . As soon as I heard the facts , and not knowing to what lengths the spirit of retaliation might go , I requested of Colonel Brady a few men , with a non-commissioned officer , and proceeded , taking my interpreter along , to the spot . The portage road winds along about three-fourths of a mile , near the rapids , and all the way , within the full sound of the roaring water , when it opens on a green , which is the ancient camping ground , at the head of the falls @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bushes and copsewood , to the borders of a shallow bay , where in a small opening I somewhat abruptly came to the body of the murdered man . He was a Chippewa from the interior called Soan-ga-ge-zhick , or the Strong Sky . He had been laid out , by his relatives , and dressed in his best apparel , with a kind of cap of blue cloth and a fillet round his head . His lodge , occupied by his widow and three small children , stood near . On examination , he had been stabbed in several places , deeply in both thighs . These wounds might not have proved fatal ; but there was a subsequent blow , with a small tomahawk , upon his forehead , above the left eye . He was entirely dead , and had been found so , on searching for him at night , by his wife . It appeared that he had been drinking during the evening and night , with an Indian half-breed of the Chippewa River , of the name of Gaulthier . This fellow , finding he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Both had been intoxicated . I directed the body to be interred , at the public charge , on the ancient burial hill of the Chippewas , near the cantonment . The usual shroud , on such occasions , is a new blanket ; a grave was dug , and the body very carefully dressed , laid in the coffin , beside the grave . Before the lid was fastened , an aged Indian came forward , and pronounced a funeral oration . He recited the traits of his character . He addressed the dead man direct . He told him that he had reached the end of his journey first , that they should all follow him soon to the land of the dead , and again meet . He gave him directions for his journey . He offered a brief admonition of dangers . He bid him adieu . The brother of the deceased then stept forward , and , having removed the head-dress of the slain man , pulled out some locks of hair as a memento . The head-dress was then carefully replaced , the lid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into the ground . Two stout poles were then laid over the open grave . The brother approached the widow and stood still . The orator then addressed a few words to both , telling the survivor to perform a brother 's part by the widow . He then took her by the hand , and led her carefully across the open grave , over the two poles . This closed the ceremony , and the grave was then filled , and the crowd of white and red men dispersed . At night a small flickering fire was built by the Indian relatives of the murdered man , at the head of the grave . 27th . Making inquiries respecting the family of Soan-ga-ge-zhick , in order to direct some provisions to be issued to them , I learned that the widow is a prophetess among her people , or in other words a female Jossakeed , and is supposed to have much influence in this way . This denotes that the prophetic office is not , as has been supposed , confined to males . I can not better indicate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is a person who makes oracular responses from a close lodge of peculiar construction , where the inmate is supposed to be surrounded by superhuman influences , which impart the power of looking into futurity . It is , manifestly , the ancient office of a seer , and after making interrogatories about it , from persons supposed to be best acquainted with the manners and customs of the people , the existence of such an order of persons among them offers a curious coincidence with one of the earliest superstitions of mankind . I further learn that there is nothing hereditary in the descent of such priestly functions ; that any one , who acquires a character for sanctity or skill therein among the bands , may assume the duties , and will secure a rank and respect in proportion to his supposed skill therein . Having spoken of descent , it is added , by my informants , that the widow of Strong Sky , is a granddaughter of the noted war-chief Wabodjeeg , 19 of Chegoimegon , Lake Superior , who , some half a century ago @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his military skill and bravery , in the war against the Ottogamies and Sioux . They talk of him as having been a sort of Rajah , who could at any time get men to follow him . Footnote 19 : White Fisher . The fisher is a small furred animal resembling the mustela. 28th . I have had an interview to-day with Ka-ba-konse ( Little Hawk ) , brother of the murdered Strong Sky . It does not seem possible to obtain much information respecting their secret beliefs and superstitions direct from the Indians . The attempts I have made thus far have , at least , been unsuccessful , partly , perhaps , because the topic was not properly apprehended by them , or by my ordinary office interpreter , who , I find , is soon run a-muck by anything but the plainest and most ordinary line of inquiry . A man of the Indian frontiers , who has lived all his life to eat and drink , to buy and sell , and has grown old in this devotion to the means necessary to secure the material @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ardor . I find this to be the case with my present interpreter , and he is , perhaps , not inferior to the general run of paid interpreters . But as I find , in my intercourse , the growing difficulties of verbal communication with the Indians on topics at all out of the ordinary routine of business , I begin to feel less surprised at the numerous misapprehensions of the actual character , manners , and customs of the Indians , which are found in books . I speak as to the communication of exact ideas of their beliefs . As to literal exactitude in such communications , my inquiries have already convinced me that there must be other and higher standards than a hap-hazard I-au-ne-kun-o-tau-gade , or trade interpreter , before the thing can be attempted . Fortunately , I have , in my kind and polite friend Mr. Johnston , who has given me temporary quarters at his house , and the several intelligent members of his family , the means of looking deeper into the powers and structure of the language , and am pressing these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ my ardor and assiduity . The study of the language , and the formation of a vocabulary and grammar have almost imperceptibly become an absorbing object , although I have been but a short time at the place , and the plan interests me so much , that I actually regret the time that is lost from it , in the ordinary visits of comity and ceremony , which are , however , necessary . My method is to interrogate all persons visiting the office , white and red , who promise to be useful subjects of information during the day , and to test my inquiries in the evening by reference to the Johnstons , who , being educated , and speaking at once both the English and Odjibwa correctly , offer a higher and more reliable standard than usual . Mr. Johnston 's family consists of ten persons , though all are not constantly present . He is himself a native of the county of Antrim , in the north of Ireland , his father having possessed an estate at Craige , near the Giant 's Causeway . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Washington , having a brother at that time settled at Albany , and after visiting Montreal and Quebec , he fell into company with the sort of half-baronial class of north-west fur traders , who struck his fancy . By their advice , he went to Michilimackinack and Lake Superior , where he became attached to , and subsequently married the younger daughter of Wabojeeg , a northern Powhatan , who has been before mentioned . There are four sons and four daughters , to the education of all of whom he has paid the utmost attention . His eldest son was first placed in the English navy , and is now a lieutenant in the land service , having been badly wounded and cut in the memorable battle with Commodore Perry on Lake Eric , in 1813 . The next eldest is engaged in commerce . The eldest daughter was educated in Ireland , and the two next at Sandwich , near Detroit . These constituted the adults ; there are two sons and a daughter , still in their school-days . All possess agreeable , easy manners and refinement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ good sense ; she is referred to on abstruse points of the Indian ceremonies and usages , so that I have in fact stumbled , as it were , on the only family in North West America who could , in Indian lore , have acted as my " guide , philosopher and friend . " 30th . I received yesterday a second visit from Ka-ta-wa-be-da , or the Broken Tooth chief of Sandy Lake , on the Upper Mississippi , who is generally known by his French name of Breshieu , and at the close of the interview gave him a requisition on the commissary for some provisions to enable him to return to his home . The Indians must be led by a very plain path and a friendly hand . Feeling and preference are subsequent manifestations . I took this occasion to state to him the objects and policy of the government by the establishment at these falls of a post and agency , placing it upon its true basis , namely , the preservation of peace upon the frontiers , and the due observance , by all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the tribes , and securing justice both to them and to our citizens , particularly by the act for the exclusion of ardent spirits from the Indian country . By the agency , a door was opened through which they could communicate their wishes to the President , and he was also enabled to state his mind to them . All who opened their ears truly to the voice of their American father would be included among the recipients of his favors . He felt kindly to all , but those only who hearkened to his council would be allowed , as he had been , to share in the usual privileges which the agency at this place secured to them . Having drawn his provisions , and duly reflected on what was said by me , he returned to-day to bid me adieu , on his setting out to go home , and to express his thanks for my kindness and advice . The old chief , who has long exercised his sway in the region of Sandy Lake , made a well-considered speech in reply to mine of yesterday @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between the United States and Great Britain , and averred that he had ever been the friend of the white race and of traders who came into the country , and declared himself the friend of peace . At the conclusion of this interview , I gave him a small sea-shell from my cabinet , as a mark of my respect , and a token which would remind him of my advice . I remembered that the Indians of the continent have always set a high value on wampum , which is made solely from sea-shells , and have attributed a kind of sacredness for this class of productions . 31st . Indian Mythology .  --  Nothing has surprised me more in the conversations which I have had with persons acquainted with the Indian customs and character , than to find that the Chippewas amuse themselves with oral tales of a mythological or allegorical character . Some of these tales , which I have heard , are quite fanciful , and the wildest of them are very characteristic of their notions and customs . They often take the form of allegory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ truth or illustrate some maxim . The fact , indeed , of such a fund of fictitious legendary matter is quite a discovery , and speaks more for the intellect of the race than any trait I have heard . Who would have imagined that these wandering foresters should have possessed such a resource ? What have all the voyagers and remarkers from the days of Cabot and Raleigh been about , not to have discovered this curious trait , which lifts up indeed a curtain , as it were , upon the Indian mind , and exhibits it in an entirely new character ? August 1st . Every day increases the interest which the question of the investigation of the Indian languages and customs assumes in my mind . My facilities for pursuing these inquiries and for the general transaction of the official business has been increased this day by my removing into a new and more convenient office , situated some ninety or a hundred yards west of my former position , but on a line with it , and fronting , like the former room , on an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mary 's River is here about three-fourths of a mile wide , and the green in front of my office is covered with Indian lodges , and presents a noble expanse . I have now a building some thirty-six feet square , built of squared timber , jointed with mortar and whitewashed , so as to give it a neat appearance . The interior is divided into a room some twenty feet by thirty-six , with two small ante-rooms . A large cast iron Montreal stove , which will take in three feet wood , occupies the centre . The walls are plastered , and the room moderately lighted . The rear of the lot has a blacksmith shop . The interpreter has quarters near by . The gate of the new cantonment is some three hundred yards west of my door , and there is thus brought within a small compass the means of transacting the affairs of the agency during the approaching and expected severe winter . These are the best arrangements that can be made , better indeed than I had reason to expect on first landing here @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expressing my thanks for the extract of a letter , which he had enclosed me from Sir Humphrey Davy , dated London , March 24th , 1822 , in which this eminent philosopher expresses his opinion on my Narrative Journal , a copy of which Dr. Hosack had sent him . " Schoolcraft 's Narrative is admirable , " observes Sir Humphrey Davy , " both for the facts it develops , and for the simplicity and clearness of the details . He has accomplished great things by such means , and offers a good model for a traveler in a new country . I lent his book to our veteran philosophical geographer , Major Kennel , who was highly pleased with it . Copies of it would sell well in England . " A friend sends me a prospectus for a paper under the title of " Washington Republican , " which has just been established at the seat of government , earnestly advocating the election of John C. Calhoun for the presidency in 1824. 4th . A chief of a shrewd and grave countenance , and more than the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and gave me his hand , with the ordinary salutation of Nosa ( my father ) . The interpreter introduced him by the name of Little Pine , or Shingwalkonee , and as a person of some consequence among the Indians , being a meta , a wabeno , a counselor , a war chief , and an orator or speaker . He had a tuft of beard on his chin , wore a hat , and had some other traits in his dress and gear which smacked of civilization . His residence is stated to be , for the most part , on the British side of the river , but he traces his lineage from the old Crane band here . I thought him to be a man of more than the ordinary Indian forecast . He appeared to be a person who , having seen all the military developments on these shores during the last month , thought he would cross over the channel with a retinue , to see what the Chemoquemon 20 was about . He had also , perhaps , a shrewd Indian inkling that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Footnote 20 : Chemoquemon , an American ; from Gitchee great , moquemon a knife. 10th . A strange-looking Indian came in from the forest wearing an American silver medal . He looked haggard and forsaken . It will be recollected by those who have read my Narrative Journal of the expedition of 1820 , that Governor Cass became lost and entangled among the sharp mountainous passes of the River Ontonagon , in his attempts to reach the party who had , at an early part of the day , gone forward to the site of the Copper Rock ; and that he bestowed a medal on a young Chippewa , who had rendered his party and himself services during its stay on that river . This individual was among the earlier visitors who presented himself at my office . He recognized me as one of the party on that occasion . He was introduced to me by the name of Wabish-ke-pe-nace , or the White Bird , and seemed to rouse up from a settled look of melancholy when referring to those events . It appears that his conduct as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the band , who told him he had received an honor for that which should be condemned . That it was a crime to show the Americans their wealth , and the Great Spirit did not approve it . His dress had something wild and forlorn , as well as his countenance . 17th . A week or two ago , an Indian , called Sa-ne-baw , or the Ribbon , who encamped on the green in front of my office , fell sick . I requested Dr. Wheaton to visit him , but it did not appear that there was any disease of either an acute or chronic character which could be ascertained . The man seemed to be in a low desponding state . Some small medicines were administered , but he evinced no symptoms of restoration . He rather appeared to be pining away , with some secret mental canker . The very spirit of despair was depicted in his visage . Young Wheaton , a brother of the Doctor , and Lieutenant C. Morton , United States Army , visited him daily in company , with much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or mentally , was successful , and he died this morning . " He died , " said the former to me , " because he would die . " The Indians seem to me a people who are prone to despond , and easily sink into frames of despair . I received a letter to-day from the veteran geographer , Mr. W. Darby , of Philadelphia , brought by the hands of a friend , a Mr. Toosey , through whom he submitted to me a list of geographical and statistical queries relating to some generic points , which he is investigating in connection with his forthcoming Gazetteer of the United States . CHAPTER XII . A pic-nic party at the foot of Lake Superior  --  Canoe  --  Scenery  --  Descent of St. Mary 's Falls  --  Etymology of the Indian names of Sault Ste. Marie , and Lake Superior  --  The wild rice plant  --  Indian trade  --  American Fur Company  --  Distribution of presents  --  Death of Sassaba  --  Epitaph  --  Indian capacity to count  --  Oral literature  --  Research  --  Self-reliance. 1822 . August 20th . I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ promontory at the foot of Lake Superior . This elevation stands on the north shore of the straits , and consequently in Canada . It overlooks a noble expanse of waters and islands , constituting one of the most magnificent series of views of American scenery . Immediately opposite stands the scarcely less elevated , and not less celebrated promontory of Point Iroquois , the Na-do-wa-we-gon-ing , or Place of Iroquois Bones , of the Chippewas . These two promontories stand like the pillars of Hercules which guard the entrance into the Mediterranean , and their office is to mark the foot of the mighty Superior , a lake which may not , inaptly , be deemed another Mediterranean Sea . The morning chosen to visit this scene was fine ; the means of conveyance chosen was the novel and fairy-like barque of the Chippewas , which they denominate Che-maun , but which we , from a corruption of a Charib term as old as the days of Columbus , call Canoe . It is made of the rind of the betula papyracea , or white birch , sewed together with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is made water-tight by covering the seams with boiled pine rosin , the whole being distended over and supported by very thin ribs and cross-bars of cedar , curiously carved and framed together . It is turned up , at either end , like a gondola , and the sides and gunwales fancifully painted . The whole structure is light , and was easily carried by two men on their shoulders ; yet will bear a weight of more than a ton on the water . It is moved with cedar paddles , and the Canadians who managed it , kept time in their strokes , and regulated them to the sonorous cadence of some of their simple boat songs . Our party consisted of several ladies and gentlemen . We carried the elements of a pic-nic . We moved rapidly . The views on all sides were novel and delightful . The water in which the men struck their paddles was pure as crystal . The air was perfectly exhilarating from its purity . The distance about three leagues . We landed a few moments at Point aux Pins , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plains , now abounding in fine whortleberries . Directly on putting out from this , the broad view of the entrance into the lake burst upon us . It is magnificent . A line of blue water stretched like a thread on the horizon , between cape and cape , say five miles . Beyond it is what the Chippewas call Bub-eesh-ko-be , meaning the far off , indistinct prospect of a water scene , till the reality , in the feeble power of human vision , loses itself in the clouds and sky . The two prominences of Point Iroquois and Gross Cape are very different in character . The former is a bold eminence covered with trees , and having all the appearance of youth and verdure . The latter is but the end , so to say , of a towering ridge of dark primary rocks with a few stunted cedars . The first exhibits , on inspection , a formation of sandstone and reproduced rocks , piled stratum super stratum , and covered with boulder drifts and alluvion . The second is a massive mountain ridge of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and flanked at lower altitudes , in front , in some places , by a sort of trachyte . We clambered up and over the bold undulations of the latter , till we were fatigued . We stood on the highest pinnacle , and gazed on the " blue profound " of Superior , the great water or Gitchegomee of the Indians . We looked down far below at the clean ridges of pebbles , and the transparent water . After gazing , and looking , and reveling in the wild magnificence of views , we picked our way , crag by crag , to the shore , and sat down on the shining banks of black , white , and mottled pebbles , and did ample justice to the contents of our baskets of good things . This always restores one 's spirits . We forget the toil in the present enjoyment . And having done this , and giving our last looks at what has been poetically called the Father of Lakes , we put out , with paddles and song , and every heart beating in unison with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pa-wa-teeg , alias Sault Ste. Marie . But the half of my story would not be told , if I did not add that , as we gained the brink of the rapids , and began to feel the suction of the wide current that leaps , jump after jump , over that foaming bed , our inclinations and our courage rose together to go down the formidable pass ; and having full faith in the long-tried pilotage of our guide , Tom Shaw , down we went , rushing at times like a thunderbolt , then turned by a dab of the pole of our guide , on a rock , shooting off in eschelon , and then careering down another schute , or water bolt , till we thus dodged every rock , and came out below with a full roaring chorus of our Canadians , who , as they cleared the last danger , hoisted our starry flag at the same moment that they struck up one of their wild and joyous , songs . 22d . I have questioned the Indians closely for the names of Sault @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hold an important rank in our future geography . But the result is not agreeable to preconceived poetic notions . When the French first came to these falls , they found the Chippewas , the falls signifying , descriptively , Shallow water pitching over rocks , or by a prepositional form of the term , at the place of shallow water , pitching over rocks . Such is the meaning of the words Pa-wa-teeg and Pa-wa-ting . The terms cover more precisely the idea which we express by the word cascade . The French call a cascade a Leap or Sault ; but Sault alone would not be distinctive , as they had already applied the term to some striking passes on the St. Lawrence and other places . They therefore , in conformity with their general usage , added the name of a patron saint to the term by calling it Sault de Ste. Marie , i.e. Leap of Saint Mary , to distinguish it from other Leaps , or Saults . Now as the word Sainte , as here used , is feminine , it must , in its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ) is usually dropped . Use has further now dropped the sound of the letter l from Sault . But as , in the reforms of the French dictionary , the ancient geographical names of places remain unaffected , the true phraseology is SAULT STE . MARIE . Having named the falls a Sault , they went a step further , and called the Odjibwa Indians who lived at it , Saulteurs , or People of the Sault . Hence this has ever remained the French name for Chippewas . In the term Gitchegomee , the name for Superior , we have a specimen of their mode of making compounds . Gitche signifies something great , or possessing the property of positive magnitude . Gomee is itself a compound phrase , denoting , when so conjoined , a large body of water . It is the objective member of their term for the sea ; but is governed by its antecedent , and may be used in describing other and minor , even the most minute liquid bodies , as we hear it , in the compound term mushkuagomee , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gitchee , it appears to express simply the sense of great water , but conveys the idea , to the Indian mind , of sea-water . I have cast about , to find a sonorous form of elision , in which it may come into popular use , but find nothing more eligible than I-go-mee , or Igoma . A more practical word , in the shape of a new compound , may be made in Algoma , a term in which the first syllable of the generic name of this tribe of the Algonquin stock , harmonizes very well with the Indian idea of goma ( sea ) , giving us , Sea of the Algonquins . The term may be objected to , as the result of a grammatical abbreviation , but if not adopted practically , it may do as a poetical synonym for this great lake . Such is , at least , the result of a full discussion of these names , with the very best speakers of the language . 30th . The Wild Rice Plant .  --  Having received a request for some of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the smoked rice , such as the Indians usually bring in , will not germinate , I this day dispatched my interpreter in a canoe , with some Indians , to the northern shores of the straits to gather some of it for seed ; the result was successful . This plant may be deemed a precious gift of nature to the natives , who spread over many degrees of northern latitude . They call it mon-o-min , a compound descriptive phrase , which differs only from their name for the zea maize in putting an o  --  the third syllable  --  for the imperative future in dau . Sept. 1st . Indian Trade .  --  Congress has provided a code of laws to regulate this , the object of which is a good one , and the provisions of the various enactments appear to be founded on the highest principles of justice and benevolence . It is still a question , it appears to me , whether some of these provisions do not merely sanction by the forms of law what was formerly done , not always well , without @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ afford to the tribes against the cupidity of the whites is very efficacious . It was heretofore pretended by the British traders that all this country belonged to Great Britain , and they told the Indians that the war of 1812 would settle all this . It did so ; but , contrary to their wishes and the predictions to the Indians , it settled it precisely on the basis of the treaty of 1783 , which ran the boundary line through the straits of Saint Mary 's and Lake Superior to the Lake of the Woods . As soon as the smoke of the war cleared off , namely , in 1816 , Congress enacted that British traders and capital should be excluded from the American lines , that no British subjects should receive licenses to trade , and that all such persons who went inland in subordinate capacities should be bonded for by the American traders who employed them . This law seemed to bear particularly on this section of country , and is generally understood to have been passed to throw the old North West Company , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out of this hitherto very lucrative branch of trade . John Jacob Astor , of New York , went immediately to Montreal and bought out all the posts and factories of that company , situated in the north-west , which were south of the lines . With these posts , the factors , trading clerks , and men were , as a matter of course , cast on the patronage and employment of that eminent German furrier . That he might cover their employment , he sent an agent from Montreal into Vermont to engage enterprising young men , in whose names the licenses could be taken out . He furnished the entire capital for the trade , and sent agents , in the persons of two enterprising young Scotch gentlemen , from Montreal and New York to Michilimackinack , to manage the business . This new arrangement took the popular name of the American Fur Company . In other respects , except those related , the mode of transacting the trade , and the real actors therein , remained very much as they were . American lads , whose names @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , went inland in reality to learn the business and the language ; the engagees , or boatmen , who were chiefly Canadians or metifs , were bonded for , in five hundred dollars each . In this condition , I found things on my arrival here . The very thin diffusion of American feeling or principle in both the traders and the Indians , so far as I have seen them , renders it a matter of no little difficulty to supervise this business , and it has required perpetual activity in examining the boats and outfits of the traders who have received their licenses at Mackinack , to search their packages , to detect contraband goods , i.e. ardent spirits , and grant licenses , passports , and permits to those who have applied to me . To me it seems that the whole old resident population of the frontiers , together with the new accessions to it , in the shape of petty dealers of all sorts , are determined to have the Indians ' furs , at any rate , whether these poor red men live or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ obey the laws wish to get legally inland only that they may do as they please , law or no law , after they have passed the flag-staff of Sainte Marie 's . There may be , and I trust there are , higher motives in some persons , but they have not passed this way , to my knowledge , the present season . I detected one scamp , a fellow named Gaulthier , who had carried by , and secreted above the portage , no less than five large kegs of whisky and high wines on a small invoice , but a few days after my arrival . It will require vigilance and firmness , and yet mildness , to secure anything like a faithful performance of the duties committed to me on a remote frontier , and with very little means of action beyond the precincts of the post , and this depends much on the moral influence on the Indian mind of the military element of power . 6th . First Distribution of Presents .  --  In fulfilment of a general declaration of friendly purposes , made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the entire home band of St. Mary 's , men , women , and children , were assembled on the green in front of my office , this morning , to receive a small invoice of goods and merchandise , which were distributed amongst them as presents . These goods were the best that could be purchased in the Detroit market , and were all of the best description ; and they were received with a lively satisfaction , which betokened well for my future influence . Prominent among the pleased recipients were the chiefs of the village , Shin-ga-ba-was-sin , the Image Stone , She-wa-be-ke-tone , the Man of Jingling Metals , Kau-ga-osh , or the Bird in Eternal Flight , Way-ish-kee , or The First Born Son , and two or three others of minor note . Behind them were the warriors and young men , the matrons and maids ; and peppered in , as it were , the children of all ages . All were in their best attire . The ceremony began by lighting the pipe , and having it passed by suitable officials to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ placing a pile of tobacco before them , for general use , which the chiefs with great care divided and distributed , not forgetting the lowest claimant . I then stated the principles by which the agency would be guided in its intercourse with them , the benevolence and justice of the views entertained by their great father , the President , and his wishes to keep improper traders out of their country , to exclude ardent spirits , and to secure their peace and happiness in every practicable way . Each sentence , as it was rendered into Indian , was received with the response of Hoh ! an exclamation of approbation , which is uttered feebly or loud , in proportion as the matter is warmly or coldly approved . The chiefs responded . All looked pleased ; the presents were divided , and the assembly broke up in harmony and good will . It does seem that , according to the oriental maxim , 21 a present is the readiest door to an Indian 's heart . Footnote 21 : " Let thy present go before thee . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appears to lack the mathematical element . It is doubtful how far they can compute numbers . The Chippewas count decimally , and after ten , add the names of the digits to the word ten , up to twenty ; then take the word for twenty , and add them as before , to thirty ; and so on to a hundred . They then add them to the term for a hundred , up to a thousand . They can not be made to understand the value of an American dollar , without reducing it to the standard of skins . A striking instance of this kind happened among the Potowattomies at Chicago last year ( 1821 ) . The commanding officer had offered a reward of thirty dollars for the apprehension of a deserter . The Potowattomies pursued and caught him , and received a certificate for the reward . The question with them now was , how much they had got . They wished to sell the certificate to a trader , and there were five claimants . They sat down and counted off as many racoon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ symbols for skins . Taking the store price of a racoon at five skins to the dollar , they then found they had received the equivalent of one hundred and fifty racoons , and at this price they sold the order or certificate . 26th . Death of Sassaba , 22 or the Count .  --  This chief , who has from the day of our first landing here , rendered himself noted for his sentiments of opposition to the Americans , met with a melancholy fate yesterday . He was in the habit of using ardent spirits , and frequently rose from a debauch of this kind of two or three days ' continuance . Latterly he has exhibited a singular figure , walking through the village , being divested of every particle of clothing except a large gray wolf 's skin , which he had drawn over his body in such a manner as to let its tail dangle down behind . It was in this unique costume that I last saw him , and as he was a tall man , with rather prominent features , the spectacle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he has been commonly called , for some time , My-een-gun , or the Wolf . He had been drinking at Point aux Pins , six miles above the rapids , with Odabit and some other boon companions , and in this predicament embarked in his canoe , to come to the head of the portage . Before reaching it , and while still in the strong tide or suck of the current , he rose in his canoe for some purpose connected with the sail , and tipped it over . Odabit succeeded in making land , but the Count , his wife and child , and Odabit 's wife , went over the rapids , which was the last ever seen of them . Sassaba appeared to me to be a man of strong feelings and an independent mind , not regarding consequences . He had taken a deep prejudice against the Americans , from his brother having been shot by his side in the battle under Tecumseh on the Thames . This appeared to be the burden of his complaints . He was fond of European dress , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had in his tent , which was of duck , a set of silver tea and tablespoons , knives , forks , cups and saucers , and a tea tray . Besides his military coat , sword , and epaulets , and sash , which were presented to him , he had some ruffled linen shirts , gloves , shoes and stockings , and an umbrella , all of which were kept , however , in the spirit of a virtuoso , and he took a pride in displaying these articles to visitors . Footnote 22 : The word means finery . Many a more worthless man than Sassaba has had his epitaph , or elegiac wreath , which may serve as an apology for the following lines :  --  The Falls were thy grave , as they leapt mad along , And the roar of their waters thy funeral song : So wildly , so madly , thy people for aye , Are rapidly , ceaselessly , passing away . They are seen but a moment , then fade and are past , Like a cloud in the sky , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hast trodden , thy nation shall tread , Chief , warrior , and kin , to the Land of the Dead ; And soon on the lake , or the shore , or the green , Not a war drum shall sound , not a smoke shall be seen . 27th . Oral Literature of the Indians .  --  " I am extremely anxious , " writes a friend , " that Mr. Johnston and his family should furnish full and detailed answers to my queries , more particularly upon all subjects connected with the language , and , if I may so speak , the polite literature of the Chippewas ( I write the word in this way because I am apprehensive that the orthography is inveterately fixed , and not because I suppose it is correct ) 23 . There is no quarter from which I can expect such full information upon these topics as from this . I must beg you to aid me in the pursuit . Urge them during the long winter evenings to the task . The time can not be more profitably or pleasantly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ somewhat of an aboriginal scholar , you can assist them with your advice and judgment . A perfect analysis of the language is a great desideratum . I pray you , in the spring , to let me have the fruits of their exertions . " Footnote 23 : I had written , announcing the word Od-jib-wa to be the true Indian pronunciation , and recommending its adoption . With a strong predisposition to these inquiries , with such additional excitement to the work , and with the very highest advantages of interpretation and no little fixity of application from boyhood , it must go hard with me this winter if I do not fish up something from the well of Indian researches and traditionary lore . Go , student , search , and if thou nothing find , Go search again ; success is in the mind .  --  ALGON. 28th . The right spirit , humble yet manful.  --  A young man of purpose and some talent , with considerable ambition , who is diligently seeking a place in the world , writes me from Detroit to-day , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ determined to pass the winter either in New York or Washington , probably the latter place . But , my dear sir , my hope of doing anything for myself in this world is the faintest possible , and I begin to fatigue with the exertion . If I do not succeed this winter in obtaining something permanent , 24 I shall probably settle down , either in this place or somewhere in New York , a poor devil !  --  from all which , and many other things , ' good Lord deliver us ! ' Farewell ; my best wishes be with you this winter , to keep you warm . I shall expect next spring to see you an accomplished nichee " 25 Ne-je . Footnote 24 : He did succeed at W. Footnote 25 : A term signifying , in the Chippewa , my friend , but popularly used at the time to some extent at Detroit to denote an Indian . CHAPTER XIII . My first winter at the foot of Lake Superior  --  Copper mines  --  White fish  --  A poetic name for a fish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Fort Niagara  --  Mythological and allegorical tales among the aborigines  --  Chippewa language  --  Indian vowels  --  A polite and a vulgar way of speaking the language  --  Public worship  --  Seclusion from the world . 1822 . Oct. 1st . Copper Mines of Lake Superior.  --  On the 8th of May last , the Senate of the United States passed a resolution in these words :  --  " Resolved , that the President of the United States be requested to communicate to the Senate , at the commencement of the next session of Congress , any information which may be in the possession of the government , derived from special agents or otherwise , showing the number , value , and position of the copper mines on the south shore of Lake Superior ; the names of the Indian tribes who claim them ; the practicability of extinguishing their title , and the probable advantage which may result to the Republic from the acquisition and working these mines . " The resolution having been referred to me by the Secretary of War , I , this day , completed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ principal facts known respecting them , insisting on their value and importance , and warmly recommending their further exploration and working. 26 Footnote 26 : See Public Doc . No. 365 , 2d Sess. , 17th Congress. 4th . White Fish Fishery .  --  No place in America has been so highly celebrated as a locality for taking this really fine and delicious fish , as Saint Mary 's Falls , or the Sault , 27 as it is more generally and appropriately called . This fish resorts here in vast numbers , and is in season after the autumnal equinox , and continues so till the ice begins to run . It is worthy the attention of ichthyologists . It is a remarkable , but not singular fact in its natural history , that it is perpetually found in the attitude of ascent at these falls . It is taken only in the swift water at the foot of the last leap or descent . Into this swift water the Indians push their canoes . It requires great skill and dexterity for this . The fishing canoe is of small @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stern . The fisherman takes his stand in the bows , sometimes bestriding the light and frail vessel from gunwale to gunwale , having a scoop-net in his hands . This net has a long slender handle , ten feet or more in length . The net is made of strong twine , open at the top , like an entomologist 's . When the canoe has been run into the uppermost rapids , and a school of fish is seen below or alongside , he dexterously puts down his net , and having swooped up a number of the fish , instantly reverses it in water , whips it up , and discharges its contents into the canoe . This he repeats till his canoe is loaded , when he shoots out of the tail of the rapids , and makes for shore . The fish will average three pounds , but individuals are sometimes two and three times that weight . It is shad-shaped , with well-developed scales , easily removed , but has the mouth of the sucker , very small . The flesh is perfectly white and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the Indians in pure water , in a peculiar manner , the kettle hung high above a small blaze ; and thus cooked , it is eaten with the liquid for a gravy , and is delicate and delicious . If boiled in the ordinary way , by a low hung pot and quick fire , it is soft and comparatively flabby . It is also broiled by the inhabitants , on a gridiron , after cutting it open on the back , and brought on the table slightly browned . This must be done , like a steak , quickly . It is the most delicious when immediately taken from the water , and connoisseurs will tell you , by its taste at the table , whether it is immediately from the water , or has lain any time before cooking . It is sometimes made into small ovate masses , dipped into batter , and fried in butter , and in this shape , it is called petite pate . It is also chowdered or baked in a pie . It is the great resource of the Indians @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these falls , who eat it with potatoes , which are abundantly raised here . It is also a standing dish with all . Footnote 27 : This word is pronounced as if written so , not soo . It is a derivative , through the French , from the Latin saltus . A Poetic Name for a Fish.  --  The Chippewas , who are ready to give every object in creation , whose existence they can not otherwise account for , an allegorical origin , call the white fish attikumaig , a very curious or very fanciful name , for it appears to be compounded of attik , a reindeer , and the general compound gumee , or guma , before noticed , as meaning water , or a liquid . To this the addition of the letter g makes a plural in the animate form , so that the translation is deer of the water , an evident acknowledgment of its importance as an item in their means of subsistence . Who can say , after this , that the Chippewas have not some imagination ? Indian Tale . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ white fish , which is founded on the observation of a minute trait in its habits . This fish , when opened , is found to have in its stomach very small white particles which look like roe or particles of brain , but are , perhaps , microscopic shells . They say the fish itself sprang from the brain of a female , whose skull fell into these rapids , and was dashed out among the rocks . A tale of domestic infidelity is woven with this , and the denouement is made to turn on the premonition of a venerable crane , the leading Totem of the band , who , having consented to carry the ghost of a female across the falls on his back , threw her into the boiling and foaming flood to accomplish the poetic justice of the tale . 17th . Polygamy.  --  This practice appears to be less common among the Chippewas than the more westerly tribes . An instance of it came to my notice to-day , in a complaint made by an Indian named Me-ta-koos-se-ga , i.e. Smoking-Weed , or Pure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mother and her daughter . He complained that a young woman whom he had brought up had left his lodge , and taken shelter with the family of the widow of a Canadian . It appears that the old fellow had been making advances to this girl to become his third wife , and that she had fled from his lodge to avoid his importunities. 18th . Historical Reminiscences .  --  This day sixty-three years ago , General Wolf took Quebec , an event upon which hinged the fall of Canada . That was a great historical era , and it is from this date , 1759 , that we may begin to date a change in the Indian policy of the country . Before that time , the French , who had discovered this region of country and established trade and intercourse with the Indian tribes , were acknowledged supreme by the natives . Since this event , the English rule has been growing , and the allegiance of the tribes has been gradually strengthened and fixed . It is not a light task to change habits of political affiance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is only sought so far as the tribes fall within the American lines , may , however , be attained by a mild , consistent , and persevering course of policy . Time is a slow but sure innovator . A few years will carry the more aged men , whose prejudices are strongest , to their graves . The young are more pliant , and will see their interests in strengthening their intercourse with the Americans , who can do so much to advance them , and probably long before half another period of sixty-three years is repeated , the Indians of the region will be as firmly attached to us as they ever were to the French or the English . Never to doubt , and never to despair , Is to make acts what once but wishes were . ALGON. 26th . Allegorical and Mythological Tales .  --  " I shall be rejoiced , " observed Governor C. , in a letter of this day , in reply to my announcement of having detected fanciful traditionary stories among the Chippewas , " to receive any mythological stories to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rival old Tooke in his Pantheon . " He had put into my hands , at Detroit , a list of printed queries respecting the Indians , and calls me to remember them , during my winter seclusion here , with the knowledge of the advantages I possess in the well-informed circle of the Johnston family . 25th . Chippewa Language .  --  There is clearly a polite and a vulgar way of speaking the language . Tradition says that great changes have taken place , and that these changes keep pace with the decline of the tribe from their ancient standard of forest morals and their departure from their ancient customs . However this may be , their actual vocabulary is pretty full . Difficulties exist in writing it , from the want of an exact and uniform system of notation . The vowels assume their short and slender as well as broad sounds . The language appears to want entirely the consonant sounds of f , l , r , v , and x . In conjugating their verbs , the three primary tenses are well made out , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forms given for the oblique and conditional tenses . If it be true that the language is more corrupt now than at a former age , it is important to inquire in what this corruption consists , and how it came about . " To rescue it , " I observe at the close of a letter now on my table to his Excellency Governor C. , transmitting him a vocabulary of one hundred and fifty words , " To rescue it from that oblivion to which the tribe itself is rapidly hastening , while yet it may be attempted , with a prospect of success , will constitute a novel and pleasing species " 31st . Public Worship .  --  As Colonel Brady is about to leave the post for the season , some conversation has been had about authorizing him to get a clergyman to come to the post . It is thought that if such a person would devote a part of his time as an instructor , a voluntary subscription could be got among the citizens to supply the sum requisite for his support . I drew @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after handing it round , found the sum of ninety-seven dollars subscribed  --  seventy-five dollars of which are by four persons . This is not half the stipend of " forty pounds a year " that poor Goldsmith 's brother thought himself rich upon ; and it is apprehended the colonel will hardly find the inducement sufficient to elicit attention to so very remote a quarter . Nov. 1st . We have snow , cold , and chilly winds . On looking to the north , there are huge piles of clouds hanging over Lake Superior . We may say , with Burns , " The wintry wind is gathering fast . " This is a holiday with the Canadian French  --  " All Saints . " They appear as lively and thoughtless as if all the saints in the calendar were to join them in a dance . Well may it be said of them , " Where ignorance is bliss , ' t is folly to be wise . " 20th . Seclusion from the World realized .  --  We are now shut out from the world . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ departed . Philosophers may write , and poets may sing of the charms of solitude , but when the experiment comes to be tried , on a practical scale , such as we are now , one and all , about to realize , theories and fancies sink wonderfully in the scale . For some weeks past , everything with the power of motion or locomotion has been exerting itself to quit the place and the region , and his to more kindly latitudes for the winter . Nature has also become imperceptibly sour tempered , and shows her teeth in ice and snows . Man-kind and bird-kind have concurred in the effort to go . We have witnessed the long-drawn flight of swans , brant , and cranes , towards the south . Singing birds have long since gone . Ducks , all but a very few , have also silently disappeared , and have probably gone to pick up spicy roots in the Susquehannah or Altamaha . Prescient in the changes of the season , they have been the first to go . Men , who can endure greater @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , have lingered longer ; but at last one after another has left Pa-wa-teeg , till all who can go have gone . Col. Brady did not leave his command till after the snow fell , and he saw them tolerably " cantoned . " The last vessel for the season has departed  --  the last mail has been sent . Our population has been thinned off by the departure of every temporary dweller , and lingering trader , and belated visitor , till no one is left but the doomed and fated number whose duty is here , who came here to abide the winter in all its regions , and who can not , on any fair principle or excuse , get away . They , and they alone , are left to winter here . Of this number I am a resigned and willing unit , and I have endeavored to prepare for the intellectual exigencies of it , by a systematic study and analysis of the Indian language , customs , and history , and character . My teachers and appliances are the best . I have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ down , during the season . I have the post library in my room , in addition to my own , with a free access to that of " mine host " of the Emerald Isle , Mr. Johnston , to while away the time . My huge Montreal stove will take long billets of wood , which , to use the phraseology of Burns , " would mend a mill . " The society of the officers and their families of the garrison is at hand . The amusements of a winter , in this latitude , are said to be rather novel , with their dog trains and creole sleighs . There are some noble fellows of the old " North West " order in the vicinity . There are thus the elements , at least , of study , society , and amusement . Whatever else betide , I have good health , and good spirits , and bright hopes , and I feel very much in the humor of enjoying the wildest kind of tempests which Providence may send to howl around my dwelling . We have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ family of refinement and education , on the American side of the river , and two others , an English family and the Hudson Bay House in charge of a Scotch gentleman , on the Canada shore . We have the officers attached to a battalion of infantry , most of them married and having their ladies and families with them , and about a dozen American citizens besides , engaged in traffic and other affairs . These , with the resident metif population of above 300 souls , and the adjacent Indian tribes , constitute the world  --  the little isolated world  --  in which we must move for six months to come . About fifty miles off , S.E. , is the British post of Drummond Island , and about forty west of the latter , the ancient position and island settlement of Michilimackinack , that bugbear to children in all our earlier editions of Webster 's Spelling Book . All the rest of the United States is a far-off land to us . For one , I draw around my fire , get my table and chair properly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Indian ia-ne-kun-o-tau-gaid let the storm whistle as it may . 25th . Zimmerman may write as much as he pleases about solitude . It is all very well in one 's study , by his stove , if it is winter , with a good feather bed , and all comforts at hand ; but he who would test his theories should come here . It is a capital place , in the dead of winter , for stripping poetic theories of their covering . CHAPTER XIV . Amusements during the winter months , when the temperature is at the lowest point  --  Etymology of the word Chippewa  --  A meteor  --  The Indian " fire-proof "  --  Temperature and weather  --  Chippewa interchangeables  --  Indian names for the seasons  --  An incident in conjugating verbs  --  Visiting  --  Gossip  --  The fur trade  --  Todd , McGillvray , Sir Alexander Mackenzie  --  Wide dissimilarity of the English and Odjibwa syntax  --  Close of the year . 1822 . December 1st . We have now plunged into the depths of a boreal winter . The blustering of tempests , the whistling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the daily topics of remark . We must make shift to be happy , with the most scanty means of amusement . Books and studies must supply the most important item in this  --  at least , so far as I am concerned . It is observed by Dr. Johnson " that nothing can supply the want of prudence , and that negligence and irregularity , long continued , will render knowledge useless , wit ridiculous , and genius contemptible . " This sententious apothegm is thrown out in contemplating the life of Savage , one of the English poets who united some of the highest requisites of genius with the lowest personal habits . But how much instruction does it convey to all ! It does not fall to the lot of all to have wit or genius , or to be eminent in knowledge . None , however , who are not absolute idiots are without some share of the one or the other . And in proportion as these gifts are possessed , how fruitless , and comparatively useless do they become , if not governed by prudence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tribes in this vicinity call themselves Ojibwaeg . This expression is in the plural number . It is rendered singular by taking off the g . The letter a , in this word , is pronounced like a in hate , or ey in obey . Chippewa  --  often written with a useless terminal y  --  is the Anglicized pronunciation . The meaning of this seems obscure . The final syllable was , in compound words , stands for voice . In the ancient Massachusetts language , as preserved by Eliot , in his translation of the Bible , as in Isaiah xi . 14 , Chepwoieu means the east . What a curious subject for speculation the Indian language presents ! Since I began to dip into this topic , I have found myself irresistibly carried forward in the inquiry , and been led to resume it , whenever the calls of business or society have been intermitted . I have generally felt , however , while pursuing it , like a mechanist who is required to execute a delicate and difficult work without suitable implements . Technical words may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there seems to be a paucity of terms , in our common systems , to describe such a many-syllabled , aggregated language as the Indian . I have been sometimes half inclined to put my manuscripts in the fire , and to exclaim with Dryden , respecting some metaphysical subject  --  " I can not bolt this matter to the bran . " It is not , however , the habitual temper of my mind to give up . " The spider , " it is said , " taketh hold with her hands , and is in king 's palaces ; " and should a man have less perseverance than a spider ? 4th . A meteor , or fire-ball , passed through the village at twilight this evening . The weather , which has been intensely cold for the last three days , indicates a change this evening . Meteoric phenomena of a luminous character were universally referred to electricity , after Franklin 's day . Chemistry has since put forth reasons why several of these phenomena should be attributed to phosphorus or hydrogen liberated by decomposition . 5th @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are called , have an art of rendering their flesh insensible , probably for a short time , to the effects of a blaze of fire . Robert Dickson told me that he had seen several of them strip themselves of their garments , and jump into a bonfire . Voltaire says , in his Essay on History , that rubbing the hand for a long time with spirit of vitriol and alum , with the juice of an onion , is stated to render it capable of enduring hot water without injury . 7th . Acting as librarian for the garrison during the season , I am privileged to fill up many of the leisure hours of my mornings and evenings by reading . The difficulty appears to be , to read with such reference to system as to render it profitable . History , novels , voyages and travels , and various specific treatises of fancy or fact , invite perusal , and like a common acquaintance , it requires some moral effort to negative their claims . " Judgment , " says a celebrated critic , " is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ books must compare one opinion , or one style with another , and when he compares must necessarily distinguish , reject , prefer . " Sunday 8th . Quintilian says , " We palliate our sloth by the specious pretext of difficulty . " Nothing , in fact , is too difficult to accomplish , which we set about , with a proper consideration of those difficulties , and pursue with perseverance . The Indian language can not be acquired so easily as the Greek or Hebrew , but it can be mastered by perseverance . Our Indian policy can not be understood without looking at the Indian history . The taking of Fort Niagara was the first decisive blow at French power . Less than three months afterwards , that is , on the 18th of October of that year , General Wolf took Quebec . Goldsmith wrote some stanzas on this event , eulogizing the heroism of the exploit . England 's consolation for the loss of Wolf is found in his heroic example , which the poet refers to in his closing line , " Since from thy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are the pegs of history . Velasco , it is said , on visiting the gulf which receives the St. Lawrence , and finding the country cold and inhospitable , cried out aca nada  --  " there is nothing here . " This is said to be the origin of the word Canada . Nothing could be more improbable : Did the Indians of Canada hear him , and , if so , did they understand or respect the language of a foreigner hovering on their coast ? We must look to the Iroquois for the origin of this word . Jacques Cartier , in 1534 , evidently mistook the Indian word Canada , signifying a town , for the whole country . The Indians have no geographical terms for districts . They name a hill , a river , or a fall , but do not deal in generics . Some a priori reasoning seems constrained , where the facts are granted , as this : All animals at Nova Zembla , it is said , are carnivorous , because there is no grass . 12th . Snow covers everything @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and thrown entirely on our own resources . I doubt , if we were in Siberia , or Kamschatka , if we could be so completely isolated . 13th . Ellis , in one of his northern voyages , asserts the opinion that the northern lights kindle and disperse the vapors requisite to the formation of lightning . Hence there is no thunder in high northern latitudes . We admit the fact , but doubt the reasoning . Vapor is but water in a gaseous state . It is a fine medium for the exhibition of electricity , and we can not say that electricity exists without it . 14th . When Lucas Fox sailed to discover the north-west passage to India , in 1631 , he carried a letter from Charles the First to the Emperor of Japan . Such was public information , in Europe , twenty-two years after the discovery of the River Hudson , and the settlement of New England , eleven years later . 15th . The state of the weather , during this month , has exhibited some striking changes . The first three or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ became mild , and continued so for eight or nine days . During this time , nearly all the snow which had previously fallen was carried off by rains , or the heat of the sun . The weather was so mild that I sat in my office , on the 13th , without fire , for about two hours . Two evenings previous , the snow fell from the roofs of buildings at nine o'clock , and it continued thawing through the night . To day , the wind has veered round to a northerly point , and the weather has resumed its wintry temperature . 22d . The River St. Mary 's froze over during the night of this day . The stream had been closed below , for about a week previous . 24th . The Tartars can not pronounce the letter b . Those of Bulgaria pronounce the word blacks as if written Iliacs . The Chippewas in this quarter usually transpose the b and p in English words . They substitute n for l , pronouncing Louis as if written Nouis . The letter r is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for f , b for v , and ch for j . In words of their own language , the letters f , l , r , v , and x , do not occur . The following are their names for the seasons . Pe-boan , Winter . Se-gwun , Spring . Ne-bin , Summer . Ta-gwa-ge , Autumn . Years are counted by winters , months by moons , and days by nights . There are terms for morning , mid-day , and evening . The year consists of thirteen moons , each moon being designated by a descriptive name , as the moon of flowers ( May ) , the moon of strawberries ( June ) , the moon of berries ( July ) , &c.; Canoe and tomahawk are not terms belonging to the Chippewa language . From inquiries I think the former is of Carib origin , and the latter Mohegan . The Chippewa equivalents are in the order stated , Cheman and Agakwut. 26th . In going out to dinner at 3 o'clock , a sheet of paper containing conjugations of verbs , which had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ my table . On returning in the evening , I found my dog , Ponty , a young pet , had torn my care-bought conjugations into small pieces . What was to be done ? It was useless to whip the dog , and I scarcely had the courage to commence the labor anew . I consequently did neither ; but gathering up the fragments , carefully soaked the gnawed and mutilated parts in warm water , and re-arranged and sealed them together . And before bedtime I had restored the manuscript so as to be intelligibly read . I imposed this task upon myself , but , had it been imposed by another , I would have been ready to pronounce him a madman . 27th . I devoted the day and evening in transcribing words into my " Ojibwa Vocabulary . " This is a labor requiring great caution . The language is so concrete , that often , when I have supposed a word had been dissected and traced to its root , subsequent attention has proved it to be a compound . Thus verbs have been inserted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or the past or future tense , when it has been supposed they had been divested of these appendages . I am now going over the work the third time . The simplest forms of the verb seem to be the first and third persons singular of the imperative mood . Ennui , in situations like the present , being isolated and shut up as it were from the world , requires to be guarded against . The surest preventive of it is employment , and diversity in employment . It has been determined to-day to get up a periodical sheet , or jeu d'esprit newspaper , to be circulated from family to family , commencing on the first of January . Mrs. Thompson asked me for a name . I suggested the " Northern Light . " It was finally determined to put this into Latin , and call it Aurora Borealis. 28th . Visits make up a part of the winter 's amusements . We owe this duty to society ; but , like other duties , which are largely connected with enjoyment , there is a constant danger @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ profitable . Conversation is the true index of feeling . We read wise and grave books , but are not a whit better by them , than as they introduce and fix in our minds such principles as shall shine out in conversation or acts . Now were an ordinary social winter evening party tested by such principles , what would a candid spectator judge to have been the principal topics of reading or study ? I remember once , in my earlier years , to have passed an evening in a room where a number of my intimate friends were engaged in playing at cards . As I did not play , I took my seat at an office-table , and hastily sketched the conversation which I afterwards read for their amusement . But the whole was in reality a bitter satire on their language and sentiments , although it was not so designed by me , nor received by them . I several years afterwards saw the sketch of this conversation among my papers , and was forcibly struck with this reflection . Let me revert to some of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have visited this day , or in my own room . It is Goldsmith , I think , who says that our thoughts take their tinge from contiguous objects . A man standing near a volcano would naturally speak of burning mountains . A person traversing a field of snow would feel his thoughts occupied with polar scenes . Thus are we here thrown together . Ice , snow , winds , a high range of the thermometer , or a driving tempest , are the almost ever present topics of remark : and these came in for a due share of the conversation to-day . The probability of the ice in the river 's breaking up the latter part of April , and the arrival of a vessel at the post early in May !  --  the dissolution of the seventeenth Congress , which must take place on the 4th of March , the character and administration of Governor Clinton ( which were eulogized ) , were adverted to . In the evening I went , by invitation , to Mr. Siveright 's at the North West House . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the American garrison , John Johnston , Esq. , Mr. C.O. Ermatinger , a resident who has accumulated a considerable property in trade , and others . Conversation turned , as might have been expected , upon the topic of the Fur Trade , and the enterprising men who established , or led to the establishment of , the North West Company . Todd , Mackenzie , and M'Gillvray were respectively described . Todd was a merchant of Montreal , an Irishman by birth , who possessed enterprise , courage , address , and general information . He paved the way for the establishment of the Company , and was one of the first partners , but died untimely . He possessed great powers of memory . His cousin , Don Andrew Todd , had the monopoly of the fur trade of Louisiana . M'Gillvray possessed equal capacity for the trade with Todd , united to engaging , gentlemanly manners . He introduced that feature in the Company which makes every clerk , at a certain time , a partner . This first enabled them successfully to combat the Hudson 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ too far , and he was sometimes unjust . Sir Alexander Mackenzie was at variance with M'Gillvray , and they never spoke in each other 's praise . Mackenzie commanded great respect from all classes , and possessed a dignity of manners and firmness of purpose which fitted him for great undertakings . He established the X.Y . Company , in opposition to the North West . 29th . The days are still very short , the sun having but just passed the winter solstice . We do not dine till four ; Mr. Johnston , with whom I take my meals , observing this custom , and it is dark within the coming hour . I remained to family worship in the evening . 30th . Read the articles in the " Edinburgh Review " on Accum 's work on the adulteration of food , and Curran 's Life by his Son . Accum , it is said , came to England as an adventurer . By assiduity and attention , he became eminent as an operative chemist , and accumulated a fortune . Curran was also of undistinguished parentage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ judged rightly of his future talents . Mr. Johnston returned me " Walsh 's Appeal , " which he had read at my request , and expressed himself gratified at the ability with which the subject is handled . Captain Clarke , an industrious reader on local and general subjects , had come in a short time before . Conversation became general and animated . European politics , Greece , Turkey , and Russia , the state of Ireland , radicalism in England , the unhappy variance between the king and queen , Charles Fox , &c.,; were successively the subjects of remark . We adjourned to Mr. Johnston 's . In the evening I went into my office and wrote to Mr. Calhoun , the Secretary of War , recommending Captain H. 's son William , for the appointment of a cadet in the Military Academy. 28 Footnote 28 : The appointment was made. 31st . Devoted the day to the Indian language . It scarcely seems possible that any two languages should be more unlike , or have fewer points of resemblance , than the English and Ojibwa . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ farther Asia were suddenly set down in London , he could hardly be more struck with the difference in buildings , dress , manners , and customs , than with the utter discrepance in the sounds of words , and the grammatical structure of sentences . The Ojibwa has this advantage , considered as the material of future improvement ; it is entirely homogeneous , and admits of philosophical principles being carried out , with very few , if any , of those exceptions which so disfigure English grammar , and present such appalling obstacles to foreigners in learning the language . On going to dine at the usual hour , I found company invited , among whom were some gentlemen from Upper Canada . Conversation rolled on smoothly , and embraced a wide range of topics . Some of the dark doings of the North West Company , in their struggle for exclusive power in the Indian country , were mentioned . Nobody appeared to utter a word in malice or ill will . Dark and bright traits of individual character and conduct floated along the stream of conversation , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I attended a party at the quarters of one of the officers in the fort . Dancing was introduced . The evening passed off agreeably till the hour of separation , which was a few minutes before twelve . And thus closed the year eighteen hundred and twenty-two . CHAPTER XV . New Year 's day among the descendants of the Norman French  --  Anti-philosophic speculations of Brydone  --  Schlegel on language  --  A peculiar native expression evincing delicacy  --  Graywacke in the basin of Lake Superior  --  Temperature  --  Snow shoes  --  Translation of Gen. i. 3  --  Historical reminiscences  --  Morals of visiting  --  Ojibwa numerals  --  Harmon 's travels  --  Mackenzie 's vocabularies  --  Criticism  --  Mungo Park . January 1st . This is a day of hilarity here , as in New York . Gayety and good humor appear on every countenance . Visiting from house to house is the order . The humblest individual is expected to make his appearance in the routine , and " has his claims allowed . " The French custom of salutation prevails . The Indians are not the last to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ season of privileges , although , alas ! it is only the privilege to beg . Standing in an official relation to them , I was occupied in receiving their visits from eight o'clock till three . I read , however , at intervals , Dr. Johnson 's Lives of Rochester , Roscommon , Otway , Phillips , and Walsh . 2d . Brydone , the traveler , says , on the authority of Recupero , a priest , that in sinking a pit near Iaci in the region of Mount Etna , they pierced through seven distinct formations of lava , with parallel beds of earth interposed between each stratum . He estimates that two thousand years were required to decompose the lava and form it into soil , and consequently that fourteen thousand years were needed for the whole series of formations . A little further on , he however furnishes data , showing to every candid mind on what very vague estimates he had before relied . He says the fertile district of Hybla was suddenly turned to barrenness by an eruption of lava , and soon after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ change which he had required two thousand years to produce was here accomplished suddenly , and the whole argument by which he had arrayed himself against the Mosaical chronology overturned . Of such materials is a good deal of modern pseudo-philosophy constructed . I received , this morning , a number of mineralogical specimens from Mr. Johnston , which had been collected by him at various times in the vicinity . Among them were specimens of copper pyrites in quartz , sulphate of strontian , foliated gypsum , and numerous calcareous petrifactions . He also presented me a fine antler of the Caribo , or American reindeer , a species which is found to inhabit this region . This animal is called Addik by the Ojibwas . Ik is a termination in the Ojibwa denoting some hard substance . 3d . Forster , in his " History of Northern Voyages , " mentions some facts which appear to be adverse to Mr. Hayden 's theory of a north-western current . The height of islands observed by Fox , in the arctic regions , was found to be greatest on their eastern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " This observation , " he says , " seems to me to prove that , when the sea burst impetuously into Hudson 's Bay , and tore away these islands from the main land , it must have come rushing from the east and south-east , and have washed away the earth towards the west  --  a circumstance which has occasioned their present low position . " 4th . I read the review of Schlegel 's " Treatise on the Sanscrit Language . " How far the languages of America may furnish coincidences in their grammatical forms , is a deeply interesting inquiry . But thus insulated , as I am , without books , the labor of comparison is , indeed , almost hopeless ! I must content myself , for the present , with furnishing examples for others . The Indians still continue their New Year 's visits . Fresh parties or families , who come in from the woods , and were not able to come on the day , consider themselves privileged to present their claims . It should not be an object of disappointment to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intercourse , evince those striking traits of exalted and disinterested character which we are naturally accustomed to expect from reading books . Books are , after all , but men 's holiday opinions . It requires observation on real life to be able to set a true estimate upon things . The instances in which an Indian is enabled to give proofs of a noble or heroic spirit can not be expected to occur frequently . In all the history of the seaboard tribes there was but one Pocahontas , one Uncas , and one Philip . Whereas , everyday is calling for the exercise of less splendid , but more generally useful virtues . To spare the life of a prisoner , or to relieve a friend from imminent peril , may give applause , and carry a name down to posterity . But it is the constant practice of every day virtues and duties , domestic diligence , and common sense , that renders life comfortable , and society prosperous and happy . How much of this everyday stamina the Indians possess , it would be presumptuous in me @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decide . But I am inclined to the opinion that their defect of character lies here . Our express for Detroit , via Michilimackinack , set out at three o'clock this morning , carrying some few short of a hundred letters . This , with our actual numbers , is the best commentary on our insulated situation . We divert ourselves by writing , and cling with a death-grasp , as it were , to our friends and correspondents . 5th . Gitche ie nay gow ge ait che gah , " they have put the sand over him " is a common expression among the Indians to indicate that a man is dead and buried . Another mode , delicate and refined in its character , is to suffix the inflection for perfect past tense , bun , to a man 's name . Thus Washington e bun would indicate that Washington is no more . I read the Life of Pope . It is strange that so great a poet should have been so great a lover of wealth ; mammon and the muses are not often conjointly worshiped @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ few sallies of wit , or pointed observation , are preserved . The following is recorded : " When an objection raised against his inscription for Shakspeare was defended by the authority of Patrick , he replied , ' horresco referens , ' that he would allow the publisher of a dictionary to know the meaning of a single word , but not of two words put together . " In the evening I read a number of the " London Literary Gazette , " a useful and interesting paper , which , in its plan , holds an intermediate rank between a newspaper and a review . It contains short condensed criticisms on new works , together with original brief essays and anecdotes , and literary advertisements , which latter must render it a valuable paper to booksellers . I think we have nothing on this plan , at present , in the United States . 6th . I received a specimen of slaty graywacke from Lake Superior . The structure is tabular , and very well characterized . If there be no mistake respecting the locality , it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Superior group. 29 It was not noticed in the expedition of 1820 . I also received a specimen of iron sand from Point aux Pins . Footnote 29 : I found graywacke in situ at Iron River , in Lake Superior , in 1826 , and subsequently at Presque Isle River , where it is slaty , and fine even grained , and apparently suitable for some economical uses . The thermometer has stood at 25 deg. below zero a few days during the season . It was noticed at 10 deg. below , this morning . Notwithstanding the decidedly wintry character of the day , I received a visit from Mr. Siveright , a Canadian gentleman , who came across the expanse of ice on snow shoes . I loaned him Silliman 's " Travels in England and Scotland , " feeling a natural desire to set off our countrymen , as authors and travelers , to the best advantage . Mr. S. , who has spent several years at the north , mentioned that each of the Indian tribes has something peculiar in the fashion of their snow shoes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aft , resembling two inverted sections of a circle . The Crees make a square point in front , tapering away gradually to the heel . The Chippewyans turn up the fore point , so that it may offer less resistance in walking . Females have their snow shoes constructed different from the men 's . The difference consists in the shape and size of the bows . The netting is more nicely wrought and colored , and often ornamented , particularly in those worn by girls , with tassels of colored worsted . The word " shoe , " as applied to this apparatus of the feet , is a complete misnomer . It consists of a net-work of laced skin , extended between light wooden bows tied to the feet , the whole object of which is to augment the space pressed upon , and thus bear up the individual on the surface of the snow . I devoted the leisure hours of the day to the grammatical structure of the Indian language . There is reason to suppose the word moneto not very ancient . It is , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jehovah , but rather a generic term for spiritual agency in their mythology . The word seems to have been derived from the notion of the offerings left upon rocks and sacred places , being supernaturally taken away . In any comparative views of the language , not much stress should be laid upon the word , as marking a difference from other stocks . Maneton , in the Delaware , is the verb " to make . " Ozheton is the same verb in Chippewa. 7th . History teaches its lessons in small , as well as great things . Vessels from Albemarle , in Virginia , in 1586 , first carried the potato to Ireland . Thomas Harriot says the natives called it open-awk . The Chippewas , at this place , call the potato open-eeg ; but the termination eeg is merely a form of the plural . Open ( the e sounded like short i ) is the singular form . Thomas Jefferson gives the word " Wha-poos " as the name of the Powhatanic tribes for hare . The Chippewa term for this animal is Wa-bos @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the sublimity of style of the third verse of Genesis i . I have , with competent aid , put it into Chippewa , and give the re-translation :  --  Appee dush and then Gezha Monedo Merciful Spirit Akeedood He said Tah Let Wassay-au , Light be , Appee dush And then Wassay-aug Light was . It is not to be expected that all parts of the language would exhibit equal capacities to bear out the original . Yet in this instance , if the translation be faithful , it is clearly , but not , to our apprehension , elegantly done . I am apprehensive that the language generally has a strong tendency to repetition and redundancy of forms , and to clutter up , as it were , general ideas with particular meanings . At three o'clock I went to dine with Mr. Siveright , at the North West Company 's House . The party was large , including the officers from the garrison . Conversation took a political turn . Colonel Lawrence defended the propriety of his recent toast , " The Senate of the United States , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a Boston paper said " more was meant than met the eye . " The evening was passed with the ordinary sources of amusement . I have for some time felt that the time devoted to these amusements , in which I never made much advance , would be better given up to reading , or some inquiry from which I might hope to derive advantage . An incident this evening impressed me with this truth , and I came home with a resolution that one source of them should no longer engross a moment of my time . Harris , the author of Hermes , says , " It is certainly as easy to be a scholar as a gamester , or any other character equally illiberal and low . The same application , the same quantity of habit , will fit us for one as completely as for the other . And as to those who tell us , with an air of seeming wisdom , that it is men , and not books , that we must study to become knowing ; this I have always remarked , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ language of dunces . " Now although I have no purpose of aiming at extreme heights in knowledge , yet there are some points in which every man should have that precision of knowledge which is a concomitant of scholarship . And every man , by diligence , may add to the number of these points , without aiming at all to put on a character for extraordinary wisdom or profundity. * * * * * 9th . Historical Reminiscences .  --  On the third of April , 1764 , Sir William Johnson concluded preliminary articles of peace and friendship with eight deputies of the Seneca nation , which was the only one of the Iroquois who joined Pontiac . This was done at his residence at Johnson Hall , on the Mohawk . In August , 1764 , Colonel Bradstreet granted " Terms of Peace " to certain deputies of the Delaware , Huron , and Shawnee tribes at Presque Isle , being then on his way to relieve Detroit , which was then closely invested by the Indians . These deputies gave in their adhesion to the English cause @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In October of the same year , Colonel Bouquet granted similar terms to another deputation of Shawnees , Delawares , &c.,; at Tuscarawas . The best account of the general transactions of the war of that era , which I have seen , is contained in a " History of the Late War in North America , and Islands of the West Indies . By Thomas Mante , Assistant Engineer , &c.,; and Major of a Brigade . London , 1772 : " 1 vol. quarto , 552 pages . I am indebted to Governor Clinton for my acquaintance with this work . 10th . I have employed the last three days , including this , very diligently on my Indian vocabulary and inquiries , having read but little . Too exclusive a devotion to this object is , however , an error . I have almost grudged the time I devoted to eating and sleeping . And I should certainly be unwilling that my visitors should know what I thought of the interruptions created by their visits . It is true , however , that I have gained but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ One of my visitors , a couple of days since , made me waste a whole morning in talking of trifling subjects . Another , who is a gourmand , is only interested in subjects connected with the gratification of his palate . A third , who is a well-informed man , has such lounging habits that he remained two hours and a half with me this morning . No wonder that men in office must be guarded by the paraphernalia of ante-rooms and messengers , if a poor individual at this cold end of the world feels it an intrusion on his short winter days to have lounging visitors . I will try to recollect , when I go to see others , that although I may have leisure , perhaps they are engaged in something of consequence . * * * * * 11th . History abounds in examples of excellence .  --  Xenophon says of Jason , " All who have served under Jason have learned this lesson , that pleasure is the effect of toil ; though as to sensual pleasures , I know no person in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in upon his time ; they always leave him leisure to do what must be done . " Of Diphridas , the same author observes , " No bodily indulgence ever gained the ascendant over him , but , on the contrary , he gave all his attention to the business in hand . " What admirable maxims for real life , whether that life be passed in courts or camps , or a humble sphere ! 12th . I finished reading Thiebault 's " Anecdotes of Frederick the Great , " which I had commenced in December . This is a pleasing and instructive work . Every person should read it who wishes to understand the history of Prussia , particularly the most interesting and important period of it . We here find Frederick I. and II. , and William depicted to the life . We are made acquainted also with national traits of the Russian , English , German , and French character , which are nowhere else to be found . 13th . The ancient Thracians are thus described by Herodotus : " The most honorable life with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that of a husbandman . Their supreme delight is war and plunder . " Who , if the name and authority were concealed , but would suppose the remarks were made of some of the tribes of the North American Indians ? I divided the day between reading and writing . In the evening I went by invitation to a party at Lieutenant B. 's in the cantonment . 14th . The Chippewa names of the numerals , from one to ten , are  --  pazhik , neezh , niswee , newin , nanun , neen-goodwaswa , neezh-waswa , swaswa , shonguswa , metonna . Dined at Mr. Ermatinger 's , a gentleman living on the Canada shore , who , from small beginnings , has accumulated a considerable property by the Indian trade , and has a numerous Anglo-Odjibwa family . 15th . Completed the perusal of Harmon 's Travels , and extracted the notes contained in memorandum book N. Mr. Harmon was nineteen years in the service of the North West Company , and became a partner after the expiration of the first seven years . The volume contains @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) , and Indian tribes of a remote and extensive region . The whole scope of the journal is devoted to the area lying north of the territory of the United States . It will be found a valuable book of reference to those who are particularly directing their attention to northern scenes . The journal was revised and published by a Mr. Haskell , who , it is said here , by persons acquainted with Mr. Harmon , has introduced into the text religious reflections , not believed to have been made by the author at the time . No exceptions can be taken to the reflections ; but his companions and co-partners feel that they should have led the individual to exemplify them in his life and conversation while inland . Mr. Harmon says , of the Canadians  --  " All their chat is about horses , dogs , canoes , women , and strong men , who can fight a good battle . " Traders and Indians are placed in a loose juxtaposition . " Their friendship , " he states , " is little more than their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their furs . " European manufactures are essential to the natives . " The Indians in this quarter have been so long accustomed to European goods , that it would be with difficulty that they could now obtain a livelihood without them . Especially do they need firearms , axes , kettles , knives , &c.; They have almost lost the use of bows and arrows , and they would find it nearly impossible to cut their fire wood with implements made of stone or bone . " 16th . Examined Mackenzie 's Travels , to compare his vocabulary of Knisteneaux and Algonquin , with the Odjibwa , or Chippewa . There is so close an agreement , in sense and sound , between the two latter , as to make it manifest that the tribes could not have been separated at a remote period . This agreement is more close and striking than it appears to be by comparing the two written vocabularies . Mackenzie has adopted the French orthography , giving the vowels , and some of the consonants and diphthongs , sounds very different from their English powers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ alphabetical notation , they would generally be found to the eye , as they are to the ear , nearly identical . The discrepancies would be rendered less in cases in which they appear to be considerable , and the peculiarities of idiom , as they exist , would be made more striking and instructive . I have heard both idioms spoken by the natives , and therefore have more confidence in speaking of their nearness and affinity , than I could have had from mere book comparison . I am told that Mackenzie got his vocabulary from some of the priests in Lower Canada , who are versed in the Algonquin . It does not seem to me at all probable that an Englishman or a Scotchman should throw aside his natural sounds of the vowels and consonants , and adopt sounds which are , and must have been , from infancy , foreign . As I intend to put down things in the order of their occurrence , I will add that I had a visitor to-day , a simple mechanic , who came to talk to me about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to him , in consequence of which he pestered me with hems and haws about one hour . I think Job took no interest in philology. 17th . Devoted the day to the language . A friend had loaned me a file of Scottish papers called the Montrose Review , which I took occasion to run over . This paper is more neatly and correctly printed than is common with our papers of this class from the country . The strain of remark is free , bold , and inquisitive , looking to the measures of government , and advocating principles of rational liberty throughout the world . Col. Lawrence , Capt . Thompson , and Lieut . Griswold called in the course of the day . I commenced reading Mungo Parke 's posthumous volume . 18th . The mind , like the body , will get tired . Quintilian remarks , " Variety refreshes and renovates the mind . " Composition and reading by turns , wear away the weariness either may create ; and though we have done many things , we in some measure find ourselves fresh and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been almost entirely given up to society . Visitors seemed to come in , as if by concert . Col. Lawrence , Capts . Clarke and Beal , Lieuts . Smith and Griswold . Mr. S.B. Griswold , who was one of the American hostage officers at Quebec , Dr. Foot , and Mr. Johnston came in to see me , at different times . I filled up the intervals in reading . 19th , Sabbath . A party of Indians came to my door singing the begging dance . These people do not respect the Sabbath. 30 The parties who came in , on New Year 's day , still linger about the settlements , and appear to be satisfied to suffer hunger half the time , if their wants can be gratuitously relieved the other half . Footnote 30 : About eighteen months afterwards , I interdicted all visits of Indians on the Sabbath , and adopted it as an invariable rule , that I would not transact any business , or receive visits , from any Indian under the influence of liquor . I directed my interpreter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ speak to sober men only. 20th . I continued to transcribe , from loose papers , into my Indian lexicon . A large proportion of the words are derivatives . All are , more or less , compounded in their oral forms , and they appear to be glued , as it were , to objects of sense . This is not , however , peculiar to this language . The author of " Hermes " says  --  " The first words of men , like their first ideas , had an immediate reference to sensible objects , and that in after days , when they began to discern with their intellect , they took those words which they found already made , and transferred them , by metaphor , to intellectual conceptions . " On going to dinner , I found a party of officers and their ladies . " Mine host , " Mr. Johnston , with his fine and frank Belfast hospitality , does the honors of his table with grace and ease . Nothing appears to give him half so much delight as to see others happy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the lives of Akenside , Gray , and Littleton . What a perfect crab old Dr. Johnson was ! But is there any sound criticism without sternness ? 21st . I finished the reading of Mungo Parke , the most enterprising traveler of modern times . He appears to me to have committed two errors in his last expedition , and I think his death is fairly attributable to impatience to reach the mouth of the Niger . He should not have attempted to pass from the Gambia to the Niger during the rainy season . By this , he lost thirty-five out of forty men . He should not have tried to force a passage through the kingdom of Houssa , without making presents to the local petty chiefs . By this , he lost his life . When will geographers cease to talk about the mouth of the Niger ? England has been as indefatigable in solving this problem as she has been in finding out the North West Passage , and , at present , as unsuccessful . We see no abatement , however , in her spirit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to this field  --  Ledyard . CHAPTER XVI . Novel reading  --  Greenough 's " Geology "  --  The cariboo  --  Spiteful plunder of private property on a large scale  --  Marshall 's Washington  --  St. Clair 's " Narrative of his Campaign "  --  Etymology of the word totem  --  A trait of transpositive languages  --  Polynesian languages  --  A meteoric explosion at the maximum height of the winter 's temperature  --  Spafford 's " Gazetteer "  --  Holmes on the Prophecies  --  Foreign politics  --  Mythology  --  Gnomes  --  The Odjibwa based on monosyllables  --  No auxiliary verbs  --  Pronouns declined for tense  --  Esprella 's letters  --  Valerius  --  Gospel of St. Luke  --  Chippewayan group of languages  --  Home politics  --  Prospect of being appointed superintendent of the lead mines of Missouri . 1823 . Jan. 22d . A pinching cold winter wears away slowly . The whole village seems to me like so many prescient beavers , in a vast snow-bank , who cut away the snow and make paths , every morning , from one lodge to another . In this reticulation of snow paths @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dignified bipeds we are . Hurrah for progress , and the extension of the Anglo-Saxon race ! I read the " Recluse , " translated from D'Arlincourt 's popular novel Le Solitaire , and think the commendations bestowed upon it , in the translator 's preface , just in the main . It is precisely such a novel as I should suppose would be very popular in the highest circles of France , and consequently , owing to difference of character , would be less relished by the same circles in England . I suspect the author to be a great admirer of Chateaubriand 's " Atala , " whose death is brought to mind by the catastrophe of Elode 's . Here , however , the similitude ends . There is nothing to be said respecting the comparative features of Charles the Bold and Chactas , except that the Indian possessed those qualities of the heart which most ennoble human nature . To the readers of Scott 's novels , however ( for he is certainly the " Great Unknown " ) , this pleasing poetical romance , with all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is not sufficiently descriptive . We rise from the perusal of it with no definite ideas of the scenery of the valley of Underlach . We suppose it to be sublime and picturesque , and are frequently told so by the author ; but he fails in the description of particular scenes . Scott manages otherwise . When he sends Baillie Nicoll Jarvie into the Highlands , he does not content himself with generalities , but also brings before the mind such groups and scenes as make one fear and tremble . To produce this excitement is literary power . 23d . I devoted the time before breakfast , which , with us , happens at a late hour , to the Edinburgh Review . I read the articles on Greenough 's " First Principles of Geology , " and a new edition of Demosthenes . When shall we hear the last panegyric of the Grecian orator , who , in the two characteristics of his eloquence which have been most praised , simplicity and nature , is every day equalled , or excelled , by our Indian chiefs ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no weak powers of observation and reasoning . But he is rather a leveler than a builder . It seems better that we should have a poor house over our heads than none at all . The facts mentioned on the authority of a traveler in Spain , that the pebbles in the rivers of that country are not carried down streams by the force of the current , are contradicted by all my observations on the rivers of the United States . The very reverse is true . Those streams which originate in , or run through districts of granite , limestone , graywacke , &c.,; present pebbles of these respective rocks abundantly along their banks , at points below the termination of the fixed strata . These pebbles , and even boulders , are found far below the termination of the rocky districts , and appear to owe their transportation to the force of existing currents . I have found the peculiar pebbles of the sources of the Mississippi as low down as St. Louis and St. Genevieve . I resumed the perusal of Marshall 's " Life of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fall . Lieutenants Barnum and Bicker and Mr. Johnston came to visit me. 24th . I made one of a party of sixteen , who dined with Mr. Ermatinger . I here first tasted the flesh of the cariboo , which is a fine flavored venison . I do not recollect any wise or merry remark made during dinner , which is worth recording . As toasts show the temper of the times , and bespeak the sentiments of those who give them , a few of them may be mentioned . After several formal and national toasts , we had Mr. Calhoun , Governor Cass , General Brown , Mr. Sibley , the representative of Michigan , Colonel Brady , and Major Thayer , superintendent of the military academy . In coming home in the cariole , we all missed the balizes , and got completely upset and pitched into the snow . 25th . Mr. John Johnston returned me Silliman 's Travels , and expressed himself highly pleased with them . Mr. Johnston evinces by his manners and conversation and liberal sentiments that he has passed many of his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he came to America during the presidency of General Washington , whom he esteems it a privilege to have seen at New York , in 1793 . Having letters to Lord Dorchester , he went into Canada , and through a series of vicissitudes , finally settled at these falls about thirty years ago . In 1814 , his property was plundered by the Americans , through the false representations of some low-minded persons , his neighbors and opponents in trade , with no more patriotism than he ; in consequence of which he returned to Europe , and sold his patrimonial estate at " Craige , " in the north of Ireland , within a short distance of the Giant 's Causeway , and thus repaired , in part , his losses . 26th . Devoted to reading  --  a solid resource in the wilderness . 27th . Finished the perusal of Marshall 's Washington , and took the notes contained in memorandums P. and R. The first volume of this work is intended as introductory , and contains the best recital of the political history of the colonies which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wide mass of facts , but are rather diffuse and prolix , considered as biography , A good life of Washington , which shall comprise within a small compass all his prominent public and private acts , still remains a desideratum. 28th . Our express returned this morning , bringing me New York papers to the 11th of November . We are more than two months and a half behind the current news of the day . We have Washington dates to the 9th of November , but of course they convey nothing of the proceedings of Congress . 29th . I read St. Clair 's " Narrative of his Campaign " against the Indians in 1791 , and extracted the notes contained in memorandum A.A. The causes of its failure are explained in a satisfactory manner , and there is proof of Gen. St. Clair 's vigilance and intrepidity . Dissensions in his camp crippled the old general 's power . 30th . I took up the subject of the Indian language , after an interval of eight or nine days , and continued to transcribe into my vocabulary until @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of fifteen hundred words , including some synonyms . 31st . " Totem " is a word frequently heard in this quarter . In tracing its origin , it is found to be a corruption of the Indian " dodaim , " signifying family mark , or armorial bearing . The word appears to be a derivative from odanah , a town or village . Hence neen dodaim , my townsman , or kindred-mark . Affinity in families is thus kept up , as in the feudal system , and the institution seems to be of some importance to the several bands . They often appeal to their " totem , " as if it were a surname . At three o'clock I went to dine at Col. Lawrence 's . The party consisted of Capts . Thompson and Beal , Lieuts . Barnum , Smith , Waite , and Griswold , Mr. Johnston , Mr. Ermatinger and son , Dr. Foot and Mr. Siveright of the H.B. House . In the evening the party adjourned to Mr. Johnston 's . February 1st . Transpositive languages , like the Indian , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , easy , flowing conversation . There seems to be something cumbrous and stately in the utterance of their long polysyllabic words , as if they could not readily be brought down to the minute distinctions of every day family conversation . This may arise , however , from a principle adverted to by Dr. Johnson , in speaking of the ancient languages , in which he says " nothing is familiar , " and by the use of which " the writer conceals penury of thought and want of novelty , often from the reader , and often from himself . " The Indian certainly has a very pompous way of expressing a common thought . He sets about it with an array of prefix and suffix , and polysyllabic strength , as if he were about to crush a cob-house with a crowbar. 2d . The languages of New Zealand , Tonga , and Malay have no declension of nouns , nor conjugation of verbs . The purposes of declension are answered by particles and prepositions . The distinctions of person , tense , and mode are expressed by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This rigidity of the verb and noun is absolute , under every order of arrangement , in which their words can be placed , and their meaning is not helped out , by either prefixes or suffixes . I read Plutarch 's " Life of Marcellus , " to observe whether it bore the points of resemblance to Washington 's military character , suggested by Marshall . 3d . Abad signifies abode , in Persian . Abid denotes where he is , or dwells , in Chippewa . I refused , on an invitation of Mr. Ermatinger , to alter the resolution formed on the seventh ultimo , as to one mode of evening 's amusement . 4th . A loud meteoric report , as if from the explosion of some aerial body , was heard about noon this day . The sound seemed to proceed from the south-west . It was attended with a prolonged , or rumbling sound , and was generally heard . Popular surmise , which attempts to account for everything , has been very busy in assigning the cause of this phenomenon . A high degree @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at 28 deg. below zero at one o'clock this morning . It had risen to 18 deg. at day-break  --  being the greatest observed degree of cold during the season . It did not exceed 4 deg. above zero during any part of the day . 5th . A year ago to-day , a literary friend wrote to me to join him in preparing a Gazetteer of the State of New York , to supplant Spafford 's . Of the latter , he expresses himself in the letter , which is now before me , in unreserved terms of disapprobation . " It is wholly unworthy , " he says , " of public patronage , and would not stand in the way of a good work of the kind ; and such a one , I have the vanity to believe , our joint efforts could produce . It would be a permanent work , with slight alterations , as the State might undergo changes . My plan would be for you to travel over the State , and make a complete geological , mineralogical , and statistical survey of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more . In the mean time , I would devote all my leisure to the collection and arrangement of such other materials as we should need in the compilation of the work . I doubt not we could obtain the prompt assistance of the first men in the State , in furnishing all the information required . Our State is rapidly increasing in wealth and population , and I am full in the faith that such a work would sell well in different parts of the country . " 6th . I did nothing to-day , by which I mean that it was given up to visiting and talking . It is Dr. Johnson , I think , who draws a distinction between " talk and conversation . " It is necessary , however , to assign a portion of time in this way . " A man that hath friends must show himself friendly , " is a Bible maxim . 7th . The garrison library was this morning removed from my office , where it had been placed in my charge on the arrival of the troops in July @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sufficiently advanced to admit its reception . A party of gentlemen from the British garrison on Drummond Island came up on a visit , on snow shoes . The distance is about 45 miles . 8th . I commenced reading Holmes on " The Fulfilment of the Revelation of St. John , " a London work of 1819 . The author says " that his explanation of the symbols is founded upon one fixed and universal rule  --  that the interpretation of a symbol is ever maintained ; that the chronological succession of the seals , trumpets , and vials is strictly preserved ; and that the history contained under them is a uniform and homogeneous history of the Roman empire , at once comprehensive and complete . "  --  Attended a dining-party at Mr. Johnston's. 9th . Continued the reading of Holmes , who is an energetic writer , and appears to have looked closely into his subject . The least pleasing trait in the work is a polemic spirit which is quite a clog to the inquiry , especially to those who , like myself , have never read @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interpretations he combats . For a clergyman , he certainly handles them without gloves . 10th . The principal Indian chief of the vicinity , Shingabawossin , sent to inquire of me the cause of the aerial explosion , heard on the 4th . At four I went to dine with Mr. Ermatinger on the British shore . 11th . I did something , although , from the round of visiting and gayety which , in consequence of our Drummond Isle visitors , has existed for a few days , but little , at my vocabulary . At half-past four , I went to dine with Lieutenants Morton and Folger in the cantonment . The party was nearly the same which has assembled for a few days , in honor of the foreign gentlemen with us . In the evening a large party , with dancing , at Mr. Johnston's. 12th . I read Lord Erskine 's Letter to Lord Liverpool on the policy to be pursued by Great Britain in relation to Greece and Turkey . The arguments and sentiments do equal credit to his head and heart , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they do his taste and erudition as a scholar . This interesting and valuable letter breathes the true sentiments of rational liberty , such as must be felt by the great body of the English nation , and such as must , sooner or later , prevail among the enlightened nations of the earth . How painful to reflect that this able appeal will produce no favorable effect on the British ministry , whose decision , it is to be feared , is already made in favor of the " legitimacy " of the Turkish government ! At four o'clock , I laid by my employments , and went to dine at the commanding officer 's quarters , whence the party adjourned to a handsomely arranged supper table at Capt . Beal 's . The necessity of complying with times and occasions , by accepting the current invitations of the day , is an impediment to any system of intellectual employment ; and whatever the world may think of it , the time devoted to public dinners and suppers , routs and parties , is little better than time thrown away @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such ; Books may be read , as well as men , too much . " 13th . I re-perused Mackenzie 's " History of the Fur Trade , " to enable me more fully to comprehend the allusions in a couple of volumes lately put into my hands , on the " Disputes between Lord Selkirk and the North West Company , " and the " Report of Trials " for certain murders perpetrated in the course of a strenuous contest for commercial mastery in the country by the Hudson 's Bay Company . Finding an opportunity of sending north , I recollected that the surveyors of our northern boundary were passing the winter at Fort William , on the north shore of Lake Superior ; and wrote to one of the gentlemen , enclosing him some of our latest papers . 14th . The gentlemen from the neighboring British post left us this morning . I devoted the day to my Indian inquiries . 15th . I commenced a vocabulary of conversation , in the Odjibwa. 17th . Native Mythology .  --  According to Indian mythology , Weeng is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who are armed with war clubs , of a tiny and unseen character . These fairy agents ascend the forehead , and knock the individual to sleep . Pope 's creation of Gnomes , in the Rape of the Lock , is here prefigured. 18th . It has been said that the Indian languages possess no monosyllables . This remark is not borne out with regard to the Chippewa . Marked as it is with polysyllables , there are a considerable number of exceptions . Koan is snow , ais a shell , mong a loon , kaug a porcupine , &c.; The number of dissyllables is numerous , and of trisyllables still more so . The Chippewa has no auxiliary verbs . The Chippewa primitive pronouns are , Neen , Keen , and Ween ( I , Thou , He or She ) . They are rendered plural in wind and wau . They are also declined for tense , and thus , in the conjugation of verbs , take the place of our auxiliary verbs. 19th . Resumed the perusal of Holmes on " Revelations . " He establishes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In this system , a day signifies a natural year ; a week seven years ; a month thirty years ; a year a period of 360 years . The air means " church and state ; " waters , " peoples , multitudes , tongues ; " seven , the number of perfection ; twelve , totality or all ; hail storms , armies of northern invaders . If the work were divested of its controversial character , it would produce more effect . Agreeably to this author , the downfall of Popery will take place about the year 1866. 20th . I read " Esprella 's Letters on England , " a work attributed to Southey , whose object appears to have been to render English manners and customs familiar in Spain , at a time when the intercourse between the two countries had very much augmented , and their sympathies were drawn together by the common struggle against Napoleon Bonaparte. 21st . I commenced " Valerius , a Roman Story . " In the evening the commanding officer ( Col. L. ) gave a party , in honor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be wholly anticipated , dancing was introduced to give it wings , and continued until two o'clock of the morning of ( the actual birthday ) the twenty-second. 22d . Finished " Valerius . " This is an interesting novel on the Waverley plan , and must certainly be considered a successful attempt to familiarize the class of novel-readers with Roman history and Roman domestic manners . The story turns on the persecution of the Christians under Trajan . The expression " of a truth , " which is so abundantly used in the narrative , is a Scripture phrase , and is very properly put into the mouth of a converted Roman . I can not say as much for the word " alongst " used for along . There are also some false epithets , as " drop , " for run or flow , and " guesses " for conjectures . The only defect in the plot , which occurs to me , is , that Valerius , after his escape with Athanasia from Ostium , should have been landed safely in Britain , and thus completed the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ left there , and who is never afterwards mentioned . 23d . From the mention which is made of it in " Valerius , " I this day read the Gospel of Luke , and truly am surprised to find it so very important a part of the New Testament . Indeed , were all the rest of the volume lost , this alone would be sufficient for the guidance of the Christian . Divines tell us that Luke was the most learned of the evangelists . He is called " the beloved physician , " by St. Paul . His style is more descriptive than the other evangelists , and his narrative more clear , methodical , and precise , and abounds equally with sublime conceptions. 31 Footnote 31 : This opinion was thrown out from mere impulse , on a single perusal , and so far as it may be regarded as a literary criticism , the only possible light in which it can be considered , is vaguely hazarded , for I had not , at that time , read the other Gospels with any degree of care @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ judging of their style or merits as compositions . Spiritually considered , I did not understand Luke , or any of the Evangelists , for I regarded the Gospels as mere human compositions , without the aid of inspiration . They were deemed to be a true history of events , interspersed with moral axioms , but derived no part of their value , or the admiration above expressed , as revealing the only way of salvation through Christ. 24th . Mr. Harman , from a long residence in the Indian country , in high northern latitudes , was qualified by his opportunities of observation , to speak of the comparative character of the Indian language in that quarter . He considers them as radically different from those of the Algonquin stock . The group which may be formed from his remarks , will embrace the Chippewayans , Beaver Indians , Sicaunies , Tacullies , and Nateotetains . If we may judge of this family of dialects by Mackenzie 's vocabulary of the Chippewayan , it is very remote from the Chippewa , and abounds in those consonantal sounds which the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bury , while the Tacullies burn their dead . " " Instances of suicide , by hanging , frequently occur among the women of all the tribes , with whom I have been acquainted ; but the men are seldom known to take away their own lives . " These Indians entertain the same opinions respecting the dress of the dead , with the more southerly tribes . " Nothing , " he says , " pleases an Indian better than to see his deceased relative handsomely attired , for he believes that they will arrive in the other world in the same dress with which they are clad , when they are consigned to the grave . " 27th . Our second express arrived at dusk , this evening , bringing papers from the seaboard to the 14th of January , containing the President 's message , proceedings of Congress , and foreign news , up to that date . A friend who is in Congress writes to me  --  " We go on slowly , but so far very harmoniously , in Congress . The Red Jackets 32 are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to cease their warfare against Mr. Monroe , as they find the nation do not relish it . " Footnote 32 : Opponents of the then existing administration , who looked to Gen. Cocke , of Tennessee , as a leader . Another friend at Washington writes ( 15th Dec . ) : " The message of the President you will have seen ere this reaches you . It is thought very well of here . He recommends the appointment of a Superintendent of the Western Lead Mines , skilled in mineralogy . If Congress should make provision for one , it is not to be doubted who will receive the situation . In fact , in a conversation a few days since with Mr. C. , he told me he had you particularly in view when he recommended it to the President . " 28th . Wrote an application to the Postmaster General for the appointment of S.B. Griswold as postmaster at this place. 33 Footnote 33 : Mr. G. was appointed . CHAPTER XVII . Close of the winter solstice , and introduction of a northern spring  --  News @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  Semi-civilization of the ancient Aztec tribes  --  Their arts and languages  --  Hill 's ironical review of the " Transactions of the Royal Society "  --  A test of modern civilization  --  Sugar making  --  Trip to one of the camps  --  Geology of Manhattan Island  --  Ontwa , an Indian poem  --  Northern ornithology  --  Dreams  --  The Indian apowa  --  Printed queries of General Cass  --  Prospect of the mineral agency  --  Exploration of the St. Peter 's  --  Information on that head . 1823 . March 1st . My reading hours , for the last few days , have been , in great part , devoted to the newspapers . So long an exclusion from the ordinary sources of information has the effect to increase the appetite for this kind of intellectual food , and the circumstance probably leads us to give up more time to it than we should were we not subject to these periodical exclusions . The great point of interest is the succession in the Presidential chair . Parties hinge upon this point . Economy and retrenchment are talismanic words , used to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ means of affecting the balance of party power . Messrs . Calhoun , Crawford , and Adams are the prominent names which fill the papers . There is danger that newspapers in America will too much supersede and usurp the place of books , and lead to a superficial knowledge of things . Gleaning the papers in search of that which is really useful , candid , and fair seems too much like hunting for grains of wheat in a chaos of chaff. 3d . Our third express went off this morning , freighted with our letters , and , of course , with our reasons , our sentiments , our thanks , our disappointments , our hopes , and our fears . 6th . I resumed the subject of the Indian language . Osanimun is the word for vermilion . This word is compounded from unimun , or plant yielding a red dye , and asawa , yellow . The peculiar color of yellow-red is thus indicated . Beizha is the neuter verb " to come . " This verb appears to remain rigid in its conjugation , the tenses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nim beizha , I come ; ningee peizha , I came ; ninguh peizha , I will come . The pronoun alone is declined for past and future tense , namely gee and guh . There does not appear to be any definite article in the Chippewa language . Pazhik means one , or an . It may be doubtful whether the former sense is not the exclusive one . Ahow is this person in the animate form . Ihiw is the corresponding inanimate form . More care than I have devoted may , however , be required to determine this matter . Verbs , in the Chippewa , must agree in number and tense with the noun . They must also agree in gender , that is , verbs animate must have nouns animate . They must also have animate pronouns and animate adjectives . Vitality , or the want of vitality , seems to be the distinction which the inventors of the language , seized upon , to set up the great rules of its syntax . Verbs , in the Chippewa language , are converted into nouns by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kegido-win , speech . This appears to be a general rule . The only doubt I have felt is , whether the noun formed is so purely elementary as not to partake of a participial character . There are two plurals to express the word " we , " one of which includes , and the other excludes , the person addressed . Neither of these forms is a dual . Os signifies father ; nos is my father ; kos , thy father ; osun , his or her father . The vowel in this word is sounded like the o , in note . The language has two relative pronouns , which are much used  --  awanan , who ; and wagonan , what . The vowel a , in these words , is the sound of a in fate . There are two classes of adjectives , one of which applies to animate , the other to inanimate objects . The Chippewa word for Sabbath is animea geezhig , and indicates prayer-day . There is no evidence , from inquiry , that the Indians divided their days into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but it is questionable whether they had acquired sufficient exactitude in the computation of time to have numbered the days comprehended in each moon . The phases of the moon were accurately noted . 8th . Professor S. , of Yale College , writes to me under this date , enclosing opinions respecting my " Narrative Journal " of travels , contained in a familiar private letter from D. Wadsworth , Esq. , of Hartford . They terminate with this remark : " All I regret about it ( the work ) is , that it was not consistent with his plans to tell us more of what might be considered the domestic part of the expedition  --  the character and conduct of those who were of the party , their health , difficulties , opinions , and treatment of each other , &c.; As his book was a sort of official work , I suppose he thought it would not do , and I wish now , he would give his friends ( and let us be amongst them ) a manuscript of the particulars that are not for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tribes .  --  Nothing is more manifest , on reading the " Conquest of Mexico " by De Solis , than that the character and attainments of the ancient Mexicans are exalted far above the reality , to enhance the fame of Cortez , and give an air of splendor to the conquest . Superior as the Aztecs and some other tribes certainly were , in many things , to the most advanced of the North American tribes , they resemble the latter greatly , in their personal features , and mental traits , and in several of their arts . The first presents sent by Montezuma to Cortez were " cotton cloths , plumes , bows , arrows and targets of wood , collars and rings of gold , precious stones , ornaments of gold in the shape of animals , and two round plates of the precious metals resembling the sun and moon . " The men had " rings in their ears and lips , which , though they were of gold , were a deformity instead of an ornament . " " Canoes and periogues " of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The " books " mentioned at p. 100 , were well-dressed skins , dressed like parchment , and , after receiving the paintings observed , were accurately folded up , in squares or parallelograms . The cacique of Zempoala , being the first dignitary who paid his respects personally to Cortez on his entry into the town , is described , in effect , as covered with a cotton blanket " flung over his naked body , enriched with various jewels and pendants , which he also wore in his ears and lips . " This chief sent 200 men to carry the baggage of Cortez . By the nearest route from St. Juan de Ulloa , the point of landing to Mexico , it was sixty leagues , or about 180 miles . This journey Montezuma 's runners performed to and fro in seven days , being thirty-five to thirty-six miles per day . No great speed certainly ; nothing to demand astonishment or excite incredulity . Distance the Mexicans reckoned , like our Indians , by time , " A sun " was a day 's journey . De @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ embassy ( alluding to Cortez ) , and the principal motive which the king had to offer his friendship to Montezuma , was the obligation Christian princes lay under to oppose the errors of idolatry , and the desire he had to instruct him in the knowledge of the truth , and to help him to get rid of the slavery of the devil . " The empire of Mexico , according to this author , stretched " on the north as far as Panuco , including that province , but was straitened considerably by the mountains or hilly countries possessed by the Chichimecas and Ottomies , a barbarous people . " I have thought , on reading this work , that there is room for a literary essay , with something like this title : " Strictures on the Hyperbolical Accounts of the Ancient Mexicans given by the Spanish Historians , " deduced from a comparison of the condition of those tribes with the Indians at the period of its settlement . Humboldt states that there are twenty languages at present in Mexico , fourteen of which have grammars and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Otomite , Tarase , Zapatec , Mistec , Maye or Yucatan , Tatonac , Popolauc , Matlazing , Huastec , Mixed , Caquiquel , Tarauma , Tepehuan , Cara . 20th . When the wind blows high , and the fine snow drifts , as it does about the vernal equinox , in these latitudes , the Indians smilingly say , " Ah ! now Pup-puk-e-wiss is gathering his harvest , " or words to this effect . There is a mythological tale connected with it , which I have sketched. 21st . I have amused myself in reading a rare old volume , just presented to me , entitled " A Review of the Works of the Royal Society of London , &c.,; by John Hill , M.D. , London , 1751 . " It evinces an acute mind , ready wit , and a general acquaintance with the subjects of natural history , antiquities , and philosophical research , adverted to . It is a racy work , which all modern naturalists , and modern discoverers of secrets and inventions ought to read . I should think it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Transactions " of the Royal Society wince in its day . 22d . Knowledge of foreign nations has increased most wonderfully in our day , and is one of the best tests of civilization . Josaphat Barbaro traveled into the East in 1436 . He says of the Georgians , " They have the most horrid manners , and the worst customs of any people I ever met with . " Surely this is vague enough for even the clerk who kept the log-book of Henry Hudson . Such items as the following were deemed " food " for books of travels in those days : " The people of Cathay , in China , believe that they are the only people in the world who have two eyes . To the Latins they allow one , and all the rest of the world none at all . " Marco Polo gives an account of a substance called " Andanicum , " which he states to be an ore of steel . In those days , when everything relating to metallurgy and medicine was considered a secret , the populace did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Or the mineral may have been sparry iron ore , which is readily converted into steel . 26th . It is now the season of making sugar from the rock maple by the Indians and Canadians in this quarter . And it seems to be a business in which almost every one is more or less interested . Winter has shown some signs of relaxing its iron grasp , although the quantity of snow upon the ground is still very great , and the streams appear to be as fast locked in the embraces of frost as if it were the slumber of ages . Sleighs and dog trains have been departing for the maple forests , in our neighborhood , since about the 10th instant , until but few , comparatively , of the resident inhabitants are left . Many buildings are entirely deserted and closed , and all are more or less thinned of their inhabitants . It is also the general season of sugar-making with the Indians . I joined a party in visiting one of the camps . We had several carioles in company , and went @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Johnston 's camp . The party consisted of several officers and ladies from the fort , Captain Thompson 34 and lady , Lieutenant Bicker and lady and sister , the Miss Johnstons and Lieutenants Smith 35 and Folger . We pursued the river on the ice the greater part of the way , and then proceeded inland about a mile . We found a large temporary building , surrounded with piles of ready split wood for keeping a fire under the kettles , and large ox hides arranged in such a manner as to serve as vats for collecting the sap . About twenty kettles were boiling over an elongated central fire . Footnote 34 : Killed in Florida , at the battle of Okechobbee , as Lt. Col. of the 6th U.S. Infantry . Footnote 35 : Died at Vera Cruz , Mexico , as Quarter-Master U.S.A. The whole air of the place resembled that of a manufactory . The custom on these occasions is to make up a pic-nic , in which each one contributes something in the way of cold viands or refreshments . The principal amusement consisted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ form . Having done this , and received the hospitalities of our hostess , we tackled up our teams , and pursued our way back to the fort , having narrowly escaped breaking through the river at one or two points . 27th . I received a letter of this date from G.W. Rodgers , a gentleman of Bradford county , Pennsylvania , in behalf of himself and associates , proposing a number of queries respecting the copper-yielding region of Lake Superior , and the requisites and prospects of an expedition for obtaining the metal from the Indians . Wrote to him adversely to the project at this time . Doubtless the plan is feasible , but the Indians are at present the sole owners and occupants of the metalliferous region . 28th . Dies natalis.  --  A friend editing a paper on the seaboard writes ( 10 Jan. 1822 )  --  " I wish you to give me an article on the geology and mineralogy of Manhattan Island , in the form of a letter purporting to be given by a foreign traveler . It is my intention to give @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by others , which shall take notice of everything in and about the city , which may be deemed interesting . I wish to begin at the foundation , by giving a geographical and geological sketch of the island . " 36 He continues :  --  Footnote 36 : Furnished the article , as desired , under the signature of " Germanicus . " Vide " N.Y . Statesman . " " I have read Ontwa , the Indian poem you spoke of last summer . The notes by Gov . Cass are extremely interesting , and written in a superior style . I shall notice the work in a few days . " " I inform you , in confidence , that M.E. , of this city , is preparing a notice of your ' Journal ' for the next number of the Repository , which will appear on the first of next month . " 29th . Novelty has the greatest attraction for the human mind . There is such a charm in novelty , says Dr. John Mason Good , that it often leads us captive in spite @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as fatally as the cup of Circe . But is not variety at hand to contest the palm ? " The great source of pleasure , " observes Dr. Johnson , " is variety . Uniformity must tire at last , though it be uniformity of excellence . " April 1st . The ice and snow begin to be burthensome to the eye . We were reconciled to winter , when it was the season of winter ; but now our longing eyes are cast to the south , and we are anxious for the time when we can say , " Lo , the winter is past , the flowers appear on the earth , the time of singing of birds is come , and the voice of the turtle is heard in our land . " The Chippewas have quite a poetic allegory of winter and spring , personified by an old and a young man , who came from opposite points of the world , to pass a night together and boast of their respective powers . Winter blew his breath , and the streams were covered with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was covered with flowers . The old man is finally conquered , and vanishes into " thin air . " 2d . We talked to-day of dreams . Dreams are often talked about , and have been often written about . But the subject is usually left where it was taken up . Herodotus says , " Dreams in general originate from those incidents which have most occupied the thoughts during the day . " Locke betters the matter but little , by saying , " The dreams of sleeping men are all made up of waking men 's ideas , though , for the most part , oddly put together . " Solomon 's idea of " the multitude of business " is embraced in this . Sacred dreams were something by themselves . God chose in ancient times to communicate with the prophets in dreams and visions . But there is a very strong and clear line of distinction drawn on this subject in the 23d of Jeremiah , from the 25th to the 28th verses . " He that hath a dream , let him tell a dream @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ my word . " The sacred and the profane , or idle dream , are likened as " chaff " to " wheat . " The Indians , in this quarter , are very much besotted and spell-bound , as it were , by dreams . Their whole lives are rendered a perfect scene of doubts and fears and terrors by them . Their jugglers are both dreamers and dream interpreters . If the " prince of the power of the air " has any one hold upon them more sure and fast than another , it seems to be in their blind and implicit reliance upon dreams . There is , however , with them a sacred dream , distinct from common dreams . It is called a-po-w//                     