@@10088

' T I int Rightnot a free press . They are free to praise Mussolini and Fascism , and this is their constant desire . If it were not they would not be journalists . I never saw it in that beautiful light before . THE ITALIAN PRESSRoME  --  The press , under strict government control , is a weapon of the state , and we have here the model which would be copied in a general way if a dictator ever should take control of the United States . Of course , we had a form of dictatorship during the war to end war , and American papers , having created warlike public opinion , suddenly found themselves afraid to talk back to it . But the war was soon over , and they were glad to get back their freedom . Looking over the career of Huey Long now , I suspect he made a serious mistake in attempting to bulldoze American reporters with insulting remarks in his public addresses and with strong-arm attacks on individuals by his bodyguards . While Huey was at it in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his ambitionif he had assumed the pose of friend and protector of the journeyman of the press and passed some laws through his legislature at Baton Rouge to give news-'T Dint Right 41papermen double pay , and to compel owners to give them , say , one month 's vacation with pay every year and a bonus of several months ' pay on being fired . But if Huey had done in Louisiana as Mussolini has done in Italy he would have reached the self-interest of the craft , and it would not have taken a majority of newspapermen long to convince themselves they were honestly loyal to a great leader and that everything he did was for the good of the state and eventually of the nation . It would have been expensive for their employers to fire them under such a law , but the same plan in its wider application would have provided the owners with a subsidy or guarantees against loss on the ground that the press as a weapon of state must be maintained , even though it costs taxpayers something , just as the army @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ morale . Even in Italy the journalists and publishers were not won over unanimously . Some held out a while and were reconstructedunder pressure , and others ai n't reconstructedyit , as the old Georgia folk song goes . But those who ai n't reconstructed yit are out of luck now , and the Italian press is for Mussolini and his regime without a dissenting syllable . Newspaper reporters and publishers , unfortunately , are not made of the clay that martyrs are made of , exceptin rare cases . And when a man comes face to face with the fact that he must either play ball under highly42 ' T dint Rightattractive conditions or lose his livelihood , he is likely to think of his family and the mortgage on his home . It may be said that Huey could not have done this in Louisiana under the American Constitution , but to say that offhandedly is to overlook some other miracles which Huey performed without exceeding the Constitution . As for the use of public funds to subsidize the press , it should be kept in mind that long @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him to account to anybody for public funds . He merely reported that his dictatorship had received so much , and spent it all . He did n't have to say what it was spent for , so it could have been given to newspaper publishers to reimburse them for increased cost of salaries and bonuses to their help and also give them a profit . Huey overlooked a possibilitythere . Mussolini does n't go into petty details either . When the press is a weapon of state it is subject to the same sort of discipline and pressure that governs the army and the navy , and everything the papers do under orders becomesautomatically right and patriotic . The army and the navy may sometimes be used on tasks which individualmembers of the services believe to be morally wrong , but it is treason to refuse duty on such grounds . The Italian press has been a weapon of state so long now that Italians , even in the official ranks , who have had experience in the United States find it hard to understand why American papers were allowed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a wanton invasion of a sovereign country . They can not cure their minds of the thought that these expressions must represent the view of the American government . Otherwise why did n't the government make the papers shut up ? Now , if the Italian papers were suddenly to tear into the United States and give us a daily lacing on some particular issue you would know at once that the Italian government was sore about it and was using the press as a weapon of state to warn us . It is a method of expressingofficial views in an unofficial way much more freely than they could be expressed in the irrevocable official correspondence which goes into the archives to stay . Papers go into the ash can and are forgotten . When the press is a weapon of state even the comic strips and crossword puzzles and sporting news , fashion news and advertisements are enrolled in the service . The result after a while is that the people , seeing nothing to remind them that there might be another side to the question , become almost all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over the press by force . Mussolini , however , used bait , and used it so generously that very little effort was required. r44 ' T dint Right MUSSOLINI 'S TOUGH GUYSPARIS  --  One rainy afternoon in Rome I went out in a taxi to circle the huge park , surrounded by a high wall , where Mussolini 's house stands alone amid a grove of trees . The house was hidden from view , and the trip would not have paid out in results except for the presencealong the sidewalk beneath the wall of a detail of cutthroats the like of which has not been assembled under one command since the days of His Majesty 's British Black and Tans . Mussolini 's household guards were stationed at intervalsof about fifty yards all around the park , each under his umbrella in a drizzle , all keeping up a nominal pretense of waiting for a street car , of which there was none in that vicinity , or for a friend , of which there can be none on earth . There were other secret policemen on the far side @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tommy gun . This one was strollingup the block the first time I passed . When I came around again he was strolling the other way with his suitcase . They were a homey touch , in a way , for they were the first of that type that I had seen in several weeks in Italy , and for a moment I thought I was back in Miami'T flint Right 45Beach , Fla. , in the winter colony of the artichoke and slot-machine aristocracy of our Northern cities . At a distance , and in print , the castor-oil treatment with which the Black Shirts overcame political doubt seems not very brutal and even slightly humorous . But at close quarters , as the boys peered out from underneaththeir dripping umbrellas , it was not so easy to see the joke . The customary procedure of these missionaries is to call at night in a body on the victim of a political error , twist his arms and legs until the bones crack , then pour down his neck a quart of castor oil which may be mixed with kerosene @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for enough castor oil taken all at once is almost certain to rupture the human plumbing and to bring about death from natural causes within a few days . There is always plenty of castor oil . A few days later , on a trip to Pontinia , the tailor-made village which Mussolini built on a reclaimed swamp somewhat resembling the Florida glades , the strong-arm detail was out again , this time in greater numbers , and the scene was pleasantly reminiscent of those Kentucky Derbies at Louisville in the days of prohibition when all the Italian alky cookers and bootleggers east of the Rocky Mountains gathered for their annual convention . They were everywhere . They mingled with the crowd and climbed the steps to overlook the press of people . They sidled up and looked earnestly into your eyes and46 ' T dint Rightgazed at your camera and studied your overcoat for bulges . I felt nervous , for we had left Rome in the dark at 7 A.M. without breakfast , and I had in my pocket an eatingapple whose contour might have suggested the hoodlums ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the late Tex Rickard when he was conducting ballyhoo parties for sports writers to the training camps of his fighters . Mussolini has a special preference for the foreignpress on such occasions , for he has the natural desire that his achievements in this great reclamation work shall be known in other lands . He has salvaged the swamps , built several towns , and lifted whole communities out of their old surroundings , to set them down in a new country where everything is ready for life . It is the kind of work that we in America are always going to do . Consequently , the petty Mussolinisof Mussolini 's foreign press bureau , so lazy and stupid most of the time , round up all the foreign representationthey can find when the Duce is about to put on one of his shows . If they do n't turn up with enough foreign press Mussolini gets sore and gives them hell . So there were about fifty of us on this trip , and we all had a long look at the Duce putting on his No. 3 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a kindly man of the people , and the living spirit of a proud and mighty'T Ai nt Right 47but friendly race demanding only justice for Italy . It is said to be the best act in his repertoire , and I will say that I have never seen anything of its kind , although Red Mike Hylan , when he was Mayor of New York , resembledMussolini around the ears . After the act Mussolini received us in the council room of the new town hall . He is not as tall as I had expected , being about 5 feet to and thick in the barrel , but not fat . He moves around with the quick , jerky motions of a major general tearing along a company street on an inspection trip , and his yes men , like the humble shavetail , are frightened speechless in his presence except to throw back their heads and yell , " Doo-chay , Doo-chay . " His face surprised me , for I had expected a popeyed glare , an undershot jaw and the generally bloodthirsty mien , whereas there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , he spoke in a quiet , civil tone , and his lips parted in a smile three or four times . His eyelids were red , as though he had been working nights . But the Black Shirts told me Mussolini never gets tired . His eyelids are naturally red . A Frenchwoman journalist stepped out and dropped her wedding ring into his hand for his gold collection . Mussolini said he was touched , and went away in a pleasant mood . It was strange to feel drawn to this man , knowing that a word from him might cause another world war any minute , and that down in the village street and all over the place were those plain-clothes48 ' T dint Rightmissionaries of his who might rub against that apple any minute and take impulsive steps . THE HEAD MANRoME  --  The efforts of some of his underlings to imitate rather than to emulate Benito Mussolini must make him chew the sheets at night . Some of them think they are being little Mussolinis merely by scowling with great ferocity and thrusting out their chins , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ actuallyachieves his most important results by hard work over long hours . To be sure , the big shot is a great showman , and when he rolls his eyes and blows out his lips in a silly expression of imperious might , with his hands clenched on his hips and the tassel of his black cap dangling over his brow , it is difficult to keep in mind that this man was a newspaper reporter a few years ago . There are reporters still in action in the European service who used to cover stories with Il Duce and trade stuff with him at the end of the day 's work . Nowadays , when he comes out on his little balcony at Palazzo Venezia the Italians who were his colleagues then click their heels together , raise their right hands ' T ! lint Right 49and holler " Doo- , - ' , ay ! Doo-chay ! " But the job of runninga nation of forty million people and an army , a navy and a war is not accomplished by scowling and chin-thrusting alone . The trouble is that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ job holders , see Mussolini only when he Is putting on his act and therefore attribute his most important results to his least important activities . The Italians insist that Mussolini has a sense of humor , and if this is so the man should have moments when he permits himself a private laugh at the awestruckdemeanor of the people who are ushered into his presence . Even Americans who have met the Presidents and Shirley Temple and heavyweight champions and who think of themselves as standing in awe of no man born of woman , have been known to lose their poise and chew their words when Mussolini put the eye on them . So it must be admitted that the exreporter invented something , and it may be recalled that Adolf Hitler , when he was just getting away to his start as an imitator , came down to study the original at first hand . Mussolini has a big square chin , but there are some four thousand human chins arranged in artistic designs in the shadowy crypts of the remarkable cemetery of the Capuchin Fathers on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ motor parts in the salvage department of an automobile junk yard . They are used chins . Turned to ivory and mounted on the walls like the50 ' T Mint Rightjaws of fish in the trophy room of a Florida fishing camp , they give no impression of formidability , but rather , by the gaps between the teeth , invite the imaginationto consider how the good fathers must have sufferedfrom toothache back in the time when there were neither dentists nor anaesthetics . Primo Carnera has the most prodigious chin of any Italian living , but Jack Dempsey , when he first saw Primo , about seven years ago , far from being awestruck , looked at the chin , looked at his left fist , shook his head and murmured , " My , my , how could anybody miss a chin like that ? " A short time ago , in the course of some public ceremoniesin Rome , a young military attache of a sanctionistnation discovered one of the little Mussolinis putting on the glare for him and protruding his chin , in an earnest attempt to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to glare back , because he was a guest , so he waved gaily and called " Yoo-hoo ! " The imitation Mussolini turned away in disgust , looking for someone who would appreciate the glare , which undoubtedlyhad been practiced before a mirror for years . In a one-man government the secondary officials are likely to be second-rate or worse , because all the importantwork is done and the important decisions are made by the boss . Mussolini has two strong men in his regime  --  Dina'T Ai nt Right 51 ( ; randi and Italo Balbo  --  but they are both far away . ( ; randi is in London as ambassador , and Balbo is Governorof Libya . There are two guesses as to why he keeps them in foreign posts . First , that he needs his best men in those jobs ; second , that he does n't want strong men on home grounds . Marshal de Bono was regarded as a strong man too , but they brought him from Abyssinia on a rainy night , and there was no triumphal procession through the Arch @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ full after his great flight to Chicago and back three years ago . Moreover , the marshal 's train was late , although they take special pride in the punctuality of their trains in Italy these days , and altogether you may judge that Marshal de Bono 's phase of the Ethiopian campaign was somewhat less than a historic conquest by the new Roman empire . When you get a corps of officials who are second-rate or worse you sacrifice efficiency for petty self-importance , and this puts the burden on the boss and on the taxpayers . Just now England and Italy are engaged in a war of propaganda in the United States , and the English , being masters of the art , have been giving the Italians a terriblelicking . But in England the government press agents are shrewd , genial and entertaining fellows who know their job and work at it , whereas in Rome the publicity is in the hands of a little Mussolini whose man-5 2 ' T " lint Righthandling of the task would make any American press agent cut his throat in artistic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with their hands unembarrassed by excessive dignity there is a group of political parasites and phonies . It is impossible , apparently , to eliminate them from government . At a time when laborers willingly toil in the rain and lunch on nothing but hunks of bread , and women are turning in their wedding rings to raise money for the government , Mussolini 's little shots surround themselves with mystery and flunkeys , and glare and project their chins and let it go at that . But take it from one who detests Fascism as much as slavery in any other form and castor oil in lethal doses as much as any other barbarous weapons : the Italian people are not as bad as the little Mussolinis make them appear to be . A COMPARISONRoME  --  With due allowance for all the paved highways , public buildings and railway stations which Mussolinihas built , and for his feat of teaching ignoramuses to read and the whole Italian nation to hate Englishmen , ' T Ai nt Right 53there are still some phases of life in Italy which might deter even the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an application in Rome . The beautiful highways are closed to all but official motor traffic , because the leader who built them also built up a war which is consuming all available fuel . The public buildings are full of officeholders , including the same proportion of yes men , chair-warmers and other useless but deserving party members that are to be found in offices of the New Deal in Washington , D.C.But the Italian tax slave is paying bills even as his brother in bondage on the other side of the water . He too pays an income tax , a tax on his windows and a tax on the desserts which are put on the table in his home . And though education is indeed a wonderful thing , the case of the humble shepherd on the hillside , who now reads newspapers instead of drowsing the hours away , a huddled figure , as ignorant as his own sheep , is less triumphant on closer consideration . The case of the humble shepherd on the hillside is one which has been cited often by enthusiastic party members @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of race or interest in current events . Now he walks erect , with fire in his eye , valor and patriotism in his heart , and a confused jumble of hatreds in his brain . There are fifty hatreds in all , beginning with England and con-54 ' T flint Righttinuing down the list of nations which voted sanctions against Italy . Perhaps he does read the papers now instead of snoozing in the folds of his cape . But they are Italian papers which are censored and deliberately calculated to impose on his new intelligence , to increase his ignorance of issues and events . It would be foolish to deny that it is a great spiritual pleasure to hate the English . Americans have done this and found it good fun , from time to time , ever since Bunker Hill . The Germans a few years ago could hate the English from a standing start with a fury which makes the present Italian wrath seem like a mild distaste , although the Italians are picking up speed and style in their hatred . But the Germans found there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ practical people who do n't leave off their hating until they have explored every possibility . Those ardent party members whom it has been my privilege to observe and interview all belong to the very comfortable class who doubtless pay the taxes they are unable to avoid , even as the American tax slaves . They have jobs and money to spend , and it is much more prudent and profitable to belong to the party than to be excluded from it . Certainly the Fascist system has eliminated much lost motion . They have no filibusters in the Italian government , and there is no need for a Congressional'T Ai nt Right 55Record , with all its expense , because there are no debates . Nobody argues with Mussolini . But granting all these great improvements , Italy is still no better off in these matters than the United States with its noble institutions of graft and incompetence . It can not be claimed that Italy has as much education as we . America 's democratic highways are as good as Mussolini 's dictatorial roads , and there are more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ numerous and filled with deserving party membersjust as regular in their way as the Fascisti are in theirs . And the American public debt , like American education , is bigger in gross figures , though possibly not as large per capita . Mussolini has rallied the Italians together , with certainexceptions , and made them ambitious for their country . Americans , on the other hand , agree among themselves that their country is in terrible shape . Yet , at worst she is better off than Italy at her best . In the present unanimity of patriotism and hatred , the Italians , however , have got themselves into a war , while the Americans are too sore at one another to give any attention to outsiders , thus obviating serious danger . There is one other phase in which the American situation is distinctly preferable . Although the Democratic party holds office , our Republicans still have certain legal and economic rights and may not be put away on an island merely for speaking out of turn . It is not56 ' T Ai nt Righttreason to the state @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and certain Republicans have availed themselves of that right frequently in the last few years . No member of the opposition party would even considersuch desperate folly in Italy . But then , there is no opposition party . CHICKEN FEATHERSROME  --  There is no more beautiful sight in this world than a European army officer of the rank of major or better permitting himself to be gazed upon and appreciatedby lovely ladies in the lobby or bar of a stylish hotel . Young lieutenants and captains are beautiful too , but they have not yet reached full bloom , so to speak . Their epaulets are just as pretty in pale blue , rose or yellow , edged with gold tape and fringe , and the stripes down their trousers or breeches are exactly the same as those which are worn by their superiors . But junior officers , save in exceptional cases , are too young to have accumulatedthe bouquet of decorations and campaign ribbonswhich are the glory of a military man . A perfect specimen will have at least two and possibly four rows of'T dint Right @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unlike that of a color chart in the house paint department of an American hardware store . Each half-inch denotes some stirring exploit against savage Jimoolies of Jimooliland or some service of less strenuous character in the drawingroom of an embassy in a foreign country . European officers have an advantage over Americans because the sun seldom sets on the campaigns which are open to them , in which the odds are i000 to i in their favor . And , too , war departments of the Old World have an appreciation of the soul of a military officer . They recognize his love of pretty ribbons for his chest and make available to him a variety of noncombatant honors which , though unimportant when considered by themselves , nevertheless make for glory when strung together row on row . In breaking down a row of ribbons into its component parts it might be discovered that some of them were only nominal distinctions . The pretty yellow one with purple stripes might have been awarded to the dashing officer merely because he did n't forget to wash his neck and polish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cadet in a military academy a quarter of a century ago . The red one with diagonal white bars could be nothing more important than a souvenir badge given by a king to those who marched in his coronation parade . Another might mean that our hero , with great devotion and skill , successfully carried out a raid by a well-armed58 ' T dint Rightfighting squad and seized a straw village up in the mountainstwenty years back . The order of Peter the Putrid may have been bestowed by the late king of a Balkan nation long since liquidated , for faithful service in seducingan opposing general 's wife and obtaining important military secrets in some war for liberty and justice . All wars are wars for liberty and justice . A decoration may drop out of the mail to remind an officer that a grateful sultan of a sandy patch somewhere east of Suez enjoyed his visit to his palace the time he passed through on a vacation cruise . They add up in time . On a continent whose troops , away off in far places , are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ savages up the trees  --  with possiblythe support of gunboats lying in the river  --  new medals are constantly being devised . So a man starting at eighteen , with reasonable luck , ought to have a string of honors at least a foot long by the time he has reached the rank of major , with the right to wear brass on his hat . And in addition to all these opportunities the Britishoffer their distinguished orders by special decree of His Majesty the King , a proportion of which inevitably falls to any officer who arrives at the rank of colonel . They have their Order of the Garter , their Victorian Order , their Indian Orders and their Orders of the BritishEmpire . It may be laid down as a general thing that an officer above the grade of major is incomplete withoutat least one . ' T flint Right 59In conversation with Captain Davey , assistant attacheof the British Embassy in Rome , I discovered he had served at a military academy in Canada and had visited West Point with their hockey team . He therefore knew @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Engineers , now in charge of the Passamaquoddy job in Maine . Captain Davey said that , even in brief acquaintance with Lieut. - Col . Fleming , he had to realize that he was an uncommonly fine army officer . Yet Lieut. - Col . Fleming had no initials behind his name , and he wears only a few ribbons . If ribbons denote the ability and ferocity to perform patriotic service , American army and navy officers must be an inferior corps as compared with their colleagues in Europe . A second lieutenant in a European army likely will wear more colors on his chest than twenty colonels  --  not necessarily grizzled  --  of the American forces . And certainly a European lieutenant colonel with no regalia behind his name and no more ribbons than Lieut. - Col . Fleming would consider himself a tragic failure and go out and throw himself away . BONEYARDRoME  --  Your correspondent has visited the famous cemetery of the Capuchin Fathers in the cellar of the6o ' T Ai nt RightChurch of the Immaculate Conception , of which Mark Twain wrote with considerable feeling in Innocents Abroad @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the cavern beneath the church is pretty accurate still , except that in one of the chandeliers the skull of some long-forgotten reverend Father has been wired for electriclight and some of the intricate scrolls and floral designs worked out in the human ribs , fingers , vertebrae and jawbones have begun to reveal gaps which never can be filled . The custom of disinterring the departed members of the little community of pious men ten years after their death has been discontinued these last forty years , and replacements are unobtainable now . The persistent pilferingof thousands of souvenir hunters in the course of time is likely to scatter the entire collection to a million mantelshelves and trophy rooms all over the earth , and the confusion and grief when the trumpet blows and the good Fathers try to reassemble themselves may be even worse than Mark Twain imagined . At least in the day when he saw the cemetery and commented on the problem , they were all there in one rather cozy little cave and were confronted by nothing more than the mere problem of identification . It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which vertebrae and toes and shank bones were his in the jumble which had to a casual observer an appearance of hopeless confusion . ' T dint Right 61But if a man 's skull is serving as a tobacco jar on the library desk of a souvenir hunter in Tuckahoe , N. Y. , and his left shoulder blade is doing duty as a paperweightin Buenos Aires or Moscow , ' there might be serious difficulty . But maybe , after all , because the great wide world is no bigger than an apple , the power which could reconstruct the bodies in the cellar might not be embarrassed by having to reassemble their membersno matter how widely scattered . Mark Twain thought the celebrated cemetery of the Capuchin Fathers to be in the worst possible taste , but then , other remarks of his indicated that he had an extraordinary aversion to the dead . He spoke of the tremendous risk of pestilence in every churchyard , and thought that the bodies constantly accumulating in the ground would contaminate the soil in the course of time . So he recommended @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ certainly lived as long as he had any desire to , and nowadays , notwithstanding the war which killed six millions and the famines and plagues which have killed even more , the world is so crowded that Mr H. G. Wells insists that two hundred million people have got to get off the earth . It is useless to look for the name of Mark Twain in the tourist register on the window sill , for thousands of sightseers have shuffled along the marble tombs on the floor since his day , almost obliterating some of the data . The present register , which is almost full , goes back no62 ' T Ai nt Rightmore than a year . The Bradley girls of New York registeredrecently . Your correspondent , on seeing the cemetery with its neat racks of shins piled like stovewood back on the farm , its graceful designs and curious little inventions of art , did not share the sense of shock which Mark Twain felt . For if ever human futility was made clear and death robbed of its solemnity , it has been done @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hundred years ago in the murky crypt by some pious priest in hair shirt and sandals and with a grisly sense of humor . The mummies too , a dozen or so of them , which had dried out during their ten years in the ground beneath the cavern , by their scarecrow postures and their witheredleathern hands awkwardly clasping their wooden crucifixes , mocked the pride of mortal man and ridiculed the struggle of science to conquer death and give to each another little while on earth . Some of the skulls have developed a rich yellow ivory tint and a shiny gleam , but others seem not to have aged well in the grave and are rough in texture , dull in color and , from an artistic standpoint , distinctly inferior . Tourists for hundreds of years have been scrawlingtheir names across the heads of the shiny ones , and though there are signs in many languages requesting visitors not to write upon the bones , there are autographsof recent date nevertheless . ' T Ai nt Right 63When looking at the skull of a man so long @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ written across his brow it is impossible not to wonder whose head entertainedgreater thoughts . An old Capuchin with gray beard sits at the head of the cellar stairs with a little green pouch , accepting contributions in appreciation of the experience of looking at death as an amusing answer to it all . Your correspondentdropped a forty-cent coin into the pouch , reflectingthat the old father of John Dillinger got a raw deal from the law which made him bury his boy . Young John Dillinger , stuffed and preserved like the embalmed whales which used to tour the United States in carnival shows , would have been a very profitable exhibit and probably a fine moral lesson to the young . Instead , however , the old gentleman , when he set out to preach that the wages of sin is death , was forced to do it alone , with nothing to use for stage props except young John 's straw hat with a bullet hole through it and the clothes he had on as he went for his summer night 's stroll with the woman in red . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be only one dead man . There are odds and ends of four thousand in the remarkable boneyard of the Capuchins. 64 ' T dint Right BACK TALKPARIS  --  It is a strange refuge which the Charles A. Lindberghshave selected in their flight from the prying press of the United States , because they will discover that the English have an uncommonly morbid appetite for the intimate affairs of prominent persons and are especially silly on the subject of prominent babies . Compared to the inquisitiveness of their new neighbors in England regardingtheir home life and their little son , the curiosity of their American countrymen , which the Lindberghs found so tiresome , will seem nothing more prying than acute indifference . As a typical example of what the English print about well-born infants I will presently quote from an opportunearticle in an English magazine called Woman 's Journal , written , not to say prattled , by Miss Kate Fox , who was childhood nurse to Princess Marina of Greece , who married the English Duke of Kent . This feat of journalistic baby talk deals with the life @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ duke and duchess . It is accompanied by photographs of the baby 's apartment , very artistic and luxurious to Englisheyes but mighty like a kootch dancer 's dressing room in the United States , and a thorough Baedeker's'T dint Right 65guide to the nursery , which would be of invaluable aid to kidnappers , if any . The photographs are ducky , but the text and captions double and redouble the duckiness of the pictures . The photographs show the ittie bittie baby 's ittie bittie crib , his woolly bootie wooties and his blanky wankets . They show his owniest own little rug with the great big bear which goes " Woof ! Woof ! " worked into the pattern , and assorted bidgers and badgers and bodgers chasing themselvesaround the border . And , sweetest ingredient of all in the by far the sweetest and stickiest smear of literary marmalade that ever stuck up the good white paper , the Woman 's Journal prints , by gracious permission of Her Royal Highness herself , an exclusive photograph of the ittie bittie kiddy 's very own bathroom , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ earliest experiments in modern conveniences in Minnesota . You are not asked to accept hearsay . I offer documentaryproof from Miss Fox 's article and ask whether the Lindberghs have ever been asked to tolerate anything like this in the American press . On the top floor of the large and dignified house in BelgraveSquare Miss Fox writes , high up from the hurrying , bustling world , are the nurseries of our new Prince . There sleeps and smiles and cries the tiny babe of but a few weeks old , starting his life as the fifth grandchild of our66 ' T flint RightKing and Queen . Behind these windows there is love and care and watchfulness and the joyous privileges of motherhoodwhich come to every home when a child is born . Let us take a peep into his own little world and see what it is like . Here the walls and ceiling and floor are white . Such soft and soothing shades of white are the baby eyes to open upon ! Such necessary equipment for " heading " and " tailing " the royal baby as swabs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , are kept in a low , rubbertiredtrolley . It goes on and on for about a thousand words , becoming more and more so by the word , but there is a charmingnote of commercial ballyhoo which raises its baby voice trying to be heard at this point . A picture shows a room in the nursery which looks not unlike a two-dollar room in a chain store hotel back home , and the cut line says : Everything in the Prince 's nursery is , of course , British made . English newspapers have been exceedingly righteous about the Lindberghs , but if Colonel Lindbergh 's counselcan dig out of the files of the American press any copy which even remotely approaches the fatuous intimacyof this piece about the baby prince I will produce an American newspaperman who will eat without ketchup the entire edition of the paper in question . ' T Ai nt RightPOT ACCUSES KETTLEPARIS-American journalism is such an evil institution by comparison with that of the mother country that one who has been schooled in American tradition is overwhelmedby a feeling of hopelessness . Still it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by that means alone may we know what we must do to be saved . The topic is to the fore , thanks to the flight of Colonel Lindbergh from an American photographer who had the supreme effrontery to snap a picture of his son Jon , which was then reproduced , in varying dimensions from three columns to half a page , in the press of the mother country merely as evidence of American vulgarity . Having fled the American press , Colonel Lindbergh was then greeted in Liverpool by reticent reporters  --  some fifty in number  --  and photographed much more effectively but in a kindly and courteous English way in the act of carrying little Jon down the gangplank . Other journalists were stationed to waylay him and take his picture and the baby 's in a tactful manner if he had jumped over to Ireland or Wales . In the same concertedplan to respect that privacy which is every man's68 ' T Ai nt Rightright in England , still other reporters chartered an airplane , a tug and a racing automobile , which fortunately were not called @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ politeness which is the pride of the mother country . At the same time , a lecturer in London remarked that he was upset to observe that certain English children were beginning to imitate American ethics , or rather , as he preferred to put it , the American lack of ethics , Englishnewspapers , in editorial comment alongside photographs of the Lindberghs , took occasion to thank God that the press of England has never been fouled by the vulgarity which had driven Colonel Lindbergh to these shores . It appears that they devote a good deal of their time in England to worry about the condition of America 's soul , which is decent of them , to be sure , and quite a contrast to the complete indifference of Americans towardEngland 's soul . For , far from worrying about the mother country , most Americans hardly know England exists except once a year , on default day , when the English government officially regrets to state that nothinghas occurred to alter her indisposition to lay a little something on the line toward payment of the English debt . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ British respect for the privacy of the individualwhich appeared in the London Daily Express : ' T flint Right 69The Duchess of Kent 's comparative seclusion has an especially happy and homely explanation . Unlike a sufficiencyof fashionable young mothers , she is herself nursing ' her baby son . She is sacrificing in that word 's true meaningall of her time to the demands of a new life . Any doctor will say that the age-old example she has followed is best for mother and child . As an example of that seclusion from intimate publicityto which they look forward in the mother country , this item , about a young mother who in England occupiesa station similar to Mrs Lindbergh 's in America , should be reassuring . There appears no photograph of Her Royal Highness engaged in this happy and homely rite , but pictures have been printed of the baby 's nursery with a complete diagram of his little bathroom , so probably the lady 's privacy will be celebrated with shapshots in due course . But it is in the field of advertising that the ethics @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most effective contrast against the lack of ethics in America . From this point on I will permit these ethics of the mother country to speak for themselves through excerptsfrom the newspaper advertisement columns : No injections treatment for diabetes . Famous South African remedy now available . Diabetic sufferers may now be freed from their awful afflictions without aid of drugs . A simple herbal remedy known as Vinculin , orginating in70 ' T dint RightSouth Africa , has achieved the most marvelous and amazingsuccesses it is possible to imagine . Wife 's terrible head pains stopped by Yeast-Mite . Husband'sgood advice brings instant relief in ten minutes . Imagine the plight of this poor woman , agonized beyond endurance , driven nearly crazy with pain . She found freedom in ten minutes . Yeast-Mite , the quick health timetable . From exhaustion to animation in fifteen to thirty minutes . From rheumatism to pain relief in twenty-four hours . From impure blood to purification in thirty-six hours . From depressionto buoyant energy in ten to twenty minutes . Yeast-Mite is life . Skin disease cured in night . Zeekol is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The cruelest skin diseases , such as ulcers , eczema , abscesses and erysipelas , are rapidly , completely banished . There is nothing in the world to compare with Zeekol , which cures in record time eczema , all kinds of ulcers , chilblains and bad legs . " For years I could not walk with an ulcerated leg . Zeekol cured it in a week . " This is a full-page advertisement from the Daily Ex-press : Simpson iodine soap . The soap the world has waited for . The pure seaweed iodine placed in your hands is a sure protection against disease and an unfailing guarantee of'T Ai nt Right 71skin beauty . Iodine penetrates below the skin and exerts its beneficial action on the rheumatic conditions , lumbago , gout , neuritis and sciatica . Use it regularly and you may laugh at contagion . It kills every single germ in half a second . Now you have some glimmering notion of the beauty of perfection in journalism . THE OLYMPIC **26;4240;TOOLONG  --  EVerything is said to happenfor the best , and whatever anyone may think of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , military and sporting activities here in Garmisch , the experience should show a net profit to the United States . Such shoving around as the populace received at the hands of the young strong-armed squad of Hitler bodyguardsappropriately , though ingenuously , named the Black Guards , was never seen in the United States , even in the heyday of Jimmy Walker or Huey P. Long . American athletes and the journalists of all nations sent to cover the program of sports known as the Winter Olympics , saw a perfect demonstration of military dictatorship , and there were those among the throng who72 ' T glint Rightagreed that if this is what Huey was promoting in Louisiana they will be glad to have none of the same . The dictator held ten thousand people in the grandstandof the rink where the figure skating took place until he was ready to take his leave , and before the event they paved his way with such idolatrous care that it made no difference whether anyone else reached the scene or not . Thousands of people were herded this way and that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to buy tickets to see the sport , and thousands were shunted off and away from the inclosure by long cordons of officious , beefy young Nazis in various uniforms , whose only duty was to flatter and accommodate the house painter who became the head man of the third Reich . It was a magnificent display of strong-arm authority wholly corroborating the old tradition that the German people 's favorite sport is to be shoved around by men in uniform . The road approaching the stadium was held clear by a double cordon of troops in brown uniforms who are supposed not to be soldiers but a civilian labor corps , although they dress like soldiers , with a swastika worn on the left arm , and perform military drill with shovels instead of guns . At the head of the line near the stadium the Black Guards took their stand . They are a special corps , like the King 's Life Guard in England , except that they are'T Ai nt Right 73all young , athletic , tall and of overbearing demeanor . They wear fine black uniforms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the left sleeve in silver embroidery the name " Adolf Hitler . " They were wearingblack tin hats , and the very atmosphere was vibrant with oppression and a sense of the importance of the Leader . Your correspondent has seen in his time such men as Edison , Ford , Shaw , Einstein , Mussolini , Clemenceau and Eugene Debs , and therefore might have been a trifle slow to take spark . It seemed a secondary experience , not to say an anticlimax , to witness Adolf Hitler , but to the German government , which had invited the athletes of the world to Garmisch in the name of sport and human brotherhood , it was a tremendous affair . The Olympics were of secondary importance , if any . This was the dictator 's day , and it is a good thing for the Americans present that this was so , because they have nothing important to learn from the athletes , but much to learn about absolute authority in government . You must picture this town . Ten thousand swastikas stir faintly in the light winter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the color of blood , with a white circle containing an ancient device in black . The swastika flies from every house and store , and some homes are adorned with long ribbons of little pennantsstrung together from window to window , fifty or a hundred swastikas in a row. 74 ' T Ai nt RightSoldiers are everywhere in Garmisch-Partenkirchen , where the athletes of many nations are competing on ice and snow in the brotherhood of sports . There are soldiersin the old German field gray , soldiers of the labor corps in brown , and special soldiers of the Black Guard in black and silver . All the soldiers wear the swastika , and it is seen again on the red post-office trucks and the army transports , which go tearing through the streets off into the mysterious mountains splashing melted slush onto the narrow footway . This motor transport gives a strange suggestion of war in the little mountain resort where sportsmen are drawn together in a great demonstration of friendship . When the United States held the winter Olympics at Lake Placid , the only armed force @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Police with service pistols and cartridge belts , and they were there only to regulate motor traffic . I do not know why there are so many troops and so much army transport in Garmisch , and I hesitate to inquireunless that be construed as an effort to obtain military information . I was not interested in military affairs but only in sport , and the great international Olympic ideal of amity through chivalrous competition . I know the ideal by heart , having heard it many times in speeches and read it in statements by Mr Avery Brundage , the president of the American Athletic Union , who brought the American team over to this'T ' lint Right 75armed camp , and by other idealists in the Olympic organization who joined Mr Brundage in the enjoyment of official courtesies and flattery delivered in the elegant style of the Old World . We ought to treat Mr Brundage 's vanity better at home . Perhaps an official dinner at the White House would equalize some of the honor which the Germans have shown him in their campaign to overpower disgust in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ big army trucks which roar up the hills are painted in camouflage and loaded with soldiers . The little officers ' cars built on the design of the old-fashioned low-neck hack are camouflaged too , and the scene is strongly reminiscent of the zone behind the front when divisions were being rushed to the sector of the next offensive . Up to this time no artillery has been seen . I take it that the brotherhood games of the Winter Olympics run under the auspices of Nazi sportsmanship are only infantry action up to this writing . They may be saving their heavy stuff , their tanks and bombers for the summerprogram . Well , I am glad I was here for this particular day , and I insist that as matters turned out it was a good thing to send an American team . If they did n't learn their lesson this time they are beyond teaching . At home we have never found it necessary to mobilize an army76 ' T flint Rightfor a sport event , and even Huey himself , when he went on tour with his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was strictly retributive in the end . NAZI **29;4268;TOOLONG  --  Th1S is my first trip toGermany , and so , naturally , it was interesting to watch operations in the wooden press headquarters , or pesthouse , where the journalists from many lands compose their living human documents on the Olympic Games . The room was about fifty feet long and twenty wide , with three long worktables littered with mimeographed bulletins , tattered programs , old notes , spoiled paragraphsand a lot of portable typewriters . The writers spoke in many languages , so that at the rush hour the place sounded like the detention quarters at Ellis Island in the old days of unrestricted immigration . There was a bank of letter boxes at one end of the plant presided over by the Countess von Bernstorff , a slender blonde , who married the son of the man who was Germany 's ambassador in Washington up to the time the United States entered the big war . She speaks English and is interested in sculpture , but has been un-'T flint Right 77able to work up any enthusiasm for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ alp in ski boots and numerouslayers of woollies , covering the Arctic antics of the athletes . A few of the brothers wrote little items about groups which were sculptured from snow at two or three points along the main street , but the countess had a low regard for these works herself , and I am afraid she achieved a poor opinion of the aesthetic sense of the Fourth Estate . The countess participated in a curious little rumpus one evening as the crowd came stomping in from the men 's figure-skating competition and there sought their bulletins and some heat around the coal-burning stove . Dr Arthur Burkhardt , an American who is a professor at Harvard teaching German culture to the young , dropped into the room to compose a few deep thoughts for American publication and was denounced by a yellow-hairedyouth as an enemy of Germany . The young man told the countess that the other night at the hockey match , which Canada won from Germany , the professor had spoken of the German crowd as a mob . He thought the professor was a German @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or less put it up to the countess to do something about it , although he did n't say just what . The professor got sore and told the young man he would either have to prove his charge or defend himself in a suit for damages , and the stool pigeon then began to78 ' T Ai nt Righthedge , saying he had n't heard the professor 's remark himself but that his girl friend had . " Well , then , bring her in , " the professor said . The young man dragged in a not very toothsome wench in a flea-bitten leopard-skin coat , who said she had not only heard this good Herr Doktor Professor call the crowd a mob but refer to the people as lowbrowsand roughnecks as well . The countess was disposed to laugh it off as a matter of no importance , but the professor thought that if he did n't clear it up at once it might get worse later on . The man and the woman eased out the door to the crowd on the sidewalk , but the professor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It then developed that both squealers were German outlanders living in Czechoslovakia , who merely wanted to receive credit for turning in a traitor . That is all there was to that , and the Harvard professor came through the incident all right , but it was an interesting demonstration of the squeal , which makes life interestingin a country where a casual remark may assume the most solemn importance . The Nazis have been insisting that the Olympic Games are not in any sense a Nazi propaganda job . So naturally there was great embarrassment one afternoon when some journalists found in their letter boxes a mimeographed sheet announcing that Doktor Henlein , the leader of the Nazi sedition in Czechoslovakia , was'T " lint Right 79going to be present at the figure skating and that this would be a fine opportunity to obtain his picture and " make propaganda . " Paul Gallico found this sheet in his box and gave it to me as an interesting curio . About fifteen minutes later a Nazi official of the press bureau came up to ask if he could see the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said it was a very deplorable error and quite unauthorized . In view of frequent denials of any propaganda motive in connection with the games the little document was very distressing . Those who called for their mail later found no copies of the announcement among their stuff . The press bureau had gone through the letter boxes and lifted out all those which had n't escaped into circulation already . Later in the evening an official communique was issued explaining that the circular was distributed withoutauthorization , and disavowing it entirely . To be quite frank about it , they simply do n't know how to pipe down their propaganda . The night before the opening of the garnes the minister of propaganda got up and made a political speech for the press which praised the Nazi regime and bawled out the foreign correspondents for misrepresenting conditions in Germany . He did n't realize that he was saying anything wrong , and he probably was astonished and annoyed to discover later that his speech itself had been denounced as an example of the very thing he was trying to disavow. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ **30;4299;TOOLONG living human documentmay not amount to much if only because it is being composed in a slab-sided tower of Babel on a portable German typewriter . It is widely reported in Europe that the German factorieswhich produce the typewriters also manufacture machine guns , and there is a popular story of a stenographerwho sat down to type some letters but hit the trigger instead of the space bar and blew her employer full of holes . With two Japanese journalists sitting across the pine table at this writing , your correspondent is afraid his German typewriter might go off and cause an internationalincident at this demonstration of international goodwill . Up to this time , however , the German typewriterhas not shelled anyone , so your correspondent is beginning to gain confidence . It may be only a simple typewriter , after all , or maybe it just is n't loaded . The press room is a reminder of the one of the League of Nations at Geneva , for there are journalists here of many nations  --  including , of course , the Scandinavians  --  and most of them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political reporters from the'T Ai nt Right 8 1regular bureaus of the world press sent to Garmisch from Berlin , Rome and Paris to cover a series of events which contain possibilities as grim and warlike as the deliberations of any conference of diplomats for the purpose of limiting armaments or concluding treaties of peace . It was a pleasure , therefore , to find sitting down at the end of the pine table a few minutes ago Mr Paul Gallico , a professional sports writer from New York  --  an odd bird , indeed , among so many colleagues of more serious occupations , but stranger still because he is a sports writer who often performs in the sport which he undertakesto cover . Consistent with this policy , Mr Gallico recently took a course of instruction in skiing in an indoor school on a slide covered with epsom salts in lieu of snow , and when he arrived in Garmisch he elected the highest Alp in the neighborhood and slipped downhill . He dashed through the air with the greatest of ease and landed in a river in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ undoubtedlywould have established a new world record , for his hop was more like a parachute leap without the parachute than a ski run . Mr Gallico 's daring jump has been the subject of much admiring comment by the hardy Norsemen from the Scandinavian countries , who are experts in this sport , but our hero has confessed to your correspondent that he did not mean to come down the mountain . In82 ' T dint Rightfact , Mr Gallico fell off the Alp , and is one of the few men who have done this and survived . He was standing at the top , impressed by the view , , when his skis slipped and he dashed away . Skis are not equipped with brakes , and the American journalist , beingunable to arrest his descent , spread his wings and took off into space . Like the humble South Bend , Ind. , streetcar motormanwho tapped a drunken passenger over the head with his control handle and knocked him cold , to discover that he had knocked out John L. Sullivan , Mr Gallico is now in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ citizen , afraid of strife , who struck the bellicose stranger only in desperation , but now he was famous through South Bend , Ind. , which contains many tough guys , and all the tough guys in South Bend began to look up and swing punches at him so that they could have the honor of licking the man who knocked out John L. Sullivan . Soon be was forced to leave town and change his name , and that may be Mr Gallico 's fate here , because all the hardy Norsemen are issuing challenges to him to jump off higher and steeper Alps . Our hero , however , is standing on his one achievementand is cabling to Saks , Fifth Avenue , the New York department store in which he studied skiing on Mount Epsom , the indoor Alp , to demand his varsity letter . ' T . , 4int Right 83His worst fear now is that the American coach will tap him on the shoulder and deliver the terrible news that he has made the team , all because he fell off an Alp . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after all , but a very ingenious mechanism nevertheless , for , behold , it has just laid an egg . **29;4331;TOOLONG  --  It iS going to be prettyhard to do this , but right is right , as President Harding said , and I feel that I have done the Nazis a serious injustice , so this is my apology . Two days ago these dispatches reported that the quaint little Bavarian town of Garmisch-Partenkirchen has the appearance of an army headquarters a few miles behind the Western Front during an important troop movement . That was wrong , and I can only plead that I was honestly mistaken and the victim of my own ignorance . Those were n't troops at all , but merely peace-loving German workmen in their native dress , and those were n't army lorries which went growling through the streets squirting the slush onto the sidewalks , but delivery84 ' T dint Rightwagons carrying beer and wieners and kraut to the humble homes of the mountaineers in the folds of the hills . It is a relief to know this and a pleasure to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Germans did not conduct their Winter Olympics in an atmosphere of war , which would have been very injurious to the Olympic ideal of peace through sporting competition . My information comes from a kindly Bavarian cobblerin a long black overcoat who was standing in a cordon of cobblers along the main street Sunday afternoonduring Adolf Hitler 's visit to town to pronounce over the closing ceremonies the benison of a great protectorof the world 's peace . " Are you a soldier ? " I inquired , for I had been told that in Germany strangers often mistake for soldiers people who have nothing to do with the military establishment . " Who , me ? " he asked . " No , I 'm a cobbler . All of us in the black costume are cobblers . " " Then why do you dress in military uniform ? " I persisted . " That 's where you are wrong , " said my cobbler friend . " This is n't a military uniform . It 's a shoemaker'suniform , and this big toad stabber in the scabbardat my side @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is merely a little knife which we use when we cobble . " " But , " I asked , " why do you march in military formation through the scenes of international friend-'T ' lint Right 85ship ? " The answer was that they do n't really march at all . They just walk in step in columns of fours , becausethey like to walk that way . And it is an old custom of theirs to form cordons of military appearance along the curbs and just stand there by the hour for pleasure . " But what about those other troops in the brown uniforms ? " " Troops ? " said my friend . " Those are not troops . Those are gardeners who have always worn brown suits , which seem to be military but are n't . Just peace loving gardeners is what they are , and those blades which you see hanging from their belts are not bayonets , either , but pruning knives . It is an old Bavarian tradition . " They too like to go for long walks in columns of fours @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rifles , but they are not soldiers , I assure you , my friend . They are just kind-hearted gardeners who would n't hurt a potato bug . It is interesting to see them stack spades when they come to the end of a stroll in columns of fours . To some people unacquainted with our local customs they may seem to be performing a military drill with their spades , but nothing could be further from the truth . Thus far two of my military corps had been explained away as harmless and altogetherpeaceful workmen , but I thought I had him when I mentioned the men in the gray uniforms , also86 ' T Mint Rightwith scabbards at their sides , who seemed to be regular infantry . He laughed uproariously at this . " Oh , those ! " he said . " Those are n't infantry . How could you make that mistake ? Those are plasterers , and the tin hats which you undoubtedly mistook for shrapnelhelmets are an ancient tradition of Bavarian plasterers . Sometimes the plaster falls down , and it would knock them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ something for protection . Wait till I tell the foreman of the plasterers -- I suppose you have been calling him the general  --  that you mistook his boys for soldiers . He will laugh himself dizzy . " Still , there were other men all dressed alike in bluegray , with wings embroidered on their clothing . Undoubtedlythose would be soldiers of the aviation branch , would n't they ? But my friend the peace-loving cobbler in the black suit , which looked very military but was n't , enjoyed another pleasant hysteric over that one too . Those , he said , were Bavarian white wings in native dress . It is not easy to be proven wrong in a serious matter . I had seen as many as five thousand , perhaps even ten thousand , men in apparel which seemed to be that of soldiers , and had recklessly accused the peace-loving Nazi regime of converting the Winter Olympics into a military demonstration , which would have been a grave breach of manners . My troops had been explained into gentle civilians , and the marching to which I had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a habitual method of going for nice long walks . The motor trucks still seemed questionable , however , for they were painted in camouflage like the lorries used in the war . " Yes , I know , " my friend the cobbler explained , " but we have painted our motor trucks in eccentric designs and colors for hundreds of years . It makes them look nicer . " A foreman of the cobblers came by at the moment , and my friend put his hand to his cap in a gesture which resembled a military salute . I asked him about this , but he said he was only shading his eyes . The Nazi press bureau released a quotation from a dispatch to the New York Times intimating that anyone reporting the presence of troops at the Olympic Games was a liar . I guess that 's me , but the mistake was natural , as you can see . When thousands of men seem to march but do n't in clothing and tin hats which seem to be military uniforms but are n't , and carry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , any stranger is likely to make the same mistake. 88 ' T flint Right AMERICAN MUSSOLINIPARIS-Within a few months I have seen three dictatorshipsin operation , and the experience confirms my beliefthat the death of Huey Long removed a serious menace to the liberty of the United States . This may sound high-powered , but I have been seeing some grim demonstrations of the condition which we narrowly escaped . It is alarming to realize that a majority of the people of Louisiana regarded Huey as their friend , and were not only willing but eager to sign over their citizenshipto him . That was not so shocking when it happened in Italy , Germany and Austria , because those people had always lived under the authority of kings and armies . But the citizenship of the American was supposed to be a possessionworth fighting for . Huey himself denied that he had dictatorial ambitions , insisting , on the contrary , that he was the protector of the common man , and I do not deny that he liked poor people better than businessmen and the rich , although @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Hitler both say the same thing , and , like Huey , they proceed on the theory that the common man is too dumb to know what is best for him . ' T flint Right 89By trick and stratagem Huey Long had abolished the Legislature in Louisiana , and the two houses which were jumping through hoops for him at the time of his death were just as farcical as the so-called legislative bodies which answer the commands of the dictators in Rome and Berlin . Elections in Louisiana also had been reduced to absurdityby the application of various laws which Huey had enacted , particularly the law permitting him to engageunlimited numbers of poll inspectors at $5.00 each to protect the purity of the ballot . Huey himself snickered as he pronounced the words " purity of the ballot " in explaining the purpose of this bill to the committee in Baton Rouge . For his Legislature knew that it really granted him the power to buy votes at $5.00 each , sufficient to control the result in any doubtful precinct and charge the cost to the public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a terroristorganization under the authority of the State Departmentof Criminal Investigation , with no limit on the number of operatives or the amount to be spent meeting the pay roll . He already had the courts and the lawyers under control , and the Department of Criminal Investigation , if it had reached its full development , would have been a terrible force . In Germany the Brown Shirts have now been supersededby the army and have lost most of their old90 ' T " lint Rightpower , but they were a bad lot when they were running wild . They could drag a man out of his bed at night and put him away in a concentration camp without the merest pretense of a trial . And often when a Brown Shirt happened to owe money to the prisoner , the accusedwas executed for treason or shot in the back while attempting to escape . It was the same in Italy in the early years of Fascism , and it would have been the same in our country under Huey Long if he had lived and enjoyed a few more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ alarminglyup to the day of his death . Another characteristic which Huey shared with Il Duce and Der Fuehrer was his cruelty toward people who would n't quit to him . He enjoyed seeing unarmed men beaten by his armed guards . He enjoyed feeling that a machine gun was mounted at his hotel in Baton Rouge , ready to pour it into anyone who opposed him . And if he had lived to develop his dictatorship he would not have hesitated to fire on the common man . For Huey had the heart and soul of a demagogue and dictator , and his closest associates in the development of his power were men of the same brutal type as Goebbels , Streicher , Roehm and the rest of Hitler 's handy men . Huey used to boast of the mileage of paved roads and the bridges which he had built and of the grandeur of his'T 1int Right 9Istate capitol and the buildings of the state university . But Mussolini and Hitler also boast of their roads and bridges , railroad stations and model tenements . But the state capitol @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the university , like Heidelberg and Munich , was no longer free . Huey lynched freedom in the university when he kicked out of school half a dozen students of journalism for criticizing him in print , and his university president was a promising candidate for the office of director of education under the national dictatorship . He also had a clergyman lined up for the job of national bishop , and his system of persecuting his opponents by raising their taxes was a method of confiscation adjusted to the early stage of an elastic plan . He refused to permit any inspectionof the public treasury accounts , and his appeal to enthusiasm in public appearance was as magneticas Mussolini 's or Hitler 's , with the additional menace of good-natured hilarity . He could make the suckers laugh . There is no denying that he was a good fighter ; all dictators are . But Huey was stealing the freedom of the very people he claimed to love , and he might have had them completely at his mercy in four years more . Probably his method was impulsive rather than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had made slaves of the Italians and Germans . It is no laughing matter that such a man with such a plan was92 ' T " lint Righthell bent for national power when mere chance cut him down . ALL ABOUT FRENCII POLITICSPARIS-It is impossible to understand the moves in French politics without first memorizing the names of the parties and the principles for which they stand . This being done , the rest is easy . The old Left Wing is not actually Left nowadays but is situated to the right of the Center . This phenomenon is explained by the fact that several additional Left Wings have been added to the political line-up since the original Left Wing was established . The furthermost Left Wing at the present writing is not known as the Left Wing , because the members of this group do not wish to be confused with the old , original Left , which todayis Left in name only . Therefore , the actual Leftist group of the moment prefers to call itself the Right merely to escape the odium attaching to the term " Left @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hand , has been compelled to yield the wing position to a radical conservative group calling itself the Moderate Extremists , and has shifted over to a place roughly correspondingto left tackle . The French Center , by the same process , has aban-'T flint Right 93doned its position in the middle and , with the introductionof the new , open game has become a roving center with leanings toward the principles of that growing element of malcontents who advocate the restoration of the king on a straight Communist platform . This group , in turn , is divided into three elements  --  A , B and Z. The Z group selected that letter to show how widely it disagrees with groups A and B. These elements demand , respectively , the devaluation of the franc , the nondevaluationof the franc , and a compromise policy of letting the franc alone awhile for God 's sake . Although not in general agreement , this party may be said to hold the balance of power in the Chamber because the Premier , a hidebound anarchist of the most reactionarytype , is firmly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ influential **25;4362;TOOLONG for support . From this brief summary it will be seen that France has adopted the double wing back and the unbalanced line , employing the shift on defense especially for Left field hitters . The reverse is also true , but on the other hand the Labor party , composed of rich industrialists and the survivors of the old aristocracy , often is found in the center , which is neither here nor there . The Labor party was organized by a group of **26;4389;TOOLONG Anarchists on a straight pieceworkbasis of so many francs per head . These organizers recruited three hundred thousand members to their rolls94 ' T flint Rightand delivered the party , whole , to a group of capitalists in the munitions and automobile industries for a price roughly estimated at three hundred thousand francs . They also built up a thriving Anarchist newspaper with a blackmail department second to none , and the envy of all the other journals in Paris . This too was sold to the capitalists as a going concern to serve as a mouthpiece for their principles . The same @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ party under contract with an ambitious group of Atheists . It will be known as the Religious Alliance . This may sound paradoxical , but in French politics the first principle is to control your opposition press . And the best way to control it is to own it yourself . Thus , the Atheists are also launching a daily paper to be known as Hooray for Religion , to be conducted as an organ of atheistic propaganda . Every party has its own newspaper , and there are about a hundred papers in Paris . But , like the political parties , most of them have names which are misleading , for reasons which I have explained . Labor is divided into many blocs , all of them opposed to the Labor party and all adhering to the Anti-Labor party , the official organization of the workingman . Owingto the fluctuation in the exchange and economic conditionswithin France it is impossible to lay down a fixed scale of prices for politicians at the present time . With the franc quoted at fourteen for a dollar , the quotationfor a political @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ asked , 65,000 bid , closing at 70,7502 . Deputies are 500 francs each in lots of a dozen . ExtremeSocialists have been pegged at the nominal price of i franc , with no demand . Patriotic publicity is a matter of individual bargaining . A Communist article may be inserted on page one of a Royalist publication , one column deep , outside column , for 500 francs to the owner , plus ten per cent to the editor . A Pacifist organ will print a eulogy to a machine gun manufacturer in the same position for Io francs per thousand of circulation , plus the usual commission to the copy desk . Clip this outline of the French political situation and put it away . The next time they have a crisis or creeze in the Chamber of Deputies , followed , perhaps , by shooting in the Place de la Concorde , it will give you a perfect understanding of the dispute . FACTS OF LIFEPARIS-It gives me pain to have to throw ashes on anybody 's slide , but I have been observing the contrast between romance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ believe it is no more than fair to expose the facts of life to the young : eporters at96 ' T flint Righthome who may look with envy on the lucky corps of oversea correspondents . It is a shocking experience to a young and tender soul to come abroad on a big , fat steamboat , spending a week 's time and six months ' savings in the bar in the company of buyers , promoters and scions of rich Americanfamilies , to land in the strict routine of office drudgery in a foreign country . Reality sets in the minute the boat makes fast to the dock in Europe , and this reality consists not only of monotonous toil , probably at night , but of close economyas well , for the American dollar is down nowadays , and there are n't many dollars in the envelope anyway . Once ashore our hero discovers that he does not belong to the class of gaudy , itinerant Americans who are always passing through town with money to spend on duck dinners and wine and suites at the George Cinq , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ smoke his wonted brand of twelve-cent American gaspersbecause they cost anywhere from sixty cents to a dollar abroad . He may have owned a car of some kind when he was home , but that would be a fantastic luxury in his new condition , and it does not take him long to learn that he ca n't afford to belong to the so-called American colony . More often than not this is a break for him , however , because the average American colony in a foreign capitalis dominated by a curious type of pest , male and'T flint Right 97female , who undertake to interpret to their foreign friends a land which they have shunned for many years and who blush for other Americans as being too American . The American colony will contain businessmen whose interests require them to get up at hands-across-the-sea luncheons and blab that they have two countries ; elderly females living on insurance or alimony and devotingthemselves to good works with fiendish determination ; and more or less liberally endowed inebriates of both sexes who would be common rum pots and bores on their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has worse problems than his exclusion from the intimate circles of the American colony whereverhe happens to find himself , the most immediate being that of adjusting his illusions and his budget to the facts . He will discover that his day off is just a humorous figure of speech . There was a time after the war when the American newspaper service abroad was highly enchanting , and that era produced some spectacular bon vivants , who have now vanished from the scene , however , leaving the field to working types whose existence is neither picturesquenor even pleasant . The picture of Europe today as presented to American readers is not observed in the back-bar mirror of a saloon or through the bottom of a glass , and the scene in a bureau is merely that of young reporters and desk98 ' T flint Rightmen doing their job a good deal the same as similar tasks are done at the other end of the cable . Of course there must be stars who can bounce nimbly around from Geneva to Paris , to the Rhine , to London and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , whether conferences , revolution or mobilization , are treated nowadays more as tasks than adventures , and the stuff goes through as news . This is not to deny that some of the daredevil journalistsof what might be called the camel corps phase of foreign correspondence had experiences thoroughly worth the telling . But very often such adventures take more time and money than they are worth as news , and the tendency now is to tell who , what , when , where and why , and save the safari stories for the book . The perils to which Mr Vincent Sheean exposed himselfacquiring material for his book , Personal History , were most interesting , but , after all , the Chicago Tribune , which paid his salary and expenses , was kicking out newspapers every morning , and there was a long , long time between Mr Sheean 's living human documents while he was alone with his thoughts in Morocco on the way to interview Abdul Krim . And even then it was necessary to explain who Abdul Krim was and what he was sore about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seems to have snapped a string in Mr Sheean 's soul , for he renounced journalism forever in his book . ' T dint Right 99I hope I have n't snapped any string in the souls of students of journalism at home , but it might spare them disenchantment to warn them that by and large the foreign service is only Toledo in Paris , London or Rome . PARIS HAS A HANGOVERPARIS  --  Those Americans who had their fling in the gaudy days and nights before the great collapse will have a melancholy experience if they come back to visit Paris now . Given time , no doubt the old girl will have her face lifted and her neck washed , but for the present she is suffering from the most colossal hangover the world has ever known and is n't quite looking herself . To put it as delicately as possible , the old girl looks like the wrath and undoubtedly feels worse . Well , it was a wild party , and it had to break up sometime , and anyone who did n't have a good time is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the streets and sidewalks are dirty in startling contrast to the sanitary spotlessness of Mussolini 's Rome , and many fine old stores occupied by dealers in trash . It is n't merely that peddlers and shanties litter the broad sidewalks of certain avenues or that so many upper floors are shuttered and vacant . The closing of the Claridge Hotel contributes somethingzoo ' T flint Rightof an air of illness and age , and the sight of Ciro 's dark , barred , soiled and abandoned is only a painful reminder of the nights when Ciro 's was bright , noisy , luxurious and expensive . Across the narrow Rue Daunou a feeble electric sign beckons stray veterans of the greatest debauch in all history to drop in and shed a tear at Harry 's New York Bar , which for a long time was practically the home addressof hundreds of refugees from the noble experiment . They have amnesty at home under Repeal and the tourist trade has dwindled . Harry 's Bar is the old headquarters of the InternationalOrder of Bar Flies , whose roster holds within @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ famous Americans who came to town in the days of the threecentfranc and tried to attend to their drinking a year in advance in their first few days ashore . The Bar Flies had a little lapel insignia , a password and a highsign . The insignia was a fly on a piece of sugar , the password " Buzz buzz " and the highsign a crooking of the elbow and hoisting of the forearm . Thousands of brothers went through the rite of payingten francs to Harry by way of an initiation fee and writing their names in the book , and there was a time when the order had members in all corners of the world . Harry , who is not an American but a Scot , is not known yet to have blackballed an applicant with ten francs . There is no possible way of checking up , but it ca n't dint Right ioido no harm to wonder what luck they are having , all the gentlemen and ladies of many nations , many of them quite young and handsome , who made Harry 's New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ certain proportiondefinitely have died . Some have made a career of drinking . But most of them were merely being mischievousfor a while , and dropped out when their time and money expired , making room for new members . Like a crowd at an accident , they were constantly arrivingand leaving , yet always seemed the same . The New York Bar is frequented by many ghosts . The American pennants on the walls , a mail-order assortmentincluding Smith and Vassar , are faded and dusty . The photographs of old prize fighters who were up in the money and full of youth and strength ten years ago are turning brown around the edges , and the gladiatorsthemselves have been quietly buried in the record books . The old saloon smells of dead cigars , beer and the past , and three South Americans , drinking vermouth , constituted the attendance at the moment of your **25;4417;TOOLONG . The Champs Elysees  --  beautiful , elegant and Parisian once  --  is masked with a chain of noisy restaurants done in red imitation leather and polished nickel , and shops which once @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the old-fashioned permanent fire sale in Chicago. 102 ' T dint RightThe Rue de la Paix offers imitation and real jewelry in equal quantities , but shops which handle the big sapphiresand emeralds can do enough business with one customer to offset thousands at the bargain counter next door . There is always a rich American or Egyptian or Persian turning up in the nick of time to buy a pound of diamonds for a new tart and thereby stand off the landlord for a few months more . But it is a close contest , and the Rue de la Paix is losing its old character inch by inch . At the moment Paris does not seem to be making an effort to snap out of it , but every veteran of the big , long party will remember mornings when he felt shaky and make allowances for the old girl . She lies there with moist clammy brow , afraid to stir until the coroner comes to view the body . But one of these days she will wiggle one foot to see if it is alive , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and start calling up old friends . A game , durable old girl is Paris , not unlike the spectacularAmerican lady of great age and wealth whose fifth husband hauled off and died one day . A few weeks later she met a friend and reported that she was sailing for New York . " For good ? " " Oh , dear , no , " the old girl said , " just to bury the body and see a few shows . " ' T Ai nt Right 103 SUFFER LITTLE CHILDRENPRAGUE , CZECHOSLOVAKIA  --  The most pathetic victims of Adolf Hitler 's slow massacre of the Jews in Germanyare the children of the Jews who are too young to know what it is all about . These children are subjected to a method of torture far worse than the baby killing which was charged against the German infantry in the early days of the Great War in cartoons depictinglittle bodies wriggling on the bayonets of the marching armies . It finally was shown that the German soldier , Michael , as he was called at home , was the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the waifs behind the Belgian lines , and reasonable people on the Allies ' side of the fight ultimately admitted that the charge was false . But it will be impossible ever to disprove the atrocities which are being perpetrated on the children of the Jews under the orders of Adolf Hitler as a policy of the German government of today . The Chinese have a method of torture known as the death of a thousand cuts , in which the executioner is rated according to his ability to hack and mutilate the victim without permitting him to die until the maxi-104 ' T dint Rightmum of suffering has been inflicted . They have a very good photograph of an execution by this method in the Chamber of Horrors in Madam Tussaud 's Museum in London , but most people coming upon it unsuspectinglyturn away revolted , and only the most morbid visitors linger for a second glance . Hitler 's torture of the Jewish children is even more ingenious , however , for he has invented a way to convertthe period of childhood into a term of unrelieved sorrow , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the civilized peoples of the world that any man who would inflict suffering on a child , wantonlyor for the purpose of avenging some offense , real or imaginary , attributed to the child 's parents , or for any other reason , is not quite right mentally and ought to be put away . We had a case of that kind in New York . An old man tortured and killed a little girl for the pleasure it gave him , and public opinion pretty well agreed that he was insane . But even in that case the suffering of the little girl was of short duration . Then she was dead . Hitler 's little victims , however , are not allowed to die . They have no such luck . Hitler keeps them alive , and they suffer day after horrible day at the hands of a nation which constantly boasts of its honor and manhood , as a matter of national policy . The German child who is a Jew is compelled to listen to the most unspeakable vilification of his par-'T dint Right 105ents , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the billboards will inform him that he is not a human being , like other children , but a beast whose parents were not human beings , either , but loathsome animals . If the child lives in a country town where there are not sufficient Jewish children to warrant the establishmentof a ghetto school in which to segregate little Jews , then the torture of the victim is even more artistic . In that case the child may be compelled to sit in the classroom and pay attention while the teacher explains that little Isadore or Rosie is a vile creature , a species of vermin and a menace to the German nation . If the teacher so desires , the Jewish child may be dismissed from the room during the lecture , in which case the Aryan children , with the characteristic cruelty of children plus the sadistic delight in the infliction of pain which is now being fosteredin young Nazis , will catch the young Jew after class and tell Isadore or Rosie what the teacher said . If the radio is turned on in the home of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Berlin or Munich explaining that their parents are beasts and that they are little beasts themselves . A lone Jewish child in a small community must play alone , for the true Nazi children , of course , will not admit him to their company , and a Gentile child with106 ' T " lint Rightpity in his heart would be afraid to offer the victim any sympathy . He would be ostracized . And then , of course , it is fair sport for the Nazi children to kick and beat and throw rocks at the little Jews , because that is preliminary training for one of the highest functions of Nazi citizenship and manhood in days to come . All children have a trusting attitude toward grown people , and a harsh word may leave an ineffaceable scar on the soul of the young one . The souls of the children of the Jews in Germany will be cross-hacked with a thousand cuts , for they will never know anything in childhood but insults to themselves and the foulest aspersions on the only adults to whom they can turn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is absolutely certain that their childhood , the few hours of innocence which are given to all of us and which civilized people try to invest with beauty and joy , has been destroyed by a man with a mustache , adopted from the makeup of a famous comedian , who has been seriously nominated by some of his followers not for king , not merely for ruler , but for God the Redeemer of the German race . It would be a mistake to call him a baby-killer . You ca n't torture a dead child . ' T 4int Right 107 DICKSGENEVA  --  Among the more substantial evidences of peace which are to be seen in Geneva is a collection of the most ponderous , oxlike , flatfoot fly cops that it would be possible to assemble if you were to comb all the police departments of all the world . In fact , it was only by combing the police departmentsof the world that the Geneva collection was assembled . They come from Russia and Scotland Yard , Rumania , Italy and Czechoslovakia , among other lands , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lobbies of the de luxe hotels or lurk at servants ' entrances waiting for assassins to appear and bomb or shoot such princes of peace as Signor Aloisi of Italy , Anthony Eden of Great Britain , Benes of Czechoslovakia , the Aga Khan of India , familiarly known to the irreverent press as the Gaga Khan , or the astonishing Mr Titulescu , the Foreign Minister of Rumania . It would be difficult to describe Mr Titulescu with any less excited word than astonishing , for though he is a man of about fifty years , all vigorous , vivacious and graceful , he has an extraordinarily pink skin and smooth complexion , and does not have to shave . Mr Titulescu is one of the most adroit and slippery108 ' T dint Rightprinces of peace in the game , and everyone pays him the compliment of suspecting his motives in everything he does and says , than which no higher recognition could be desired by any prince of peace . And any man with barbed-wire beard regarding the slightly puckered but otherwise fair countenance of Rumania 's foreign minister @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foot , and mindful of the daily torture of lathering and scraping , must envy Mr Titulescu . Mr. Titulescu and his suite of secretaries , clerks and Rumanian fly cops make their headquarters at the Hotel des Bergues , one of the really de luxe hotels on the shores of Lake Geneva . And when Mr Laval , of France , is present with his Parisian fly cops , and the Poles and Italians are present with theirs , the Hotel des Bergues bears an interesting resemblance to the back room of an old-time Chicago police station in the days of Mr Dooley . Mr Eden 's hotel is the Beau Rivage , also on the lake shore and even more de luxe than the Hotel des Bergues . There Mr Benes also pursues the elusive phantom of peace , backed by the usual complement of howitzers , machine guns and tanks . There too the fabulously rich and corpulent and rather drowsy Indian potentate and god , the Aga or Gaga Khan , makes his headquarters . It is indisputable that this luxurious creature , like Father Divine , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ creature by his followers , but the rather'T dint Right 109widespread belief that his bath water is bottled and sold to the faithful is something which your correspondenthas been unable to confirm . A waiter at the Beau Rivage reports that the Aga or Gaga Khan simply reaches down and pulls the plug , even as mortal men , to let his bath water flow down the drain , and a vigilantwatch back of the door has failed to disclose any export trade in sacramental bath water through that avenue . Mr Eden 's party often amounts to twenty-five or thirty , including two or three Scotland Yard fly cops , and the Indian god 's personal suite also includes detectives , who not only scrutinize visitors entering all doors but stand watches in the halls on his floor . It will readily be understood from this and from a mere citing of the fact that a single room in a non-de luxe hotel in Geneva costs $5.00 a day that the precious boon of peace , like the curse of war , is no slight burden on taxpayers . Possibly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a luxury which poor nations can scarcely afford . It is your correspondent 's honor at this writing to be quartered in two rooms in the somewhat less de luxe but not exactly squalid Hotel Richemond , which have often been occupied by Maxim Litvinov , the Russian foreign minister . Mr Litvinov did not attend the current fight over peace , but sent , instead , Mr Potemkin , the Soviet ambassador to Paris , whose hair , zzo ' T flint Rightrather appropriately , is red . Mr Litvinov ordinarily requires a suite of five rooms , whose carpets , hangings and bedspreads are red . Mr Potemkin , as befits his inferiorposition in a dictatorship of the proletariat which abolished rank , occupies more modest quarters and has fewer fly cops , but fly cops , nevertheless , who are downstairs this moment casting dull , dumb glances at all who enter Hotel Richemond . There are fourteen Swiss fly cops detailed to the Richemond standing watches around the clock , and when the League is engaged in a real fight over peace it is necessary to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to augment the polyglot fly cops of the world . One virtue of all these fly cops is that nobody would ever mistake them for anything but flatfoot fly cops . Consequently nobody ever starts anything . So they sit and sit , dull , dumb and ponderous , and eat at the expense of their countrymen , waiting for the emergencywhen , like Huey Long 's celebrated thugmen , as he called them , they will be too late on the draw . NO BED OF ROSESBARCELONA-Taking one consideration with another , it is my conclusion that the job which ex-King Alfonso'T flint Right iiiabdicated when the revolution broke was almost all headache and very little fun . He was head man of a declining country , and it seemed that nothing could be done to check the steady descent of a once mighty nation . Britain had grabbed Gibraltar , the Americans had chased Spain out of the Caribbean and the Pacific , his people were poor , his politicians clamorous , incompetentand uneasy , and his generals either horribly dumb or terribly unlucky . It had come to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war any more , and this in spite of the fact that everybody who fought his troops would say after licking them that they were good , game boys but overmatched or out of shape . They died magnificently on various fields , and , though there is a certain satisfaction in the tributes of victorious foes , the fact remains that in war the object is not to die magnificently , but to leave that honor to the opposing team . In the dejection of soul produced by painful beatings in war and by the steady decline of Spain in the eyes of her old inferiors in the world , the people fell to growling , and the king , as general manager , so to speak , was held responsible . Moreover , knowing of the jewelry he had in store and the splendor in which he lived on money which they were compelled to provide , they developed a fierce personal resentment against him , although the fact of the matter was that he did n't eat112 ' T Ai nt Rightmuch , drank little , and was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he blew on the dice or rubbed them on his pants , all he could throw was acey deuce . Spain is not a large country , and , although there is plenty of room in which to chase the stag , Alfonso 's favorite sport , there came a time when he knew every yard of it as well as his tongue knew the inside of his mouth . For a change of pace he could put on a soft hat and sneak off to Paris for a week end , but he had a trade-mark face and was recognized wherever he went . So the upshot of these attempts to get away from it all was more resentment . People who could n't afford to teach their children to read , because then they would demand books and newspapers on which to exercise this remarkable talent , thought of the king lolling around the gilded haunts of pleasure in a foreign city , eating hods of caviar and pouring champagne over his oatmeal at their expense . To a degree this was true , but the cost of these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a losing business . Much worse than the cost was the bad publicity which his pleasures gave him with the people , whose idea of a wonderful time was a ropy shred of boiled billygoat washed down by a crock of grade B wine . Alfonso 's children were growing up none too robust , and , judging by the actions of the whole family since'T flint Right 113they moved out of Spain , the dew was off the rose in his love bower in Madrid . Yet , as the monarch of a Roman Catholic country , he had to set an example of family solidarity , patience and fidelity , whereas Carol of Rumania and George of Greece , who has returned to a kingdom which is distinctly minor league , were able to write their own divorcing papers , each divorcing the other 's sister , incidentally . Alfonso , being king , could not go down to the pool hall of an evening and fan things over with anyone who happened to be there , but was socially restricted to a royal and noble circle and a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the same people so many years , knowing all their jokes and woes by heart , and hemmed in by convention and the boundaries of a country which does n't provide much range for a restless man , the king undoubtedly had moments when he thought of his mad money , planted in Paris or London or wherever it was that he was sending his savings against the day he might wish to resign . But he was game and hung on , doing the best he could , not neglecting , of course , to take his profits from time to time . There were periods when he knew that individuals among his subjects were squinting through their sights ready to shoot him if the chance presented , but his physical courage never failed him . I am not contending that the king was justified in taking too much salary for himself and his family , andII4 ' T Ai nt Rightplanting huge sums of money in foreign countries , but merely that the job of king in a second-rate nation involves more worry , tradition , tinsel and boredom @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's job left in the world , anyway , that being in England , where the people know how to make the king feel good and do n't load him down with a responsibility which turns to personal blame when things go wrong . George of Greece is welcome to his kingdom . His palace probably has drafts , and when they fail to do better the Greeks will blame the king again . And he not even a Greek himself but just a descendant of a foreigner who was hired for the job . FRANCE IN ONE EASY LESSONLONDON  --  After a quiet study of the rules and tools of civilized table warfare your correspondent has decided that the French combine the greatest simplicity with the best results . The object of the game when a man sits down to the table is to put food into his physique , but certain refinements have been introduced since the days when people tore meat with their hands , and the problem is to conduct the sport with a minimum of ritual'T A int Right I I 5and form but without putting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the old Scotch golfer , endeavors to do what there is to be done without superfluous weapons or fancy gestures . He sits down , ties his napkinbehind his ears , picks up a knife and fork and goes to work with admirable directness . He dunks his bread in the juice of the snail , he chases fragments of steak and gravy with a piece of crust , he licks his fingers , says " Ah ! " and gets fed . He is far too sensible ever to permit a desirable morsel to be carried back to the kitchen out of slavish respect for an arbitrary rule devised by somebody over in England whose idea of etiquette decreed that a man at the table should never appear to be hungry . If it is too small or too liquid to be played with a fork he will not hesitate to use his knife for a squeegee and wipe the knife on the bread . That would be comparable to using a putter to play a ball out of a bunker , but the object of golf is to run @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his dinner knows only that he too wants to achieve the same objective with his groceries . It is by no means a sordid spectacle . On the contrary , the Frenchman 's enjoyment and the simple skill of his game give your correspondent moments of admiration . He does not require a special niblick to blast the peas out of the mashed potatoes or a tweezer to overcome asparagus. 1 16 ' T A int RightIf a slice of mushroom reposes in a difficult downhill lie on the rim of the plate he does n't ignore it , as the American or Englishman would , but goes after it and gets it even if he has to play three strokes off the tablecloth , which some of us would consider to be out of bounds . His tools are fewer , but he gets everything out of them , and he never picks up , so to speak , rather than try a difficult shot . The affectation of Americans at table is notorious , and they hamper themselves by local artificial rules having no basis in common sense . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chicken or lobster , they avoid the gravy as though it were poison , and the last spoonful of soup always goes back to the kitchen because somebody once made a law that tipping the plate is comparable to teeing up on the fairway . The Englishman 's kit is even more complicated than ours , resembling in the same analogy the sort of bag with which a Sarazen or a Hagen bends the back of a caddy in an open championship . He ca n't eat berries or a dab of custard without fork and spoon , a trick which spatters dessert all over the ceiling when Americanstry it , and his rules say it is proper to load the back of the fork with meat and potatoes all the way up to his wrist . The American , on the contrary , considers that it is bad form to pack food on the hump of the fork , and , consequently , when they meet at table each regards'T A int Right 117the other as not much better than a cannibal , thus causing strained relations . In Italy your @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of spaghetti and finally settled upon the Roman twirl as being the most convenient . Although the Genoese call it vulgar and the people of Milan abominate the Genoese method , the Romans spear a forkful of oily , steaming strands , jab the prongs of the fork into the bowl of a soup spoon and twirl vigorously . The spaghetti quickly winds around the fork like yarn on the spindle of a spinning wheel and is then jammed into the countenance before it can recoil . The Genoese shun the spoon as an unethical implement , contending that any true Italian should be able to twirl his spaghetti in mid-air without artificial support ; but the Milanese stab down through the mass and twirl against the bottom of the plate . So there are three distinct schools , each claiming to be right and regarding the others as enemies of Italy . But , fortunately , in Italy there are no other problems of the kind which complicate life elsewhere , because after an Italian has had his spaghetti course he merely has some more spaghetti . Those French , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , they take food as it comes without false restrictions on style or stance , and they make their victuals holler " Uncle ! " 118 ' T Ai nt Right THE SPARROWPARIS-Sparrow Robertson still walks his old beat in Paris , but the old beat is weakening fast , whereas the Sparrow , at seventy-two , is as fresh as the day he started , seventeen years ago . He always was an enduranceman . Back in the eighties in New York , SparrowRobertson was one of the greatest amateur track athletes . You are supposed to smile slightly when you say the word " amateur " in connection with the old Sparrow 's athletic career , for it was customary in that era for a promoter to give each of the star amateurs on his programa handsome gold-plated watch case containing a sum of money . This might be as little as a ten-dollar bill or as much as a hundred-dollar bill , according to circumstances . Now and again some thoroughly unscrupulous promoterwould double-cross an amateur athlete , giving him a watch case which did not contain a sum @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gadgets known as the works . Conscientious philologists report that this was the origin of the phrase " He gave him the works , " but that is all beside the point . The Sparrow was a distance runner , a durable , go-'T flint Right 119as-you-please man when old Madison Square Garden was accumulating not only its unforgettable goat 's nest aroma but its glamorous history . There were oyster-eating and coffee-drinking tournaments , woodchoppingand nail-driving marathons , cakewalk contests to a finish , and go-as-you-please races ranging in durationfrom one week to a month . The Sparrow won a go-as-you-please footrace of one week when he was ten pounds lighter than an ounce of feathers and so little that bartenders would n't sell him beer . He is n't much bigger now , and it is feared he has stunted his growth . It is a serious ethical problem to me whether to exposethe manner in which the Sparrow came to France in 1918 . But duty is duty , so it must be recorded that the Sparrow was in the Y.M.C.A. in the war . Both he and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ saloon in Joplin , Mo. , and the last saloon this side of the Gulf of Mexico just before the war , came to France with the Y.M.C.A.Both deny ever having charged soldiers ten cents for a free bar of chocolate or two bits for a twelve-cent package of cigarettes . Both insist that many 's the time they bought many a soldier many a crock of brandy . They have had all these years to perfect their story , but the fact remains they came over with the Y.M.C.A. The Sparrow never went back . Along toward the end of the war James Gordon120 ' T ' lint RightBennett , the goofiest of all the nut publishers in an era when most publishers strove to outgoofy one another , hired him to be sports editor of his Paris Herald . The Sparrow began by writing about athletics , but soon drifted off into social topics , and presently was running a column largely concerned with the gay shenanigans of visiting Americans during the long and riotous era of wonderful nonsense . His headquarters were the New York Bar , on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Americansin Paris even before the war . Sparrow 's trademarkbecame the phrase " My old pal , " even in print . Almost all his acquaintances are his old pals . The most casual meeting ripens into an old friendship very rapidly with the Sparrow , unless he has particular reasonsto withhold the honor , and when he has he does . The Sparrow himself would not describe his copy as scholarly . He went through a serious spell of comma trouble several years ago when a young squirt of a copyreader with ornate ideas about punctuation and syntax told him commas would improve his style . But the Sparrow soon said the customers could put in their own commas , and the editor gave orders that nobodywas to ruin his innocent originalities with **31;4444;TOOLONG . The Sparrow 's copy goes as is , and so does he . He has outlasted them all now . Dozens of the Sparrow 's old pals of the era of wonderful nonsense have died or'T . flint Right 121cracked up and gone to pot , though all were from twenty to forty years younger @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ times the Sparrow stayed up all night keeping the death watch , as they used to call it , on some visiting fireman who was catchingthe boat train to Cherbourg and home next morning . They used to stay up so the departing pal would n't forgetto wake up . The crowd would simply drop a night 's sleep completely out of their schedule . But others sat up in rotation whereas the Sparrow observed them all , and no man held his proxy . A few young ones tried valiantly and gave their all , but none of them could outsit the Sparrow . One by one they collapsed and went home , some of them to die . The Sparrow 's best pal was the late Sheriff Bill McGeehan , the best sports writer of them all and the veteran of many a death watch . It was he who first appreciated the remarkable character and astonishing physical endurance of the little man who never flinched in the face of a dram , never hiccuped or wobbled in his stride , never dozed with his head on his arms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he never went to bed . Together these two invented the remarkable Itchy Guck , the Eskimo Channel swimmer , who never swam the English Channel because the water was always too hot , when all the other boys and girls at Cape GrisNezin 1926 turned blue and knotted up with cramps every time they got wet . Itchy Guck put one foot in122 ' T Ai nt Rightthe water and was said to have been rushed to the hospital scalded to the bone . After that he lived in the icebox at Harry 's Bar , with an electric fan playing on him . All are gone , the old familiar faces , or almost all . Gone too are the old familiar places , or most of them . They sit no more death watches because there are no more tourists . But the Sparrow patrols his beat as frisky as ever , the Y.M.C.A. man who poured Paris to bed . MR GUMP HIMSELFOF ALL the eminent Americans who prospered duringthe Big Boom there was none more deserving to be called the perfect flower of the Era of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ artist , who drew the Gumps . Sidney was Andy Gump himself . He was a money lover at heart , and as he made money beyond his own most fabulous dreams he expressed his joy by raising Andy from modest circumstancesto vast wealth . Early in the game , as his own earnings increased , he put Andy into the stock market and won him a fortune . Not content with that , he presently invented a long-lost uncle from Australia , Bimbo Gump , the billionaire . ' T ! lint Right 123Sidney took a childish delight in depicting Bimbo Gump surrounded by huge stacks of currency and strong boxes bursting with jewels and gold . From time to time , out of Bimbo 's incalculable horde , he passed out new fortunes to Andy and the family . Money was a subject that was always on his mind . His work was partly autobiographical , so he used riches as the theme of his long continuity . To describe Sidney as a money lover is not to say that he was stingy or uncommonly greedy . It startled him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years of experimenting with comic-strip characters on the Chicago papers . His amazement grew as his royaltiesmounted . Sid erected a statue of Andy Gump on his estate . He had likenesses of Andy and Min Gump emblazoned on his automobile , which was the most luxurious that money could buy . He took a house in Palm Beach , ' and on one side of the foyer hung a plaster plaque of Andy , on the other side a plaque of Min . He hired a retired prize fighter to box with him , for he was a goodsizedman with a childish desire to punch people on the nose and boast of fist fights that he had won . One night in New Orleans he spent a whole hour going over his conquests for the entertainment of a dark-browed tactful listener . There had been a waiter in Toledo , a fresh bellhop in Miami and a taxi driver who had tried to short-change him in New York . Sock-124 ' T " lint Rightsock-sock ! Sidney had socked them all and left them for dead . " Is that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ certainly must have been wonderful fights . I certainly wish I could have seen those fights . " On his fiftieth birthday Sidney gave a party for about fifty persons in Palm Beach . He led off with caviar at three dollars a copy and wound up with black cherries in burning brandy , also at three dollars per head . And from start to finish of the long evening the waiters were bringing in champagne at $25 a quart , and sneaking much of it back and bringing it in again . " I make so much money I do n't know what to do with it , " Sidney said . " I 've got a yacht too . But , God , I 'm tired ! I do five miles of road work every morning , but this morning I did seven miles . How is that for a man fifty ? " Turning to the woman sitting next him Sidney placed her hand on his leg and said , " Feel that ! How is that for a man fifty years old ? Feel my arm too @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suffered a painful social and professional rebuff that winter when the Artists ' and Writers ' Golf Tournamentwas held in Palm Beach . Meaning no harm , he called around to meet the New York artists in the tournament and soon was telling them how much money he made . He made more than any two of them together . But the New York artists had a low opinion of his art , and the humorists thought his humor horrible . ' T dint Right 125 " Flagg " Sidney began , addressing James MontgomeryFlagg , a man of poisonous moods . " Mister Flagg to you , Smith , " said Flagg , and turned away . Sid could n't understand the aloofness of the New York men . He never went back . Whether Andy Gump was humor or not he became a famous American character . If there was anything humorous in Sidney 's favorite exclamations , " Oh , Min ! " and " Soup 's on ! " it was very obscure to the intelligentsia , but they became popular expressions , and millions of people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in two national party conventions and isolated popular votes on several election days . Sidney himself became a celebrity , in demand as a speaker or guest at Babbitt luncheons . State legislatures invited him to honor them with a visit . He loved it . He was a great American Big Shot , growing richer all the time , and the routine by which he manufactured situations and drawings was now so well organized that he became almost an absentee comic artist . He had a continuity man to write his material and a forger or ink-monkey to go over the penciled outlines with ink . And strangest of all in Sidney Smith 's career was that his creature , his personality on paper , Andy Gump , was a flagrant violation of the original character as it had been handed to him in 1917 . His instructions were to keep Andy Gump in moderate circumstances , 126 ' T Ai nt Rightthe typical , socially clumsy , suburban American husbandof a commonplace wife and father of a brat child. , As this character began to bring in rich royalties @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Andy , like Sidney himself , was rolling in money and Uncle Bim was moving through the story with his billions . This was contrary to orders from upstairs , . but the steady increase of Sidney 's own royalties showed that millions of people had the same dreams . So Sidney 's career was the realization of the ambitionof the greatest number of Americans . He got enormously rich . HANDS ACROSS THE SEAPARIS  --  No doubt I will miss my swing and fall flat on my face in my first attempt to deal with this idea , for it is a very elusive subject . It is my notion that the United States and Great Britain will presently , if they do not already , find themselves drawn together in a great bond of mutual admiration , with a mutual feeling of superiority over the other nations and races of the world . The sameness of language is a factor in the ripening crush , but the democratic feelings of the peoples and'T Ai nt Right 127their common instinct to resent tyranny , even when the tyranny is none @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Russia , are important too . We also share a strong mistrust for the whiskered tribes of the earth , feeling that any man who is a man should face the world without a disguise , and we regard our bathtub and toothbrush civilization as something pretty close to perfection , with the natural result that we look down upon those who merely chafe their shoulder blades against a brick wall instead of lathering . True , we both like the French , but only as pets , and the real sentiments of the famous Amis de France among the British and American nations , if they could be put to scientific analysis , would prove to be ninetynineand ninety-nine one-hundredths per cent pure condescension . That explains why our feelings were so badly ruffled when we found ourselves out of money and the French began to deal with our tourists on equal terms . The French , moreover , are the most self-centered people on earth and , despite their gift of extravagant flattery , which has buttered so many parsnips at so little cost , are devoted to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what they can get out of them . The British were their friends , for example , until it came time for France to help the British suppress the windy and rather sad ambitions of the Italians under128 ' T dint RightMussolini where they conflicted with British interests But when Sir Samuel Hoare , the noted eurythmic skater who was serving as His Late Majesty 's foreign secretary , invited France to help out with a little militarypressure on the Italians , French public opinion simply would not make good . Italy was not attacking France , and the French therefore saw no reason to help their friends the British , whose interests were , in effect , under attack . But when the Germans moved into the Rhine , France yelled to Great Britain for help in parallel circumstances , and there was no small indignation here against the British for their hesitancy . After all , the massacre of people and ideas in Germanyis strictly a private German household matter , and if it should please them to go in for paganism , palmistry or pig worship , that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were as broad-minded as we pretend to be , but obviously are n't . The most ardent defenders of personal , intellectual and religious freedom among the British and American races are among the most passionate and bigoted meddlersin Germany 's internal affairs , refusing to accord to this nation that privacy and independence of conduct which they bespeak for individual persons . Because we believe in freedom , there are those among us who denounce , despise and would like to fight the Germans for their violent disbelief in our beliefs , and'T Ai nt Right 129impose on them a freedom which the majority of their people would regard as a national calamity . We have these thoughts and principles in common with the British , and we also share their love of gaudy uniforms , parades , titles and ceremonies . But much more important than everything else , we are both strong , rich nations with a feeling that if we do n't like one another we will be friendless against the whole world , because obviously nobody else likes us . The British have been looking over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of stock , on our shelves and cash in the vault , and though we have n't done any really important fighting since 1865 , the American navy is highly regarded by the heads of theirs . It must be said also that the British are great pals in a fight and much more reliable than any other nation with whom we might hook up in the matter of going to the floor at the cry of " Hey , rube . " To be sure they had their own interests at stake in 1914 , but the peril was not very apparent to the so-called man in the street , and they might very easily have found excuses for refusing to help Belgium . The Italians , for example , had a similar agreement with the Germans but held back until they got a better price from the Allies , and then double-crossed their pals . The fact that they did n't collect their price in the end is quite another matter . The reason for that130 ' T Ai nt Rightwas that the Italians did n't hold up their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and some of the British and French claim they were overpaid , at that . I hope I do not seem to be negotiating an AngloAmericantreaty of mutual defense on my own responsibility . I am just trying to put on paper something which is blowing in the wind over here and wondering whether the same faint odor has been noticed on our side of the water . NAZI IN HUMAN FORMLONDON  --  It has been interesting to watch Adolf Hitler split British public sentiment by aping the manners of the civ lized races in certain outward forms . Beginning with a great pilgrimage of Nazi football fans to London for an international soccer match last fall , Der Fuehrer has seized every opportunity for the cheap , superficial appeal to the sentimental weaknesses of the British , and the result by now is a growing tolerance for a regime of massacre and torture , fraud and conspiracy against the world . The normal feelings of the British , with their honest courts , free elections and liberty of thought , speech and press , were plainly spoken when Hitler and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first took over . To the British this naturally was a loathsome state of affairs and revived their old wartime contempt for the character of a people whose only discipline was force , whose only moral law was their own covetousness . There was nothing they could do about it , but Hitler obviously suffered from this harsh opinion of a rich , superior and somewhat snobbish nation and yearned for social recognition , so to speak . There was a faint nod in his direction in the speech last year by the Prince of Wales , now King of England , in which he proposed a better understanding between the peoples , and the international soccer match impressed Hitler 's aspiringnature like an invitation to dinner with his betters . Ten thousand selected Nazis were exported to London for a great politico-sporting demonstration , and , although they were put upon their manners before they left and warned to conduct themselves like civilized people , the Realm Leader overlooked the fact that they had no manners and could act like sportsmen only by conscious imitation . In their moments of unguarded naturalness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pinwheel flag symbolizing the dizzy state of mind , banging their heels together , saluting and singing their patriotic song to Horst Wessel , a national hero who lived on the earnings of a stable of streetwalkers . Nevertheless , by rigid discipline and the threat of the132 ' T dint Rightconcentration camp on their return to that freedom which Hitler gave them in Germany , they were able to affect a certain pretense which the British , through their newspapers , were glad to exploit as a marvelous paradox . To them it had been an amusing spectacle , like that of a stage baboon in a dress suit using a knife and fork . The illness and death of King George presented two more opportunities to make social capital , and Hitler , like an old-time fight manager in the no-decision days , was first to the wire with his telegrams of solicitude and condolence , respectively . If the British saw the insultto the memory of a great democrat inherent in the tribute of an assassin who employed terror wherever King George used reason and justice , they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hitler 's telegrams were accepted as of equal value to the messages from comparatively decent men . Moreover , the British have an optimistic illusion that the Nazi is a human being under his scales , and their present tolerance is not an acceptance of the brute so much as a hope that by encouragement and an appeal to his better nature he may one day be housebroken . And , finally , they are having a very prosperous time on the average and wish to avoid war and enjoy their freedom even at the cost of bending a few treaties . In moving his army from the Winter Olympic Games to the Rhine , Hitler put the British to a test too great'T dint Right 133for the idealism of any people . He faced them with a new war with all its familiar horrors in defense of a mere principle . It was different in 1914 when the Germans lit out for Calais , where they would have dug themselves in permanently as conquerors in a position to threaten the tight little isle and dispute the Channel . Furthermore , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ world markets in those days , and the challenge to the nation could not be avoided , although the common man thought he was fighting for his ideals . In the present case , however , the British have looked for reasons to avoid a war without humiliation , and in casting about for something they have taken to blaming their old pals , the French , for bearing down too hard on the Nazis . To blame France is to justify Hitler , and to justify him is to condone his works , so the Nazi regime derives some prestige from the present situation . Then , too , as much as the British accuse the French , they in turn find themselves criticized in the French newspapers , the whole business tending to weaken their front and to assist Hitler just that much . The British , of course , know all about the fury of the domestic regime in Germany , having read a thousand details or seen the terror themselves . They know , too , that Hitler 's book calls France an enemy that must be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thousands of conspirators at work undermining the134 ' T flint Rightgovernments of Czechoslovakia , Poland , Austria , Rumaniaand even Switzerland , while he offers peace . They saw that when Dr Gutzloff was shot in SwitzerlandHitler acknowledged him as a government agent assigned to sabotage the Swiss nation , although Gutzloff had posed as a private individual and his Swiss Nazi political club as a social institution . But like vice , the monster , Hitlerism , has become a familiar figure in England and has lost its power to shock . KILLERSLONDON  --  The profession of killing , always highly regarded by the human race , has never enjoyed a greater prestige than at the present hour . In England about six million people saw the magnificent march of the assembled gunmen of the world in the funeral procession of King George , and the moving pictures of the parade revealed the splendor of the warriors to all the civilized tribes on earth . There were few civilians in the spectacle , and those few were not doctors , teachers or working people , but diplomats , whose occupation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of wars . Both the fighters and the matchmakers have much i n'T . flint Right 135common with the members of the prize-fighting profession . Between wars the fighting men of rival armies are very good friends , entertaining one another back and forth , joking about past fights and hinting darkly about surprises which they are going to spring in the next one . The diplomats shake hands in the friendliest way , but , like the prize-fight managers , they are notoriousfor saying things which they do not sincerely mean and for conspiring to double-cross this one or that one . Often this leads to triple-crossing , and some nations , such as Bulgaria , have been known to fight on both sides in the course of a single war . The diplomats are not often deceived , however , for they never trust one another , and thus they get along reasonably well together . Sometimes diplomats pretend to fly into terrible rages against one another , but in this , too , they resemble the fight managers , because after a time they resume their normal relations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deceived by a quarrel which was only ballyhoo . Only a couple of years ago Mr Joe Jacobs , of New York , the manager of Max Schmeling , pretended to be very angry at the Madison Square Garden Corporation and vowed he would never do any business with the Garden again . In diplomacy that would be called severanceof diplomatic relations , and the purpose would be to steam up the people at home . After a while , however , Mr Jacobs could be found almost every afternoon136 ' T Mint Rightvisiting Mr James J. Johnston in his office at the Garden . Similarly , one day you will find the Italian diplomats , who now appear to be mortal enemies of the British diplomats , playing cards or golf with them on the friendliest of terms . They may even get together with the British some time to put something over on the Germans , for instance , or the British and Germans may slip something over on the French , who are old pals of the British . All this is strictly impersonal with both the gunmen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not care whom they kill , and personal animus in heat of battle is only the result of excitement . When the fight is over the survivors go to dinner together and compliment one another on the deadliness of a certain type of machine gun or poison gas . A good warrior does not ask any questions or offer any objections , but merely looks to his orders to see whether it is Germans or Italians or Americans that he is supposed to kill . There is no question that the gunmen now occupy the highest position in the regard of the people , for when it came to burying King George and the nations of the world were asked to send representatives , they sent professional killers . The splendor of their uniforms so filled the public eye and mind that the wasted little man lying in the box on a gun carriage was only the'T dint Right 137occasion for the display . The highest honors which it is possible to bestow are reserved for the killers , and they wear the most beautiful costumes that the world can produce @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ feathers on their hats , and the more feathers and the more gaudy the feathers , the greater the killer . Some wear pink hats , some blue , some green , some wear fur trimmings , and a few dress up in breastplates and helmets of real gold with plumes of white horsehair trailing down their necks . One English type of warrior wears white leather breeches and high black boots which are lined with white leather . Certain others in Scotland and the Balkanswear skirts . Nowadays in Europe various nations recognize that the professional killer 's mentality is such that he feels depressed in ordinary clothes but is stimulated by beautiful costumes . Therefore in Austria , for example , certain officers are wearing white greatcoatslined with scarlet , and black top boots with silver spurs . The Soviet officers are adopting beautiful red uniforms . In England it is frankly recognized that gaudy appareldraws recruits , so even the private soldiers wear dress uniform  --  quite modest compared to that of generals and life guards , but more spectacular than the familiar khaki . It is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , deride their honors and finery , and point out138 ' T flint Rightthat their whole work in life is to destroy life . But , after all , if it were not for the professional gunmen , who would carry civilization to the backward peoples of the earth ? BRITAIN MOURNSLONDON  --  It is an odd fact that the people of the United States , who are forever mooing and whining about love in their songs , have nobody whom they love , whereas this queer , contradictory race called the British actually loved the little wasted and exhausted man , George V , who died of fatigue more than anything else . A Hoover rides the shoulders of the crowd to the White House to be run out of town four years later in ignominy . A Roosevelt comes to office warming the country with the sunshine of a big broad grin and cheering the people with his confidence , only to be asked , before his term is out , " Well , Silly , what 's the joke ? " Babe Ruth put it in a capsule @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a hero today and a bum tomorrow , so what the hell ? " But if you had stood in the crowd around the gates of Buckingham Palace you would have felt that it was a different sentiment which was expressed by the silence'T " lint Right 139of ten thousand Londoners gathered to wait for the last bulletin after they learned the king was dying . They began clustering around the little glass-framed bulletin board at dusk . By ten o'clock there were five thousand or so , the front rank clinging to the bars of the courtyard . By eleven o'clock , when the file of grenadiers came along , stomping hard and loud on the pavement for the ceremony of changing the guard , it was necessary for them to go single file and for bobbies to open a path for them . Soldiers are pathetic figures and the more soldierly they are the sillier , for it is impossible to watch half a dozen grown men conducting themselves like mechanicaltoys executing every human movement according to a formula prescribed in rigid regulations , without reflecting that they have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for their vanity . The grenadiers , under their tall fuzzy shakos , repeatedthe childish rigmarole , and the new guards fell out with incredibly jerky , dehumanized movements , strictly according to the book , to take their stations and go through the ridiculous pretense of guarding the person of a tired little man who at that very moment lay unconscious in a castle one hundred miles away breathing his last . The people around Buckingham were not of a mind to do King George any harm . They whispered when they spoke , and in three hours , among the dense crowd notI40 ' T . Ant Rightone frivolous remark was uttered . Across the road another thousand stood on the steps of the gaudy memorial statue commemorating the reign of his grandmother , Victoria , and flash bulbs flickered like summer lightning in the cold , damp winter night , giving glimpses of the naked trees . A cockney with a muffler long enough to lynch him wheeled up his bike at the curb and asked , " Is it true that His Majesty has passed away ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of speaking is bound to have been servility , but his tone was manly enough when the bobby told him he could n't park there with his bike , and he turned to say that a man had a right to inquire the ' ealth of ' Is Majesty the King . A man whirled twice around trying to escape from the jam and slopped down on the wet pavement with a heart attack , and they made way for him to be carried out . There came a man with a spaniel on a leash , and women in golden slippers and satin gowns to stand in the throng with beautiful young dudes in white ties and tails , apparently drawn from parties near by , for the men were bareheaded and without topcoats . There were people in the gathering as poor as poverty , snuffling and shuffling toward the little bulletin board , and they all spoke in whispers and mentioned the dyingman as though he were some very dear personal friend . Although he died just before midnight , it was twelve-forty before a man came out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the King was dead . At that men in the front row took off their hats , and those behind , seeing this done , understood and took their hats off , too . A news photographer lit a fuse like a Roman candle , which burned two minutes , casting a bright glare over the crowd , while the movies ground . The grenadiers continued to walk their posts , stomping their heels on their square turns , now guarding the person of the new king , who likewise was more than one hundred miles away . A newsboy appeared with a canned edition of the Daily Express with the howling head , " THE KING IS DEAD ; LONG LIVE THE KING ! " He was silent himself as he dealt papers right and left , and suddenly it dawned on me that the crowd had not uttered a sound all evening . Not an automobile had squawked in a constant file of traffic , and the only noise had been a restrained ring of an ambulance bell coming to carry away the man with the heart attack . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ streak of ham in him had thrown a fit , as might have been expected ; and , finally , they did not sing " God Save the King . " They just broke and went away , but at 3 A.M. Englishmen were still arriving in cars or afoot to read the bulletin as the grenadiers strode their posts in their pathetic military manner . The taxi driver who took me home , conversing through the window , said he had been a good king and142 ' T Ai nt Rightdeserved his rest , and added he never envied His Majesty his job . THE GOOD , GAME KINGSANDRINGHAM , ENGLAND  --  One reason why the Englishregarded King George as a good , game ruler , as loyal to his people as they were to him , was his consistent refusal , in the face of strong temptation and with every excuse , to run out on them when winter came . Alfonso of Spain could n't stay home and was always tearing off to the French Riviera to gamble his people 's money and get away from it all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Rumania ca n't find room enough on his home grounds and often goes slumming across his borders more or less disguised as an honest haberdasher out for a little relaxation . The Aga Khan , of India , whose income is his weight in gold delivered once a year , goes home to Bombay only to step on the scales and accept the money  --  which is white of him , to be sure . He spends much of it around Nice . But although George of England had pneumonia seven years ago and almost strangled on the oily green fog of London , which contains a ton of soft coal soot'T flint Right 143to the square block , he never ran away . This was a course of conduct which was close to heroism in a man of his age , and with his income and prerogatives , whose throat was delicate and whose heart was weak . Nobody knew better than the king that the English climate is a loaded gun pointed at the head of every inmate of the islands , which goes off frequently and mows @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ winter weather is good only by comparison with the average and is by any other standard vile . Nevertheless , George spent his winters at home , and his only concession to himself was to spend occasional holidays at Sandringham , on the Wash , which is an inlet of the North Sea , where the air , though cold and clammy , need not be mined with a pickax , as in London . His motive for this was never stated , but the king was a naval officer in his younger days , and he probably had in mind the tradition that the skipper must n't hop into the lifeboat , leaving his crew to handle the ship . It can not be that he liked the English climate in winter , for patriotic prejudice can go just so far , and horrible is an adjective which can apply to the weather only on perfect days . He could n't close up the country and evacuate the total population from November to May , so the old gentleman gallantly stuck around himself to help his people suffer and snuffle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ awful144 ' T Ai nt Rightthan in London , for he liked to shoot birds , and it is unavoidable to shoot birds on his miles of covert around about . In fact , anybody who does n't shoot birds under these conditions ought to get a cigar . They made an honest distinction between shooting and hunting on the king 's preserve , for here the birds waited like clay pipes in a shooting gallery , thousands of pheasant , partridge and woodcock , rising when the beaters came along to boost them over the weeds and falling when the king came banging along . With beaters before him to raise the fowl and loaders and porters be hind him to load and carry his guns the English squire could hardly have exerted himself less if he had telephoneddown to the store for his game . Birds stroll through the open fields today as tame as chickens in a barnyard pecking through the light snow and never even raising their heads at the traffic along the roads . At night the automobile lights lure out hundreds of hares and rabbits @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beneath the wheels and in many cases do . It is all right to run over His Majesty 's game , but it is n't all right to pick it up and take it away , for that comes under the head of poaching , and they are quite fastidious about these laws . It has not been many generations since it was legal to set man traps in the fields to catch poachers , and one of these devices , a wrought-iron gadget on the order of a rat trap but'T Ai nt Right 145much bigger and strong enough to break a man 's leg , is now exhibited in the King 's Lynn Museum . A couple of miles from Sandringham House is the almshouse , a pretty little cottage , the home of a dozen old women who wear tall conical witches ' hats and red Mother Hubbards , to distinguish them from old women who are not receiving alms . Queen Mary is very kind to her neighbors , the old ladies in the almshouse , and they are undoubtedly the happiest and most fortunate paupers in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other old women in other almshouses . The king was a good business asset for King 's Lynn , drawing much trade to the town on various occasions , but the Prince of Wales apparently does not care much either for shooting or for Sandringham . He came here no oftener than he had to , and now that he is king , with no filial calls to make , he will not come at all . Rapidan , Va. , Oyster Bay and Asbury Park have had similar experiences in the sunshine of distinguished patronagefollowed by cold eclipse . They have made some cautious moves toward air conditioningin some of the modern buildings in London , where sometimes the fog seems to sift through the very panes of the windows , but Sandringham has not been modernized to that extent . The king was taking no special advantages over those subjects of his who also were susceptible to throat infections and whose hearts were oppressed by the lack of oxygen in the air . But146 ' T Ai nt Rightthat would have done little good , anyway . A man @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and you ca n't air conditionthe whole outdoors . THE KAISER 'S BADGESLONnoN  --  The death of King George evoked some expressions of sympathy and sorrow which were quite beautiful considered as mere wordage , but a hopeless puzzle when laid beside the pages of recent history . The ex-kaiser of Germany , from his exile in Holland , sent Queen Mary word that he was deeply affected by the death of the man who in 1917 threw him out of the Order of the Garter and several other highly exclusive fraternities . Adolf Hitler telegraphed the Prince of Wales that the entire German people sympathized in the loss which had befallen the British nation . Moreover , Herr Hitler , who had been playing footie under the table with Great Britain for several months , was first under the wire with a telegram of solicitude when word of the king 's illness was announced from Sandringham House . And in Italy , where , only a few weeks before , the best vituperative brains of the Fascist party were mobilized to devise louder and dirtier anathemas'T flint Right " 147against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the schools were taking hate lessons the first thing every morning , expressions of profound sorrow were inserted in Mussolini 's papers by Mussolini'sorder . There seemed to be some inconsistency somewhere , for it is only too easy to remember and all too hard to forget a time when the favorite song of the entire Germanpeople was a rousing work called " The Hymn of Hate , " which built up to a wild culminating roar of " I hate England . " That was the time , too , when " Gott strafe England " was the motto of the entire German people , and on the English side of the case , the sentimentwas rather feebly expressed by the late Rudyard Kipling in one of the worst poems ever written , called " The Hun Is at the Gate . " This poem stood alone , the world 's worst by many lengths , until Mr John Masefield , the English poet laureate , sojourning in Los Angeles , composed a lament called " His Most Excellent Majesty George Fifth , " and pulled up even . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ slight ill-feeling between King George and Kaiser Wilhelm . Certainly many millions of their subjects felt this to be the case , and altogether some six million men were killed expressing resentment back and forth on one front and another . It would be a great joke on the six million dead if it a ould turn out at this late date that the king and148 ' T dint Rightthe kaiser were only pulling a gag in the days when the king publicly announced that he had fired the kaiser from the lodge for conduct unbecoming a gentleman . Not only that , but King George scornfully renounced all the German titles inherent in his family by reason of their ancestry and changed the family name to Windsor . He certainly seemed to be sore about something , and , in justice to the late king , it must be admitted that he kept a straight face about it all the rest of his life , for the kaiser never got his lodge buttons back and the British royal family never resumed their German names . But , for the kaiser to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that he was only fooling or honestly mistaken then , provided , of course , that he means what he says today . As far as the feelings of the entire German people and the entire British people are concerned , the Germansand the British both are the same today as they were then . Indeed , their racial characteristics have become more pronounced in the interval , and , consistently , they ought to detest each other more . On the other hand , if they are admirable races now they were admirable then , and the war to end war was either an unfortunate error or a job of ribbing which got out of control and went too far . Nobody can be worse puzzled than little Giuseppe in the first grade of an Italian school , who is'T dint Right 149getting high marks in hatred and finds himself on the honor roll , but then sees the Italian flag half-staffed in sorrow for the death of the British king . Little Giuseppe 's normal reaction would be to cheer , and the complexity of the problem is almost enough @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ca n't have very far to go now , so if the old hatred was only a make-believe they ought to give him back his lodge buttons . CRASH ! LONDON  --  My visit to the solemn scene of the lying in state of King George of England was accomplished under special circumstances . Not to put too fair a face upon a strange and rather sordid experience , I crashed the gate at the British House of Commons and thence into the great silent vault of Westminster Palace , adjoiningthe House where the king lay in his coffin attended by his magnificent Life Guards and Beefeaters , receiving the sad homage of his people . With gate crashing in its myriad forms I have been made familiar by years of attendance at public events , but this was one gate which seemed not only impregnablebut unassailable . Yet it happened and this is approximately how : 150 ' T " lint RightIn the company of Floyd Gibbons , who was on his way home from Eritrea , I set out to see an enormous crowd of English people , some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who stood in a line about two miles long , inching toward the entrance to the palace . There had been intermittent rain all afternoon , and these men , women and children of the middle and lower classes had been taking it without the slightest impatiencein a progress which required about three hours from Vauxhall Bridge to the coffin . It was a miserable night , with a milky fog hanging over Westminster and the River , and the big double-deck busses and the taxicabspicked their way carefully through the foot traffic which overran the road under the lenient discipline of the bobbies . At a point some distance down the long , silent file a voice from the darkness of a doorway said : " I can arrangeto put you right into the hall for His Majesty 's lying in state without delay , sir , if you would care to pay eight shillings . It will take three hours otherwise , and it 's a nahsty night , sir . " Now it had not been our intention to attend the lying in state at all , and it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foreigners to accept this advantage over true and loyal mourners for the king . Nevertheless we had to pause and inquire into a proposal which came so strangely to the ear in a land'T Ai nt Right 151where the incorruptibility of all official services is often mentioned in sharp contrast to official morality in the United States . " If you will be back here in one hour , sir , I can put you right in for eight bob , that 's $2.00 each , " our friend in the doorway continued . He was tall and scrawny and sallow , with greasy hair brushing the greasy collar of his soiled raincoat , and he had on his arm a box of black-and-purple mourning rosettes ostensibly for sale to the people in the file across the road . " How are you going to do it ? " I asked , and our Sam Weller remarked with a squint that there were always ways of getting things done . But there would be no risk , and , moreover , if we came back promptly in one hour we would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ceremony of the changing of guard around the coffin . " But these people standing in line , would n't they object ? " Sam Weller laughed and said not likely . They were British and used to standing in line while special privilegewalked in ahead . " The royalty all go in ahead of them , and the foreign royalty as well , " said he , " and sometimes they stop the line for twenty minutes to let some visiting king or some ex-queen like Victoria of Spain make a private visit . The boys of Westminster School , the nurses of152 ' T flint RightWestminster Hospital and the taximen from the palace yard all went in ahead of the queue . " No , they wo n't object if you just go quietly as if you belonged there . " One hour later we found ourselves in the courtyard of the House of Commons . There had been only a slight question of identity at the entrance , where two unauthorizedpersons , a man and woman , had attempted to follow after . They were gently but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the end of the line two miles and three hours away . There was a man standing near a private automobile in the yard who gave us more than a passing glance , for Mr Gibbons was wearing a gray hat and an omelet-colored camel 's hair coat , as inappropriate to the occasion as the gambler 's cap which I wore to an informal review of the Harvard Hospital unit by their majesties at BuckinghamPalace nineteen years ago . We took this man to be a member of Parliament , but he offered no hindrance , and we entered the building to discover ourselves abruptly facing through a glass door the scene of the king 's lying in state . At this instant the captain of the Life Guards slowly appeared on a half-stair from the guardroom , bearing his sword before his eyes , and strode with slow , formal tread to the point where the Beefeaters stood with their heads bowed , leaning on the tall shafts of their pikes . There was a pause , and now down the same stair at the'T flint Right 153same solemn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stood motionless at the corners of the coffin . Their white leather breeches were fleckless and tight , their high black boots shone dully , and their golden helmets and breastplates , their epaulets , medals and scabbards gleamed in a way that hurt the eye . One was wearing short underwear , and the hem showed through the skintight leather of his breeches . Slowly they mounted the dais , stepping backward until each stood elbow to elbow with the man he was relieving . Slowly the retiring guards raised their heads and swords in unison and sheathed their blades as the new men drew their weapons and stood to attention . The retiring guards stepped down and marched away as their relief lowered their swords , and then suddenly bowed their heads , tossing their white plumes over their eyes in the motion . They were standing short tricks now because the rigidity of their position , with the fixity of their gaze at the shuffling feet of the endless line was a severe tax on physical endurance . At the head of a small stair we turned and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two miles by inches in the rain . Well , it was n't cricket , but we were no more interlopers than Carol of Rumania or the nephew of Zog of Albania , and , moreover , it had been done strictly in the in-154 ' T " lint Rightterests of knowledge , after all . Sam Weller waited at the exit , and we paid him sixteen shillings . BOTTLED STATESMANSHIPLONDON  --  Some of the Labor members of the British House of Commons have been giving serious considerationto the idea that a statesman wobbling to his feet in a plastered condition and sounding off on foreign relations like a Saturday-night hero in a crowded saloon may be a greater menace to the welfare of his people than a drunken bus driver . This is not a new thought in the English Parliament , for it has been customary for some years for some of the members to recognize the risks of overspeaking and to pledge themselves to abstinence during Parliamentary hours . I do not believe , however , that either the American Senate or House has ever acknowledged the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ idea along as a suggestion . It will be timely as long as statesmen wrestle with the giant who lives in the bottle , but never more so than just now , when all nations are jittering on the brink of war and wearing their honor on their coat sleeves . ' T ' lint Right 155Americans who live on this side of the water remember a warlike threat to a foreign nation which was uttered by a Washington statesman and printed large in the press of at least three continents . The author of these remarks was merely a politician on his own home grounds , where all his utterances were subject to a liberal discount , but in foreign lands he was regarded as a public officer of some responsibility . The press accounts , unfortunately , carry no printer 's dingbat , star or other typographical symbol to indicatethat the speaker probably was drunk at the time . The incident in question caused no serious results and was soon forgotten in the rush of world events , but the temperance movement in the House of Commonsplainly takes notice of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the 154 Labor members are total abstainers , and the leaders of the movement are glad to accept part-time recruits who will merely bind themselves to keep sober during the debates . The sessions usually start late in the afternoon after the statesmen have completed their private business , and catch them at a time of the day when a spot of something is just what a man thinks he needs . They have a species of keyhole and transom journalismin this country , but it is not as brash as the Americantype , and , consequently , nobody ever will know how drunk some of their fine old two-bottle statesmen were156 ' T dint Rightwhen they made some of their most daring orations . Nevertheless , that mahogany complexion which some of the veteran mane-shakers wear is not produced by ice water or lemon squash , and I think it would be admittedconfidentially that certain political gladiators do their best or worst when they are , as the saying goes , blind . Of course , they have a bar in the British Parliament where a member may chin himself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the lobby of the Palace of Peace of the League of Nations also , and it is possible that some of the ingredients of the i:ext war will be poured out of the queer-looking bottles on the back shelf , although I must admit that the most ferocious pacifist of them all , Mr Pretty-Boy Eden , of Britain , appears to maintain his martial spirit on nothing stronger than oolong and crumpets . It may seem an exaggeration to suggest that any of the eminent world statesmen of the league would pack himself full of Dutch courage at the League of Nations bar and enter the hall to holler some foreign equivalent of " Nuts to the President of France ! " But here we have these British representatives frankly admittingthat a member with a hideful has no business doing the public 's business , and frankly accepting the fact that statesmen sometimes do get up to their ears in drams . In our country only motorists , engineers and police-'T Ai nt Right 157men are strictly required to prove themselves sober upon demand without notice . The statesman need @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and there are certainly some few in each membership who would have a hard time passing inspection by a board of alienists if they were . That ca n't be helped , I suppose , but it should be possible when a member sounds off with a speech which might cause war and the loss of a million lives , to make him breathe in a bottle , so that the speech when it comes out in print may be honestly rated according to his condition at the time . BALLYHOO IN EXCELSISLONDON  --  There will never be a better opportunity than the present to observe the operation of ballyhoo by which the British royal family is sold to the people of the country . Never have the American papers achieved such unanimity on any subject , and it seems unfortunate that the American people can not elect some one family to occupy a like status on a permanent , continuing basis . Such a family would have to avoid political affiliations , of course , and would exist merely as an object1 58 ' T A int Rightof the affection @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ We need not call it a royal family , for royalty is repugnant to the national temperament , but we might call it simply the American Family , thus implying that all the virtues with which its members would be arbitrarily endowed were characteri , ' * , ic of all the American people . Unconsciously we Americans attempted to do this in the case of Colonel Lindbergh , but he turned out to be a partisan Republican ; and , moreover , he declined the nomination in the manner of a man in a white suit slapping down a clumsy but affectionate dog with mud on its paws . The British royal family , on the contrary , have been trained to the burdens and little vexations of their position , and they accept them , along with the rewards . The people on their part receive certain benefits , some of which are imponderable but nevertheless important . In the royal family , as constantly exploited in the English newspapers , the English people are taught to perceive the virtues of their race , such as loyalty , reticence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and humility , and to believe that as members of that race they partake of these qualities much more generously than the people of any other nationality . The ballyhoo is strong and unremitting but neverthelesssubtle , and the effect on people is a magnificent national self-appreciation . They plead guilty of being'T . flint Right 159the greatest and finest people on the earth , whose only fault  --  if the perfect race could be said to have a fault  --  is their incurable modesty . They possess a special kind of pluck , known as true British pluck , and a special kind of sportsmanship , also known as the true British kind . It is unnecessary to point out that the true British kind is the best there is . The jubilee ceremonies and the obsequies for the late king provided occasion for special reminders of the exemplarycharacter of the royal family , and the coronation festivities for Edward the Eighth will be used as an opportunity to extol his virtues , which are very special , too . If the young king has any faults or vices they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for it is not the purpose of the propaganda to depict a national ideal with any imperfections . This is demonstratedby the treatment which is still accorded his late grandfather , Edward the Seventh , whose regal competenceis exploited to the total neglect of certain amiable follies which are historic in Paris . Although the Americans have acquired in Europe a reputation as braggarts , it is your correspondent 's observationthat the Americans and the French just now are modest to a serious fault and are indulging in more self-criticism than is either good for them or justified by the facts . The Italians , on the other hand , have been taught to1 60 ' T ' lint Rightregard themselves as a race of warriors , and they amuse themselves by singing ferocious songs in which their enemies are slaughtered and a subject people are led to freedom and dignity under Fascism . The Germans have substituted Hitler for the royal family and are frank enough to admit that the German race is in all respects the perfect flower on the stalk of civilization . The British ballyhoo goes about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ might be described as braggart modesty , whereby the people are given to understand that they are much finer than they admit . The general effect , however , is about the same , and the royal family serves as the perpetual example , though partisan politicians roll on the floor . When our partisan politicians go to the mat , each side calling the other opprobrious names , and not without justification , we have no ideal , unless it could be the President , who is generally a mediocre man at best . If the President is mediocre there are many who will say so , but in England they never have a mediocre king . The superior character of the English people was exemplified in Chicago by Mr Sobbing Sam Insull , the Crying Croesus of the Utility Trust , who went along for many years treating the American natives a good deal the same as an English planter handles colored labor in tropical colonies . Mr Insull was typically English and was proud of'T dint Right 161his Englishness , except on one embarrassing occasion during the war , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Thompson just how he stood on Americanism . Mr Thompson opposed American participation in the war , but when Mr Insull asked him how he stood on Americanism , he said , " My great-grandfather fought with Washington , my grandfather was killed at the siege of Vicksburg , and I was at Santiago in ' 98 . By the way , Mr Insull , have you ever taken out your second papers ? " THE KING BESIEGEDLONDON  --  The new King of England has moved into his job with a show of confidence and poise at a time when London is the most prosperous capital in the world . It is a hard job , involving long hours and a tremendous program of baby kissing in all its guises , but the pay and other compensations are proportionate to the duties . The only real menace which confronts King Edward the Eighth and which now will become more threatening day by day is the awful terror of matrimony to a man who has been a bachelor for more than forty years . The man we used to know as the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time , has been for twenty years1 62 ' T . flint Rightthe quarry of all the designing mamas and Foreign Offices of the Old World and of countless scheming , ambitious families in the New . He has looked over an incalculable number of young and willing females who were led past him on nose rings , so to speak , like livestock standing inspection at a state fair , and it is quite reasonable to say that no man ever lived who has had his pick of so great a gross tonnage of charm . Yet he arrived in Buckingham Palace as king and emperor , with all the privileges and powers which the post confers , still single , independent and defiant . On his trips to Canada , the United States and Australia and to Continental countries  --  wherever the new king went in his many journeys as a yellow-haired , blue-eyed prince  --  he was constantly under pressure . The old girls trotted out their daughters harnessed up for show-ring purposes and shoved them forward to catch dances with him , if possible , at every @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been simpered at and cooed at by a hundred thousand long shots of all the civilized nations . He has put the eye on fat ones and scrawny ones and on innumerablegirls of all the classifications in between , and he has done as much heavy duty shoving and hauling as any stevedore that ever lived , moving an enormous aggregate freight of romantic femininity around the ballroomsof many nations . ' T " lint Right 163Nevertheless , he is a single man who carries his own latchkey , which now opens the door of Buckingham Palace , and still it is n't necessary for him to call up and say he is down at the corner shooting a few games of pool with the boys or remove his shoes and carry them upstairs by hand . His Majesty the King of Englandmay come home when he wants or stay out all night if he wants , and he can drop in at any one of severalpalaces and castles whenever he wants and answer no questions for anybody . This condition of life is deplored by many of his subjects @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in London today bespeaks an implacable determination to break down his resistance and marry him off . The situation is the more desperate now and calls for greater determination with every passing day , because the reigning European royalty has been greatly reduced in numbers since the War to end War , and the eligibles have been pretty thoroughly picked over , leaving a rather unappetizing group of inveterate bridesmaids . The king has always shown fairly expert taste in companionship , so there seems to be no possibility of a deal among the available royal set , and yet those who like him most are determined to jeopardize his peace , regardless of his own preferences , in order that the crown may descend to a son of the king , if fate should be so kind . It has even been suggested that there is no legal164 ' T " lint Rightreason why he should not marry an American girl , preferably from an old Jamestown or certainly an old Virginia family , and thus not only solve a situation but achieve at least a sentimental recapture of the lost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and its homicide rate . After all , Lady Astor was a Langhorne of Virginia , was she not ? Lest this suggestion start an uncontrollable and eventuallydisastrous boom in old Jamestown and Virginia estates , with their rolling acres and slave-born butlers doddering around under the weight of trays of juleps , I will add that this idea is not being promoted very seriously . It is just a thought up to this time . There is not yet sufficient justification for the best families of Montana , Boston and the Bronx to plunge in Virginia estates and teach their daughters to talk Southern and regard " damyankee " as one word . Maybe nothing will come of it . The king is under greater pressure , to be sure , but he is king now , and the increase in pressure has been compensated by an increase in his personal independence . It will always require great fortitude to maintain his freedom , but the man who stood off the great menace for twenty-odd years under handicaps of a filial and subordinate rank should be able to carry on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of luck in a perilous situation . ' T . dint Right 165 REGALIALONDON  --  The tendency of many Americans to dress up in lion tamers ' costumes and march in parades weighted down by golden epaulets and burnished helmetsis looked upon by our friends the English with tolerant amusement . They do this sort of thing very well in the Old World , and nowhere as well as in London on occasions of royal jubilation or mourning . But the United States broke away from England a long time ago and in doing so expressed a strong dislike for the gaudy trappings of royalty and rank , a preferencewhich has since been reiterated from time to time , though with diminishing vehemence , by various socklessstatesmen . William Jennings Bryan belonged to this general type , for although he did wear socks , he often went without his coat in warm weather and liked to stick his thumbs under his suspenders and snap his galluses in a gesture of plain democracy . Mr Smith W. Brookhart , of Iowa , pointedly shunned the contemptible smoking jacket or Tuxedo , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Texas once sent up to Congress a sterling patriot known as " Cyclone " Davis , who had committed a campaign poem in 66 ' T dint Rightwhich he boasted that he wore no man 's collar , not even his own . Senator Joe Robinson , of Arkansas , on the other hand , has no worse political handicap in his appeal for the approval of his peasant public than the genteel white piping on his vest , which gives him the appearance of a Wall Street tool . Nevertheless , as every secretary of a hustling Chamberof Commerce has discovered in bidding for conventions , conclaves and reunions , there is a large element of Americans who retain with their democracy an irresistibledesire to harness themselves into buckle and belt , armor and sash , at least once a year and go swingingdown some wide Main Street to the music of the band and the plaudits of the crowd . The boardwalk in Atlantic City during the convention season presents an endless succession of plain American druggists , grocers , lawyers , dentists , insurance agents and high-school teachers parading @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fraternal society is a familiar occasion in our social life . Our friends the English contend that these uniforms and the ceremonies which they adorn are meaningless because they have no origin in antiquity , and ridiculousbecause they betray in the average American the stubborn survival of the love of pomp and circumstance which the American spirit pretends to despise . In England the king 's champion , for example , holds'T . flint Right 167an office which has descended from a time when the king , like the late kingfish of Louisiana , carried a personalbodyguard to do his fighting for him . Every button , strap and tassel on the most elaborate uniform seen in the funeral procession for the late George V refers back to some definite occasion . The occasion may be accessibleonly to serious students of heraldry , but given sufficient incentive they will trace it back through the archives . So it gives our friends the English some refined amusement to consider the grandiose titles of certain Grand Exalted Potentates or Supreme Imperial Klockardsof our fraternal life and to examine the accoutermentsof the University of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American Legion on parade in their full-dress uniforms and like to inquire where this one acquired the white breeches or that one the gold helmet . For the British army once upon a time wore gaudy apparel to the wars and has maintained the forms for ceremonial appearances , whereas the Legion wore khaki on active service and its present splendors originated in the tailor shop of the wholesale costumer . Now , if the American Legion wished to be historically correct without loss of splendor this would be possible , because the Smithsonian Institution in Washington contains a great array of musty and somewhat motheatenspecimens of old American army costumes which168 ' T flint Rightonce were regulation dress for active service . There are tall patent-leather hats surmounted by cockades , which were intended to frighten the Mexicans by suggesting an army of giants . And there are bibs and fancywork of great beauty , all of which once saw service under fire , although they may have been created , in the first place , not by any definite historical incident , but merely by somebody who liked nice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and high-sounding titles may be more profitably appeased than repressed , and thus compelled to express itself in equipment and honors which are unofficial and therefore meaningless . If , for example , General Pershing were an English officer , he would be the Earl of Missouri , G.C.B. , G.C.M.G. , D.S.O. , and a field marshal , entitled to a wooden baton studded with stars . General Bullard as British officer would also be a marshal and Lord Bullard and a Knight of the Bath , no less . Mr James Farley would be Sir James , and Mr Mellon , of Pittsburgh , Lord Lehigh at least . One can not exaggerate the importance which rank and titles impart to mortal men in England . True , they derive from the king , a mortal man himself , and oftentimesthey signify only that an officer has flopped and been kicked upstairs . In a financier they may only mean that he gave some money to the campaign fund , but nevertheless the illusion is good . If it is actually in our character to yearn for such'T flint @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Grand Exalted Ruler of the Elks may be something fine to his brother Elks , but his honor diminishes outside the lodge . In England , where they honor their Croix Rouge Pursuivant , the Grand Exalted Ruler might be held up to polite but bitter ridicule . CHURCH OF ENGLANDLONDON  --  St Paul 's Cathedral is a holy place , faintly pervaded by the sacred scent of piety and incense . At evensong the starlings come home from the country to roost in the niches of the frosty gray masonry , and their cheeping as they gossip about the day 's events for an hour before they go to sleep is a pleasant note in the roar of the city . The British government has never disturbedthe starlings . They seem to regard the starling as a neighbor no worse than some other neighbors in a great metropolis and no noisier than the traffic . At evensongEnglish men and women who work in the city drift into St Paul 's for a little meditation and prayer amid the shadows . There are not many of them , to be sure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for a little while under conditions which seem to open the pores of the soul and induce a gentle piety of spirit. 170 ' T flint RightI believe the English are not regarded by us as a religious people , but there are two things to consider in that connection . First , they are a reticent breed who are shy about discussing their religion , and , second , their Church is not known as the Church of England for nothing . It is the English Church , and it is of Englandand of the Crown and of the Empire . Naturally , therefore , it is an unrevealed mystery to us who have not the Englishman 's feeling for England , the Crown and the Empire . I was in Fleet Street yesterday afternoon and walked up to St Paul 's about dusk . Bells were tolling , and the mendicant pigeons , those fat and wily panhandlers who practice the art of moochery in cathedral yards and plazas everywhere , were just about to call it a day . Inside the church , to the left , lay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ serene . That would be some saint , no doubt , and probably , judging by the prominent position -- first on the left as you go in  --  St Paul himself , to whose honor and glory the cathedral was erected . The niche was not a niche , but a room , and was shut off by a great bronze grille . But it was not the figure of a saint which lay there in military attire , unless it be recognized that this is a nationalistic religion of a militaristicrace , in which case it is easy to understand why warriors are enshrined in the great cathedral of the capital . ' T flint Right 171The figure was that of Lord Kitchener , the soldier who was lost in the wreck of the cruiser Hampshire in 1915 on his way to Russia to see why his gallant comrades , the Russian peasants , were n't killing their share of German peasants . A little way along there hung from the wall four faded and moldering battle flags , three of which were indecipherable . The fourth , however , bore @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Inkerman " and " Sebastopol . " It was a sacred memento of the war of 1855 , in which thousands of British soldiers recruited from the squalor of abominable London slums laid down their lives to prevent the perfidious Russian peasant from forcing his way to Constantinople , the holy city of the unspeakable Turk . To the right , under a marble canopy , lay a darkbronzefigure of the Duke of Wellington . He earned his honored place in the great church house , where now one smelled the odor of incense and heard the faint intoning voices of the acolytes in holy music , by victories at Bayonne , Toulouse , Peronne and Waterloo . At Waterloo , however , his allies and comrades were the admirable Germans , progenitors , nevertheless , of the barbarian Boches of the War to end War . His enemy was the vandal Frenchman , whose descendants , by 1914 , had acquired nobility , chivalry and an appreciation of the right . There was a statue to the heroic General Gordon , " who by his warlike genius " saved @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lieutenant General Ralph Abercromby , killed in Egypt in i8oi , in another crusade against those periodic backsliders , the French , who have often strayed off the course of virtue . Lieutenant General Sir John Moore had earned his statue in the temple by fighting in America , Corsica , the West Indies , Holland , Egypt and Spain , all of whose people had brought down upon themselves the armed admonition of a righteous race . And Captain Burgess , lost in the battle of Camperdown , had contributed " to his country 's naval superiority and her exalted rank among nations . " There were more battle flags and other shrines erected to martyrs who died bravely for England and truly deservedtheir honored places in the church , which is the church of the English people . For England is the right and England is the ideal , and nations which run counter to England are enemies of mankind , and Ye shall smite them hip and thigh . The erratic Frenchman , the German , the Italian , Russian and American may be right by accident or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , steady , infallible needle pointing to justice and humanity is England . The evensong is a beautiful service , soft and gentle , and the spiritual aroma of the incense floats over the shrines of the saints who never fought but on God 's side . ' T flint Right 173 THE IRISH SWEEPSLONDON  --  The three big individual winners in the Irish Free State Hospitals Sweep have been the promoters , who have taken down profits of almost two million dollarseach for conducting seventeen draws in five and one half years . The man who had the bright idea in the first place is Spencer Freeman , an Englishman , the brother of Sidney Freeman , who conducts the greatest bookmaking business in the world under the trade name of Duggie Stuart . Spencer Freeman 's surviving partner in the business is Joseph McGrath , an Irish politician and accountant . The third of the original partners , Richard Duggan , a Dublin bookmaker and gambler , is dead , and his share of the earnings goes to his estate . Freeman and Duggan began their partnership before the formation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as Duggan 's Dublin Sweepstake , operated from the vest-pocket principality of Liechtenstein , which is economically but not politically a part of Switzerland . Ireland was then subject to the British laws forbidding lotteries . The Liechtenstein Dublin Sweep was a penny-ante promotion , but the cantons of Switzerland , neverthe-174 ' T flint Rightless , grew jealous and demanded the right to conduct lotteries of their own . The upshot of this was that the Swiss government abolished the Liechtenstein Sweep just about the time that southern Ireland became the Free State with a national law permitting charity hospitalsto conduct sweepstakes . Freeman and Duggan moved to Ireland , taking their sucker lists and other files with them , and well equipped by experience to start a lottery which had handled $233,457,000 up to and including the Grand National sweep of March 1936 . There they took in McGrath as a partner . McGrath has served in the Irish government , and the personal prestige of the two Irishmen was an important asset . Duggan , moreover , scratched together half a million dollars to guarantee the first sweep @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This money was not invested but merely posted as security . Freeman 's first contribution was the idea of moving into Ireland and taking advantage of the Hospitals ' Sweep law , but his natural talent for the management of the gamble has been a continuing factor in the success of the business . He spent some time in the United States , working in the plant of the now defunct Pullman Automobile Company in York , Pa. , and in the Ford Works in Detroit , before he found his groove . In Ireland he remains in the background , avoiding public notice because the Irish love to hate an English-'T " lint Right 175man . He is about five feet eight inches tall and has the quiet manner characteristic of professional gamblers . He has a good layman 's knowledge of the gambling laws of the principal countries , including ours . His brother , the bookmaker , on the other hand , is the picture-book figure of the professional gambling man  --  gaudy , adventurous and aggressive . When Freeman and Duggan transferred their business to Dublin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its own sweep . If the hospitals had done this the fifty sweeps would have killed off one another . So five or six hospitals were induced to pool their rights in the first sweep of the series and divided about $650,000 . Others were thus enticed into the pool , which now includes all the important free and semicharity hospitals in the Free State , about fifty in number . Freeman , McGrathand Duggan 's estate divide among them about two and a half per cent of the gross receipts , and have split $5,836,000 on an original stake of $500,000 . Still , under the law , they would have been entitled to seven per cent , or more than $16,000,000 . They took less because they did not want to ride a good horse to an early death . On the whole , the sweep appears to be scrupulously conducted by comparison with a hundred or more notoriouslycrooked English football pools , which steal millions of pounds of the poor people 's money. 176 ' T dint RightAfter the hospitals had divided about $21,000,000 the trustees began to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some of which had been spent hurriedly and not too intelligently . Eamon de Valera then intervened and dammed up subsequent accruals pending a survey of the legitimate needs of the individualhospitals , releasing only a small trickle of money for urgent requirements . He also imposed a government tax of twenty-five per cent of the hospitals ' share , which is twenty-five per cent of the gross . Notwithstanding this tax and the new British law prohibiting mention of the sweep in the papers of England , Scotland and Wales , and otherwise hampering sales where once millions of tickets had been peddled , the hospitals ' fund stored up in the Dublin banks has continued to grow . It was $25,000,000 in March , 1936 . The money can be released whenever the commission decides how much each hospital deserves . The hospitals ' total share , including the $21,000,000 spent before De Valera sequestered the money , had been $46,000,000 . Nevertheless , the hospital authorities estimate that they will need $15,000,000 more to complete their program . ' T Ai nt Right 177 SHOP TALKLONDON  --  The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to imitate the gaudiest features of our journalism . Notwithstanding the severity of the English libel law and the restrictions governing the coverage of crime , they have managed to achieve a rich yellow complexion and would be much yellower if they dared . It has not been many years since the English press was permitted to publish verbatim testimony in covering divorce trials , and did so with an enthusiasm which bespoke an eager public appetite for intimacies which according to Americanstandards are much too foul for publication . The privilege of printing sheer filth finally was abolishedby the government in the interests of moral hygiene , and , although the public welfare was taken into consideration , the public taste was ignored , for they do love their smut . The London journalists did a bang-up job covering the death and funeral of King George V , but they often ignore such essentials as names and addresses and make use of the perpendicular pronoun in routine items which were better done in the impersonalstyle . All English journalists except those employed on the 78 ' T " lint Rightnegligible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the crown and the royal family . Instinctively they sound the ballyhoo for these institutions whenever they have occasion to mention them . This phenomenon not only bespeaks a warm personal loyalty comparable to that of Mussolini 's Fascist journalists and Hitler 's Nazi press agents but betrays a constant awareness that the royal system is on the defensive . This instinct produced some maudlin overwriting duringthe royal obsequies , and I have noticed two photographsin which sentimentality drips from the paper . One is a picture of the late king 's pony walking with head bowed in sorrow , and the other is a portrait of one of His late Majesty 's dogs . But the pony 's head is bowed because he is wearing a checkrein , and the mournful expression of the dog is characteristic of the breed , for it is one of those sad-looking bird dogs with wet , lugubrious eyes and drooping jowls . The London publishers pay better wages than ours , and the day of the cringing penny-a-liner or inkstained wretch of Fleet Street has passed . A new and aggressive crew have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hand but throw open the door and walk in with a confident " How do you do ! " no different from that of the Washington correspondent who knows his way around . When the new king was the Prince of Wales the Englishreporters of the better class acted as men in his'T flint Right 179presence , and his own respect for them as men undoubtedlyassisted in the emancipation of that class who in other years were known somewhat contemptuouslyas " pressmen . " The continuance of this relation now that the prince has become king will further enhancethe prestige of the English reporter and dispel much of the flubdub with which up to now it has been customary to adorn references to the royal family . The new king does not like photographers , because their duty makes it necessary for them to get in his hair , but he is very considerate at that , considering how many millions of times he has been photographed . Once when he was prince he called a photographer to him and was giving him hell for bothering him , when the photographer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ speak to you as one man to another ? " " Go ahead , " said the prince . " All right , " said the photographer . " Frankly , I am sick of taking your picture , but I have to do it because that 's me job . One day you were opening a bloody ' ospital and I took your picture . Then when you were coming out what do you do ? Why , you stoop down and shake ' ands with a bloody little kiddy , and I ' ad to be there to photograph that or I 'd have been sacked . I 'd rather 've been ' ome , but you ' ave to go around shaking ' ands with a lot of dirty little brats . Why do you shake ' ands with every little brat you see ? 1 80 ' T Ai nt Right " Another time I found a little brat near another ' ospital and I went into a garden and stole a lot of flowers with me own ' ands . I then gave the flowers to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' and them to you when you came out . But she took me shillin ' and then got scared . So I did n't get me picture . And next day there was a story in the paper about a little kiddy that saved ' er pennies to buy some flowers for the prince but got lost in the crowd and missed ' im . So then I got ' ell from my office because I missed the picture of the kiddy . " The prince laughed and relented , but photographers bother him , nevertheless . Even when his father lay dead , both he and his mother , though bowed with grief and worn almost to exhaustion by formal duties , were photographed incessantly by those very papers which expressed the most towering scorn for the sniping of the Lindbergh baby 's picture  --  and then ran it themselves . KNOWLEDGE IS POWER ( With apologies to Arthur Brisbane ) LAS VEGAS , N. M. , En Route to Olympic Games  --  Persons aboard this train are going to Los Angeles for the'T A int Right 181Olympic Games @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Spanish . Study Spanish . Plato said , " No man can know too much knowledge . " The Olympic Games were established in Greece . The Greeks were a great race , but there are other things in life besides athletics and sport . Physical perfection is desirable , but physical development at the expense of the intellect is not a wise program . Chateaubriand , wise hermit philosopher , wrote , " Moderation in all things . " That is worth thinking about , even in these days . Gene Tunney , champion boxer , may go to the United States Senate . Tunney in the ring would have been no match for a gorilla . The gorilla would have crushed him in ten seconds . But Tunney is more intelligent ; he would be the gorilla 's superior in the Senate . This preservesthe balance of power . Olympic athletes run fast , but a train goes faster . Puny man bends mighty Nature to his will . Steam loosed upon the air makes a hissing noise but does not do any work . Steam in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ William T. Tilden invented the locomotive , and Samuel Hopkins Adams , fourth President of the United States , wrote the Gettys-18z ' T dint Rightburg Address . Ten hundred thousand million trillion gorillas could not invent the locomotive or write the Gettysburg Address . Prairie dogs poise by their holes and gaze at man . Man gazes at the prairie dogs . Each has something to learn from the other , but the prairie dog does not learn . Man adapts the prairie dog 's engineering principles , building tunnels and subways . But the prairie dog , havingno intellect , does not learn from man that it is better to build houses above the ground , where it is light and sunny . No prairie dog will ever go to the United States Senate . Wise Nature has made other plans . Los Angeles , beautiful city offering marvelous realestatebargains , rests by the Pacific Ocean . La Marquise de Quebec , when he discovered the Pacific in 8zz B.C. , exclaimed , " Swift flies the arrow from the bow . " Today modern American youths swim faster @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ swimming in the desert . The reason for this is obvious to thinking men and women . Practice thinking . European athletes come to Los Angeles , beautiful city of real-estate bargains , to run , jump , and hurl objects . ' T dint Right 183This takes money . But Europe can not pay her war debts . Uncle Sam will wonder about that . Physically perfect young women swimming or playingtennis can do good in the world if they impart their physical perfection to strong , healthy children . Physical perfection acquired for mere vanity in beauty is wrong . Like wealth , water power and mineral deposits , it is wasted unless it is productive . Socrates , builder of the Taj Mahal , was the son of Charlemagne , world 's most beautiful woman . But his father had brains . He taught his son to think , and we enjoy the profit . It is called the Koran . Read it . Ancient Thrace reveled in luxury and idleness . Along this railroad idle workmen whittle by the railroad stations , but not in luxury . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and there will be no work for man to do . Praxiteles , founder of the Archimedean Principle , foresaw this when he said to Marshal Ney , " No tengo tobacco . " The courses of nations are governed by trifling things . Paavo Nurmi , Finnish runner , covers twenty-six miles in a little over two hours . The aeroplane covers the same distance in a few minutes . In a hurry Nurmi would take an aeroplane . He can not think with his feet. 184 ' T flint RightFrederick the Great was a cripple , but he discovered gunpowder , which blows the strongest man to atoms , three thousand years after his death . In California , where land is cheap and the climate marvelous , visitors to the Olympic Games will see many wonderful bargains in real estate . Visitors to Columbus Circle , marvelous center in busy New York , will see many real-estate bargains , too . It would take man 's fastest aeroplane three thousand years to reach Stella Bul-Bul , the nearest star in the firmament . Washington , great American , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in New York . Five dollars ' worth of Columbus Circle real estate in his day would be worth six hundred million billion to his heirs today . Talleyrand wrote : " If I had my life to live again I would do many things differently . " One grain of wisdom is worth ten thousand billion athletic records . THAT IS NEW YORK ! ( With apologies to O. O. McIntyre ) THOUGHTS WHILE STROLLING : The faint nostalgic nosegay of the Old World ateliers always assails me when my evening stroll takes me in the ' T Ai nt Right 185neighborhood of Le Chat Malade , that swank rendezvousof the cognoscenti in New York 's Montparnasse . There over my simple dish of aperitif aux rognons I saw Irvin S. Cobb , Fannie Hurst , Will Hays , Charlie McArthur , Will Hays and Irvin S. Cobb . Sometimes , too , while browsing through my Petit Parisienne , lingering over my pour boire , I spy Gene Tunney , Irvin S. Cobb , Will Hays and Irvin S. Cobb engaged in a sharp play of wit , bantering @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I do wish Hyacinthe , the chef de cuisine , could learn to boil eggs the way Toad Smith used to do them in the Ajax Lunch back home . Sinister shadows , slithering sibilantly through Chinatown'sthreadbare mews , always remind me of the Nick Carter stories I used to read with Butch Klutch in the haymow of his father 's livery stable . A nostalgic patina permeates the poignant metier which broods over the pervading mouchoir . Last night , in Pell Street , a faint , silent shriek attracted my attention and an opium eater fell dead at my feet , shot with a platinum bullet set with oriental sapphires . " Begorry , sor , " said the Irish cop , nonchalantly nubile , with his sang-froid cocked over one eye , " ' t is the work of the Hip Sings , yer worship . " Charles M. Schwab , Fannie Hurst and Irvin S. Cobb often go down186 ' T . lint Rightto Chinatown to see the murders , sometimes accompanied by Irvin S. Cobb and Will Hays . Look-alikes : Will Hays and Irvin S. Cobb @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Gene Tunney . The mordant nuances of Frazier Hunt 's cravats never fail to titivate my turgid tibiae . Meeting him by chance , at one of those swank abattoirs the other night , I fetched a soignee sigh for the two-bit Sunday necktie of my youth . Another devotee of the beau blanchisserie is Gene Tunney , who sometimes buys ten thousand at a single order and gives them to Dudley Field Malone . Irving Berlin has been known to enter a shoe store , buy as many as a thousand pairs and wear them all at once . But perhaps the most distingue of the cavaliers of our time was the late Flo Ziegfeld , who always had a standing order for fifty suits a month and wore them with the de trop elegance of the Boulevardier . Incident on Park Avenue : A puffy old gallant with a pince-nez cocked at a jaunty angle in his buttonhole stopped at the Ritz Tower for a fillip of rhon chaude avec champignons aux nuts . Three elderly ladies in crinolines dismounted from a petit four , driven by a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . With just the correct degree of noblesse oblige the old gentleman popped a bon mot into his mouth , picked up his change and went higgledy-piggledy on his way . Thousands of Broadway apaches , slinking through the slimy shadows of the nostalgic Nineties , peddle dope with which the filles de joie induce nepenthe . Yokeling along the other night , I heard screams , shots , moans and saw the police cars gyrate to a darkened deadfall . Six bodies emerged under sheets to vanish into the morbid maw of the metropolitan moloch . It is nothing unusual for as many as twenty despairing demi-mondaines to end it all in a single night in one particular house I often pass in my constitutional saunter . Charles M. Schwab seldom sails for Europe without first visiting a fortuneteller . Others of the cognoscenti who will not set foot on the gangplank without consultingthe stars are Gene Tunney , Fannie Hurst , Frazier Hunt , Will Hays , Irvin S. Cobb , Will Hays , Irving Berlin and Irvin S. Cobb . Small-town boys who made good : Will Hays @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' lint Right HAIR-TRIGGER PLAINTIFFSIN DEPLORING the ethics of the legal profession it is customary to forget that a large proportion of the citi- zens have become shyster-minded themselves and go through life hoping to be flicked on the flask by a rich man 's limousine , disappointed in love , thrown out of a solvent hotel , insulted , libeled , frightened , humiliated or barked at by a dog whose owner lives in a big house . Quite aside from the small criminal element of pro- fessional plaintiffs who are constantly having painful accidents on the common carriers and in department stores and suing for $ioo , 000 , there is a tendency among people to think in terms of damage , evidence and lawsuits in every conceivable mishap or close call that befalls them . This is no special failing of the poor , being common also among people who are middling well to do , and is the cause of much of the clutter , delay and per- jury in the Courts . Not to deny that a person who has suffered actual in- jury through the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it must be admitted that many injuries , physical and otherwise , are brought to court which would be laughed off or accepted as the'T flint Right 1 89rub of the green if people had an honest mind about them . A man crosses a street against a traffic light , leaps to avoid a car , barks his shin against a curb , yells murder with great presence of mind , demands an ambulance and puts in a week 's time malingering in a hospital over an injury whose proper treatment would be a dab of iodine and a jolt of scotch . In due time his attorneys notify the attorneys for the insurance company that he has suffered great pain and will have to go on crutches the rest of his life , in addition to which his little woman has suffered a loss of his services , the whole bill amountingto $ioo , 000 . A grocery boy who plays football on the high-school team slips on an icy stoop delivering a dozen eggs and falls eighteen inches . This does him great bodily harm , and his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ see the young man the rest of his way through life , not failing to point out that he is the principal support of his parents and numerous brothers and sisters on his $3.00 a week from the grocer . A suburban lady comes staggering out of the cocktail bar of a hotel which is making money , begins to yodel and perform the split in the lobby and is firmly but gently shoved outside by the house detective in the honest performance of his duty . Two weeks later it develops through the affidavits of friends who were lushing with her at the bar , that the plaintiff drank190 ' T dint Rightnothing but mild , nutritious stingers , prescribed by her physician as a remedy for anemia , and that she was not plastered but just suddenly faint , not yodeling but cryingfor help , not doing the split but swooning . Thereforeshe has been publicly humiliated to an extent which can not be compensated for a nickel less than $50,000 . When Jack Dempsey was heavyweight champion of the world he was sued for $ioo , 000 by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been snapped at by a dog which wandered onto premises which Dempsey had rented for his training . When Gene Tunney was heavyweightchampion he was warned not to possess or drive any automobile because an ordinary hub scrape with a fifty-dollar flivver in a traffic jam would develop into a shambles with dead and wounded strewn over a wide area by the time the plaintiffs got to Court . Nobody ever sued a poor man for breach of promise or alienation . The brutality of the hit-and-run driver might be palliated in certain cases by the fear in the heart of every driver that no matter how carefully and well he drives his car an accident which is imposed on him by the victim 's own recklessness must inevitably involve him in litigation and might cost him everything he owns if he has the decency to stop and give assistance . I recall a case in which a child sliding on a sled on a public highway broke his nose against a car which was parked compliant to the law and then brought suit'T Ai nt Right 191against the owner @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's day off . The vast profusion of lawyers with nothing much to do for eating dollars doubtless accounts for much of this abuse , but the thieves ' psychology of the people themselvesis most to blame . The instinct now is not to avoid accident or other distress but to meet it at least halfway with a mind alreadyat work on the scene in Court and a row of big round numbers typed out in the plaintiff 's petition . The shyster spirit of the citizens is fouling the Court , with many claims for injuries which in people of reasonablydecent conscience could be repaired with a nickel 's worth of sticking plaster , a rock thrown at the barking dog or a stein on the table and a good song ringing clear . YOUR HONOR IS A BUMI AM GLAD to learn that there is at last some thought of amending court procedure to prevent a judge from acting as judge , jury and complaining witness in contempt cases , because it has always been my idea that if a citizen called a judge a crook , a bar fly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ open Court , he ought to have a chance to prove up. 192 ' T . Ant RightIf he should then prove it to the satisfaction of a jury , action should be taken against the judge , because his unfitness would then have been placed on record , and his continued presence on the bench would be contrary to the dignity of the Courts and the interests of the community . The old way of doing has been not only unfair to the defendant but bad for the Courts as well , because it has deterred persons with good reason for holding an unfavorableopinion of certain judges from uttering those opinions out loud . This , of course , has had the effect of covering up the faults of certain judges and of buttering over with an undeserved sanctity many cheap or downrightcrooked characters whose accession to the Bench was of itself a blow to the honor of the Courts . It is certainly no discovery of mine that judges have sat upon the bench , enjoying all the tyrannical powers of the Court , who ought to have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the name of porch climber . The porch climber at least is not fouling up an institution to which the ordinary citizen must look for his justice when he finds himself in trouble one way or another . He climbs his porch and takes his chances , but the crooked and reachable judge not only contaminates the Courts but enjoys a power to prevent , by mere intimidation , through the weapon of contempt , any reference to his true character . ' T dint Right 193I just think there is too much tyranny in the Courts , anyway , and that , even if a judge should happen to be an honest man and a pretty bright individual , he still ought to be required to keep a civil tongue in his head . If a judge glares at a citizen  --  even a defendant  --  or loses his temper because he happens to have a hangover at the time or merely because he is a man of bullying disposition , and lets out a great bellow at someone who happens to annoy him , that individual , I think @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ glare and holler right back at him without any impairment of his rights in the case . Yet it must always be " your honor " this and " May it please the Court " that , and cases are always breaking into print in which judges maliciously increase the punishment of convicted persons merely because they will not cringe . The man is convicted and is given , let us say , three years in prison  --  an outcome which tries his spirit to exasperation and impels him to blurt a sarcastic " thank you " to the man upon the bench . He is then called back before the bar and sentenced to spend another year or two of his life behind the bars , not because of any crime which he has committed , but because he was indiscreet enough to ruffle the dignity . of a man whose vindictive conduct in the matter proves right there that he is n't fit for his job and ought to be fired like any other incompetent . I might say that I wonder what these judges feed on194 ' T @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I know without asking . They feed on a fat old tradition and an exaggerated awe , which have been developing for a long , time in the Courts , and they presently come to think of themselves as being subject to no law but their own erratic dislikes . But it may have been noticed that many changes are taking place in the country at this time , and it would not startle me much to observe , along with other changes , that the citizen , including even the defendant , has earned a right to speak and conduct himself in a manly manner toward the Court and to resent insulting or bullying conduct from the Bench without any risk of being thrown into jail for contempt of Court . I know a judge , complete with all the customary powers of oppression , who once put a crooked physician on the stand to swear that his patient had not been injured in an accident , as alleged , but was dying of tuberculosis . The physician was ordered off the stand by the presiding judge with a mention @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in fifteen years since that time has evinced no symptoms of tuberculosis but has never recovered from his injuries . If it should befall this patient to appear before this attorney , who is now a judge himself , it should be his right , I think , to recall this incident and to express a belief in open Court that his honor once connived at false testimony under oath . ' T Ai nt Right 195But under the present circumstances that would be a very foolish thing to say . The Court , without any necessityof going into the facts of the matter , could throw the subject into some dirty jail for a long time to teach him respect for a judge who deserves the contempt of the foulest defendant who might face him at the bar . MASTER SHYSTERSPERHAPS it is ungrateful to belittle the current campaignof the legal profession against the so-called ambulancechaser and the Great Mouthpiece who speaks for the racketeer in Court and takes his pay out of the hoodlum 's sinful earnings . But throughout this agitation both the Bar and the public have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ morally and ethically indistinguishable from that of the despised shyster . I refer to the type of attorney known as " distinguished " who was a sharing partner and the scheming genius in all the great tax dodges and security swindles revealed since the collapse of the boom . Counsel of this kind still retain the respect of the legal profession , their personal freedom , their share of the loot and the right to do it again . Such attorneys are regarded as models196 ' T dint Rightof propriety and success in the forcing schools where more attorneys are being created at an alarming rate , and the invitation to the young lawyers to go and do likewise or worse , has not been rescinded by any act of the attorney general 's office or resolution of the Bar . To be sure , the ambulance chaser is a nuisance and the more contemptible because he wastes his wily ingenuityon mean and petty jobs . The Great Mouthpieceis a menace because he strives to keep at large and in profitable action persons of low and brutal characterwho borrow wealthy brewers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them back for amounts which in some cases have been considered to be excessive . But no young student , squirting soda for his board and keep and reading law in his afterhours to prepare himself for the more abundant life , has a conscious ambition to become an ambulance chaser . Only a comparativefew , endowed with a dime-novel imagination , aspire to become Bill Fallons and devote their careers to proving that the man who did the murder did n't . The young aim at the stars , and the stars of the legal profession include many a one who took a share of the proceeds for showing the promoters of the Era of WonderfulNonsense how they could convert a net income into a tragic deficit by selling from the right-hand pocket to the left . They include , also , those legal handcuff kings who were called in beforehand to examine magnifi-'T Ai nt Right 197cent swindles and show the promoters how they could rob the Great American Chump without violating the statutes . Naturally the promoters wished to remain inside the law but just barely inside . And @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expert advice they did not look for ambulance chasers or tough-talking criminal lawyers with a reputation for consorting with bootleggers . On the contrary , they selected their counsel from the nobility of the profession and paid according to the magnitude of their operations . And , more important to a profession sensitive about its ethics , they paid thesb great leaders out of the loot received from vast numbers of unfortunates who were robbed as certainly and ruthlesslyas any victim who ever hoisted his hands to a juvenile gunman in a ten-dollar stick-up on a dark street . It goes without saying that none of these great swindlers ever undertook a job without first consulting his lawyers to make certain that the documents which he was about to sign protected him from the penalty which he knew he deserved . The intent , of course , was plain to the attorneys , but they were not concerned with the intent , being hired only to say , out of their expert knowledge , whether the client had exposed himself to criminal or civil liability . They knew how , and their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ destructive than all the ambulance chasing and all198 ' T lint Rightthe comma hunting and penny-ante jury fixing of all the criminal lawyers in the country . It is good , rough , rousing reading when someone from the Department of Justice or the upper reaches of the Bar hoists up at a trade-union conference of the legal profession to denounce the ambulance chaser and other vermin vaguely described as shysters . But these denunciations are all of a piece with the editorial denouncingthe common cold , wrestlers and lax morality in the young . Even if the ambulance chaser and the hoodlums ' mouthpiece were ignored and allowed to proceed subjectonly to the normal risks of their low-lived trade , the sum of all their crimes would hardly match the consequences of those legal services by the aristocrats who not only promoted the great disaster but , far more than any misconduct of the small-time lawyer , brought the law into the contempt of the people . PRISON LIFE : ALL-STAR CASTTHE WAR AND NAVY departments have been giving the moving-picture companies a free hand , and plays depicting the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had a stimulating effect as propaganda . ' T Ai nt Right 199The Department of Justice , however , has been neglecting an excellent chance to promote good behavioramong the citizens by its persistent refusal to reveal any glimpses of reality at Alcatraz , Leavenworth or Atlanta . It is my notion that such a drama or a series of such plays would have a much better effect on personswho are inclined to err than all the releases which have been given out in mimeographed form by Mr Homer Cummings , the attorney general . Not even a machine-gun barrage , by formal appointment with the newsreel men , in which a white-haired mother and her unruly son are shelled to tatters by operatives shooting through the pines , can possibly exert the same sobering and depressing effect on those whom it is desired to impress . On the contrary , it is the contention of those who claim to know the mind of the wayward youth that he is more likely to be stimulated than deterred by scenes of gunfire in which the fugitive goes down shooting against superior numbers and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The young man of this type learns to love the feel of a one-hand gun or a stuttering Thompson , and , far from flinching , is fired with a desire to engage in lawlessconduct under arms and presently come to one great , glorious collision with the G-men , in which , though they may get him , he gets some of them . Hangingand electrocution enter his calculation only as remote chances . Being vague scenes in his **26;4477;TOOLONG IT leaped out at her suddenly , like a grin out of the dark , that they had often called England so little  --  " such a confoundedly hard place to get lost in . " A confoundedly hard place to get lost in ! That had been her husband 's phrase . And now , with the whole machinery of official investigation sweeping its flashlightsfrom shore to shore , and across the dividing straits ; now , with Boyne 's name blazing from the walls of every town and village , his portrait ( how that wrung her ! ) hawked up and down the country like the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ populous island , so policed , surveyed and administered , revealed itself as a Sphinx-like guardian of abysmal mysteries , staring back into his wife 's anguished eyes as if with the wicked joy of knowing something they would never know ! In the fortnight since Boyne 's disappearance there had been no word of him , no trace of his movements . Even the usual misleading reports that raise expectancy in tortured bosoms had been few and fleeting . No one but the kitchen-maid had seen Boyne leave the house , and no one else had seen " the gentleman " who accompaniedhim . All enquiries in the neighbourhood failed to elicit the memory of a stranger 's presence that day in the neighbourhood of Lyng . And no one had met Edward Boyne , either alone or in company , in any of the neighbouring villages , or on the road across the downs , or at either of the local railway-stations . The sunny English noon had swallowed him as com-P101pletely as if he had gone out into Cimmerian night . Mary , while every official means of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her husband'spapers for any trace of antecedent complications , of entanglements or obligations unknown to her , that might throw a ray into the darkness . But if any such had existed in the background of Boyne 's life , they had vanished like the slip of paper on which the visitorhad written his name . There remained no possible thread of guidance except  --  if it were indeed an exception  --  theletter which Boyne had apparently been in the act of writing when he received his mysterious summons . That letter , read and reread by his wife , and submitted by her to the police , yielded little enough to feed conjecture . " I have just heard of Elwell 's death , and while I suppose there is now no further risk of trouble , it might be safer  --  " That was all . The " risk of trouble " was easily explained by the newspaper clipping which had apprised Mary of the suit brought against her husband by one of his associates in the Blue Star enterprise . The only new information conveyed by the letter was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it , to be still apprehensive of the results of the suit , though he had told his wife that it had been withdrawn , and though the letter itself proved that the plaintiff was dead . It took several days of cabling to fix the identity of the " Parvis " to whom the fragment was addressed , but even after these enquiries had shown him to be a Waukesha lawyer , no new facts concerning the Elwell suit were elicited . He appeared to have had no directp102concern in it , but to have been conversant with the facts merely as an acquaintance , and possible intermediary ; and he declared himself unable to guess with what objectBoyne intended to seek his assistance . This negative information , sole fruit of the first fortnight 's search , was not increased by a jot during the slow weeks that followed . Mary knew that the investigations were still being carried on , but she had a vague sense of their gradually slackening , as the actual march of time seemed to slacken . It was as though the days , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ day , gained assurance as the distance lengthened , till at last they fell back into their normal gait . And so with the human imaginations at work on the dark event . No doubt it occupied them still , but week by week and hour by hour it grew less absorbing , took up less space , was slowly but inevitably crowded out of the foreground of consciousness by the new problems perpetually bubbling up from the cloudy caldron of human experience . Even Mary Boyne 's consciousness gradually felt the same lowering of velocity . It still swayed with the incessantoscillations of conjecture ; but they were slower , more rhythmical in their beat . There were even momentsof weariness when , like the victim of some poison which leaves the brain clear , but holds the body motionless , she saw herself domesticated with the Horror , acceptingits perpetual presence as one of the fixed conditions of life . These moments lengthened into hours and days , till she passed into a phase of stolid acquiescence . Shep103watched the routine of daily life with the incurious eye of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but the faintest impression . She had come to regard herself as part of the routine , a spoke of the wheel , revolving with its motion ; she felt almost like the furniture of the room in which she sat , an insensate object to be dusted and pushed about with the chairs and tables . And this deepening apathy held her fast at Lyng , in spite of the entreaties of friends and the usual medical recommendation of " change " . Her friends supposed that her refusal to move was inspired by the belief that her husband would one day return to the spot from which he had vanished , and a beautiful legend grew up about this imaginary state of waiting . But in reality she had no such belief : the depths of anguish enclosing her were no longer lighted by flashes of hope . She was sure that Boyne would never come back , that he had gone out of her sight as completely as if Death itself had waited that day on the threshold . She had even renounced , one by one , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advancedby the press , the police , and her own agonised imagination . In sheer lassitude her mind turned from these alternatives of horror , and sank back into the blank fact that he was gone . No , she would never know what had become of him  --  no one would ever know . But the house knew ; the library in which she spent her long lonely evenings knew . For it was here that the last scene had been enacted , here that the stranger had come , and spoken the word which had caused Boyne to rise and follow 04him . The floor she trod had felt his tread ; the books on the shelves had seen his face ; and there were momentswhen the intense consciousness of the old dusky walls seemed about to break out into some audible revelation of their secret . But the revelation never came , and she knew it would never come . Lyng was not one of the garrulous old houses that betray the secrets entrusted to them . Its very legend proved that it had always been the mute @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had surprised . And Mary Boyne , sitting face to face with its silence , felt the futility of seeking to break it by any human means . " I DO N'T say it was n't straight , and yet I do n't say it was straight . It was business . " Mary , at the words , lifted her head with a start , and looked intently at the speaker . When , half an hour before , a card with " Mr. Parvis " on it had been brought up to her , she had been immediatelyaware that the name had been a part of her consciousness ever since she had read it at the head of Boyne 's unfinished letter . In the library she had found awaiting her a small sallow man with a bald head and gold eyeglasses , and it sent a tremor through her to know that this was the person to whom her husband 's last known thought had been directed . Parvis , civilly , but without vain preamble  --  in the manner of a man who has his watch in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ visit . He had " run over " top105England on business , and finding himself in the neighbourhoodof Dorchester , had not wished to leave it without paying his respects to Mrs. Boyne ; and without asking her , if the occasion offered , what she meant to do about Bob Elwell 's family . The words touched the spring of some obscure dread in Mary 's bosom . Did her visitor , after all , know what Boyne had meant by his unfinished phrase ? She asked for an elucidation of his question , and noticed at once that he seemed surprised at her continued ignorance of the subject . Was it possible that she really knew as little as she said ? " I know nothing  --  you must tell me , " she faltered out ; and her visitor thereupon proceeded to unfold his story . It threw , even to her confused perceptions , and imperfectly initiated vision , a lurid glare on the whole hazy episode of the Blue Star Mine . Her husband had made his money in that brilliant speculation at the cost of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the chance ; and the victim of his ingenuity was young Robert Elwell , who had " put him on " to the Blue Star scheme . Parvis , at Mary 's first cry , had thrown her a sobering glance through his impartial glasses . " Bob Elwell was n't smart enough , that 's all ; if he had been , he might have turned round and served Boyne the same way . It 's the kind of thing that happens every day in business . I guess it 's what the scientists call the survival of the fittest  --  see ? " said Mr. Parvis , evidentlypleased with the aptness of his analogy . Mary felt a physical shrinking from the next questionp106she tried to frame : it was as though the words on her lips had a taste that nauseated her . " But then  --  you accuse my husband of doing somethingdishonourable ? " Mr. Parvis surveyed the question dispassionately . " Oh , no , I do n't . I do n't even say it was n't straight . " He glanced up and down @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them might have supplied him with the definitionhe sought . " I do n't say it was n't straight , and yet I do n't say it was straight . It was business . " After all , no definition in his category could be more comprehensivethan that . Mary sat staring at him with a look of terror . He seemed to her like the indifferent emissary of some evil power . " But Mr. Elwell 's lawyers apparently did not take your view , since I suppose the suit was withdrawn by their advice . " " Oh , yes ; they knew he had n't a leg to stand on , technically . It was when they advised him to withdraw the suit that he got desperate . You see , he 'd borrowed most of the money he lost in the Blue Star , and he was up a tree . That 's why he shot himself when they told him he had no show . " The horror was sweeping over Mary in great deafeningwaves . " He shot himself ? He killed himself because of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ himself , exactly . He dragged on two months before he died . " Parvis emitted the statementas unemotionally as a gramophone grinding out its " record " .  | " You mean that he tried to kill himself , and failed ? And tried again ? " " Oh , he did n't have to try again , " said Parvis grimly . They sat opposite each other in silence , he swinging his eyeglasses thoughtfully about his finger , she , motionless , her arms stretched along her knees in an attitude of rigid tension . " But if you knew all this , " she began at length , hardly able to force her voice above a whisper , " how is it that when I wrote you at the time of my husband 's disappearance you said you did n't understand his letter ? " Parvis received this without perceptible embarrassment : " Why , I did n't understand it  --  strictly speaking . And it was n't the time to talk about it , if I had . The Elwell business was settled when the suit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have helped you to find your husband . " Mary continued to scrutinize him . " Then why are you telling me now ? " Still Parvis did not hesitate . " Well , to begin with , I supposed you knew more than you appear to  --  I mean about the circumstances of Elwell 's death . And then people are talking of it now ; the whole matter 's been raked up again . And I thought if you did n't know you ought to . " She remained silent , and he continued : " You see , it 's only come out lately what a bad state Elwell 's affairs were in . ' His wife 's a proud woman , and she fought on as long as she could , going out to work , and taking sewing at home when she got too sick  --  something withp108the heart , I believe . But she had his mother to look after , and the children , and she broke down under it , and finally had to ask for help . That called attention to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a subscription was started . Everybody out there liked Bob Elwell , and most of the prominent names in the place are down on the list , and people began to wonder why  --  " Parvis broke off to fumble in an inner pocket . " Here , " he continued , " here 's an account of the whole thing from the Sentinel  --  a little sensational , of course . But I guess you 'd better look it over . " He held out a newspaper to Mary , who unfolded it slowly , remembering , as she did so , the evening when , in that same room , the perusal of a clipping from the Sentinel had first shaken the depths of her security . As she opened the paper , her eyes , shrinking from the glaring head-lines , " Widow of Boyne 's Victim Forced to Appeal for Aid " , ran down the column of text to two portraits inserted in it . The first was her husband 's , taken from a photograph made the year they had come to England . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the one that stood on the writing table upstairs in her bedroom . As the eyes in the photograph met hers , she felt it would be impossible to read what was said of him , and closed her lids with the sharpness of the pain . " I thought if you felt disposed to put your name down  --  " she heard Parvis continue . She opened her eyes with an effort , and they fell on the other portrait . It was that of a youngish man , slightly built , with features somewhat blurred by the shadow of a projecting hat-brim . Where had she seenp109that outline before ? She stared at it confusedly , her heart hammering in her ears . Then she gave a cry . " This is the man  --  the man who came for my hus-hand ! " She heard Parvis start to his feet , and was dimly aware that she had slipped backward into the corner of the sofa , and that he was bending above her in alarm . She straightened herself , and reached out for the paper which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I should know him anywhere ! " she persisted in a voice that sounded to her own ears like a scream . Parvis 's answer seemed to come to her from far off , clown endless fog-muffled windings . " Mrs. Boyne , you 're not very well . Shall I call somebody ? Shall I get a glass of water ? " " No , no , no ! " She threw herself toward him , her hand frantically clutching the newspaper . " I tell you , it 's the man ! I know him ! He spoke to me in the garden ! " Parvis took the journal from her , directing his glasses to the portrait . " It ca n't be , Mrs. Boyne . It 's Robert Elwell . " " Robert Elwell ? " Her white stare seemed to travel into space . " Then it was Robert Elwell who came for him . " Came for Boyne ? The day he went away from here . " Parvis 's voice dropped as hers rose . He bent over , laying a fraternal hand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into her seat . " Why , Elwell was dead ! Do n't you remember ? "  |p110Mary  sat with her eyes fixed on the picture , unconsciousof what he was saying . " Do n't you remember Boyne 's unfinished letter to me  --  the one you found on his desk that day ? It was written just after he 'd heard of Elwell 's death . " She noticed an odd shake in Parvis 's unemotional voice . " Surely you remember ! " he urged her . Yes , she remembered : that was the profoundest horror of it . Elwell had died the day before her husband'sdisappearance ; and this was Elwell 's portrait ; and it was the portrait of the man who had spoken to her in the garden . She lifted her head and looked slowly about the library . The library could have borne witnessthat it was also the portrait of the man who had come in that day to call Boyne from his unfinished letter . Through the misty surgings of her brain she heard the faint boom of half-forgotten words  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beforeBoyne and his wife had ever seen the house at Lyng , or had imagined that they might one day live there . " This was the man who spoke to me , " she repeated . She looked again at Parvis . He was trying to conceal his disturbance under what he probably imagined to be an expression of indulgent commiseration ; but the edges of his lips were blue . " He thinks me mad ; but I 'm not mad , " she reflected ; and suddenly there flashed upon her a way of justifying her strange affirmation . She sat quiet , controlling the quiver of her lips , and waiting till she could trust her voice ; then she said , looking straight at Parvis : " Will you answer me onep111question , please ? When was it that Robert Elwell tried to kill himself ? " " When -- when ? " Parvis stammered . " Yes ; the date . Please try to remember . " She saw that he was growing still more afraid of her . " I have a reason , " she @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ n't remember . About two months before , I should say . " " I want the date , " she repeated . Parvis picked up the newspaper . " We might see here , " he said , still humouring her . He ran his eyes clown the page . " Here it is . Last October  --  the  --  " She caught the words from him . " The loth , was n't it ? " With a sharp look at her , he verified . " Yes , the loth . Then you did know ? " " I know now . " Her gaze continued to travel past him . " Sunday , the loth  --  that was the day he came first . " Parvis 's voice was almost inaudible . " Came here first ? " " Yes . " " You saw him twice , then ? " " Yes , twice . " She just breathed it at him . " He came first on the loth of October . I remember the date because it was the day we went up Meldon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ faint gasp of inward laughter at the thought that but for that she might have forgotten . Parvis continued to scrutinize her , as if trying to intercept her gaze . " We saw him from the roof , " she went on . " He came down the lime-avenue toward the house . He was dressed 12 just as he is in that picture . My husband saw him first . He was frightened , and ran down ahead of me ; but there was no one there . He had vanished . " " Elwell had vanished ? " Parvis faltered . " Yes . " Their two whispers seemed to grope for each other . " I could n't think what had happened . I see now . He tried to come then ; but he was n't dead enough  --  he could n't reach us . He had to wait for two months to die ; and then he came back again  --  and Ned went with him . " She nodded at Parvis with the look of triumph of a child who has worked out a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ desperate gesture , pressing them to her temples . " Oh , my God ! I sent him to Ned  --  I told him where to go ! I sent him to this room ! " she screamed . She felt the walls of books rush toward her , like inward falling ruins ; and she heard Parvis , a long way off , through the ruins , crying to her , and struggling to get at her . But she was numb to his touch , she did not know what he was saying . Through the tumult she heard but one clear note , the voice of Alida Stair , speaking on the lawn at Pangbourne . " You wo n't know till afterward , " it said . " You wo n't know till long , long afterward. "  | I T was the autumn after I had the typhoid . I 'd been three months in hospital , and when I came out I looked so weak and tottery that the two or three ladies I applied to were afraid to engage me . Most of my @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two months , hanging about the employment agencies , and answering any advertisement that looked any way respectable , I pretty nearly lost heart , for fretting had n't made me fatter , and I did n't see why my luck should ever turn . It did though  --  or I thought so at the time . A Mrs. Railton , a friend of the lady that first brought me out to the States , met me one day and stopped to speak to me : she was one that had always a friendly way with her . She asked me what ailed me to look so white , and when I told her , " Why , Hartley , " says she , " I believe I 've got the very place for you . Come in to-morrow and we 'll talk about it . " The next day , when I called , she told me the lady she 'd in mind was a niece of hers , a Mrs. Brympton , a youngish lady , but something of an invalid , who lived all the year round at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not being able to stand the fatigue of town life . " Now , Hartley , " Mrs. Railton said , in that cheeryp116way that always made me feel things must be going to take a turn for the better  --  " now understand me ; it 's not a cheerful place I 'm sending you to . The house is big and gloomy ; my niece is nervous , vapourish ; her husband  --  well , he 's generally away ; and the two childrenare dead . A year ago I would as soon have thought of shutting a rosy active girl like you into a vault ; but you 're not particularly brisk yourself just now , are you ? and a quiet place , with country air and wholesomefood and early hours , ought to be the very thing for you . Do n't mistake me , " she added , for I suppose I looked a trifle downcast ; " you may find it dull but you wo n't be unhappy . My niece is an angel . Her former maid , who died last spring , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ she walked on . She 's a kind mistress to all , and where the mistress is kind , as you know , the servants are generally good-humoured , so you 'll probably get on well enough with the rest of the household . And you 're the very woman I want for my niece : quiet , well-mannered , and educated above your station . You read aloud well , I think ? That 's a good thing ; my niece likes to be read to . She wants a maid that can be something of a companion : her last was , and I ca n't say how she misses her . It 's a lonely life . . . Well , have you decided ? " " Why , ma'am , " I said , " I 'm not afraid of solitude . " " Well , then , go ; my niece will take you on my recommendation . I 'll telegraph her at once and you can take the afternoon train . She has no one to wait on her at present , and I do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was ready enough to start , yet something in mep117hung back ; and to gain time I asked , " And the gentleman , ma'am ? " " The gentleman 's almost always away , I tell you , " said Mrs. Railton , quick-like  --  " and when he 's there , " says she suddenly , " you 've only to keep out of his way . " I took the afternoon train and got out at D --  station at about four o'clock . A groom in a dog-cart was waiting , and we drove off at a smart pace . It was a dull October day , with rain hanging close overhead , but by the time we turned into Brympton Place woods the daylight was almost gone . The drive wound through the woods for a mile or two , and came out on a gravel court shut in with thickets of tall black-looking shrubs . There were no lights in the windows , and the house did look a bit gloomy . I had asked no questions of the groom , for I never was one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ servants : I prefer to wait and see for myself . But I could tell by the look of everything that I had got into the right kind of house , and that things were done handsomely . A pleasant-faced cook met me at the back door and called the house-maid to show me up to my room . " You 'll see madam later , " she said . " Mrs. Brympton has a visitor . " I had n't fancied Mrs. Brympton was a lady to have many visitors , and somehow the words cheered me . I followed the house-maid upstairs , and saw , through a door on the upper landing , that the main part of the house seemed well furnished , with dark panelling and a number of old portraits . Another flight of stairs led us up to the servants ' wing . It was almost dark now ,  |p118and  the house-maid excused herself for not having brought a light . " But there 's matches in your room , " she said , " and if you go careful you 'll be all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ passage . Your room is just beyond . " I looked ahead as she spoke , and half-way down the passage I saw a woman standing . She drew back into a doorway as we passed and the house-maid did n't appear to notice her . She was a thin woman with a white face , and a darkish stuff gown and apron . I took her for the housekeeper and thought it odd that she did n't speak , but just gave me a long look as we went by . My room opened into a square hall at the end of the passage . Facing my door was another which stood open : the house-maid exclaimed when she saw it : " There  --  Mrs. Blinder 's left that door open again ! " said she , closing it . " Is Mrs. Blinder the housekeeper ? " " There 's no housekeeper : Mrs. Blinder 's the cook . " " And is that her room ? " " Laws , no , " said the house-maid , cross-like . " That 's nobody 's room . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ n't ought to be open . Mrs. Brympton wants it kept locked . " She opened my door and led me into a neat room , nicely furnished , with a picture or two on the walls ; and having lit a candle she took leave , telling me that the servants ' - hall tea was at six , and that Mrs. Brymptonwould see me afterward . I found them a pleasant-spoken set in the servants ' hall , and by what they let fall I gathered that , as Mrs. Railton had said , Mrs. Brympton was the kindest ofp119ladies ; but I did n't take much notice of their talk , for I was watching to see the pale woman in the dark gown come in . She did n't show herself , however , and I wondered if she ate apart ; but if she was n't the housekeeper , why should she ? Suddenly it struck me that she might be a trained nurse , and in that case her meals would of course be served in her room . If Mrs. Brymptonwas an invalid it was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ me , I own , for they 're not always the easiest to get on with , and if I 'd know I should n't have taken the place . But there I was and there was no use pulling a long face over it ; and not being one to ask questions I waited to see what would turn up . When tea was over the house-maid said to the footman : " Has Mr. Ranford gone ? " and when he said yes , she told me to come up with her to Mrs. Brympton . Mrs. Brympton was lying down in her bedroom . Her lounge stood near the fire and beside it was a shaded lamp . She was a delicate-looking lady , but when she smiled I felt there was nothing I would n't do for her . She spoke very pleasantly , in a low voice , asking me my name and age and so on , and if I had everything I wanted , and if I was n't afraid of feeling lonely in the country . " Not with you I would n't @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ words surprised me when I 'd spoken them , for I 'm not an impulsive person ; but it was just as if I 'd thought aloud . She seemed pleased at that , and said she hoped I 'd continue in the same mind ; then she gave me a few directions about her toilet , and said Agnes the house/maid should show me next morning where things were kept . " I am tired tonight , and shall dine upstairs , " she said . " Agnes will bring me my tray , that you may have time to unpack and settle yourself ; and later you may come and undress me . " " Very well , ma'am , " I said . " You 'll ring , I suppose ? " I thought she looked odd . " No  --  Agnes will fetch you , " says she quickly , and took up her book again . Well  --  that was certainly strange : a lady 's maid having to be fetched by the house-maid whenever her lady wanted her ! I wondered if there were no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ satisfied myself that there was one in every room , and a special one ringing from my mistress 's room to mine ; and after that it did strike me as queer that , whenever Mrs. Brympton wanted anything , she rang for Agnes , who had to walk the whole length of the servants ' wing to call me . But that was n't the only queer thing in the house . The very next day I found out that Mrs. Brympton had no nurse ; and then I asked Agnes about the woman I had seen in the passage the afternoon before . Agnes said she had seen no one , and I saw that she thought I was dreaming . To be sure , it was dusk when we went down the passage , and she had excused herself for not bringing a light ; but I had seen the woman plain enough to know her again if we should meet . I decided that she must have been a friend of the cook 's , or of one of the other women-servants ; perhaps she had come @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the servantsTHE LADY 'S MAID 'S BELL 121p121wanted it kept secret . Some ladies are very stiff about having their servants ' friends in the house overnight . At any rate , I made up my mind to ask no more questions . In a day or two another odd thing happened . I was chatting one afternoon with Mrs. Blinder , who was a friendly disposed woman , and had been longer in the house than the other servants , and she asked me if I was quite comfortable and had everything I needed . I said I had no fault to find with my place or with my mistress , but I thought it odd that in so large a house there was no sewing-room for the lady 's maid . " Why , " says she , " there is one : the room you 're in is the old sewing-room . " " Oh , " said I ; " and where did the other lady 's maid sleep ? " At that she grew confused , and said hurriedly that the servants ' rooms had all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rightly remember . That struck me as peculiar , but I went on as if I had n't noticed : " Well , there 's a vacant room opposite mine , and I mean to ask Mrs. Brympton if I may n't use that as a sewing-room . " To my astonishment , Mrs. Blinder went white , and gave my hand a kind of squeeze . " Do n't do that , my clear , " said she , trembling-like . " To tell you the truth , that was Emma Saxon 's room , and my mistress has kept it closed ever since her death . " " And who was Emma Saxon ? " " Mrs. Brympton 's former maid . "  | " The one that was with her so many years ? " said I , remembering what Mrs. Railton had told me . Mrs. Blinder nodded . " What sort of woman was she ? " " No better walked the earth , " said Mrs. Blinder . " My mistress loved her like a sister . " " But I mean  --  what did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gave me a kind of angry stare . " I 'm no great hand at describing , " she said ; " and I believe my pastry 's rising . " And she walked off into the kitchen and shut the door after her . I HAD been near a week at Brympton before I saw my master . Word came that he was arriving one afternoon , and a change passed over the whole household . It was plain that nobody loved him below stairs . Mrs. Blinder took uncommon care with the dinner that night , but she snapped at the kitchen-maid in a way quite unusual with her ; and Mr. Wace , the butler , a serious , slowspokenman , went about his duties as if he 'd been gettingready for a funeral . He was a great Bible-reader , Mr. Wace was , and had a beautiful assortment of texts at his command ; but that day he used such dreadful language , that I was about to leave the table , when he assured me it was all out of Isaiah ; and I noticed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prophets . About seven , Agnes called me to my mistress 's room ; and there I found Mr. Brympton . He was standing onp123the hearth ; a big fair bull-necked man , with a red face and little bad-tempered blue eyes : the kind of man a young simpleton might have thought handsome , and would have been like to pay dear for thinking it . He swung about when I came in , and looked me over in a trice . I knew what the look meant , from having experienced it once or twice in my former places . Then he turned his back on me , and went on talking to his wife ; and I knew what that meant , too . I was not the kind of morsel he was after . The typhoid had served me well enough in one way : it kept that kind of gentlemanat arm's-length . " This is my new maid , Hartley , " says Mrs. Brympton in her kind voice ; and he nodded and went on with what he was saying . In a minute or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dress for dinner , and I noticed as I waited on her that she was white , and chill to the touch . Mr. Brympton took himself off the next morning , and the whole house drew a long breath when he drove away . As for my mistress , she put on her hat and furs ( for it was a fine winter morning ) and went out for a walk in the gardens , coming back quite fresh and rosy , so that for a minute , before her colour faded , I could guess what a pretty young lady she must have been , and not so long ago , either . She had met Mr. Ranford in the grounds , and the two came back together , I remember , smiling and talkingas they walked along the terrace under my window . That was the first time I saw Mr. Ranford , though I had often heard his name mentioned in the hall . He was a neighbour , it appeared , living a mile or two beyond Brympton , at the end of the village ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ winters in the country he was almost the only company my mistress had at that season . He was a slight tall gentleman of about thirty , and I thought him rather melancholy-looking till I saw his smile , which had a kind of surprise in it , like the first warm day in spring . He was a great reader , I heard , like my mistress , and the two were for ever borrowing books of one another , and sometimes ( Mr. ' Nate told me ) he would read aloud to Mrs. Brympton by the hour , in the big dark library where she sat in the winter afternoons . The servants all liked him , and perhaps that 's more of a compliment than the masters suspect . He had a friendly word for every one of us , and we were all glad to think that Mrs. Brympton had a pleasant companionable gentleman like that to keep her companywhen the master was away . Mr. Ranford seemed on excellent terms with Mr. Brympton , too ; though I could but wonder that two gentlemen so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I knew how the real quality can keep their feelings to themselves . As for Mr. Brympton , he came and went , never stayingmore than a day or two , cursing the dulness and the solitude , grumbling at everything , and ( as I soon found out ) drinking a deal more than was good for him . After Mrs. Brympton left the table he would sit half the night over the old Brympton port and madeira , and once , as I was leaving my mistress 's room rather later than usual , I met him coming up the stairs inp125such a state that I turned sick to think of what some ladies have to endure and hold their tongues about . The servants said very little about their master ; but from what they let drop I could see it had been an unhappy match from the beginning . Mr. Brympton was coarse , loud and pleasure-loving ; my mistress quiet , retiring , and perhaps a trifle cold . Not that she was not always pleasant-spoken to him : I thought her wonderfullyforbearing ; but to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seemed a little offish . Well , things went on quietly for several weeks . My mistress was kind , my duties were light , and I got on well with the other servants . In short , I had nothing to complain of ; yet there was always a weight on me . I ca n't say why it was so , but I know it was not the loneliness that I felt . I soon got used to that ; and being still languid from the fever , I was thankful for the quiet and the good country air . Nevertheless , I was never quite easy in my mind . My mistress , knowing I had been ill , insisted that I should take my walk regular , and often invented errands for me :  --  a yard of ribbon to be fetched from the village , a letter posted , or a book returned to Mr. Ranford . As soon as I was out of doors my spirits rose , and I looked forward to my walks through the bare moist-smelling woods ; but the moment I caught @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a stone in a well . It was not a gloomy house exactly , yet I never entered it but a feeling of gloom came over me . Mrs. Brympton seldom went out in winter ; only on the finest days did she walk an hour at noon on the south terrace . Excepting Mr. Ranford , we had no visitors but the doctor , who drove over from D --  about once a week . He sent for me once or twice to give me some trifling direction about my mistress , and though he never told me what her illness was , I thought , from a waxy look she had now and then of a morning , that it might be the heart that ailed her . The season was soft and unwholesome , and in January we had a long spell of rain . That was a sore trial to me , I own , for I could n't go out , and sitting over my sewing all day , listening to the drip , drip of the eaves , I grew so nervous that the least sound @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ locked room across the passage began to weigh on me . Once or twice , in the long rainy nights , I fancied I heard noises there ; but that was nonsense , of course , and the daylight drove such notions out of my head . Well , one morning Mrs. Brympton gave me quite a start of pleasure by telling me she wished me to go to town for some shopping . I had n't known till then how low my spirits had fallen . I set off in high glee , and my first sight of the crowded streets and the cheerfullookingshops quite took me out of myself . Toward afternoon , however , the noise and confusion began to tire me , and I was actually looking forward to the quiet of Brympton , and thinking how I should enjoy the drive home through the dark woods , when I ran across an old acquaintance , a maid I had once been in service with . We had lost sight of each other for a number of years , and I had to stop and tell her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I mentioned where I was living she rolled up her eyes and pulled a long face.  | " What ! The Mrs. Brympton that lives all the year at her place on the Hudson ? My dear , you wo n't stay there three months . " " Oh , but I do n't mind the country , " says I , offended somehow at her tone . " Since the fever I 'm glad to be quiet . " She shook her head . " It 's not the country I 'm thinking of . All I know is she 's had four maids in the last six months , and the last one , who was a friend of mine , told me nobody could stay in the house . " " Did she say why ? " I asked . " No  --  she would n't give me her reason . But she says to me , Mrs. Ansey , she says , if ever a young woman as you know of thinks of going there , you tell her it 's not worth while to unpack her boxes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said I , thinking of Mr. Brympton . " Not her ! She 's the kind that mothers engage when they 've gay young gentlemen at college . " Well , though I knew the woman was an idle gossip , the words stuck in my head , and my heart sank lower than ever as I drove up to Brympton in the dusk . There was something about the house  --  I was sure of it now .. . When I went in to tea I heard that Mr. Brympton had arrived , and I saw at a glance that there had been a disturbance of some kind . Mrs. Blinder 's hand shook so that she could hardly pour the tea , and Mr. Wace quoted the most dreadful texts full of brimstone . Nobodysaid a word to me then , but when I went up to 1ny room Mrs. Blinder followed me.  | " Oh , my dear , " says she , taking my hand , " I 'm so glad and thankful you 've come back to us ! " That struck me , as you @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " did you think I was leaving for good ? " " No , no , to be sure , " said she , a little confused , " but I ca n't a-bear to have madam left alone for a day even . " She pressed my hand hard , and , " Oh , Miss Hartley , " says she , " be good to your mistress , as you 're a Christian woman . " And with that she hurried away , and left me staring . A moment later Agnes called me to Mrs. Brympton . Hearing Mr. Brympton 's voice in her room , I went round by the dressing-room , thinking I would lay out her dinner-gown before going in . The dressing-room is a large room with a window over the portico that looks toward the gardens . Mr. Brympton 's apartments are beyond . When I went in , the door into the bedroom was ajar , and I heard Mr. Brympton saying angrily :  --  " One would suppose he was the only person fit for you to talk to . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Mrs. Brympton answered quietly . " You have me ! " he flung at her , sneeringly . " You are here so seldom , " said she . " Well  --  whose fault is that ? You make a place about as lively as the family vault  --  " With that I rattled the toilet-things , to give my mistresswarning , and she rose and called me in . The two dined alone , as usual , and I knew by Mr. Wace 's manner at supper that things must be going badly . He quoted the prophets something terrible , andp129worked on the kitchen-maid so that she declared she would n't go down alone to put the cold meat in the ice-box . I felt nervous myself , and after I had put my mistress to bed I was half tempted to go down again and persuade Mrs. Blinder to sit up awhile over a game of cards . But I heard her door closing for the night and so I went on to my own room . The rain had begun again , and the drip , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : I lay awake listening to it , and turning over what my friend in town had said . What puzzled me was that it was always the maids who left .. . After a while I slept ; but suddenly a loud noise wakened me . My bell had rung . I sat up , terrified by the unusual sound , which seemed to go on jangling through the darkness . My hands shook so that I could n't find the matches . At length I struck a light and jumped out of bed . I began to think I must have been dreaming ; but I looked at the bell against the wall , and there was the little hammer still quivering . I was just beginning to huddle on my clothes when I heard another sound . This time it was the door of the locked room opposite mine softly opening and closing . I heard the sound distinctly , and it frightened me so that I stood stock still . Then I heard a footstep hurrying down the passage toward the main house . The floor being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was quite sure it was a woman 's step . I turned cold with the thought of it , and for a minute or two I durs n't breathe or move . Then I came to my senses . " Alice Hartley , " says I to myself , " someone left that room just now and ran down the passage ahead of you.  | The idea is n't pleasant , but you may as well face it . Your mistress has rung for you , and to answer her bell you 've got to go the way that other woman has gone . " Well  --  I did it . I never walked faster in my life , yet I thought I should never get to the end of the passage or reach Mrs. Brympton 's room . On the way I heard nothing and saw nothing : all was dark and quiet as the grave . When I reached my mistress 's door the silence was so deep that I began to think I must be dreaming , and was half minded to turn back . Then panic seized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and I knocked again , loudly . To my astonishment the door was opened by Mr. Brympton . He started back when he saw me , and in the light of my candle his face looked red and savage . " You ? " he said , in a queer voice . " How many of you are there , in God 's name ? " At that I felt the ground give under me ; but I said to myself that he had been drinking , and answered as steadily as I could : " May I go in , sir ? Mrs. Brympton has rung for me . " " You may all go in , for what I care , " says he , and , pushing by me , walked down the hall to his own bedroom . I looked after him as he went , and to my surprise I saw that he walked as straight as a sober man . I found my mistress lying very weak and still , but she forced a smile when she saw me , and signed to me @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ she lay withoutspeaking , her breath coming quick , and her eyes closed . Suddenly she groped out with her hand , and " Emma , " says she , faintly.  | " It 's Hartley , madam , " I said . " Do you want any-thing ? " She opened her eyes wide and gave me a startled look . " I was dreaming , " she said . " You may go , now , Hartley , and thank you kindly . I 'm quite well again , you see . " And she turned her face away from me . THERE was no more sleep for me that night , and I was thankful when daylight came . Soon afterward , Agnes called me to Mrs. Brympton . I was afraid she was ill again , for she seldom sent for me before nine , but I found her sitting up in bed , pale and drawn-looking , but quite herself . " Hartley , " says she quickly , " will you put on your things at once and go down to the village for me @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ she hesitated a minute and blushed  --  " and I should like you to be back again before Mr. Brympton is up . " " Certainly , madam , " I said . " And  --  stay a moment  --  " she called me back as if an idea had just struck her  --  " while you 're waiting for the mixture , you 'll have time to go on to Mr. Ranford 's with this note . " It was a two-mile walk to the village , and on my way I had time to turn things over in my mind . It struck me as peculiar that my mistress should wish the prescriptionmade up without Mr. Brympton 's knowledge ; and , putting this together with the scene of the night before , and with much else that I had noticed and sus- pected , I began to wonder if the poor lady was weary of her life , and had come to the mad resolve of ending it . The idea took such hold on me that I reached the village on a run , and dropped breathless @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ good man , who was just taking down his shutters , stared at me so hard that it brought me to myself . " Mr. Limmel , " I says , trying to speak indifferent , " will you run your eye over this , and tell me if it 's quite right ? " He put on his spectacles and studied the prescription . " Why , it 's one of Dr. Walton 's , " says he . " What should be wrong with it ? " " Well  --  is it dangerous to take ? " " Dangerous  --  how do you mean ? " I could have shaken the man for his stupidity . " I mean  --  if a person was to take too much of it  --  bymistake of course  --  " says I , my heart in my throat . " Lord bless you , no . It 's only lime-water . You mightfeed it to a baby by the bottleful . " I gave a great sigh of relief and hurried on to Mr. Ranford 's . But on the way another thought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ my visit to the chemist 's , was it my other errand that Mrs. Brympton wished me to keep private ? Somehow , that thought frightened me worse than the other . Yet the two gentlemenseemed fast friends , and I would have staked my head on my mistress 's goodness . I felt ashamed of my suspicions , and concluded that I was still disturbed by the strange events of the night . I left the note at Mr.p133Ranford 's , and hurrying back to Brympton , slipped in by a side door without being seen , as I thought . An hour later , however , as I was carrying in my mistress'sbreakfast , I was stopped in the hall by Mr. Brympton . " What were you doing out so early ? " he says , looking hard at me . " Early  --  me , sir ? " I said , in a tremble . " Come , come , " he says , an angry red spot coming out on his forehead , " did n't I see you scuttling home through the shrubbery an hour @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by nature , but at that a lie popped out ready-made . " No , sir , you did n't , " said I and looked straight back at him . He shrugged his shoulders and gave a sullen laugh . " I suppose you think I was drunk last night ? " he asked suddenly . " No , sir , I do n't , " I answered , this time truthfully enough . He turned away with another shrug . " A pretty notion my servants have of me ! " I heard him mutter as he walked off . Not till I had settled down to my afternoon 's sewing did I realize how the events of the night had shaken me . I could n't pass that locked door without a shiver . I knew I had heard someone come out of it , and walk down the passage ahead of me . I thought of speaking to Mrs. Blinder or to Mr. Wace , the only two in the house who appeared to have an inkling of what was going on , but I had a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and that I might learn more by hold- ing my tongue and keeping my eyes open . The idea of spending another night opposite the locked room sickened me , and once I was seized with the notion of packing my trunk and taking the first train to town ; but it was n't in me to throw over a kind mistress in that manner , and I tried to go on with my sewing as if nothing had happened . I had n't worked ten minutes before the sewing machine broke down . It was one I had found in the house , a good machine but a trifle out of order : Mrs. Blinder said it had never been used since Emma Saxon 's death . I stopped to see what was wrong , and as I was working at the machine a drawer which I had never been able to open slid forward and a photographfell out . I picked it up and sat looking at it in a maze . It was a woman 's likeness , and I knew I had seen the face somewhere  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on me before . And suddenly I remembered the pale woman in the passage . I stood up , cold all over , and ran out of the room . My heart seemed to be thumping in the top of my head , and I felt as if I should never get away from the look in those eyes . I went straight to Mrs. Blinder . She was taking her afternoon nap , and sat up with a jump when I came in . " Mrs. Blinder , " said I , " who is that ? " And I held out the photograph . She rubbed her eyes and stared . " Why , Emma Saxon , " says she . " Where did you find it ? " , I looked hard at her for a minute . " Mrs. Blinder , " I said , " I 've seen that face before . "  |p135Mrs  . Blinder got up and walked over to the lookingglass . " Dear me ! I must have been asleep , " she says . " My front is all over one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , dear , for I hear the clock striking four , and I must go down this very minute and put on the Virginia ham for Mr. Brympton 's dinner . " To all appearances , things went on as usual for a week or two . The only difference was that Mr. Brympton stayed on , instead of going off as he usually did , and that Mr. Ranford never showed himself . I heard Mr. Brympton remark on this one afternoon when he was sitting in my mistress 's room before dinner : " Where 's Ranford ? " says he . " He has n't been near the house for a week . Does he keep away because I 'm here ? " Mrs. Brympton spoke so low that I could n't catch her answer . " Well , " he went on , " two 's company and three 's trumpery ; I 'm sorry to be in Ranford 's way , and I suppose I shall have to take myself off again in a day or two and give him a show . " And he laughed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as it happened , Mr. Ranford called . The footman said the three were very merry over their tea in the library , and Mr. Brympton strolled down to the gate with Mr. Ranford when he left . I have said that things went on as usual ; and so they did with the rest of the household ; but as for myself , I had never been the same since the night my bell had rung . Night after night I used to lie awake , listening for it to ring again , and for the door of the locked room to open stealthily . But the bell never rang , and I heard no sound across the passage . At last the silence began to be more dreadful to me than the most mysterioussounds . I felt that someone was cowering there , behind the locked door , watching and listening as I watched and listened , and I could almost have cried out , " Whoever you are , come out and let me see you face to face , but do n't lurk there and spy on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , you may wonder I did n't give warning . Once I very nearly did so ; but at the last moment something held me back . Whether it was compassion for my mistress , who had grown more and more dependent on me , or unwillingness to try a new place , or some other feeling that I could n't put a name to , I lingered on as if spell-bound , though every night was dreadful to me , and the days but little better . For one thing , I did n't like Mrs. Brympton 's looks . She had never been the same since that night , no more than I had . I thought she would brighten up after Mr. Brympton left , but though she seemed easier in her mind , her spirits did n't revive , nor her strength either . She had grown attached to me , and seemed to like to have me about ; and Agnes told me one day that , since Emma Saxon 's death , I was the only maid her mistress had taken to . This gave me @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all there was little I could do to help her . After Mr. Brympton 's departure , Mr. Ranford tookp137to coming again , though less often than formerly . I met him once or twice in the grounds , or in the village , and I could n't but think there was a change in him , too ; but I set it down to my disordered fancy . The weeks passed , and Mr. Brympton had now been a month absent . We heard he was cruising with a friend in the West Indies , and Mr. Wace said that was a long way off , but though you had the wings of a dove and went to the uttermost parts of the earth , you could n't get away from the Almighty . Agnes said that as long as he stayed away from Brympton the Almighty might have him and welcome ; and this raised a laugh , though Mrs. Blinder tried to look shocked , and Mr. Wace said the bears would eat us . We were all glad to hear that the West Indies were a long @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Mr. Wace 's solemn looks , we had a very merry dinner that ( lay in the hall . I do n't know if it was because of my being in better spirits , but I fancied Mrs. Brympton looked better , too , and seemed more cheerful in her wanner . She had been for a walk in the morning , and after luncheon she lay down in her room , and I read aloud to her . When she dismissed me I went to my own room feeling quite bright and happy , and for the first time in weeks walked past the locked door without thinking of it . As I sat down to my work I looked out and saw a few snow-flakes falling . The sight was pleasanter than the eternal rain , and I pictured to myselfhow pretty the bare gardens would look in their white mantle . It seemed to me as if the snow would cover up all the dreariness , indoors as well as out.  | The fancy had hardly crossed my mind when I heard a step at my side @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Well , Agnes  --  " said I , and the words froze on my tongue ; for there , in the door , stood Emma Saxon . I do n't know how long she stood there . I only know I could n't stir or take my eyes from her . Afterward I was terribly frightened , but at the time it was n't fear I felt , but something deeper and quieter . She looked at me long and long , and her face was just one dumb prayer to me  --  but how in the world was I to help her ? Suddenly she turned , and I heard her walk down the passage . This time I was n't afraid to follow  --  I felt that I must know what she wanted . I sprang up and ran out . She was at the other end of the passage , and I expected her to take the turn toward my mistress 's room ; but instead of that she pushed open the door that led to the backstairs . I followed her down the stairs , and across @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hall were empty at that hour , the servants being off duty , except for the footman , who was in the pantry . At the door she stood still a moment , with another look at me ; then she turned the handle , and stepped out . For a minute I hesitated . Where was she leading me to ? The door had closed softly after her , and I opened it and looked out , half expecting to find that she had disappeared . But I saw her a few yards off hurrying across the courtyard to the path through the woods . Her figure looked black and lonely in the snow , and for a second my heart failed me and I thought of turning back . But all the while she was drawing me after her ; and catch/ing up an old shawl of Mrs. Blinder 's I ran out into the open . Emma Saxon was in the wood-path now . She walked on steadily , and I followed at the same pace , till we passed out of the gates and reached the highroad @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ village . By this time the ground was white , and as she climbed the slope of a bare hill ahead of me I noticed that she left no foot-prints behind her . At sight of that my heart shrivelledup within me , and my knees were water . Somehow , it was worse here than indoors . She made the whole countryside seem lonely as the grave , with none but us two in it , and no help in the wide world . Once I tried to go back ; but she turned and looked at me , and it was as if she had dragged me with ropes . After that I followed her like a dog . We came to the village and she led me through it , past the church and the blacksmith 's shop , and down the lane to Mr. Ranford 's . Mr. Ranford 's house stands close to the road : a plain old-fashioned building , with a flagged path leadingto the door between box-borders . The lane was deserted , and as I turned into it I saw Emma Saxon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now another fear come over me . I saw that we had reached the end of our journey , and that it was my turn to act . All the way from Brympton I had been asking myself what she wanted of me , but I had followed in a trance , as it were , and not till I saw her stop at Mr. Ranford 's gate did my brain begin to clear itself . I stood a little way off in the snow , my heart beating fit to strangle me , and myp140feet frozen to the ground ; and she stood under the elm and watched me . I knew well enough that she had n't led me there for nothing . I felt there was something I ought to say or do  --  but how was I to guess what it was ? I had never thought harm of my mistress and Mr. Ranford , but I was sure now that , from one cause or another , some dreadful thing hung over them . She knew what it was ; she would tell me if she @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It turned me faint to think of speaking to her ; but I plucked up heart and dragged myself across the few yards between us . As I did so , I heard the house-door open and saw Mr. Ranford approaching . He looked handsome and cheerful , as my mistress had looked that morning , and at sight of him the blood began to flow again in my veins . " Why , Hartley , " said he , " what 's the matter ? I saw you coming down the lane just now , and came out to see if you had taken root in the snow . " He stopped and stared at me . " What are you looking at ? " he says . I turned toward the elm as he spoke , and his eyes followed me ; but there was no one there . The lane was empty as far as the eye could reach . A sense of helplessness came over me . She was gone , and I had not been able to guess what she wanted . Her last look had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not told me ! All at once , I felt more desolate than when she had stood there watching me . It seemed as if she had left me all alone to carry the weight of the secretp141I could n't guess . The snow went round me in great circles , and the ground fell away from me . A drop of brandy and the warmth of Mr. Ranford 's fire soon brought me to , and I insisted on being driven back at once to Brympton . It was nearly dark , and I was afraid my mistress might be wanting me . I explained to Mr. Ranford that I had been out for a walk and had been taken with a fit of giddiness as I passed his gate . This was true enough ; yet I never felt more like a liar than when I said it . When I dressed Mrs. Brympton for dinner she remarked on my pale looks and asked what ailed me . I told her I had a headache , and she said she would not require me again that evening , and advised me @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I could scarcely keep on my feet ; yet I had no fancy to spend a solitary evening in my room . I sat downstairs in the hall as long as I could hold my head up ; but by nine I crept upstairs , too weary to care what happened if I could but get my head on a pillow . The rest of the household went to bed soon afterward ; they kept early hours when the master was away , and before ten I heard Mrs. Blinder 's door close , and Mr. Wace 's soon after . It was a very still night , earth and air all muffled in snow . Once in bed I felt easier , and lay quiet , listening to the strange noises that come out in a house after ( lark . Once I thought I heard a door open and close again below : it might have been the glass door that led to the gardens . I got up and peered out of the window ;  | but it was in the dark of the moon , and nothing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . I went back to bed and must have dozed , for I jumped awake to the furious ringing of my bell . Before my head was clear I had sprung out of bed , and was draggingon my clothes . It is going to happen now , I heard myself saying ; but what I meant I had no notion . My hands seemed to be covered with glue  --  I thought I should never get into my clothes . At last I opened my door and peered down the passage . As far as my candleflamecarried , I could see nothing unusual ahead of me . I hurried on , breathless ; but as I pushed open the baize door leading to the main hall my heart stood still , for there at the head of the stairs was Emma Saxon , peeringdreadfully down into the darkness . For a second I could n't stir ; but my hand slipped from the door , and as it swung shut the figure vanished . At the same instant there came another sound from belowstairs  --  a stealthy mysterious sound , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ran to Mrs. Brympton 's room and knocked . There was no answer , and I knocked again . This time I heard someone moving in the room ; the bolt slipped back and my mistress stood before me . To my surprise I saw that she had not undressed for the night . She gave me a startled look . " What is this , Hartley ? " she says in a whisper . " Are you ill ? What are you doing here at this hour ? " " I am not ill , madam ; but my bell rang . " At that she turned pale , and seemed about to fall . " You are mistaken , " she said harshly ; " I did n't ring.  |p143You  must have been dreaming . " I had never heard her speak in such a tone . " Go back to bed , " she said , closing the door on me . But as she spoke I heard sounds again in the hall below : a man 's step this time ; and the truth leaped out on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ past her , " there is someone in the house  --  " " Someone  --  ? " Mr. Brympton , I think  --  I hear his step below  --  " A dreadful look came over her , and without a word , she dropped flat at my feet . I fell on my knees and tried to lift her : by the way she breathed I saw it was no common faint . But as I raised her head there came quick steps on the stairs and across the hall : the door was flung open , and there stood Mr. Brympton , in his travelling-clothes , the snow dripping from him . He drew back with a start as he saw me kneeling by my mistress . " What the devil is this ? " he shouted . He was less high-coloured than usual , and the red spot came out on his forehead . " Mrs. Brympton has fainted , sir , " said I.He laughed unsteadily and pushed by me . " It 's a pity she did n't choose a more convenient moment . I 'm sorry to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aghast at the man 's action . " Sir , " said I , " are you mad ? What are you doing ? " " Going to meet a friend , " said he , and seemed tomake for the dressing-room . At that my heart turned over . I do n't know what Ip144thought or feared ; but I sprang up and caught him by the sleeve . " Sir , sir , " said I , " for pity 's sake look at your wife ! " He shook me off furiously . " It seems that 's done for me , " says he , and caught hold of the dressing-room door . At that moment I heard a slight noise inside . Slight as it was , he heard it too , and tore the door open ; but as he did so he dropped back . On the threshold stood Emma Saxon . All was dark behind her , but I saw her plainly , and so did he . He threw up his hands as if to hide his face from her ; and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ motionless , as if the strength had run out of him ; and in the stillness my mistress suddenly raised herself , and opening her eyes fixed a look on him . Then she fell back , and I saw the death-flutter pass over herWe buried her on the third day , in a driving snowstorm . There were few people in the church , for it was bad weather to come from town , and I 've a notion my mistress was one that had n't many near friends . Mr. Ranford was among the last to come , just before they carried her up the aisle . He was in black , of course , beingsuch a friend of the family , and I never saw a gentlemanso pale . As he passed me , I noticed that he leaned a trifle on a stick he carried ; and I fancy Mr. Brympton noticed it , too , for the red spot came out sharp on his forehead , and all through the service he kept staring across the church at Mr. Ranford , instead of following the prayers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ went out to the graveyard , Mr. Ranford had disappeared , and as soon as my poor mistress 's body was underground , Mr. Brympton jumped into the carriage nearest the gate and drove off without a word to any of us . I heard him call out , " To the station , " and we servants went back alone to the house.  | Y OU ought to buy it , " said my host ; " it 's just the place for a solitary-minded devil like you . And it would be rather worth while to own the most romantic house in Brittany . The present people are dead broke , and it 's going for a song  --  you ought to buy it . " It was not with the least idea of living up to the charactermy friend Lanrivain ascribed to me ( as a matter of fact , under my unsociable exterior I have always had secret yearnings for domesticity ) that I took his hint one autumn afternoon and went to Kerfol . My friend was motoring over to Quimper on business : he dropped @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ heath , and said : " First turn to the right and second to the left . Then straight ahead till you see an avenue . If you meet any peasants , do n't ask your way . They do n't understand French , and i hey would pretend they did and mix you up . I 'll be hack for you here by sunset  --  and do n't forget the tombs in the chapel . " I followed Lanrivain 's directions with the hesitation occasioned by the usual difficulty of remembering whether he had said the first turn to the right and secondto the left , or the contrary . If I had met a peasant I should certainly have asked , and probably been sent astray ; but I had the desert landscape to myself , and sop150stumbled on the right turn and walked across the heath till I came to an avenue . It was so unlike any other avenue I have ever seen that I instantly knew it must be the avenue . The gray-trunked trees sprang up straight to a great height and then interwove their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ light fell faintly . I know most trees by name , but I have n't to this day been able to decide what those trees were . They had the tall curve of elms , the tenuity of poplars , the ashen colour of olives under a rainy sky ; and they stretched ahead of me for half a mile or more without a break in their arch . If ever I saw an avenue that unmistakably led to something , it was the avenue at Kerfol . My heart beat a little as I began to walk down it . Presently the trees ended and I came to a fortified gate in a long wall . Between me and the wall was an open space of grass , with other gray avenues radiating from it . Behind the wall were tall slate roofs mossed with silver , a chapel belfry , the top of a keep . A moat filled with wild shrubs and brambles surrounded the place ; the draw-bridge had been replaced by a stone arch , and the portcullis by an iron gate . I stood for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , gazing about me , and letting the influence of the place sink in . I said to myself : " If I wait long enough , the guardian will turn up and show me the tombs  --  " and I rather hoped he would n't turn up too soon . I sat down on a stone and lit a cigarette . As soon as I had done it , it struck me as a puerile and portentous thing to do , with that great blind house looking downp151at me , and all the empty avenues converging on me . It may have been the depth of the silence that made me so conscious of my gesture . The squeak of my match sounded as loud as the scraping of a brake , and I almost fancied I heard it fall when I tossed it onto the grass . But there was more than that : a sense of irrelevance , of littleness , of futile bravado , in sitting there puffing my cigarette-smoke into the face of such a past . I knew nothing of the history of Kerfol  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mentioned the name to me till the day before  --  but one could n't as much as glance at that pile without feeling in it a long accumulation of history . What kind of history I was not prepared to guess : perhaps only that sheer weight of many associatedlives and deaths which gives a majesty to all old houses . But the aspect of Kerfol suggested something more  --  a perspective of stern and cruel memories stretchingaway , like its own gray avenues , into a blur of darkness . Certainly no house had ever more completely and finally broken with the present . As it stood there , lifting its proud roofs and gables to the sky , it might have been its own funeral monument . " Tombs in the chapel ? The whole place is a tomb ! " I reflected . I hoped more and more that the guardian would not come . The details of the place , however striking , would seem trivial compared with its collective impressiveness ; and I wanted only to sit there and be penetrated by the weight of its silence . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lanrivain had said ; and I was overcome by the almost blasphemous frivolity of suggesting to any living being that Kerfol was the place for him . " Is it possible that any one could not see  --  ? " I wondered . I did not finish the thought : what I meant was undefinable . I stood up and wandered toward the gate . I was beginning to want to know more ; not to see more  --  I was by now so sure it was not a question of seeing  --  but to feel more : feel all the place had to communicate . " But to get in one will have to rout out the keeper , " I thought reluctantly , and hesitated . Finally I crossed the bridge and tried the iron gate . It yielded , and I walked through the tunnel formed by the thickness of the chemin de ronde . At the farther end , a wooden barricade had been laid across the entrance , and beyond it was a court enclosed in noble architecture . The main building faced me ; and I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , with gaping windows through which the wild growths of the moat and the trees of the park were visible . The rest of the house was still in its robust beauty . One end abutted on the round tower , the other on the small traceried chapel , and in an angle of the building stood a graceful well-head crowned with mossy urns . A few roses grew against the walls , and on an upper window-sill I remembernoticing a pot of fuchsias . My sense of the pressure of the invisible began to yield to my architectural interest . The building was so fine that I felt a desire to explore it for its own sake . I looked about the court , wondering in which corner the guardian lodged . Then I pushed open the barrier and went in . As I did so , a dog barred my way . He was such a remarkably beautiful little dog that for a momentp153he made me forget the splendid place he was defending . I was not sure of his breed at the time , but have since learned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a rare variety called the Sleeve-dog ' . He was very small and golden brown , with large brown eyes and a ruffled throat : he looked like a large tawny chrysanthemum . I said to myself : " These little beasts always snap and scream , and somebody will be out in a minute . " The little animal stood before me , forbidding , almost menacing : there was anger in his large brown eyes . But he made no sound , he came no nearer . Instead , as I advanced , he gradually fell back , and I noticed that anotherdog , a vague rough brindled thing , had limped up on a lame leg . " There 'll be a hubbub now , " I thought ; for at the same moment a third dog , a long-haired white mongrel , slipped out of a doorway and joined the others . All three stood looking at me with grave eyes ; but not a sound came from them . As I advanced they continued to fall back on muffled paws , still watching me . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ my ankles : it 's one of the jokes that dogs who live together put up on one , " I thought . I was not alarmed , for they were neither large nor formidable . But they let me wander about the court as I pleased , following me at a little distance  --  always the same distance  --  and always keeping their eyes on me . Presently I looked across at the ruined facade , and saw that in one of its empty window-frames another dog stood : a white pointer with one brown ear . f le was an old grave dog , much more experienced than the others ; and he seemed to be observing me with a deeper intentness.  | " I 'll hear from him , " I said to myself ; but he stood in the window-frame , against the trees of the park , and continued to watch me without moving . I stared back at him for a time , to see if the sense that he was being watched would not rouse him . Half the width of the court lay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ across it . But he did not stir , and at last I turned away . Behind me I found the rest of the pack , with a newcomeradded : a small black greyhound with pale agatecolouredeyes . He was shivering a little , and his expression was more timid than that of the others . I noticed that he kept a little behind them . And still there was not a sound . I stood there for fully five minutes , the circle about me  --  waiting , as they seemed to be waiting . At last I went up to the little golden-brown and stooped to pat him . As I did so , I heard myself give a nervous laugh . The little dog did not start , or growl , or take his eyes from me  --  he simply slipped back about a yard , and then paused and continued to look at me . " Oh , hang it ! " I exclaimed , and walked across the court toward the well . As I advanced , the dogs separated and slid away into different corners @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well , tried a locked door or two , and looked up and down the dumb facade ; then I faced about toward the chapel . When I turned I perceived that all the dogs had disappeared except the old pointer , who still watched me from the window . It was rather a relief to be rid of that cloud of witnesses ; and I began to look about me for a way to the back of the house . " Perhaps there 'll be somebody in the garden , " I thought . I found a wayp155across the moat , scrambled over a wall smothered in brambles , and got into the garden . A few lean hydrangeasand geraniums pined in the flower-beds , and the ancient house looked down on them indifferently . Its garden side was plainer and severer than the other : the long granite front , with its few windows and steep roof , looked like a fortress-prison . I walked around the farther wing , went up some disjointed steps , and entered the deep twilight of a narrow and incredibly old box-walk . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and its branches met overhead . It was like the ghost of a box-walk , its lustrous green all turning to the shadowy grayness of the avenues . I walked on and on , the branches hitting me in the face and springing back with a dry rattle ; and at length I came out on the grassy top of the chemin de ronde . I walked along it to the gate-tower , looking down into the court , which was just below me . Not a human being was in sight ; and neither were the dogs . I found a flight of steps in the thickness of the wall and went down them ; and when I emerged again into the court , there stood the circle of dogs , the golden-brown one a little ahead of the others , the black greyhound shivering in the rear . " Oh , hang it  --  you uncomfortable beasts , you ! " I exclaimed , my voice startling me with a sudden echo . The dogs stood motionless , watching me . I knew by this time that they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the knowledge left me free to examine them . I had a feeling that they must be horribly cowed to be so silent and inert . Yet they did not look hungry or ill-treated . Their coats were smooth and they were notp156thin , except the shivering greyhound . It was more as if they had lived a long time with people who never spoke to them or looked at them : as though the silence of the place had gradually benumbed their busy inquisitive natures . And this strange passivity , this almost human lassitude , seemed to me sadder than the misery of starved and beaten animals . I should have liked to rouse them for a minute , to coax them into a game or a scamper ; but the longer I looked into their fixed and weary eyes the more preposterous the idea became . With the windows of that house looking down on us , how could I have imagined such a thing ? The dogs knew better : they knew what the house would tolerate and what it would not . I even fancied that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pitied me for my frivolity . But even that feeling probably reached them through a thick fog of listlessness . I had an idea that their distance from me was as nothing to my remoteness from them . The impression they produced was that of having in common one memory so deep and dark that nothing that had happened since was worth either a growl or a wag . " I say , " I broke out abruptly , addressing myself to the dumb circle , " do you know what you look like , the whole lot of you ? You look as if you 'd seen a ghost  --  that 's how you look ! I wonder if there is a ghost here , and nobody but you left for it to appear to ? " The dogs continued to gaze at me without moving .. . It was dark when I saw Lanrivain 's motor lamps at the cross-roads  --  and I was n't exactly sorry to see them.  |p157I  had the sense of having escaped from the loneliest place in the whole world , and of not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I had imagined I should . My friend had brought his solicitor back from Quimper for the night , and seated beside a fat and affable stranger I felt no inclination to talk of Kerfol .. . But that evening , when Lanrivain and the solicitor were closeted in the study , Madame de Lanrivain began to question me in the drawing-room . " Well  --  are you going to buy Kerfol ? " she asked , tiltingup her gay chin from her embroidery . " I have n't decided yet . The fact is , I could n't get into the house , " I said , as if I had simply postponed my decision , and meant to go back for another look . " You could n't get in ? Why , what happened ? The family are mad to sell the place , and the old guardian has orders  --  " " Very likely . But the old guardian was n't there . " " What a pity ! He must have gone to market . But his daughter  --  ? " " There was nobody about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ How extraordinary ! Literally nobody ? " " Nobody but a lot of dogs  --  a whole pack of them  --  who seemed to have the place to themselves . " Madame de Lanrivain let the embroidery slip to her knee and folded her hands on it . For several minutes she looked at me thoughtfully . " A pack of dogs  --  you saw them ? " " Saw them ? I saw nothing else ! " " How many ? " She dropped her voice a little . " I 've always wondered  --  "  | I looked at her with surprise : I had supposed the place to be familiar to her . " Have you never been to Kerfol ? " I asked . " Oh , yes : often . But never on that day . " " What day ? " " I 'd quite forgotten  --  and so had Herve , I 'm sure . If we 'd remembered , we never should have sent you today  --  but then , after all , one does n't half believe that sort of thing , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " I asked , involuntarily sinking my voice to the level of hers . Inwardly I was thinking : " I knew there was something ... " Madame de Lanrivain cleared her throat and produced a reassuring smile . " Did n't Herve tell you the story of Kerfol ? An ancestor of his was mixed up in it . You know every Breton house has its ghost-story ; and some of them are rather unpleasant . " " Yes  --  but those dogs ? " " Well , those dogs are the ghosts of Kerfol . At least , the peasants say there 's one day in the year when a lot of dogs appear there ; and that day the keeper and his daughter go off to Morlaix and get drunk . The women in Brittany drink dreadfully . " She stooped to match a silk ; then she lifted her charming inquisitive Parisian face . " Did you really see a lot of dogs ? There is n't one at Kerfol , " she said . LANRIVAIN , the next day , hunted out a shabby calf volume from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Yes  --  here it is . What does it call itself ? A History of the Assizes of the Duchy of Brittany . Quimper , 17o2 . The book was written about a hundred years later than the Kerfol affair ; but I believe the account is transcribed pretty literally from the judicial records . Anyhow , it 's queer reading . And there 's a Herve de Lanrivian mixed up in it  --  not exactly my style , as you 'll see . But then he 's only a collateral . Here , take the book up to bed with you . I do n't exactly remember the details ; but after you 've read it I 'll bet anything you 'll leave your light burning all night ! " I left my light burning all night , as he had predicted ; but it was chiefly because , till near dawn , I was absorbed in my reading . The account of the trial of Anne de Cornault , wife of the lord of Kerfol , was long and closely printed . It was , as my friend had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ place in the court-room ; and the trial lasted nearly a month . Besides , the type of the book was very bad .. . At first I thought of translating the old record . But it is full of wearisome repetitions , and the main lines of the story are forever straying off into side issues . So I have tried to disentangle it , and give it here in simpler form . At times , however , I have reverted to the text becauseno other words could have conveyed so exactly the sense of what I felt at Kerfol ; and nowhere have I added anything of my own.  |p16oIT  was in the year 16  --  that Yves de Cornault , lord of the domain of Kerfol , went to the pardon of Locronan to perform his religious duties . He was a rich and powerfulnoble , then in his sixty-second year , but hale and sturdy , a great horseman and hunter and a pious man . So all his neighbours attested . In appearance he was short and broad , with a swarthy face , legs slightly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hands with black hairs on them . He had married young and lost his wife and son soon after , and since then had lived alone at Kerfol . Twice a year he went to Morlaix , where he had a handsome house by the river , and spent a week or ten days there ; and occasionally he rode to Rennes on business . Witnesses were found to declare that duringthese absences he led a life different from the one he was known to lead at Kerfol , where he busied himself with his estate , attended mass daily , and found his only amusement in hunting the wild boar and waterfowl . But these rumours are not particularly relevant , and it is certain that among people of his own class in the neighbourhood he passed for a stern and even austere man , observant of his religious obligations , and keeping strictly to himself . There was no talk of any familiarity with the women on his estate , though at that time the nobility were very free with their peasants , Some people said he had never looked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such things are hard to prove , and the evidence on this point was not worth much . Well , in his sixty-second year , Yves de Cornault wentp161to the pardon at Locronan , and saw there a young lady of Douarnenez , who had ridden over pillion behind her father to do her duty to the saint . Her name was Anne de Barrigan , and she came of good old Breton stock , but much less great and powerful than that of Yves de Cornault ; and her father had squandered his fortune at cards , and lived almost like a peasant in his little granite manor on the moors . . . I have said I would add nothing of my own to this bald statement of a strange case ; but I must interrupt myself here to describe the young lady who rode up to the lych-gate of Locronan at the very moment when the Baron de Cornault was also dismountingthere . I take my description from a faded drawing in red crayon , sober and truthful enough to be by a late pupil of the Clouets @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said to be a portrait of Anne de Barrigan . It is unsigned and has no mark of identity but the initialsA . B. , and the date 16- , the year after her marriage . It represents a young woman with a small oval face , almost pointed , yet wide enough for a full mouth with a tender depression at the corners . The nose is small , and the eyebrows are set rather high , far apart , and as lightly pencilled as the eyebrows in a Chinese painting . The forehead is high and serious , and the hair , which one feels to be fine and thick and fair , is drawn off it and lies close like a cap . The eyes are neither large nor small , hazel probably , with a look at once shy and steady . A pair of beautiful long hands are crossed below the lady 's breast .. . The chaplain of Kerfol , and other witnesses , averred that when the Baron came back from Locronan he jumped from his horse , ordered another to be instantly saddled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and rode away that same evening to the south . His steward followed the next morning with coffers laden on a pair of pack mules . The following week Yves de Cornault rode back to Kerfol , sent for his vassals and tenants , and told them he was to be married at All Saints to Anne de Barrigan of Douarnenez . And on All Saints ' Day the marriage took place . As to the next few years , the evidence on both sides seems to show that they passed happily for the couple . No one was found to say that Yves de Cornault had been unkind to his wife , and it was plain to all that he was content with his bargain . Indeed , it was admitted by the chaplain and other witnesses for the prosecution that the young lady had a softening influence on her husband , and that he became less exacting with his tenants , less harsh to peasants and dependents , and less subject to the fits of gloomy silence which had darkened his widowhood . As to his wife , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ behalf was that Kerfol was a lonely place , and that when her husband was away on business at Rennes or Morlaix  --  whither she was never taken  --  she was not allowed so much as to walk in the park unaccompanied . But no one asserted that she was unhappy , though one servant-woman said she had surprised her crying , and had heard her say that she was a woman accursed to have no child , and nothing in life to call her own . But that was a natural enough feeling in a wife attached to her husband ; and certainly it must have been a great grief to Yves de Cornault that shep163bore no son . Yet he never made her feel her childlessnessas a reproach  --  she admits this in her evidence  --  but seemed to try to make her forget it by showering gifts and favours on her . Rich though he was , he had never been openhanded ; but nothing was too fine for his wife , in the way of silks or gems or linen , or whatever else she fancied . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the master was called away he never came back without bringing his wife a handsome present  --  something curious and particular  --  from Morlaixor Rennes or Quimper . One of the waiting-women gave , in cross-examination , an interesting list of one year 's gifts , which I copy . From Morlaix , a carved ivory junk , with Chinamen at the oars , that a strange sailor had brought back as a votive offering for Notre Dame de la Clarte , above Ploumanac'h ; from Quimper , an embroidered gown , worked by the nuns of the Assumption ; from Rennes , a silver rose that opened and showed an amber Virgin with a crown of garnets ; from Morlaix , again , a length of Damascus velvet shot with gold , bought of a Jew from Syria ; and for Michaelmas that same year , from Rennes , a necklet or bracelet of round stones  --  emeralds and pearls and rubies  --  strung like beads on a fine gold chain . This was the present that pleased the lady best , the woman said . Later on , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and appears to have struck the Judges and the public as a curious and valuable jewel . The very same winter , the Baron absented himself again , this time as far as Bordeaux , and on his returnp164he brought his wife something even odder and prettier than the bracelet . It was a winter evening when he rode up to Kerfol and , walking into the hall , found her sittingby the hearth , her chin on her hand , looking into the fire . He carried a velvet box in his hand and , setting it down , lifted the lid and let out a little golden-brown dog . Anne de Cornault exclaimed with pleasure as the little creature bounded toward her . " Oh , it looks like a bird or a butterfly ! " she cried as she picked it up ; and the dog put its paws on her shoulders and looked at her with eyes " like a Christian 's " . After that she would never have it out of her sight , and petted and talked to it as if it had been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to a child she was to know . Yves de Cornault was much pleased with his purchase . The dog had been brought to him by a sailor from an East India merchantman , and the sailor had bought it of a pilgrim in a bazaar at Jaffa , who had stolen it from a nobleman 's wife in China : a perfectly permissible thing to do , since the pilgrim was a Christian and the nobleman a heathen doomed to hellfire . Yves de Cornault had paid a long price for the dog , for they were beginning to be in demand at the French court , and the sailor knew he had got hold of a good thing ; but Anne 's pleasure was so great that , to see her laugh and play with the little animal , her husband would doubtless have given twice the sum . So far , all the evidence is at one , and the narrative plain sailing ; but now the steering becomes difficult . Ip165will try to keep as nearly as possible to Anne 's own statements ; though toward the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ back . The very year after the little brown dog was brought to Kerfol , Yves de Cornault , one winter night , was found dead at the head of a narrow flight of stairs leading down from his wife 's rooms to a door opening on the court . It was his wife who found him and gave the alarm , so distracted , poor wretch , with fear and horror  --  for his blood was all over her  --  that at first the roused household could not make out what she was saying , and thought she had suddenly gone mad . But there , sure enough , at the top of the stairs lay her husband , stone dead , and head foremost , the blood from his wounds dripping down to the steps below him . He had been dreadfully scratched and gashed about the face and throat , as if with curious pointed weapons ; and one of his legs had a deep tear in it which had cut an artery , and probably caused his death . But how did he come there , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had been asleep in her bed , and hearing his cry had rushed out to find him lying on the stairs ; but this was immediately questioned . In the first place , it was proved that from her room she could not have heard the struggle on the stairs , owing to the thickness of the walls and the length of the interveningpassage ; then it was evident that she had not been in bed and asleep , since she was dressed when she roused the house , and her bed had not been slept in . Moreover , the door at the bottom of the stairs was ajar , and it was noticed by the chaplain ( an observant man ) that the dress she wore was stained with blood about the knees , and that there were traces of small bloodstainedhands low down on the staircase walls , so that it was conjectured that she had really been at the postern-door when her husband fell and , feeling her way up to him in the darkness on her hands and knees , had been stained by his blood @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the other side that the bloodmarkson her dress might have been caused by her kneeling down by her husband when she rushed out of her room ; but there was the open door below , and the fact that the finger-marks in the staircase all pointed upward . The accused held to her statement for the first two days , in spite of its improbability ; but on the third day word was brought to her that Herve de Lanrivain , a young nobleman of the neighbourhood , had been arrested for complicity in the crime . Two or three witnessesthereupon came forward to say that it was known throughout the country that Lanrivain had formerly been on good terms with the lady of Cornault ; but that he had been absent from Brittany for over a year , and people had ceased to associate their names . The witnesseswho made this statement were not of a very reputable sort . One was an old herb-gatherer suspected of witchcraft , another a drunken clerk from a neighbouringparish , the third a half-witted shepherd who could be made to say anything @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ satisfied with its case , and would have liked to find more definite proof of Lanrivain'scomplicity than the statement of the herbgatherer , who swore to having seen him climbing the 67wall of the park on the night of the murder . One way of patching out incomplete proofs in those days was to put some sort of pressure , moral or physical , on the accused person . It is not clear what pressure was put on Anne de Cornault ; but on the third day , when she was brought in court , she " appeared weak and wandering " , and after being encouraged to collect herself and speak the truth , on her honour and the wounds of her Blessed Redeemer , she confessed that she had in fact gone down the stairs to speak with Herve de Lanrivain ( who deniedeverything ) , and had been surprised there by the sound of her husband 's fall . That was better ; and the prosecution rubbed its hands with satisfaction . The satisfaction increased when various dependents living at Kerfol were induced to say  --  with apparent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ death their master had once more grown uncertain and irascible , and subject to the fits of brooding silence which his household had learned to dread before his second marriage . This seemed to show that things had not been going well at Kerfol ; though no one could be found to say that there had been any signs of open disagreement between husband and wife . Anne de Cornault , when questioned as to her reason for going down at night to open the door to Herve de Lanrivain , made an answer which must have sent a smile around the court . She said it was because she was lonely and wanted to talk with . the young mate . Was this the only reason ? she was asked ; and replied : " Yes , by the Cross over your Lordships ' heads . " " But why at midnight ? " the court asked . " Because I could see himp168in no other way . " I can see the exchange of glances across the ermine collars under the Crucifix . Anne de Cornault , further questioned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : " desolate " was the word she used . It was true that her husband seldom spoke harshly to her ; but there were days when he did not speak at all . It was true that he had never struck or threatened her ; but he kept her like a prisoner at Kerfol , and when he rode away to Morlaix or Quimper or Rennes he set so close a watch on her that she could not pick a flower in the garden without having a waiting-womanat her heels . " I am no Queen , to need such honours , " she once said to him ; and he had answered that a man who has a treasure does not leave the key in the lock when he goes out . " Then take me with you , " she urged ; but to this he said that towns were pernicious places , and young wives better off at their own firesides . " But what did you want to say to Herve de Lanrivain ? " the court asked ; and she answered : " To ask @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you confess that you went down to him with adulterous thoughts ? " " No . " " Then why did you want him to take you away ? " " Because I was afraid for my life . " " Of whom were you afraid ? " " Of my husband . " " Why were you afraid of your husband ? " " Because he had strangled my little dog . " Another smile must have passed around the courtroom : in days when any nobleman had a right to hangp169his peasants  --  and most of them exercised it  --  pinching a pet animal 's wind-pipe was nothing to make a fuss about . At this point one of the Judges , who appears to have had a certain sympathy for the accused , suggested that she should be allowed to explain herself in her own way ; and she thereupon made the following statement . The first years of her marriage had been lonely ; but her husband had not been unkind to her . If she had had a child she would not have been unhappy ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ much . It was true that her husband , whenever he went away and left her , brought her a handsome present on his return ; but this did not make up for the loneliness . At least nothing had , till he brought her the little brown dog from the East : after that she was much less unhappy . Her husband seemed pleased that she was so fond of the dog ; he gave her leave to put her jewelled bracelet around its neck , and to keep it always with her . One day she had fallen asleep in her room , with the clog at her feet , as his habit was . Her feet were bare and resting on his back . Suddenly she was waked by her husband : he stood beside her , smiling not unkindly . " You look like my great-grandmother , Juliane de Cornault , lying in the chapel with her feet on a little clog , " he said . The analogy sent a chill through her , but she laughedand answered : " Well , when I am dead @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with my dog at my feet . " " Oho  --  we 'll wait and see , " he said , laughing also , but with his black brows close together . " The dog is the emblem of fidelity . " " And do you doubt my right to lie with mine at my feet ? " " When I 'm in doubt I find out , " he answered . " I am an old man , " he added , " and people say I make you lead a lonely life . But I swear you shall have your monumentif you earn it . " " And I swear to be faithful , " she returned , " if only for the sake of having my little dog at my feet . " Not long afterward he went on business to the Quimper Assizes ; and while he was away his aunt , the widow of a great nobleman of the duchy , came to spend a night at Kerfol on her way to the pardon of Ste. Barbe . She was a woman of piety and consequence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when she proposed to Anne to go with her to Ste. Barbe no one could object , and even the chaplain declared himself in favour of the pilgrimage . So Anne set out for Ste. Barbe , and there for the first time she talked with Herve de Lanrivain . He had come once or twice to Kerfol with his father , but she had never before exchanged a dozen words with him . They did not talk for more than five minutes now : it was under the chestnuts , as the processionwas coming out of the chapel . He said : " I pity you , " and she was surprised , for she had not supposed that any one thought her an object of pity . He added : " Call for me when you need me , " and she smiled a little , but was glad afterward , and thought often of the meeting . She confessed to having seen him three times after/ward : not more . How or where she would not say  --  one had the impression that she feared to implicate some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and at the last he had told her that he was starting the next day for a foreign country , on a mission which was not without peril and might keep him for many months absent . He asked her for a remembrance , and she had none to give him but the collar about the little dog 's neck . She was sorry afterward that she had given it , but he was so unhappy at going that she had not had the courage to refuse . Her husband was away at the time . When he returneda few days later he picked up the animal to pet it , and noticed that its collar was missing . His wife told him that the dog had lost it in the undergrowth of the park , and that she and her maids had hunted a whole clay for it . It was true , she explained to the court , that she had made the maids search for the necklet  --  they all believed the dog had lost it in the park .. . Her husband made no comment , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , between good and bad : you could never tell which . He talked a good deal , describing what he had seen and done at Rennes ; but now and then he stopped and looked hard at her , and when she went to bed she found her little dog strangled on her pillow . The little thing was dead , but still warm ; she stooped to lift it , and her distress turned to horror when she discovered that it had been strangled by twistingtwice round its throat the necklet she had given to Lanrivain . The next morning at dawn she buried the dog in thep172garden , and hid the necklet in her breast . She said nothing to her husband , then or later , and he said nothing to her ; but that day he had a peasant hanged for stealinga faggot in the park , and the next day he nearly beat to death a young horse he was breaking . Winter set in , and the short days passed , and the long nights , one by one ; and she heard nothing of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had killed him ; or merely that he had been robbed of the necklet . Day after day by the hearth among the spinning maids , night after night alone on her bed , she wondered and trembled . Sometimes at table her husband looked across at her and smiled ; and then she felt sure that Lanrivain was dead . She dared not try to get news of him , for she was sure her husband would find out if she did : she had an idea that he could find out anything . Even when a witch-woman who was a noted seer , and could show you the whole world in her crystal , came to the castle for a night 's shelter , and the maids flocked to her , Anne held back . The winter was long and black and rainy . One day , in Yves de Cornault 's absence , some gypsies came to Kerfol with a troop of performing dogs . Anne bought the smallest and cleverest , a white dog with a feathery coat and one blue and one brown eye . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clung to her plaintively when she took it from them . That evening her husband came back , and when she went to bed she found the dog strangled on her pillow . After that she said to herself that she would never have another dog ; but one bitter cold evening a poorp173lean greyhound was found whining at the castle-gate , and she took him in and forbade the maids to speak of him to her husband . She hid him in a room that no one went to , smuggled food to him from her own plate , made him a warm bed to lie on and petted him like a child . Yves de Cornault came home , and the next day she found the greyhound strangled on her pillow . She wept in secret , but said nothing , and resolved that even if she met a dog dying of hunger she would never bring him into the castle ; but one day she found a young sheepclog , a brindled puppy with good blue eyes , lying with a broken leg in the snow of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ she brought the dog in , warmed and fed it , tied up its leg and hid it in the castle till her husband 's return . The day before , she gave it to a peasant woman who lived a long way off , and paid her handsomely to care for it and say nothing ; but that night she heard a whining and scratching at her door , and when she opened it the lame puppy , drenched and shivering , jumped up on her with little sobbing barks . She hid him in her bed , and the next morning was about to have him taken back to the peasant woman when she heard her husband ride into the court . She shut the dog in a chest , and went down to receive him . An hour or two later , when she returned to her room , the puppy lay strangled on her pillow .. . After that she dared not make a pet of any other dog ; and her loneliness became almost unendurable . Sometimes , when she crossed the court of the castle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to pat the old pointer at the gate . But one day as she was caressing him her husband came out of the chapel ; and the next day the old dog was gone .. . This curious narrative was not told in one sitting of the court , or received without impatience and incredulouscomment . It was plain that the Judges were surprised by its puerility , and that it did not help the accused in the eyes of the public . It was an odd tale , certainly ; but what did it prove ? That Yves de Cornault disliked dogs , and that his wife , to gratify her own fancy , persistently ignored this dislike . As for pleading this trivial disagreement as an excuse for her relations  --  whatever their nature  --  with her supposed accomplice , the argument was so absurd that her own lawyer manifestlyregretted having let her make use of it , and tried several times to cut short her story . But she went on to the end , with a kind of hypnotized insistence , as though the scenes she evoked were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was and imagined herself to be re-living them . At length the Judge who had previously shown a certainkindness to her said ( leaning forward a little , one may suppose , from his row of dozing colleagues ) : " Then you would have us believe that you murdered your husband because he would not let you keep a pet dog ? " " I did not murder my husband . " " Who did , then ? Herve de Lanrivain ? " " No . " " Who then ? Can you tell us ? " " Yes , I can tell you . The dogs  --  " At that point she was carried out of the court in a swoon.  |p175It  was evident that her lawyer tried to get her to abandon this line of defence . Possibly her explanation , whatever it was , had seemed convincing when she poured it out to him in the heat of their first private colloquy ; but now that it was exposed to the cold daylightof judicial scrutiny , and the banter of the town , he was thoroughly ashamed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to save his professional reputation . But the obstinate Judge  --  who perhaps , after all , was more inquisitive than kindly  --  evidently wanted to hear the story out , and she was ordered , the next day , to continue her deposition . She said that after the disappearance of the old watchdognothing particular happened for a month or two . Her husband was much as usual : she did not remember any special incident . But one evening a pedlar woman came to the castle and was selling trinkets to the maids . She had no heart for trinkets , but she stood looking on while the women made their choice . And then , she did not know how , but the pedlar coaxed her into buying for herself a pear-shaped pomander with a strong scent in it  --  she had once seen something of the kind on a gypsy woman . She had no desire for the pomander , and did not know why she had bought it . The pedlar said that whoever wore it had the power to read the future ; but she @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . I lowever , she bought the thing and took it up to her room , where she sat turning it about in her hand . Then the strange scent attracted her and she began to wonder what kind of spice was in the box . She opened it and found a gray bean rolled in a strip of paper ; and on the paper she saw a sign she knew and a message from Herve de Lanrivain , saying that he was at home again and would be at the door in the court that night after the moon had set .. . She burned the paper and sat down to think . It was nightfall , and her husband was at home ... She had no way of warning Lanrivain , and there was nothing to do but to wait ... At this point I fancy the drowsy court-room beginning to wake up . Even to the oldest hand on the bench there must have been a certain relish in picturing the feelings of a woman on receiving such a message at nightfall from a man living twenty miles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a warning .. . She was not a clever woman , I imagine ; and as the first result of her cogitation she appears to have made the mistake of being , that evening , too kind to her husband . She could not ply him with wine , according to the traditional expedient , for though he drank heavily at times he had a strong head ; and when he drank beyond its strength it was because he chose to , and not because a woman coaxed him . Not his wife , at any rate  --  she was an old story by now . As I read the case , I fancy there was no feeling for her left in him but the hatred occasioned by his supposed dishonour . At any rate , she tried to call up her old graces ; but early in the evening he complained of pains and fever , and left the hall to go up to the closet where he sometimesslept . His servant carried him a cup of hot wine , and brought back word that he was sleeping and not top177be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the tapestry and listened at his door , she heard his loud regularbreathing . She thought it might be a feint , and stayed a long time barefooted in the passage , her ear to the crack ; but the breathing went on too steadily and naturally to be other than that of a man in a sound sleep . She crept back to her room reassured , and stood in the window watching the moon set through the trees of the park . The sky was misty and starless , and after the moon went down the night was black as pitch . She knew the time had come , and stole along the passage , past her husband 's door  --  where she stopped again to listen to his breathing  --  to the top of the stairs . There she paused a moment , and assured herself that no one was following her ; then she began to go down the stairs in the darkness . They were so steep and winding that she had to go very slowly , for fear of stumbling . Her one thought was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his escape , and hasten back to her room . She had tried the bolt earlier in the evening , and managed to put a little grease on it ; but nevertheless , when she drew it , it gave a squeak . . . not loud , but it made her heart stop ; and the next minute , overhead , she heard a noise .. . " What noise ? " the prosecution interposed . " My husband 's voice calling out my name and cursing tie . " " What did you hear after that ? " " A terrible scream and a fall . " " Where was Herve de Lanrivain at this time ? " " He was standing outside in the court . I just made him out in the darkness . I told him for God 's sake to go , and then I pushed the door shut . " " What did you do next ? " " I stood at the foot of the stairs and listened . " " What did you hear ? " " I heard dogs snarling and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the public , and exasperation of the lawyer for the defence . Dogs again ! But the inquisitive Judge insisted . ) " What dogs ? " She bent her head and spoke so low that she had to be told to repeat her answer : " I do n't know . " " How do you mean  --  you do n't know ? " " I do n't know what dogs ... " The judge again intervened : " Try to tell us exactly what happened . How long did you remain at the foot of the stairs ? " " Only a few minutes . " " And what was going on meanwhile overhead ? " " The dogs kept on snarling and panting . Once or twice he cried out . I think he moaned once . Then he was quiet . " " Then what happened ? " " Then I heard a sound like the noise of a pack when the wolf is thrown to them  --  gulping and lapping . " ( There was a groan of disgust and repulsion through the court , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the inquisitive Judge was still inquisitive . ) " And all the while you did not go up ? " " Yes  --  I went up then  --  to drive them off . "  | " The dogs ? " " Yes . " " Well  --  ? " " When I got there it was quite dark . I found my husband 's flint and steel and struck a spark . I saw him lying there . He was dead . " " And the dogs ? " " The dogs were gone . " " Gone  --  where to ? " " I do n't know . There was no way out  --  and there were no dogs at Kerfol . " She straightened herself to her full height , threw her arms above her head , and fell down on the stone floor with a long scream . There was a moment of confusion in the court-room . Someone on the bench was heard to say : " This is clearly a case for the ecclesiastical authorities "  --  andthe prisoner 's lawyer doubtless jumped at the suggestion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ maze of crossquestioningand squabbling . Every witness who was called corroborated Anne de Cornault 's statement that there were no dogs at Kerfol : had been none for several months . The master of the house had taken a dislike to dogs , there was no denying it . But , on the other hand , at the inquest , there had been long and bitter discussions as to the nature of the dead man 's wounds . One of the surgeons called in had spoken of marks that looked like bites . The suggestion of witchcraft was revived , and the opposing lawyers hurled tomes of necromancyat each other . At last Anne de Cornault was brought back into courtp18o  --  at the instance of the same Judge  --  and asked if she knew where the dogs she spoke of could have come from . On the body of her Redeemer she swore that she did not . Then the Judge put his final question : " If the dogs you think you heard had been known to you , do you think you would have recognized them by their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recognize them ? " " Yes . " " What dogs do you take them to have been ? " " My dead dogs , " she said in a whisper .. . She was taken out of court , not to reappear there again . There was some kind of ecclesiastical investigation , and the end of the business was that the Judges disagreed with each other , and with the ecclesiastical committee , and that Anne de Cornault was finally handed over to the keeping of her husband 's family , who shut her up in the keep of Kerfol , where she is said to have died many years later , a harmless mad-woman . So ends her story . As for that of Herve de Lanrivain , I had only to apply to his collateral descendant for its subsequent details . The evidence against the young man being insufficient , and his family influence ih the duchy considerable , he was set free , and left soon afterward for Paris . He was probably in no mood for a worldly life , and he appears to have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Arnauld d'Andilly and the gentlemen of Port Royal . A year or two later he was received into their Order , and without achieving any particular distinction he followed its good and evilp181fortunes till his death some twenty years later . Lanrivain showed me a portrait of him by a pupil of Philippe de Champaigne : sad eyes , an impulsive mouth and a narrowbrow . Poor Herve de Lanrivain : it was a gray ending . Yet as I looked at his stiff and sallow effigy , in the dark dress of the Jansenists , I almost found myself envyhisfate . After all , in the course of his life two great things had happened to him : he had loved romantically , and he must have talked with Pascal .. .  | I T was clear that the sleigh from Weymore had not come ; and the shivering young traveller from Boston , who had counted on jumping into it when he left the rain at Northridge Junction , found himself standing alone on the open platform , exposed to the full assault of night-fall and winter . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ice-hung forests . It seemed to have traversedinterminable leagues of frozen silence , filling them with the same cold roar and sharpening its edge against the same bitter black-and-white landscape . Dark , searchingand sword-like , it alternately muffled and harried its victim , like a bull-fighter now whirling his cloak and now planting his darts . This analogy brought home to the young man the fact that he himself had no cloak , and that the overcoat in which he had faced the relativelytemperate air of Boston seemed no thicker than a sheet of paper on the bleak heights of Northridge . George Faxon said to himself that the place was uncommonlywell-named . It clung to an exposed ledge over the valley from which the train had lifted him , and the wind combed it with teeth of steel that he seemed actually to hear scraping against the wooden sides of the station . Other building there was none : the village lay far down the road , and thither  --  since the Weymore sleigh had not come  --  Faxon saw himself underthe necessity of plodding through several feet of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his hostess had forgotten that he was coming . Young as Faxon was , this sad lucidity of soul had been acquired as the result of long experience , and he knew that the visitors who can least afford to hire a carriage are almost always those whom their hosts forget to send for . Yet to say that Mrs. Culme had forgotten him was too crude a way of putting it . Similar incidents led him to think that she had probably told her maid to tell the butler to telephone the coachman to tell one of the grooms ( if no one else needed him ) to drive over to Northridge to fetch the new secretary ; but on a night like this , what groom who respected his rights would fail to forget the order ? Faxon 's obvious course was to struggle through the drifts to the village , and there rout out a sleigh to convey him to Weymore ; but what if , on his arrival at Mrs. Culme 's , no one remembered to ask him what this devotionto duty had cost ? That @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expensively learned to look out for , and the perspicacity so acquired told him it would be cheaper to spend the night at the Northridge inn , and advise Mrs. Culme of his presence there by telephone . He had reached this decision , and was about to entrust his luggage to a vague man with a lantern , when his hopes were raised by the sound of bells . Two sleighs were just dashing up to the station , andp187from the foremost there sprang a young man muffled in furs . " Weymore ?  --  No , these are not the Weymore sleighs . " The voice was that of the youth who had jumped to the platform  --  a voice so agreeable that , in spite of the words , it fell consolingly on Faxon 's ears . At the same moment the wandering station-lantern , casting a transientlight on the speaker , showed his features to be in the pleasantest harmony with his voice . He was very fair and very young  --  hardly in the twenties , Faxon thought  --  but his face , though full of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fine-drawn , as though a vivid spirit contended in him with a strain of physical weakness . Faxon was perhaps the quicker to notice such delicacies of balance because his own temperament hung on lightly quivering nerves , which yet , as he believed , would never quite swing him beyond a normal sensibility . " You expected a sleigh from Weymore ? " the newcomercontinued , standing beside Faxon like a slender column of fur . Mrs. Culme 's secretary explained his difficulty , and the other brushed it aside with a contemptuous " Oh , Mrs. Culme ! " that carried both speakers a long way toward reciprocal understanding . " But then you must be  --  " The youth broke off with a smile of interrogation . " The new secretary ? Yes . But apparently there are no notes to be answered this evening . " Faxon 's laugh deepened the sense of solidarity which had so promptly established itself between the two . His friend laughed also . " Mrs. Culme , " he explained ,  | " was lunching at my uncle 's today , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seven hours is a long time for Mrs. Culme to remember anything . " " Well , " said Faxon philosophically , " I suppose that 's one of the reasons why she needs a secretary . And I 've always the inn at Northridge , " he concluded . " Oh , but you have n't , though ! It burned down last week . " " The deuce it did ! " said Faxon ; but the humour of the situation struck him before its inconvenience . His life , for years past , had been mainly a succession of resigned adaptations , and he had learned , before dealing practically with his embarrassments , to extract from most of them a small tribute of amusement . " Oh , well , there 's sure to be somebody in the place who can put me up . " " No one you could put up with . Besides , Northridge is three miles off , and our place  --  in the opposite direction  --  isa little nearer . " Through the darkness , Faxon saw his friend sketch a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and I 'm staying with my uncle at Overdale . I 've driven over to meet two friends of his , who are due in a few minutes from New York . If you do n't mind waiting till they arrive I 'm sure Overdale can do you better than Northridge . We 're only down from town for a few days , but the house is always ready for a lot of people . " " But your uncle  --  ? " Faxon could only object , with the odd sense , through his embarrassment , that it would be magically dispelled by his invisible friend 's next words.  | " Oh , my uncle  --  you 'll see ! I answer for him ! I daresayyou 've heard of him  --  John Lavington ? " John Lavington ! There was a certain irony in asking if one had heard of John Lavington ! Even from a post of observation as obscure as that of Mrs. Culme 's secretarythe rumour of John Lavington 's money , of his pictures , his politics , his charities and his hospitality , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cataract in a mountain solitude . It might almost have been said that the one place in which one would not have expected to come upon him was in just such a solitude as now surrounded the speakers  --  at least in this deepest hour of its desertedness . But it was just like Lavington 's brilliant ubiquity to put one in the wrong even there . " Oh , yes , I 've heard of your uncle . " " Then you will come , wo n't you ? We 've only five minutes to wait , " young Rainer urged , in the tone that dispels scruples by ignoring them ; and Faxon found himself accepting the invitation as simply as it was offered . A delay in the arrival of the New York train lengthenedtheir five minutes to fifteen ; and as they paced the icy platform Faxon began to see why it had seemed the most natural thing in the world to accede to his new acquaintance 's suggestion . It was because Frank Rainer was one of the privileged beings who simplify human intercourse by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ produced this effect , Faxon noted , by the exercise of no gift but his youth , and of no art but his sincerity ; and these qualities were revealed in a smile of such sweetness that Faxon felt ,  |p190as  never before , what Nature can achieve when she deigns to match the face with the mind . He learned that the young man was the ward , and the only nephew , of John Lavington , with whom he had made his home since the death of his mother , the great man 's sister . Mr. Lavington , Rainer said , had been " a regular brick " to him  --  " But then he is to every one , you know "  --  and the young fellow 's situation seemed in fact to be perfectly in keeping with his person . Apparentlythe only shade that had ever rested on him was cast by the physical weakness which Faxon had already detected . Young Rainer had been threatened with tuberculosis , and the disease was so far advanced that , according to the highest authorities , banishment to Arizona @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ uncle did n't pack me off , as most people would have done , without getting another opinion . Whose ? Oh , an awfully clever chap , a young doctor with a lot of new ideas , who simply laughed at my being sent away , and said I 'd do perfectly well in New York if I did n't dine out too much , and if I dashed off occasionally to Northridgefor a little fresh air . So it 's really my uncle 's doing that I 'm not in exile  --  and I feel no end better since the new chap told me I need n't bother . " Young Rainer went on to confess that he was extremely fond of dining out , dancing and similar distractions ; and Faxon , listening to him , was inclined to think that the physician who had refused to cut him off altogether from these pleasures was probably a better psychologist than his seniors . " All the same you ought to be careful , you know . "  |p191The  sense of elder-brotherly concern that forced the words from Faxon made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Frank Rainer 's . The latter met the movement with a responsive pressure . " Oh , I am : awfully , awfully . And then my uncle has such an eye on me ! " " But if your uncle has such an eye on you , what does he say to your swallowing knives out here in this Siberianwild ? " Rainer raised his fur collar with a careless gesture . " It 's not that that does it  --  the cold 's good for me . " " And it 's not the dinners and dances ? What is it , then ? " Faxon good-humouredly insisted ; to which his companion answered with a laugh : " Well , my uncle says it 's being bored ; and I rather think he 's right ! " His laugh ended in a spasm of coughing and a struggle for breath that made Faxon , still holding his arm , guide him hastily into the shelter of the fireless waitingroom . Young Rainer had dropped down on the bench against the wall and pulled off one of his fur gloves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cap and drew the handkerchief across his forehead , which was intensely white , and beaded with moisture , though his face retained a healthy glow . But Faxon 's gaze remained fastened to the hand he had uncovered : it was so long , so colourless , so wasted , so much older than the brow he passed it over . " It 's queer  --  a healthy face but dying hands , " the secretary mused : he somehow wished young Rainer had kept on his glove.  | 92The whistle of the express drew the young men to their feet , and the next moment two heavily-furred gentlemenhad descended to the platform and were breastingthe rigour of the night . Frank Rainer introduced them as Mr. Grisben and Mr. Balch , and Faxon , while their luggage was being lifted into , the second sleigh , discerned them , by the roving lantern-gleam , to be an elderly gray-headed pair , of the average prosperous businesscut . They saluted their host 's nephew with friendly familiarity , and Mr. Grisben , who seemed the spokesman of the two , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many more of them , dear boy ! " which suggested to Faxon that their arrival coincided with an anniversary . But he could not press the enquiry , for the seat allotted him was at the coachman 's side , while Frank Rainer joined his uncle 's guests inside the sleigh . A swift flight ( behind such horses as one could be sure of John Lavington 's having ) brought them to tall gateposts , an illuminated lodge , and an avenue on which the snow had been levelled to the smoothness of marble . At the end of the avenue the long house loomed up , its principal bulk dark , but one wing sending out a ray of welcome ; and the next moment Faxon was receiving a violent impression of warmth and light , of hot-house plants , hurrying servants , a vast spectacular oak hall like a stage-setting , and , in its unreal middle distance , a small figure , correctly dressed , conventionally featured , and utterly unlike his rather florid conception of the great John Lavington.  |p193The  surprise of the contrast remained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bedroomto which he had been shown . " I do n't see where he comes in , " was the only way he could put it , so difficult was it to fit the exuberance of Lavington 's publicpersonality into his host 's contracted frame and manner . Mr. Lavington , to whom Faxon 's case had been rapidly explained by young Rainer , had welcomed him with a sort of dry and stilted cordiality that exactly matched his narrow face , his stiff hand , and the whiff of scent on his evening handkerchief . " Make yourself at home  --  at home ! " he had repeated , in a tone that suggested , on his own part , a complete inability to perform the feat he urged on his visitor . " Any friend of Frank 's ... delighted ... make yourself thoroughly at home ! " IN spite of the balmy temperature and complicated conveniencesof Faxon 's bedroom , the injunction was not easy to obey . It was wonderful luck to have found a night 's shelter under the opulent roof of Overdale , and he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ place , for all its ingenuities of comfort , was oddly cold and unwelcoming . He could n't have said why , and could only suppose that Mr. Lavington 's intense personality  --  intensely negative , but intense all the same  --  must , in some occult way , have penetrated every corner of his dwelling . Perhaps , though , it was merely that Faxon himself was tired and hungry , more deeply chilled than he had known till he came in from the cold , and un- utterably sick of all strange houses , and of the prospect of perpetually treading other people 's stairs . " I hope you 're not famished ? " Rainer 's slim figure was in the doorway . " My uncle has a little business to attend to with Mr. Grisben , and we do n't dine for half an hour . Shall I fetch you , or can you find your way clown ? Come straight to the dining-room  --  the second door on the left of the long gallery . " He disappeared , leaving a ray of warmth behind him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sat down by the fire . Looking about with less haste , he was struck by a detailthat had escaped him . The room was full of flowers  --  a mere " bachelor 's room " , in the wing of a house opened only for a few days , in the dead middle of a New Hampshire winter ! Flowers were everywhere , not in senseless profusion , but placed with the same consciousart that he had remarked in the grouping of the blossoming shrubs in the hall . A vase of arums stood on the writing-table , a cluster of strange-hued carnations on the stand at his elbow , and from bowls of glass and porcelain clumps of freesia-bulbs diffused their melting fragrance . The fact implied acres of glass  --  but that was the least interesting part of it . The flowers themselves , their quality , selection and arrangement , attested on some one 's part  --  and on whose but John Lavington 's ?  --  a solicitous and sensitive passion for that particular form of beauty . Well , it simply made the man , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ understand ! The half-hour elapsed , and Faxon , rejoicing at the prospect of food , set out to make his way to the diningTHETRIUMPH OF NIGHT 195p195room . He had not noticed the direction he had followed in going to his room , and was puzzled , when he left it , to find that two staircases , of apparently equal importance , invited him . He chose the one to his right , and reached , at its foot , a long gallery such as Rainer had described . The gallery was empty , the doors down its length were closed ; but Rainer had said : " The second to the left " , and Faxon , after pausing for some chance enlightenment which did not come , laid his hand on the second knob to the left . The room he entered was square , with dusky picturehungwalls . In its centre , about a table lit by veiled lamps , he fancied Mr. Lavington and his guests to be already seated at dinner ; then he perceived that the table was covered not with viands but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seemed to be his host 's study . As he paused Frank Rainer looked up . " Oh , here 's Mr. Faxon . Why not ask him  --  ? " Mr. Lavington , from the end of the table , reflected his nephew 's smile in a glance of impartial benevolence . " Certainly . Come in , Mr. Faxon . If you wo n't think it a liberty  --  " Mr. Grisben , who sat opposite his host , turned his head toward the door . " Of course Mr. Faxon 's an Americancitizen ? " Frank Rainer laughed . " That 's all right ! . . . Oh , no , not one of your pin-pointed pens , Uncle Jack ! Have n't you got a quill somewhere ? " Mr. Balch , who spoke slowly and as if reluctantly , in a muffled voice of which there seemed to be very little 96 left , raised his hand to say : " One moment : you acknowledgethis to be  --  ? " " My last will and testament ? " Rainer 's laugh redoubled . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It 's the first , anyway . " " It 's a mere formula , " Mr. Balch explained . " Well , here goes . " Rainer dipped his quill in the inkstandhis uncle had pushed in his direction , and dashed a gallant signature across the document . Faxon , understanding what was expected of him , and conjecturing that the young man was signing his will on the attainment of his majority , had placed himself behindMr . Grisben , and stood awaiting his turn to affix his name to the instrument . Rainer , having signed , was about to push the paper across the table to Mr. Balch ; but the latter , again raising his hand , said in his sad imprisoned voice : " The seal  --  ? " " Oh , does there have to be a seal ? " Faxon , looking over Mr. Grisben at John Lavington , saw a faint frown between his impassive eyes . " Really , Frank ! " He seemed , Faxon thought , slightly irritated by his nephew 's frivolity . " Who 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about the table . " There does n't seem to be one here . " Mr. Grisben interposed . " A wafer will do . Lavington , you have a wafer ? " Mr. Lavington had recovered his serenity . " There must be some in one of the drawers . But I 'm ashamed to say I do n't know where my secretary keeps these things . He ought to have seen to it that a wafer was sent with the document . "  | " Oh , hang it  --  " Frank Rainer pushed the paper aside : " It 's the hand of God  --  and I 'm as hungry as a wolf . Let 's dine first , Uncle Jack . " " I think I 've a seal upstairs , " said Faxon . Mr. Lavington sent him a barely perceptible smile . " So sorry to give you the trouble  --  " " Oh , I say , do n't send him after it now . Let 's wait till after dinner ! " Mr. Lavington continued to smile on his guest , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ smile , turned from the room and ran upstairs . Having taken the seal from his writing-case he came down again , and once more opened the door of the study . No one was speaking when he entered  --  they were evidently awaiting his return with the mute impatience of hunger , and he put the seal in Rainer 's reach , and stood watching while Mr. Grisben struck a match and held it to one of the candles flanking the inkstand . As the wax descended on the paper Faxon remarked again the strange emaciation , the premature physical weariness , of the hand that held it : he wondered if Mr. Lavington had ever noticedhis nephew 's hand , and if it were not poignantly visible to him now . With this thought in his mind , Faxon raised his eyes to look at Mr. Lavington . The great man 's gaze rested on Frank Rainer with an expression of untroubled benevolence ; and at the same instant Faxon 's attention was attracted by the presence in the room of another person , who , must have joined @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The new-comer was a man of about Mr. Lavington 's age and figure , who stood 98 just behind his chair , and who , at the moment when Faxon first saw him , was gazing at young Rainer with an equal intensity of attention . The likeness between the two men  --  perhaps increased by the fact that the hooded lamps on the table left the figure behind the chair in shadow  --  struck Faxon the more because of the contrast in their expression . John Lavington , during his nephew 's clumsy attempt to drop the wax and apply the seal , continued to fasten on him a look of halfamusedaffection ; while the man behind the chair , so oddly reduplicating the lines of his features and figure , turned on the boy a face of pale hostility . The impression was so startling that Faxon forgot what was going on about him . He was just dimly aware of young Rainer 's exclaiming : " Your turn , Mr. Grisben ! " of Mr. Grisben 's protesting : " No  --  no ; Mr. Faxon first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to his own hand . He received it with a deadly sense of being unable to move , or even to understand what was expected of him , till he became conscious of Mr. Grisben'spaternally pointing out the precise spot on which he was to leave his autograph . The effort to fix his attention and steady his hand prolonged the process of signing , and when he stood up  --  a strange weight of fatigue on all his limbs  --  the figure behind Mr. Lavington'schair was gone . Faxon felt an immediate sense of relief . It was puzzlingthat the man 's exit should have been so rapid and noiseless , but the door behind Mr. Lavington was screened by a tapestry hanging , and Faxon concluded that the unknown looker-on had merely had to raisep199it to pass out . At any rate he was gone , and with his withdrawal the strange weight was lifted . Young Rainer was lighting a cigarette , Mr. Balch inscribing his name at the foot of the document , Mr. Lavington  --  his eyes no longer on his nephew  --  examining a strange @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seemed to have grown natural and simple again , and Faxon found himself responding with a smile to the affable gesture with which his host declared : " And now , Mr. Faxon , we 'll dine . " " I WONDER how I blundered into the wrong room just now ; I thought you told me to take the second door to the left , " Faxon said to Frank Rainer as they followed the older men down the gallery . " So I did ; but I probably forgot to tell you which staircase to take . Coming from your bedroom , I ought to have said the fourth door to the right . It 's a puzzling house , because my uncle keeps adding to it from year to year . He built this room last summer for his modern pictures . " Young Rainer , pausing to open another door , touched an electric button which sent a circle of light about the walls of a long room hung with canvases of the French impressionist school . Faxon advanced , attracted by a shimmering Monet , but Rainer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that last week . But come along  --  I 'll show you all this after dinner . Or he will , rather  --  he loves it . " I " Does he really love things ? " Rainer stared , clearly perplexed at the question . " Rather ! Flowers and pictures especially ! Have n't you noticed the flowers ? I suppose you think his manner 's cold ; it seems so at first ; but he 's really awfully keen about things . " Faxon looked quickly at the speaker . " Has your uncle a brother ? " " Brother ? No  --  never had . He and my mother were the only ones . " " Or any relation who  --  who looks like him ? Who might be mistaken for him ? " " Not that I ever heard of . Does he remind you of some one ? " " Yes . " " That 's queer . We 'll ask him if he 's got a double . Come on ! " But another picture had arrested Faxon , and some minutes elapsed before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was a large room , with the same conventionally handsome furniture and delicately grouped flowers ; and Faxon 's first glance showed him that only three men were seated about the dining-table . The man who had stood behind Mr. Lavington 's chair was not present , and no seat awaited him . When the young men entered , Mr. Grisben was speaking , and his host , who faced the door , sat looking down at his untouched soup-plate and turning the spoon about in his small dry hand . " It 's pretty late to call them rumours  --  they were devilish close to facts when we left town this morning , "  |p201Mr  . Grisben was saying , with an unexpected incisivenessof tone . Mr. Lavington laid down his spoon and smiled interrogatively . " Oh , facts  --  what are facts ? Just the way a thing happens to look at a given minute ... " " You have n't heard anything from town ? " Mr. Grisbenpersisted . " Not a syllable . So you see ... Balch , a little more of that petite marmite @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Grisben , please . " The dinner progressed through a series of complicatedcourses , ceremoniously dispensed by a prelatical butler attended by three tall footmen , and it was evidentthat Mr. Lavington took a certain satisfaction in the pageant . That , Faxon reflected , was probably the joint in his armour  --  that and the flowers . He had changed the subject  --  not abruptly but firmly  --  when the young men entered , but Faxon perceived that it still possessed the thoughts of the two elderly visitors , and Mr. Balch presently observed , in a voice that seemed to come from the last survivor down a mine-shaft : " If it does come , it will be the biggest crash since ' 93 . " Mr. Lavington looked bored but polite . " Wall Street can stand crashes better than it could then . It 's got a robuster constitution . " " Yes ; but  --  " " Speaking of constitutions , " Mr. Grisben intervened : " Frank , are you taking care of yourself ? " A flush rose to young Rainer 's cheeks . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I 'm here for ? " " You 're here about three days in a month , aren'tp202you ? And the rest of the time it 's crowded restaurants and hot ballrooms in town . I thought you were to be shipped off to New Mexico ? " " Oh , I 've got a new man who says that 's rot . " " Well , you do n't look as if your new man were right , " said Mr. Grisben bluntly . Faxon saw the lad 's colour fade , and the rings of shadow deepen under his gay eyes . At the same moment his uncle turned to him with a renewed intensity of attention . There was such solicitude in Mr. Lavington 's gaze that it seemed almost to fling a shield between his nephew and Mr. Grisben 's tactless scrutiny . " We think Frank 's a good deal better , " he began ; " this new doctor  --  " The butler , coming up , bent to whisper a word in his ear , and the communication caused a sudden change in Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that it seemed not so much to pale as to fade , to dwindle and recede into something blurred and blotted-out . He half rose , sat down again and sent a rigid smile about the table . " Will you excuse me ? The telephone . Peters , go on with the dinner . " With small precise steps he walked out of the door which one of the footmen had thrown open . A momentary silence fell on the group ; then Mr. Grisben once more addressed himself to Rainer . " You ought to have gone , my boy ; you ought to have gone . " The anxious look returned to the youth 's eyes . " My uncle does n't think so , really . " " You 're not a baby , to be always governed by yourp203uncle 's opinion . You came of age today , did n't you ? Your uncle spoils you . . . that 's what 's the matter ... " The thrust evidently went home , for Rainer laughed and looked down with a slight accession of colour . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sense , Frank ! You had to try twenty doctors to find one to tell you what you wanted to be told . " A look of apprehension overshadowed Rainer 's gaiety . " Oh , come  --  I say ! . . . What would you do ? " he stammered . " Pack up and jump on the first train . " Mr. Grisben leaned forward and laid his hand kindly on the young man 's arm . " Look here : my nephew Jim Grisben is out there ranching on a big scale . He 'll take you in and be glad to have you You say your new doctor thinks it wo n't do you any good ; but he does n't pretend to say it will do you harm , does he ? Well , then  --  give it a trial . It 'll take you out of hot theatres and night restaurants , anyhow . . . And all the rest of it . . . Eh , Balch ? " " Go ! " said Mr. Balch hollowly . " Go at once , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the youth 's face had impressedon him the need of backing up his friend . Young Rainer had turned ashy-pale . He tried to stiffen his mouth into a smile . " Do I look as bad as all that ? " Mr. Grisben was helping himself to terrapin . " You look like the day after an earthquake , " he said . The terrapin had encircled the table , and been deliberatelyenjoyed by Mr. Lavington 's three visitors ( Rainer , Faxon noticed , left his plate untouched ) before the door was thrown open to re-admit their host . Mr. Lavington advanced with an air of recovered composure . He seated himself , picked up his napkin and consulted the gold-monogrammed menu . " No , do n't bring back the filet ... Some terrapin ; yes . . . " He looked affably about the table . " Sorry to have deserted you , but the storm has played the deuce with the wires , and I had to wait a long time before I could get a good connection . It must be blowing up for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rainer broke out , " Mr. Grisben'sbeen lecturing me . " Mr. Lavington was helping himself to terrapin . " Ahwhatabout ? " " He thinks I ought to have given New Mexico a show . " " I want him to go straight out to my nephew at Santa Paz and stay there till his next birthday . " Mr. Lavington signed to the butler to hand the terrapin to Mr. Grisben , who , as he took a second helping , addressed himselfagain to Rainer . " Jim 's in New York now , and going back the day after tomorrow in Olyphant 's private car . I 'll ask Olyphant to squeeze you in if you 'll go . And when you 've been out there a week or two , in the saddle all day and sleeping nine hours a night , I suspect you wo n't think much of the doctor who prescribed New York . " Faxon spoke up , he knew not why . " I was out there once : it 's a splendid life . I saw a fellow  --  oh , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over by it . "  | " It does sound jolly , " Rainer laughed , a sudden eagerness in his tone . His uncle looked at him gently . " Perhaps Grisben 's right . It 's an opportunity  --  " Faxon glanced up with a start : the figure dimly perceivedin the study was now more visibly and tangibly planted behind Mr. Lavington 's chair . " That 's right , Frank : you see your uncle approves . And the trip out there with Olyphant is n't a thing to be missed . So drop a few dozen dinners and be at the Grand Central the day after tomorrow at five . " Mr. Grisben 's pleasant gray eye sought corroboration of his host , and Faxon , in a cold anguish of suspense , continued to watch him as he turned his glance on Mr. Lavington . One could not look at Lavington without seeing the presence at his back , and it was clear that , the next minute , some change in Mr. Grisben 's expressionmust give his watcher a clue . But Mr. Grisben 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his host remained unperturbed , and the clue he gave was the startling one of not seeming to see the other figure . Faxon 's first impulse was to look away , to look anywhere else , to resort again to the champagne glass the watchful butler had already brimmed ; but some fatal attraction , at war in him with an overwhelming physical resistance , held his eyes upon the spot they feared . The figure was still standing , more distinctly , and therefore more resemblingly , at Mr. Lavington 's back ; and while the latter continued to gaze affectionately at his nephew , his counterpart , as before , fixed young Rainer with eyes of deadly menace . Faxon , with what felt like an actual wrench of the muscles , dragged his own eyes from the sight to scan the other countenances about the table ; but not one revealed the least consciousness of what he saw , and a sense of mortal isolation sank upon him . " It 's worth considering , certainly  --  " he heard Mr. Lavington continue ; and as Rainer 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chair seemed to gather into its look all the fierce weariness of old unsatisfied hates . That was the thing that , as the minutes laboured by , Faxon was becoming most conscious of . The watcher behind the chair was no longer merely malevolent : he had grown suddenly , unutterably tired . His hatred seemed to well up out of the very depths of balked effort and thwarted hopes , and the fact made him more pitiable , and yet more dire . Faxon 's look reverted to Mr. Lavington , as if to surprisein him a corresponding change . At first none was visible : his pinched smile was screwed to his blank face like a gas-light to a whitewashed wall . Then the fixity of the smile became ominous : Faxon saw that its wearer was afraid to let it go . It was evident that Mr. Lavingtonwas unutterably tired too , and the discovery sent a colder current through Faxon 's veins . Looking down at his untouched plate , he caught the soliciting twinkle of the champagne glass ; but the sight of the wine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into the details presently , " he heard Mr. Lavington say , still on the question of his nephew'sp207future . " Let 's have a cigar first . No  --  not here , Peters . " He turned his smile on Faxon . " When we 've had coffee I want to show you my pictures . " " Oh , by the way , Uncle Jack  --  Mr. Faxon wants to know if you 've got a double ? " " A double ? " Mr. Lavington , still smiling , continued to address himself to his guest . " Not that I know of . Have you seen one , Mr. Faxon ? " Faxon thought : " My God , if I look up now they 'll both be looking at me ! " To avoid raising his eyes he made as though to lift the glass to his lips ; but his hand sank inert , and he looked up . Mr. Lavington 's glance was politely bent on him , but with a loosening of the strain about his heart he saw that the figure behind @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Do you think you 've seen my double , Mr. Faxon ? " Would the other face turn if he said yes ? Faxon felt a dryness in his throat . " No , " he answered . " Ah ? It 's possible I 've a dozen . I believe I 'm extremely usual-looking , " Mr. Lavington went on conversationally ; and still the other face watched Rainer . " It was . . . a mistake .. . a confusion of memory ... " Faxon heard himself stammer . Mr. Lavington pushed back his chair , and as he did so Mr. Grisben suddenly leaned forward . " Lavington ! What have we been thinking of ? We have n't drunk Frank 's health ! " Mr. Lavington reseated himself . " My dear boy ! .. . Peters , another bottle . . . " He turned to his nephew . " After such a sin of omission I do n't presume to pro- pose the toast myself . . . but Frank knows . . . Go ahead , Grisben ! " The boy shone on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ! Mr. Grisben wo n't mind . Nobody but you  --  today ! " The butler was replenishing the glasses . He filled Mr. Lavington 's last , and Mr. Lavington put out his small hand to raise it . . . As he did so , Faxon looked away . " Well , then  --  All the good I 've wished you in all the past years ... I put it into the prayer that the coming ones may be healthy and happy and many ... and many , dear boy ! " Faxon saw the hands about him reach out for their glasses . Automatically , he reached for his . His eyes were still on the table , and he repeated to himself with a trembling vehemence : " I wo n't look up ! I wo n't . . . I wo n't ... " His fingers clasped the glass and raised it to the level of his lips . He saw the other hands making the same motion . He heard Mr. Grisben 's genial " Hear ! Hear ! " and Mr. Balch 's hollow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the glass touched his lips : " I wo n't look up ! I swear I wo n't !  --  " and he looked . The glass was so full that it required an extraordinary effort to hold it there , brimming and suspended , during the awful interval before he could trust his hand to lower it again , untouched , to the table . It was this mercifulpreoccupation which that gaped for him . As long as the problem of the glass engaged him he felt able top209keep his seat , manage his muscles , fit unnoticeably into the group ; but as the glass touched the table his last link with safety snapped . He stood up and dashed out of the room . IN the gallery , the instinct of self-preservation helped him to turn back and sign to young Rainer not to follow . He stammered out something about a touch of dizziness , and joining them presently ; and the boy nodded sympathetically and drew back . At the foot of the stairs Faxon ran against a servant . " I should like to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Sorry , sir ; wires all down . We 've been trying the last hour to get New York again for Mr. Lavington . " Faxon shot on to his room , burst into it , and bolted the door . The lamplight lay on furniture , flowers , books ; in the ashes a log still glimmered . He dropped down on the sofa and hid his face . The room was profoundly silent , the whole house was still : nothing about him gave a hint of what was going on , darkly and dumbly , in the room he had flown from , and with the covering of his eyes oblivion and reassurance seemed to fall on him . But they fell for a moment only ; then his lids opened again to the monstrous vision . There it was , stamped on his pupils , a part of him forever , an indeliblehorror burnt into his body and brain . But why into his  --  just his ? Why had he alone been chosen to see what he had seen ? What business was it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one of the others , thus enlightened , might have exposedthe horror and defeated it ; but he , the one weaponless and defenceless spectator , the one whom none of the others would believe or understand if he attempted to reveal what he knew  --  he alone had been singled out as the victim of this dreadful initiation ! Suddenly he sat up , listening : he had heard a step on the stairs . Someone , no doubt , was coming to see how he was  --  to urge him , if he felt better , to go down and join the smokers . Cautiously he opened his door ; yes , it was young Rainer 's step . Faxon looked down the passage , remembered the other stairway and darted to it . All he wanted was to get out of the house . Not another instant would he breathe its abominable air ! What business was it of his , in God 's name ? He reached the opposite end of the lower gallery , and beyond it saw the hall by which he had entered . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recognized his coat and cap . He got into his coat , unbolted the door , and plunged into the purifying night . The darkness was deep , and the cold so intense that for an instant it stopped his breathing . Then he perceivedthat only a thin snow was falling , and resolutely he set his face for flight . The trees along the avenue marked his way as he hastened with long strides over the beaten snow . Gradually , while he walked , the tumultin his brain subsided . The impulse to fly still drove him forward , but he began to feel that he was flying from a terror of his own creating , and that the most urgent reason for escape was the need of hidingTHE TRIUMPH OF NIGHT 211p211his state , of shunning other eyes till he should regain his balance . He had spent the long hours in the train in fruitless broodings on a discouraging situation , and he remembered how his bitterness had turned to exasperation when he found that the Weymore sleigh was not awaitinghim . It was absurd , of course @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mrs. Culme 's forgetfulness , to confess it had cost a pang . That was what his rootless life had brought him to : for lack of a personal stake in things his sensibility was at the mercy of such trifles ... Yes ; that , and the cold and fatigue , the absence of hope and the haunting sense of starved aptitudes , all these had brought him to the perilous verge over which , once or twice before , his terrified brain had hung . Why else , in the name of any imaginable logic , humanor devilish , should he , a stranger , be singled out for this experience ? What could it mean to him , how was he related to it , what bearing had it on his case ? .. . Unless , indeed , it was just because he was a stranger  --  a stranger everywhere  --  because he had no personal life , no warm screen of private egotisms to shield him from exposure , that he had developed this abnormal sensitivenessto the vicissitudes of others . The thought pulled him up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ too abominable ; all that was strong and sound in him rejected it . A thousand times better regard himself as ill , disorganized , deluded , than as the predestined victim of such warnings ! He reached the gates and paused before the darkened lodge . The wind had risen and was sweeping the snow into his face . The cold had him in its grasp again , and he stood uncertain . Should he put his sanity to the test and go back ? He turned and looked down the dark drive to the house . A single ray shone through the trees , evokinga picture of the lights , the flowers , the faces grouped about that fatal room . He turned and plunged out into the road ... He remembered that , about a mile from Overdale , the coachman had pointed out the road to Northridge ; and he began to walk in that direction . Once in the road he had the gale in his face , and the wet snow on his moustache and eyelashes instantly hardened to ice . The same ice seemed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lungs , but he pushed on , the vision of the warm room pursuing him . The snow in the road was deep and uneven . He stumbled across ruts and sank into drifts , and the wind drove against him like a granite cliff . Now and then he stopped , gasping , as if an invisible hand had tightened an iron band about his body ; then he started again , stiffening himself against the stealthy penetration of the cold . The snow continued to descend out of a pall of inscrutable darkness , and once or twice he paused , fearing he had missed the road to Northridge ; but , seeingno sign of a turn , he ploughed on . At last , feeling sure that he had walked for more than a mile , he halted and looked back . The act of turning brought immediate relief , first because it put his back to the wind , and then because , far down the road , it showed him the gleam of a lantern . A sleigh was coming  --  a sleigh that might perhaps @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hope , he began to walk back toward the light . It came forward very slowly , with unaccountable zigzags and waverings ; and even when he was within a few yards of it he could catch no sound of sleigh-bells . Then it paused and became stationaryby the roadside , as though carried by a pedestrianwho had stopped , exhausted by the cold . The thought made Faxon hasten on , and a moment later he was stooping over a motionless figure huddled against the snow-bank . The lantern had dropped from its bearer 's hand , and Faxon , fearfully raising it , threw its light into the face of Frank Rainer . " Rainer ! What on earth are you doing here ? " The boy smiled back through his pallor . " What are you , I 'd like to know ? " he retorted ; and , scrambling to his feet with a clutch on Faxon 's arm , he added gaily : " Well , I 've run you down ! " Faxon stood confounded , his heart sinking . The lad 's face was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Yes , it is . What on earth did you do it for ? " " I ? Do what ? . .. Why I ... I was just taking a walk ... I often walk at night ... " Frank Rainer burst into a laugh . " On such nights ? Then you had n't bolted ? " " Bolted ? " " Because I 'd done something to offend you ? My uncle thought you had . " Faxon grasped his arm . " Did your uncle send you after me ? " " Well , he gave me an awful rowing for not going up to your room with you when you said you were ill . And when we found you 'd gone we were frightened  --  and he was awfully upset  --  so I said I 'd catch you . . . You 're no. ill , are you ? " " Ill ? No . Never better . " Faxon picked up the lantern . " Come ; let 's go back . It was awfully hot in that dining-room . " " Yes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trudged on in silence for a few minutes ; thenFaxon questioned : " You 're not too done up ? " " Oh , no . It 's a lot easier with the wind behind us . " " All right . Do n't talk any more . " They pushed ahead , walking , in spite of the light that guided them , more slowly than Faxon had walked alone into the gale . The fact of his companion 's stumbling against a drift gave Faxon a pretext for saying : " Take hold of my arm , " and Rainer obeying , gasped out : " I 'm blown ! " " So am I. Who would n't be ? " " What a dance you led me ! If it had n't been for one of the servants happening to see you  --  " " Yes ; all right . And now , wo n't you kindly shut up ? " Rainer laughed and hung on him . " Oh , the cold does n't hurt me . . . " For the first few minutes after Rainer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Faxon 's only thought . But as each labouring step carried them nearer to the spot he had been fleeing , the reasons for his flight grew more ominous and more insistent . No , he was not ill , he was not distraught and deluded  --  he was the instrument singled out to warn and save ; and here he was , irre/sistibly driven , dragging the victim back to his doom ! The intensity of the conviction had almost checked his steps . But what could he do or say ? At all costs he must get Rainer out of the cold , into the house and into his bed . After that he would act . The snow-fall was thickening , and as they reached a stretch of the road between open fields the wind took them at an angle , lashing their faces with barbed thongs . Rainer stopped to take breath , and Faxon felt the heavier pressure of his arm . " When we get to the lodge , ca n't we telephone to the stable for a sleigh ? " " If they 're @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , I 'll manage . Do n't talk ! " Faxon ordered ; and they plodded on ... At length the lantern ray showed ruts that curved away from the road under tree-darkness . Faxon 's spirits rose . " There 's the gate ! We 'll be there in five minutes . " As he spoke he caught , above the boundary hedge , the gleam of a light at the farther end of the dark avenue . It was the same light that had shone on the scene of which every detail was burnt into his brain ; and he felt again its overpowering reality . No  --  he could n't let the boy go back ! They were at the lodge at last , and Faxon was hammeringon the door . He said to himself : " I 'll get him inside first , and make them give him a hot drink . Then I 'll see  --  I 'll find an argument ... " There was no answer to his knocking , and after an interval Rainer said : " Look here  --  we 'd better go @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can , perfectly  --  " " You sha n't go to the house , I say ! " Faxon redoubled his blows , and at length steps sounded on the stairs . Rainer was leaning against the lintel , and as the door opened the light from the hall flashed on his pale face and fixed eyes . Faxon caught him by the arm and drew him in . " It was cold out there , " he sighed ; and then , abruptly , as if invisible shears at a single stroke had cut every muscle in his body , he swerved , drooped on Faxon 's arm , and seemed to sink into nothing at his feet . The lodge-keeper and Faxon bent over him , and somehow , between them , lifted him into the kitchen and laid him on a sofa by the stove . The lodge-keeper , stammering : " I 'll ring up the house , " dashed out of the room . But Faxon heard the words without heeding them : omens mattered nothing now , beside this woe fulfilled . He knelt down @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and as he did so he felt a warm moisture on his hands . He held them up , and they were red .. . THE palms threaded their endless line along the yellow river . The little steamer lay at the wharf , and George Faxon , sitting in the verandah of the wooden hotel , idly watched the coolies carrying the freight across ; the gang - plank . He had been looking at such scenes for two months.  |p217Nearly  five had elapsed since he had descended from the train at Northridge and strained his eyes for the sleigh that was to take him to Weymore : Weymore , which he was never to behold ! . . . Part of the interval  --  the first part  --  was still a great gray blur . Even now he could not be quite sure how he had got back to Boston , reached the house of a cousin , and been thence transferred to a quiet room looking out on snow under bare trees . He looked out a long time at the same scene , and finally one day a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and invited him to go out on a business trip to the Malay Peninsula . " You 've had a bad shake-up , and it 'll do you no end of good to get away from things . " When the doctor came the next day it turned out that he knew of the plan and approved it . " You ought to be quiet for a year . Just loaf and look at the landscape , " he advised . Faxon felt the first faint stirrings of curiosity . " What 's been the matter with me , anyway ? " " Well , over-work , I suppose . You must have been bottling up for a bad break-down before you started for New Hampshire last December . And the shock of that poor boy 's death did the rest . " Ah , yes  --  Rainer had died . He remembered .. . He started for the East , and gradually , by imperceptibledegrees , life crept back into his weary bones and leaden brain . His friend was patient and considerate , and they travelled slowly and talked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from whatever touched on familiar things . He seldom looked at a newspaper andp218he never opened a letter without a contraction of the heart . It was not that he had any special cause for apprehension , but merely that a great trail of darkness lay on everything . He had looked too deep down into the abyss . . . But little by little health and energy returned to him , and with them the common promptings of curiosity . He was beginning to wonder how the world was going , and when , presently , the hotel-keeper told him there were no letters for him in the steamer 's mailbag , he felt a distinct sense of disappointment . His friend had gone into the jungle on a long excursion , and he was lonely , unoccupied and wholesomely bored . He got up and strolled into the stuffy reading-room . There he found a game of dominoes , a mutilated picture-puzzle , some copies of Zion 's Herald and a pile of New York and London newspapers . He began to glance through the papers , and was disappointedto @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Evidently the last numbers had been carried off by luckier travellers . He continued to turn them over , picking out the American ones first . These , as it happened , were the oldest : they dated back to December and January . To Faxon , however , they had all the flavour of novelty , since they covered the precise period during which he had virtually ceased to exist . It had never before occurred to him to wonder what had happened in the world during that interval of obliteration ; but now he felt a sudden desire to know . To prolong the pleasure , he began by sorting the papers chronologically , and as he found and spread out the earliest number , the date at the top of the pagep219entered into his consciousness like a key slipping into a lock . It was the 17th of December : the date of the day after his arrival at Northridge . He glanced at the first page and read in blazing characters : " Reported Failure of Opal Cement Company . Lavington 's Name Involved . Gigantic Exposure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He read on , and when he had finished the first paper he turned to the next . There was a gap of three days , but the Opal Cement " Investigation " still held the centre of the stage . From its complex revelations of greed and ruin his eye wandered to the death notices , and he read : " Rainer . Suddenly , at Northridge , New Hampshire , Francis John , only son of the late ... " His eyes clouded , and he dropped the newspaper and sat for a long time with his face in his hands . When he looked up again he noticed that his gesture had pushed the other papers from the table and scattered them at his feet . The uppermost lay spread out before him , and heavily his eyes began their search again . " John Lavingtoncomes forward with plan for reconstructing Company . Offers to put in ten millions of his own  --  The proposal under consideration by the District Attorney . " Ten millions . . . ten millions of his own . But if John Lavington @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . That was it , then  --  that was what the warning meant ! And if he had not fled from it , dashed wildly away from it into the night , he might have broken the spell of iniquity , the powers of darkness might not have prevailed ! He caught up the pile of newspapers and began to glance through each in turn for the head-line : " WillsGHOSTS'robate . " In the last of : , 11 he found the sought , and it stared up aL him as if with eyes. vas what he had done ! The powers of pity n out to warn and save , and he had closed ir call , and washed his hands of it , and his hands of it ! That was the word . It Lek to the dreadful moment in the lodge himself up from Rainer 's side , he had Lands and seen that they were red .. . RY PASK I T was not till the following spring that I plucked up courage to tell Mrs. Bridgeworth what had happened to me that night at Morgat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ America ; and after the night in question I lingered on abroad for several months  --  not for pleasure , God knows , but because of a nervous collapse supposed to be the result of having taken up my work again too soon after my touch of fever in Egypt . But , in any case , if I had been door to door with Grace Bridgeworth I could not have spoken of the affair before , to her or to anyone else ; not till I had been rest-cured and built up again at one of those wonderful Swiss sanatoria where they clean the cobwebs out of you . I could not even have written to her  --  not to save my life . The happenings of that night had to be overlaid with layer upon layer of time and forgetfulness before I could tolerate any return to them . The beginning was idiotically simple ; just the suddenreflex of a New England conscience acting on an enfeebled constitution . I had been painting in Brittany , in lovely but uncertain autumn weather , one day all blue and silver @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a rough little whitewashed inn out on the Pointe du Raz , swarmed over by tourists in summer but a sea-washed solitude in autumn ; and there I was staying and trying to do waves , when some one said : " You ought to go over to Cape something else , beyond Morgat . " I went , and had a silver-and-blue day there ; and on the way back the name of Morgat set up an unexpectedassociation of ideas : Morgat  --  Grace Bridgeworth  - -  Grace 's sister , Mary Pask  --  " You know my darling Mary has a little place now near Morgat ; if you ever go to Brittany do go to see her . She lives such a lonely life  --  it makes me so unhappy . " That was the way it came about . I had known Mrs. Bridgeworth well for years , but had only a hazy intermittentacquaintance with Mary Pask , her older and unmarried sister . Grace and she were greatly attached to each other , I knew ; it had been Grace 's chief sorrow , when she married @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in New York , that Mary , from whom she had never before been separated , obstinately lingeredon in Europe , where the two sisters had been travelling since their mother 's death . I never quite understoodwhy Mary Pask refused to join Grace in America . Grace said it was because she was " too artistic "  --  but , knowing the elder Miss Pask , and the extremely elementarynature of her interest in art , I wondered whether it were not rather because she disliked Horace Bridgeworth . There was a third alternative  --  more conceivableif one knew Horace  --  and that was that she may have liked him too much . But that again became untenable ( at least I supposed it did ) when one knew Miss Pask : Miss Pask with her round flushed face , herp225innocent bulging eyes , her old-maidish flat decorated with art-tidies , and her vague and timid philanthropy . Aspire to Horace  --  ! Well , it was all rather puzzling , or would have been if it had been interesting enough to be worth puzzling over . But it was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ old maids , cheerful derelicts content with their innumerable little substitutes for living . Even Grace would not have interested me particularly if she had n't happened to marry one of my oldest friends , and to be kind to his friends . She was a handsome capable and rather dull woman , absorbed in her husband and children , and without an ounce of imagination ; and between her attachment to her sister and Mary Pask 's worship of her there lay the inevitable gulf between the feelings of the sentimentally unemployed and those whose affections are satisfied . But a close intimacy had linked the two sisters before Grace 's marriage , and Grace was one of the sweet conscientious women who go on using the language of devotion about people whom they love happily without seeing ; so that when she said : " You know it 's years since Mary and I have been together  --  not since little Molly was born . If only she 'd come to America ! Just think ... Molly is six , and has never seen her darling auntie ... " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you go to Brittany promise me you 'll look up my Mary , " I was moved in that dim depth of one where unnecessary obligations are contracted . And so it came about that , on that silver-and-blue afternoon , the idea " Morgat  --  Mary Pask  --  to please Grace " suddenly unlocked the sense of duty in me . Very well : I would chuck a few things into my bag , do my day 's painting , go to see Miss Pask when the light faded , and spend the night at the inn at Morgat . To this end I ordered a rickety one-horse vehicle to await me at the inn when I got back from my painting , and in it I started out toward sunset to hunt for Mary Pask .. . As suddenly as a pair of hands clapped over one 's eyes , the sea-fog shut down on us . A minute before we had been driving over a wide bare upland , our backs turned to a sunset that crimsoned the road ahead ; now the densest night enveloped us . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Miss Pask lived ; but I thought it likely that I should find out at the fishers ' hamlet toward which we were trying to make our way . And I was right ... an old man in a doorway said : Yes  --  over the next rise , and then down a lane to the left that led to the sea ; the American lady who always used to dress in white . Oh , he knew ... near the Baie des T re passes . " Yes ; but how can we see to find it ? I do n't know the place , " grumbled the reluctant boy who was drivingme . " You will when we get there , " I remarked . " Yes  --  and the horse foundered meantime ! I ca n't risk it , sir ; I 'll get into trouble with the patron . " Finally an opportune argument induced him to get out and lead the stumbling horse , and we continued on our way . We seemed to crawl on for a long time through a wet blackness impenetrable to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ then the pall lifted or its foldsp227divided ; and then our feeble light would drag out of the night some perfectly commonplace object  --  a white gate , a cow 's staring face , a heap of roadside stones  --  made portentous and incredible by being thus detached from its setting , capriciously thrust at us , and as suddenlywithdrawn . After each of these projections the darkness grew three times as thick ; and the sense I had had for some time of descending a gradual slope now became that of scrambling down a precipice . I jumped out hurriedly and joined my young driver at the horse 's head . " I ca n't go on  --  I wo n't , sir ! " he whimpered . " Why , see , there 's a light over there  --  just ahead ! " The veil swayed aside , and we beheld two faintly illuminated squares in a low mass that was surely the front of a house . " Get me as far as that  --  then you can go back if you like . " The veil dropped @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ took heart . Certainly there was a house ahead of us ; and certainly it must be Miss Pask 's , since there could hardly be two in such a desert . Besides , the old man in the hamlet had said : " Near the sea " ; and those endless modulations of the ocean 's voice , so familiar in every corner of the Breton land that one gets to measure distances by them rather than by visual means , had told me for some time past that we must be making for the shore . The boy continued to lead the horse on without making any answer . The fog had shut in more closely than ever , and our lamp merely showed us the big round drops of wet on the horse 's shaggy quarters.  | The boy stopped with a jerk . " There 's no house  --  we 're going straight down to the sea . " But you saw those lights , did n't you ? " " I thought I did . But where are they now ? The fog 's thinner again @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But there are no lights any more . " " Perhaps the people have gone to bed , " I suggested jocosely . " Then had n't we better turn back , sir ? " " What  --  two yards from the gate ? " The boy was silent : certainly there was a gate ahead , and presumably , behind the dripping trees , some sort of dwelling . Unless there was just a field and the sea .. . the sea whose hungry voice I heard asking and asking , close below us . No wonder the place was called the Bay of the Dead ! But what could have induced the rosy benevolent Mary Pask to come and bury herself there ? Of course the boy would n't wait for me . . . I knew that ... the Baie des Trepasses indeed ! The sea whined down there as if it were feeding-time , and the Furies , its keepers , had forgotten it .. . There was the gate ! My hand had struck against it . I felt along to the latch , undid it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Not a candle-glint anywhere . If the house were indeed Miss Pask 's , she certainlykept early hours . . . NIGHT and fog were now one , and the darkness as thick as a blanket . I felt vainly about for a bell . At last myp229hand came in contact with a knocker and I lifted it . The clatter with which it fell sent a prolonged echo through the silence ; but for a minute or two nothing else happened . " There 's no one there , I tell you ! " the boy called impatiently from the gate . But there was . I had heard no steps inside , but presentlya bolt shot back , and an old woman in a peasant 's cap pushed her head out . She had set her candle down on a table behind her , so that her face , aureoled with lacy wings , was in obscurity ; but I knew she was old by the stoop of her shoulders and her fumbling movements . The candle-light , which made her invisible , fell full on my face , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mary Pask 's house ? " " Yes , sir . " Her voice  --  a very old voice  --  was pleasant enough , unsurprised and even friendly . " I 'll tell her , " she added , shuffling off . " Do you think she 'll see me ? " I threw after her . " Oh , why not ? The idea ! " she almost chuckled . As she retreated I saw that she was wrapped in a shawl and had a cotton umbrella under her arm . Obviously she was going out  --  perhaps going home for the night . I wondered if Mary Pask lived all alone in her hermitage . The old woman disappeared with the candle and I was left in total darkness . After an interval I heard a door shut at the back of the house and then a slow clumping of aged sabots along the flags outside . The old woman had evidently picked up her sabots in the kitchen and left the house . I wondered if she had told Miss Pask of my presence before going , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of some grim practical joke of her own . Certainly there was no sound within doors . The footsteps died out , I heard a gate click  --  then complete silence closed in again like the fog . " I wonder  --  " I began within myself ; and at that moment a smothered memory struggled abruptly to the surface of my languid mind . " But she 's dead  --  Mary Pask is dead ! " I almost screamed it aloud in my amazement . It was incredible , the tricks my memory had played on me since my fever ! I had known for nearly a year that Mary Pask was dead  --  had died suddenly the previousautumn  --  and though I had been thinking of her almost continuously for the last two or three days it was only now that the forgotten fact of her death suddenlyburst up again to consciousness . Dead ! But had n't I found Grace Bridgeworth in tears and crape the very day I had gone to bid her good-bye before sailing for Egypt ? Had n't she laid the cable before my eyes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Sister died suddenly this morning requested burial in garden of house particulars by letter "  --  with the signature of the American Consul at Brest , a friend of Bridgeworth 's I seemed to recall ? I could see the very words of the message printed on the darkness before me . As I stood there I was a good deal more disturbed by the discovery of the gap in my memory than by the fact of being alone in a pitch-dark house , either empty or else inhabited by strangers . Once before of late I had noted this queer temporary blotting-out of somep231well-known fact ; and here was a second instance of it . Decidedly , I was n't as well over my illness as the doctorshad told me ... Well , I would get back to Morgat and lie up there for a day or two , doing nothing , just eating and sleeping .. . In my self-absorption I had lost my bearings , and no longer remembered where the door was . I felt in every pocket in turn for a match  --  but since the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I have found one ? The failure to find a match increased my sense of irritated helplessness , and I was groping clumsily about the hall among the angles of unseen furniture when a light slanted along the rough-cast wall of the stairs . I followed its direction , and on the landing above me I saw a figure in white shading a candle with one hand and looking down . A chill ran along my spine , for the figure bore a strange resemblance to that of Mary Pask as I used to know her . " Oh , it 's you ! " she exclaimed in the cracked twitteringvoice which was at one moment like an old woman 's quaver , at another like a boy 's falsetto . She came shufflingdown in her baggy white garments , with her usual clumsy swaying movements ; but I noticed that her steps on the wooden stairs were soundless . Well  --  they would be , naturally ! I stood without a word , gazing up at the strange vision above me , and saying to myself : " There 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , or your eyes , or some damned thing wrong with you somewhere  --  " But there was the candle , at any rate ; and as it drew nearer , and lit up the place about me , I turned and caught hold of the door-latch . For , remember , I had seen the cable , and Grace in crape .. . " Why , what 's the matter ? I assure you , you do n't disturb me ! " the white figure twittered ; adding , with a faint laugh : " I do n't have so many visitors nowadays  --  " She had reached the hall , and stood before me , lifting her candle shakily and peering up into my face . " You have n't changed  --  not as much as I should have thought . But I have , have n't I ? " she appealed to me with another laugh ; and abruptly she laid her hand on my arm . I looked down at the hand , and thought to myself : " That ca n't deceive me . " I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to character that other people seek in the eyes , the mouth , the modelling of the skull , I find in the curve of the nails , the cut of the finger-tips , the way the palm , rosy or sallow , smooth or seamed , swells up from its base . I remember Mary Pask 's hand vividly because it was so like a caricature of herself ; round , puffy , pink , yet prematurely old and useless . And there , unmistakably , it lay on my sleeve : but changed and shrivelled  --  somehowlike one of those pale freckled toadstools that the least touch resolves to dust . . . Well  --  to dust ? Of course . . . I looked at the soft wrinkled fingers , with their foolish little oval finger-tips that used to be so innocently and naturally pink , and now were blue under the yellowing nails  --  and my flesh rose in ridges of fear . " Come in , come in , " she fluted , cocking her white untidy head on one side and rolling her bulging bluep233eyes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ practised the same arts , all the childish wiles of a clumsy capering coquetry . I felt her pull on my sleeve and it drew me in her wake like a steel cable . The room she led me into was  --  well , " unchanged " is the term generally used in such cases . For as a rule , after people die , things are tidied up , furniture is sold , remembrances are despatched to the family . But some morbid piety ( or Grace 's instructions , perhaps ) had kept this room looking exactly as I supposed it had in Miss Pask 's lifetime . I was n't in the mood for noting details ; hut in the faint dabble of moving candle-light I was half aware of bedraggled cushions , odds and ends of copperpots , and a jar holding a faded branch of some late-flowering shrub . A real Mary Pask " interior " ! The white figure flitted spectrally to the chimneypiece , lit two more candles , and set down the third on a table . I had n't supposed I was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I did , I hurriedly bent and blew one out . Her laugh sounded behind me . " Three candles  --  you still mind that sort of thing ? I 've got beyond all that , you know , " she chuckled . " Such a comfort ... such a sense of freedom ... " A fresh shiver joined the others already coursing over me . " Come and sit down by me , " she entreated , sinking to a sofa . " It 's such an age since I 've seen a living being ! " Her choice of terms was certainly strange , and as she leaned back on the white slippery sofa and beckoned me with one of those unburied hands my impulse was to turn and run . But her old face , hovering there in the candle-light , with the unnaturally red cheeks like var- nished apples and the blue eyes swimming in vague kindliness , seemed to appeal to me against my cowardice , to remind me that , dead or alive , Mary Pask would never harm a fly . " Do sit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other corner of the sofa . " It 's so wonderfully good of you  --  I suppose Grace asked you to come ? " She laughed again  --  her conversation had always been punctuated by rambling laughter . " It 's an event  --  quite an event ! I 've had so few visitors since my death , you see . " Another bucketful of cold water ran over me ; but I looked at her resolutely , and again the innocence of her face disarmed me . I cleared my throat and spoke  --  with a huge panting effort , as if I had been heaving up a grave-stone . " You live here alone ? " I brought out . " Ah , I 'm glad to hear your voice  --  I still remember voices , though I hear so few , " she murmured dreamily . " Yes  --  I live here alone . The old woman you saw goes away at night . She wo n't stay after dark . . . she says she ca n't . Is n't it funny ? But it does n't matter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ me with one of her irrelevant smiles . " The dead , " she said , " naturally get used to it . " Once more I cleared my throat ; but nothing followed . She continued to gaze at me with confidential blinks . " And Grace ? Tell me all about my darling . I wish I could have seen her again . . . just once . " Her laugh came out grotesquely . " When she got the news of my death  --  were you with her ? Was she terribly upset ? "  |p235I  stumbled to my feet with a meaningless stammer . I could n't answer  --  I could n't go on looking at her . " Ah , I see ... it 's too painful , " she acquiesced , her eyes brimming , and she turned her shaking head away . " But after all ... I 'm glad she was so sorry ... It 's what I 've been longing to be told , and hardly hoped for . Grace forgets . . . " She stood up too and flitted across @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Thank God , " I thought , " she 's going . " " Do you know this place by daylight ? " she asked abruptly . I shook my head . " It 's very beautiful . But you would n't have seen me then . You 'd have had to take your choice between me and the landscape . I hate the light  --  it makes my head ache . And so I sleep all day . I was just waking up when you came . " She smiled at me with an increasing air of confidence . " Do you know where I usually sleep ? Down below there  --  in the garden ! " Her laugh shrilled out again . " There 's a shady corner down at the bottom where the sun never bothers one . Sometimes I sleep t here till the stars come out . " The phrase about the garden , in the consul 's cable , came back to me and I thought : " After all , it 's not such an unhappy state . I wonder if she @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Perhaps she was  --  but I was sure I was n't , in her company . And her way of sidling nearer to the door made nie distinctly want to reach it before she did . In a rush of cowardice I strode ahead of her  --  but a second later she had the latch in her hand and was leaning againstp236the panels , her long white raiment hanging about her like grave-clothes . She drooped her head a little sidewaysand peered at me under her lashless lids . " You 're not going ? " she reproached me . I dived down in vain for my missing voice , and silently signed that I was . " Going  --  going away ? Altogether ? " Her eyes were still fixed on me , and I saw two tears gather in their corners and run down over the red glistening circles on her cheeks . " Oh , but you must n't , " she said gently . " I 'm too lonely . . . " I stammered something inarticulate , my eyes on the blue-nailed hand that grasped @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and a gust of wind , surging in out of the blackness , extinguished the candle on the nearest chimney-corner . I glanced back nervously to see if the other candle were going out too . " You do n't like the noise of the wind ? I do . It 's all I have to talk to . . . People do n't like me much since I 've been dead . Queer , is n't it ? The peasants are so superstitious . At times I 'm really lonely ... " Her voice cracked in a last effort at laughter , and she swayed toward me , one hand still on the latch . " Lonely , lonely ! If you knew how lonely ! It was a lie when I told you I was n't ! And now you come , and your face looks friendly . . . and you say you 're going to leave me ! No  --  no  --  no  --  you sha n't ! Or else , why did you come ? It 's cruel . . . I used to think @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , you know . Grace thought she was always thinking of me , but she was n't . She called me darling ' , but she was thinking of herp237husband and children . I said to myself then : You could n't be lonelier if you were dead ' . But I know better now ... There 's been no loneliness like this last year 's ... none ! And sometimes I sit here and think : If a man came along some clay and took a fancy to you ? ' " She gave another wavering cackle . " Well , such things have happened , you know , even after youth 's gone ... a man who 'd had his troubles , too . But no one came till tonight ... and now you say you 're going ! " Suddenly she flung herself toward me . " Oh , stay with me , stay with me ... just tonight ... It 's so sweet and quiet here ... No one need know ... no one will ever come and trouble us . " I ought to have shut @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have known there would soon be another , fiercer one . It came now , slamming back the loose-hinged lattice , filling the room with the noise of the sea and with wet swirls of fog , and dashing the other candle to the floor . The light went out , and I stood there  --  we stood there  --  lost to each other in the roaring coiling darkness . My heart seemed to stop beating ; I had to fetch up my breath with great heaves that covered me with sweat . The door  --  the door  --  well , I knew I had been facing it when the candle went . Something white and wraith-like seemed to melt and crumple up before me in the night , and avoiding the spot where it had sunk away I stumbled around it in a wide circle , got the latch in my hand , caught my foot in a scarf or sleeve , trailing loose and invisible , and freed myself with a jerk from this last obstacle . I had the door open now . As I got into the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; but I scrambled on to the hall door , dragged it open and bolted out into the night . I slammed the door on that pitiful low whimper , and the fog and wind enveloped me in healing arms . WHEN I was well enough to trust myself to think about it all again I found that a very little thinking got my temperature up , and my heart hammering in my throat . No use . . . I simply could n't stand it . . . for I 'd seen Grace Bridgeworth in crape , weeping over the cable , and yet I 'd sat and talked with her sister , on the same sofa  --  her sister who 'd been dead a year ! The circle was a vicious one ; I could n't break through it . The fact that I was down with fever the next morningmight have explained it ; yet I could n't get away from the clinging reality of the vision . Supposing it was a ghost I had been talking to , and not a mere projection of my fever ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out to me the unuttered loneliness of a lifetime , to express at last what the living woman had always had to keep dumb and hidden ? The thought moved me curiously  --  in my weakness I lay and wept over it . No end of women were like that , I supposed , and perhaps , after death , if they got their chance they tried to use it . . . Old tales and legends floated through my mind ; the bride of Corinth , the mediaeval vampire  --  but what names to attach to the plaintive image of Mary Pask ! My weak mind wandered in and out among thesep239visions and conjectures , and the longer I lived with them the more convinced I became that something which had been Mary Pask had talked with me that night ... I made up my mind , when I was up again , to drive back to the place ( in broad daylight , this time ) , to hunt out the grave in the garden  --  that " shady corner where the sun never bothers one "  --  and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the doctors decided otherwise ; and perhaps my weak will unknowingly abetted them . At any rate , I yielded to their insistence that I should be driven straight from my hotel to the train for Paris , and thence transshipped , like a piece of luggage , to the Swiss sanatorium they had in view for me . Of course I meant to come back when I was patched up again . . . and meanwhile , more and more tenderly , but more intermittently , my thoughts went back from my snow-mountain to that wailing autumn night above the Baie des Trepasses , and the revelation of the dead Mary Pask who was so much more real to me than ever the living one had been . AFTER all , why should I tell Grace Bridgeworth  --  ever ? I had had a glimpse of things that were really no business of hers . If the revelation had been vouchsafed to me , ought I not to bury it in those deepest depths where t he inexplicable and the unforgettable sleep together ? And besides , what interest could there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could neither understand nor believe in ? She would just set me down as " queer "  --  and enough people had done that already . My first object , when I finally did get back to New York , was to convinceeverybody of my complete return to mental and physical soundness ; and into this scheme of evidence my experience with Mary Pask did not seem to fit . All things considered , I would hold my tongue . But after a while the thought of the grave began to trouble me . I wondered if Grace had ever had a proper grave-stone put on it . The queer neglected look of the house gave me the idea that perhaps she had done nothing  --  hadbrushed the whole matter aside , to be attended to when she next went abroad . " Grace forgets , " I heard the poor ghost quaver ... No , decidedly , there could be no harm in putting ( tactfully ) just that one question about the care of the grave ; the more so as I was beginning to reproach myself for not having @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was kept .. . Grace and Horace welcomed me with all their old friendliness , and I soon slipped into the habit of droppingin on them for a meal when I thought they were likely to be alone . Nevertheless my opportunity did n't come at once  --  I had to wait for some weeks . And then one evening , when Horace was dining out and I sat alone with Grace , my glance lit on a photograph of her sister  --  an old faded photograph which seemed to meet my eyes reproachfully . " By the way , Grace , " I began with a jerk , " I do n't believe I ever told you : I went down to that little place of . . . of your sister 's the day before I had that bad relapse . " At once her face lit up emotionally . " No , you neverp241told me . How sweet of you to go ! " The ready tears overbrimmed her eyes . " I 'm so glad you did . " She lowered her voice and added softly : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sent one of my old shudders over me . I looked with amazement at Mrs. Bridgeworth 's plump face , smiling at me through a veil of painless tears . " I to reproach myself more and more about darling Mary , " she added tremulously . " But tell me  --  tell me every-thing . " There was a knot in my throat ; I felt almost as uncomfortable as I had in Mary Pask 's own presence . Yet I had never before noticed anything uncanny about Grace Bridgeworth . I forced my voice up to my lips . " Everything ? Oh , I ca n't  --  " I tried to smile . " But you did see her ? " I managed to nod , still smiling . Her face grew suddenly haggard  --  yes , haggard ! " And the change was so dreadful that you ca n't speak of it ? ' Fell me  --  was that it ? " I shook my head . After all , what had shocked me was that the change was so slight  --  that between being dead and alive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ except that of a mysterious increase in reality . But Grace 's eyes were still searching me insistently . " You must tell me , " she reiterated . " I know I ought to have gone there long ago  --  " " Yes ; perhaps you ought . " I hesitated . " To see about the grave , at least . . . " She sat silent , her eyes still on my face . Her tears had stopped , but her look of solicitude slowly grew into a stare of something like terror . Hesitatingly , almost reluctantly , she stretched out her hand and laid it on mine for an instant . " Dear old friend  --  " she began . " Unfortunately , " I interrupted , " I could n't get back myself to see the grave ... because I was taken ill the next day . . . " Yes , yes ; of course . I know . " She paused . " Are you sure you went there at all ? " she asked abruptly . " Sure ? Good Lord  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you suspect me of not being quite right yet ? " I suggested with an uneasy laugh . " No  --  no . . . of course not . . . but I do n't understand . " " Understand what ? I went into the house ... I saw everything , in fact , but her grave ... " " Her grave ? " Grace jumped up , clasping her hands on her breast and darting away from me . At the other end of the room she stood and gazed , and then moved slowly back . " Then , after all  --  I wonder ? " She held her eyes on me , half fearful and half reassured . " Could it be simply that you never heard ? " " Never heard ? " " But it was in all the papers ! Do n't you ever read them ? I meant to write . . . I thought I had written . . . but I said : ' At any rate he 'll see it in the papers ' ... You know I 'm always @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ papers ? " " Why , that she did n't die ... She is n't dead ! There is n't any grave , my dear man ! It was only a cataleptic trance . . . An extraordinary case , the doctors say . . . But did n't she tell you all about it  --  if you say you saw her ? "  |p243She  burst into half-hysterical laughter : " Surely she must have told you that she was n't dead ? " " No , " I said slowly , " she did n't tell me that . " We talked about it together for a long time after that  --  talked on till Horace came back from his men 's dinner , after midnight . Grace insisted on going in and out of the whole subject , over and over again . As she kept repeating , it was certainly the only time that poor Mary had ever been in the papers . But though I sat and listened patiently I could n't get up any real interest in what she said . I felt I should never @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concerning her .   THE snow was still falling thickly when Orrin Bosworth , who farmed the land south of Lonetop , drove up in his cutter to Saul Rutledge 's gate . He was surprised to see two other cutters ahead of him . From them descended two muffled figures . Bosworth , with increasing surprise , recognized Deacon Hibben , from North Ashmore , and Sylvester Brand , the widower , from the old Bearcliff farm on the way to Lonetop . It was not often that anybody in Hemlock County entered Saul Rutledge 's gate ; least of all in the dead of winter , and summoned ( as Bosworth , at any rate , had been ) by Mrs. Rutledge , who passed , even in that unsocial region , for a woman of cold manners and solitarycharacter . The situation was enough to excite the curiosity of a less imaginative man than Orrin Bosworth . As he drove in between the broken-down white gatepoststopped by fluted urns the two men ahead of him were leading their horses to the adjoining shed . Bosworthfollowed , and hitched @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ off the snow from their shoulders , clapped their numb hands together , and greeted each other . " Hallo , Deacon . "  | " Well , well , Orrin  --  " They shook hands . " ' Day , Bosworth , " said Sylvester Brand , with a brief nod . He seldom put any cordiality into his manner , and on this occasion he was still busy about his horse 's bridle and blanket . Orrin Bosworth , the youngest and most communicativeof the three , turned back to Deacon Hibben , whose long face , queerly blotched and mouldy-looking , with blinking peering eyes , was yet less forbidding than Brand 's heavily-hewn countenance . " Queer , our all meeting here this way . Mrs. Rutledgesent me a message to come , " Bosworth volunteered . The Deacon nodded . " I got a word from her too  --  Andy Pond come with it yesterday noon . I hope there 's no trouble here  --  " He glanced through the thickening fall of snow at the desolate front of the Rutledge house , the more melancholy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it kept traces of former elegance . Bosworthhad often wondered how such a house had come to be built in that lonely stretch between North Ashmoreand Cold Corners . People said there had once been other houses like it , forming a little township called Ashmore , a sort of mountain colony created by the caprice of an English Royalist officer , one Colonel Ashmore , who had been murdered by the Indians , with all his family , long before the Revolution . This tale was confirmed by the fact that the ruined cellars of several smaller houses were still to be discovered under the wild growth of the adjoining slopes , and that thep249Communion plate of the moribund Episcopal church of Cold Corners was engraved with the name of Colonel Ashmore , who had given it to the church of Ashmore in the year 1723 . Of the church itself no traces remained . Doubtless it had been a modest wooden edifice , built on piles , and the conflagration which had burnt the other houses to the ground 's edge had reduced it utterly to ashes . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mournful solitary air , and people wondered why Saul Rutledge 's father had gone there to settle . " I never knew a place , " Deacon Hibben said , " as seemed as far away from humanity . And yet it ai n't so in miles . " " Miles ai n't the only distance , " Orrin Bosworth answered ; and the two men , followed by Sylvester Brand , walked across the drive to the front door . People in Hemlock County did not usually come and go by their front doors , but all three men seemed to feel that , on an occasion which appeared to be so exceptional , the usual and more familiar approach by the kitchen would not be suitable . They had judged rightly ; the Deacon had hardly lifted the knocker when the door opened and Mrs. Rutledge stood before them . " Walk right in , " she said in her usual dead-level tone ; and Bosworth , as he followed the others , thought to himself : " Whatever 's happened , she 's not going to let it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ indeed , if anything unwonted could be made to show in Prudence Rutledge 's face , so limitedwas its scope , so fixed were its features . She was dressed for the occasion in a black calico with white spots , a collar of crochet-lace fastened by a gold brooch , and a gray woollen shawl crossed under her arms and tied at the back . In her small narrow head the only marked prominence was that of the brow projecting roundly over pale spectacled eyes . Her dark hair , parted above this prominence , passed tight and flat over the tips of her ears into a small braided coil at the nape ; and her contracted head looked still narrower from being perched on a long hollow neck with cord-like throatmuscles . Her eyes were of a pale cold gray , her complexionwas an even white . Her age might have been anywhere from thirty-five to sixty . The room into which she led the three men had probably been the dining-room of the Ashmore house . It was now used as a front parlour , and a black @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the delicately fluted panels of an old wooden mantel . A newly-lit fire smouldered reluctantly , and the room was at once close and bitterly cold . " Andy Pond , " Mrs. Rutledge cried to some one at the back of the house , " step out and call Mr. Rutledge . You 'll likely find him in the wood-shed , or round the barn somewheres . " She rejoined her visitors . " Please suit yourselves to seats , " she said . The three men , with an increasing air of constraint , took the chairs she pointed out , and Mrs. Rutledge satstiffly down upon a fourth , behind a rickety bead-worktable . She glanced from one to the other of her visitors . " I presume you folks are wondering what it is Iasked you to come here for , " she said in her dead-levelp231voice . Orrin Bosworth and Deacon Hibben murmured an assent ; Sylvester Brand sat silent , his eyes , under their great thicket of eyebrows , fixed on the huge boot-tip swinging before him . " Well , I allow you @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ continued Mrs. Rutledge . No one ventured to respond to this chill pleasantry , and she continued : " We 're in trouble here , and that 's the fact . And we need advice  --  Mr. Rutledge and myself do . " She cleared her throat , and added in a lower tone , her pitilessly clear eyes looking straight before her : " There 's a spell been cast over Mr. Rutledge . " The Deacon looked up sharply , an incredulous smile pinching his thin lips . " A spell ? " " That 's what I said : he 's bewitched . " Again the three visitors were silent ; then Bosworth , more at ease or less tongue-tied than the others , asked with an attempt at humour : " Do you use the word in the strict Scripture sense , Mrs. Rutledge ? " She glanced at him before replying : " That 's how he uses it . " The Deacon coughed and cleared his long rattling throat . " Do you care to give us more particulars before your husband joins us ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as if considering the question . Bosworth noticed that the inner fold of her lids was of the same uniform white as the rest of her skin , so that when she dropped them her rather prominent eyes looked like the sightless orbs of a marble statue . The impression was unpleasing , and he glanced away at the text over the mantelpiece , which read : The Soul That Sinneth It Shall Die . " No , " she said at length , " I 'll wait . " At this moment Sylvester Brand suddenly stood up and pushed back his chair . " I do n't know , " he said , in his rough bass voice , " as I 've got any particular lights on Bible mysteries ; and this happens to be the day I was to go down to Starkfield to close a deal with a man . " Mrs. Rutledge lifted one of her long thin hands . Withered and wrinkled by hard work and cold , it was nevertheless of the same leaden white as her face . " You wo n't be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you be seated ? " Farmer Brand stood irresolute , his purplish underlip twitching . " The Deacon here  --  such things is more in his line ... " " I want you should stay , " said Mrs. Rutledge quietly ; and Brand sat down again . A silence fell , during which the four persons present seemed all to be listening for the sound of a step ; but none was heard , and after a minute or two Mrs. Rutledgebegan to speak again . " It 's down by that old shack on Lamer 's pond ; that 's where they meet , " she said suddenly . Bosworth , whose eyes were on Sylvester Brand 's face , fancied he saw a sort of inner flush darken the farmer 's heavy leathern skin . Deacon Hibben leaned forward , a glitter of curiosity in his eyes.  | " They  --  who , Mrs. Rutledge ? " " My husband , Saul Rutledge ... and her ... " Sylvester Brand again stirred in his seat . " Who do you mean by her ? " he asked abruptly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mrs. Rutledge 's body did not move ; she simply revolvedher head on her long neck and looked at him . " Your daughter , Sylvester Brand . " The man staggered to his feet with an explosion of inarticulate sounds . " My  --  my daughter ? What the hell are you talking about ? My daughter ? It 's a damned lie ... it 's . . . it 's . . . " Your daughter Ora , Mr. Brand , " said Mrs. Rutledge slowly . Bosworth felt an icy chill down his spine . Instinctivelyhe turned his eyes away from Brand , and they rested on the mildewed countenance of Deacon Hibben . Between the blotches it had become as white as Mrs. Rutledge 's , and the Deacon 's eyes burned in the whitenesslike live embers among ashes . Brand gave a laugh : the rusty creaking laugh of one whose springs of mirth are never moved by gaiety . " My daughter Ora ? " he repeated . " Yes . " " My dead daughter ? " " That 's what he says . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Rutledge says . " Orrin Bosworth listened with a sense of suffocation ; he felt as if he were wrestling with long-armed horrors in a dream . He could no longer resist letting his eyes return to Sylvester Brand 's face . To his surprise it had resumed a natural imperturbable expression . Brand rose to his feet . " Is that all ? " he queried contemptuously . " All ? Ai n't it enough ? How long is it since you folks seen Saul Rutledge , any of you ? " Mrs. Rutledge flew out at them . Bosworth , it appeared , had not seen him for nearly a year ; the Deacon had only run across him once , for a minute , at the North Ashmore post-office , the previousautumn , and acknowledged that he was n't looking any too good then . Brand said nothing , but stood irresolute . " Well , if you wait a minute you 'll see with your own eyes ; and he 'll tell you with his own words . That 's what I 've got you here @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him . Then you 'll talk different , " she added , twistingher head abruptly toward Sylvester Brand . The Deacon raised a lean hand of interrogation . " Does your husband know we 've been sent for on this business , Mrs. Rutledge ? " Mrs. Rutledge signed assent . " It was with his consent , then  --  ? " She looked coldly at her questioner . " I guess it had to be , " she said . Again Bosworth felt the chill down his spine . He tried to dissipate the sensation by speaking with an affectation of energy . " Can you tell us , Mrs. Rutledge , how this troubleou speak of shows itself ... what makes you think ... ? " She looked at him for a moment ; then she leanedforward across the rickety bead-work table . A thin smilep255of disdain narrowed her colourless lips . " I do n't think  --  I know . " " Well  --  but how ? " She leaned closer , both elbows on the table , her voice dropping . " I seen ' em . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beyond the windows the Deacon 's little screwed-up eyes seemed to give out red sparks . " Him and the ( lead ? " " Him and the dead . " " Saul Rutledge and  --  and Ora Brand ? " " That 's so . " Sylvester Brand 's chair fell backward with a crash . He was on his feet again , crimson and cursing . " It 's a God-damned fiend-begotten lie ... " " Friend Brand . . . Friend Brand ... " the Deacon protested . " Here , let me get out of this . I want to see Saul Rutledgehimself , and tell him  --  " " Well , here he is , " said Mrs. Rutledge . The outer door had opened ; they heard the familiar stamping and shaking of a man who rids his garments of their last snowflakes before penetrating to the sacred precincts of the best parlour . Then Saul Rutledge entered . As he came in he faced the light from the north window , and Bosworth 's first thought was that he looked like a drowned man @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " he added . But the snow-light plays cruel tricks with a man 's colour , and even with thep256shape of his features ; it must have been partly that , Bosworth reflected , which transformed Saul Rutledge from the straight muscular fellow he had been a year before into the haggard wretch now before them . The Deacon sought for a word to ease the horror . " Well , now , Saul  --  you look 's if you 'd ought to set right up to the stove . Had a touch of ague , maybe ? " The feeble attempt was unavailing . Rutledge neither moved nor answered . He stood among them silent , incommunicable , like one risen from the dead . Brand grasped him roughly by the shoulder . " See here , Saul Rutledge , what 's this dirty lie your wife tells us you 've been putting about ? " Still Rutledge did not move . " It 's no lie , " he said . Brand 's hand dropped from his shoulder . In spite of the man 's rough bullying power he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " No lie ? You 've gone plumb crazy , then , have you ? " Mrs. Rutledge spoke . " My husband 's not lying , norhe ai n't gone crazy . Do n't I tell you I seen ' em ? " Brand laughed again . " Him and the dead ? " " Yes . " " Down by the Lamer pond , you say ? " " Yes . " " And when was that , if I might ask ? " " Day before yesterday . " A silence fell on the strangely assembled group . The Deacon at length broke it to say to Mr. Brand : " Brand , in my opinion we 've got to see this thing through . " Brand stood for a moment in speechless contemplation : there was something animal and primitive aboutp257him , Bosworth thought , as he hung thus , lowering and dumb , a little foam beading the corners of that heavy purplish underlip . He let himself slowly down into his chair . " I 'll see it through . " The two other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stood before them , like a prisoner at the bar , or rather like a sick man before the physicianswho were to heal him . As Bosworth scrutinized that hollow face , so wan under the dark sunburn , so sucked inward and consumed by some hidden fever , there stole over the sound healthy man the thought that perhaps , after all , husband and wife spoke the truth , and that they were all at that moment really standing on the edge of some forbidden mystery . Things that the rational mind would reject without a thought seemed no longer so easy to dispose of as one looked at the actual Saul Rutledge and remembered the man he had been a year before . Yes ; as the Deacon said , they would have to see it through .. . " Sit down then , Saul ; draw up to us , wo n't you ? " the Deacon suggested , trying again for a natural tone . Mrs. Rutledge pushed a chair forward , and her husbandsat down on it . He stretched out his arms and grasped @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attitude he remained , turning neither his head nor his eyes . " Well , Saul , " the Deacon continued , " your wife says you thought mebbe we could do something to help you through this trouble , whatever it is . " Rutledge 's gray eyes widened a little . " No ; I did n't think that . It was her idea to try what could be done . "  | " I presume , though , since you 've agreed to our coming , that you do n't object to our putting a few ques-tions ? " Rutledge was silent for a moment ; then he said with a visible effort : " No , I do n't object . " " Well  --  you 've heard what your wife says ? " Rutledge made a slight motion of assent . " And  --  what have you got to answer ? How do you explain ... ? " Mrs. Rutledge intervened . " How can he explain ? I seen ' em . " There was a silence ; then Bosworth , trying to speak in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Saul ? " " That 's so . " Brand lifted up his brooding head . " You mean to say you ... you sit here before us all and say ... " The Deacon 's hand again checked him . " Hold on , friend Brand . We 're all of us trying for the facts , ai n't we ? " He turned to Rutledge . " We 've heard what Mrs. Rutledge says . What 's your answer ? " " I do n't know as there 's any answer . She found us . " " And you mean to tell me the person with you was ... was what you took to be ... " the Deacon 's thin voice grew thinner : " Ora Brand ? " Saul Rutledge nodded . " You knew ... or thought you knew . . . you were meeting with the dead ? " Rutledge bent his head again . The snow continued to fall in a steady unwavering sheet against the window , and Bosworth felt as if a winding-sheet were descending from the sky to envelop @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you 're saying ! It 's against our religion ! Ora .. . poor child ! . .. died over a year ago . I saw you at her funeral , Saul . How can you make such a state-ment ? " " What else can he do ? " thrust in Mrs. Rutledge . There was another pause . Bosworth 's resources had failed him , and Brand once more sat plunged in dark meditation . The Deacon laid his quivering finger-tips together and moistened his lips . " Was the day before yesterday the first time ? " he asked . The movement of Rutledge 's head was negative . " Not the first ? Then when ... " " Nigh on a year ago , I reckon . " " God ! And you mean to tell us that ever since  --  ? " " Well . . . look at him , " said his wife . The three men lowered their eyes . After a moment Bosworth , trying to collect himself , glanced at the Deacon . " Why not ask Saul to make his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for ? " " That 's so , " the Deacon assented . He turned to Rutledge . " Will you try and give us your idea ... of .. . of how it began ? " There was another silence . Then Rutledge tightened his grasp on his gaunt knees , and still looking straight ahead , with his curiously clear unseeing gaze : " Well , " he said , " I guess it begun away back , afore even I was married to Mrs. Rutledge .. . " He spoke in a low automatictone , as if some invisible agent were dictating his words , or even uttering them for him . " You know , " he added , " Ora and me was to have been married . "  |p260Sylvester  Brand lifted his head . " Straighten that statementout first , please . " he interjected . " What I mean is , we kept company . But Ora she was very young . Mr. Brand here he sent her away . She was gone nigh to three years , I guess . When she come @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " Brand said , relapsing once more into his sunken attitude . " And after she came back did you meet her again ? " the Deacon continued . " Alive ? " Rutledge questioned . A perceptible shudder ran through the room . " Well  --  of course , " said the Deacon nervously . Rutledge seemed to consider . " Once I did  --  only once . There was a lot of other people round . At Cold Corners fair it was . " " Did you talk with her then ? " " Only a minute . " " What did she say ? " His voice dropped . " She said she was sick and knew she was going to die , and when she was dead she 'd come back to me . " " And what did you answer ? " " Nothing . " " Did you think anything of it at the time ? " " Well , no . Not till I heard she was dead I did n't . After that I thought of it  --  and I guess she @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Drew you down to that abandoned house by the pond ? " Rutledge made a faint motion of assent , and thep261Deacon added : " How did you know it was there she wanted you to come ? " " She ... just drew me ... " There was a long pause . Bosworth felt , on himself and the other two men , the oppressive weight of the next question to be asked . Mrs. Rutledge opened and closed her narrow lips once or twice , like some beached shell-fish gasping for the tide . Rutledge waited . " Well , now , Saul , wo n't you go on with what you was telling us ? " the Deacon at length suggested . " That 's all . There 's nothing else . " The Deacon lowered his voice . " She just draws you ? " " Yes . " " Often ? " " That 's as it happens ... " " But if it 's always there she draws you , man , have n't you the strength to keep away from the place ? " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ toward his questioner . A spectral smile narrowed his colourless lips . " Ai n't any use . She follers after me ... " There was another silence . What more could they ask , then and there ? Mrs. Rutledge 's presence checked the next question . The Deacon seemed hopelessly to revolve the matter . At length he spoke in a more authoritativetone . " These are forbidden things . You know that , Saul . Have you tried prayer ? " Rutledge shook his head . " Will you pray with us now ? " Rutledge cast a glance of freezing indifference on his spiritual adviser . " If you folks want to pray , I 'm agreeable , " he said . But Mrs. Rutledge intervened.  | " Prayer ai n't any good . In this kind of thing it ai n't no manner of use ; you know it ai n't . I called you here , Deacon , because you remember the last case in this parish . Thirty years ago it was , I guess ; but you remember . Lefferts Nash  --  did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but I used to hear my folks talk of it winter nights . Lefferts Nash and Hannah Cory . They drove a stake through her breast . That 's what cured him . " " Oh  --  " Orrin Bosworth exclaimed . Sylvester Brand raised his head . " You 're speaking of that old story as if this was the same sort of thing ? " " Ai n't it ? Ai n't my husband pining away the same as Lefferts Nash did ? The Deacon here knows  --  " The Deacon stirred anxiously in his chair . " These are forbidden things , " he repeated . " Supposing your husband is quite sincere in thinking himself haunted , as you might say . Well , even then , what proof have we that the . . . the dead woman ... is the spectre of that poor girl ? " " Proof ! Do n't he say so ? Did n't she tell him ? Ai n't I seen ' em ? " Mrs. Rutledge almost screamed . The three men sat silent , and suddenly the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ! That 's the old way ; and it 's the only way . The Deacon knows it ! " " It 's against our religion to disturb the dead . " " Ai n't it against your religion to let the living perish as my husband is perishing ? " She sprang up with one of her abrupt movements and took the family Bible from the what-not in a corner of the parlour . Putting the book on the table , and moistening a livid finger-tip ,  |p263she  turned the pages rapidly , till she came to one on which she laid her hand like a stony paper-weight . " See here , " she said , and read out in her level chanting voice : " Thou shalt not suffer a witch to live . ' " That 's in Exodus , that 's where it is , " she added , leaving the book open as if to confirm the statement . Bosworth continued to glance anxiously from one to the other of the four people about the table . He was younger than any of them , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ down in Starkfield , in the bar of the Fielding House , he could hear himself laughing with the rest of the men at such old wives ' tales . But it was not for nothing that he had been born under the icy shadow of Lonetop , and had shivered and hungered as a lad through the bitter Hemlock County winters . After his parents died , and he had taken hold of the farm himself , he had got more out of it by using improvedmethods , and by supplying the increasing throng of summer-boarders over Stotesbury way with milk and vegetables . He had been made a selectman of North Ashmore ; for so young a man he had a standing in the county . But the roots of the old life were still in him . He could remember , as a little boy , going twice a year with his mother to that bleak hill-farm out beyond Sylvester Brand 's , where Mrs. Bosworth 's aunt , CressidoraCheney , had been shut up for years in a cold clean room with iron bars in the windows @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a small white old woman , whom her sisters used to " make decent " for visitors the day that Orrin and his mother were expected . The child wondered why there were bars to the window . " Like a canary-bird , " he said to his mother . The phrase made Mrs. Bosworth reflect . " I do believe they keep Aunt Cressidora too lonesome , " she said ; and the next time she went up the mountain with the little boy he carried to his great-aunt a canary in a little wooden cage . It was a great excitement ; he knew it would make her happy . The old woman 's motionless face lit up when she saw the bird , and her eyes began to glitter . " It belongs to me , " she said instantly , stretching her soft bony hand over the cage . " Of course it does , Aunt Cressy , " said Mrs. Bosworth , her eyes filling . But the bird , startled by the shadow of the old woman 's hand , began to flutter and beat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's calm face suddenly became a coil of twitching features . " You shedevil , you ! " she cried in a high squealing voice ; and thrusting her hand into the cage she dragged out the terrified bird and wrung its neck . She was plucking the hot body , and squealing " she-devil , she-devil ! " as they drew little Orrin from the room . On the way down the mountain his mother wept a great deal , and said : " You must never tell anybody that poor Auntie 's crazy , or the men would come and take her down to the asylum at Starkfield , and the shame of it would kill us all . Now promise . " The child promised . He remembered the scene now , with its deep fringe of mystery , secrecy and rumour . It seemed related to ap265great many other things below the surface of his thoughts , things which stole up anew , making him feel that all the old people he had known , and who " believed in these things , " might after all be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ashmore ? Did n't the summer folk still drive over in jolly buckboard loads to see the meeting-house where the trial had been held , the pond where they had ducked her and she had floated ? . . . Deacon Hibben believed ; Bosworth was sure of it . If he did n't , why did people from all over the place come to him when their animals had queer sicknesses , or when there was a child in the family that had to be kept shut up because it fell down flat and foamed ? Yes , in spite of his religion , Deacon Hibben knew ... And Brand ? Well , it came to Bosworth in a flash : that North Ashmore woman who was burned had the name of Brand . The same stock , no doubt ; there had been Brands in Hemlock County ever since the white men had come there . And Orrin , when he was a child , remembered hearing his parents say that Sylvester Brand had n't ever oughter married his own cousin , becauseof the blood . Yet the couple @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pined away and died nobodysuggested that anything had been wrong with her mind . And Vanessa and Ora were the handsomest girls anywhere round . Brand knew it , and scrimped and saved all he could to send Ora , the eldest , down to Starkfield to learn book-keeping . " When she 's married I 'll send you , " he used to say to little Venny , who was his favourite . But Ora never married . She was away three years , during which Venny ran wild on the slopes of Lonetop ; and when Ora came back she sickened and died  --  poor girl ! Since then Brand had grown more savageand morose . He was a hard-working farmer , but there was n't much to be got out of those barren Bearcliffacres . He was said to have taken to drink since his wife 's death ; now and then men ran across him in the " dives " of Stotesbury . But not often . And between times he laboured hard on his stony acres and did his best for his daughters . In the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ marked with his wife 's name ; near it , a year since , he had laid his eldest daughter . And sometimes , at dusk , in the autumn , the village people saw him walk slowly by , turn in between the graves , and stand looking down on the two stones . But he never brought a flower there , or planted a bush ; nor Venny either . She was too wild and ignorant .. . Mrs. Rutledge repeated : " That 's in Exodus . " The three visitors remained silent , turning about their hats in reluctant hands . Rutledge faced them , still with that empty pellucid gaze which frightened Bosworth . What was he seeing ? " Ai n't any of you folks got the grit  --  ? " his wife burst out again , half hysterically . Deacon Hibben held up his hand . " That 's no way , Mrs. Rutledge . This ai n't a question of having grit . What we want first of all is . . . proof ... " " That 's so , " said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the words had lifted something black and crouching from his breast . Involuntarily the eyes ofp267both men had turned to Brand . He stood there smiling grimly , but did not speak . " Ai n't it so , Brand ? " the Deacon prompted him . " Proof that spooks walk ? " the other sneered . " Well  --  I presume you want this business settled too ? " The old farmer squared his shoulders . " Yes  --  I do . But I ai n't a sperritualist . How the hell are you goingto settle it ? " Deacon Hibben hesitated ; then he said , in a low incisivetone : " I do n't see but one way  --  Mrs. Rutledge 's . " There was a silence . " What ? " Brand sneered again . " Spying ? " The Deacon 's voice sank lower . " If the poor girl does walk . . . her that 's your child . . . would n't you be the first to want her laid quiet ? We all know there 've been such cases . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of us here deny it ? " " I seen ' em , " Mrs. Rutledge interjected . There was another heavy pause . Suddenly Brand fixed his gaze on Rutledge . " See here , Saul Rutledge , you 've got to clear up this damned calumny , or I 'll know why . You say my dead girl comes to you . " He laboured with his breath , and then jerked out : " When ? You tell me that , and I 'll be there . " Rutledge 's head drooped a little , and his eyes wandered to the window . " Round about sunset , mostly . " " You know beforehand ? " Rutledge made a sign of assent . " Well , then  --  tomorrow , will it be ? "  | Rutledge made the same sign . Brand turned to the door . " I 'll be there . " That was all he said . He strode out between them without anotherglance or word . Deacon Hibben looked at Mrs. Rutledge . " We 'll be there too , " he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ she had not spoken , and Bosworth saw that her thin body was trembling all over . He was glad when he and Hibben were out again in the snow . THEY thought that Brand wanted to be left to himself , and to give him time to unhitch his horse they made a pretense of hanging about in the doorway while Bosworth searched his pockets for a pipe he had no mind to light . But Brand turned back to them as they lingered . " You 'll meet me down by Lamer 's pond tomorrow ? " he suggested . " I want witnesses . Round about sunset . " They nodded their acquiescence , and he got into his sleigh , gave the horse a cut across the flanks , and drove off under the snow-smothered hemlocks . The other two men went to the shed . " What do you make of this business , Deacon ? " Bosworthasked , to break the silence . The Deacon shook his head . " The man 's a sick man  --  that 's sure . Something 's sucking the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the biting outer air , Bosworth was getting himself under better control . " Looks to me like a bad case of the ague , as you said . "  | " Well  --  ague of the mind , then . It 's his brain that 's sick . " Bosworth shrugged . " He ai n't the first in Hemlock County . " " That 's so , " the Deacon agreed . " It 's a worm in the brain , solitude is . " " Well , we 'll know this time tomorrow , maybe , " said Bosworth . He scrambled into his sleigh , and was drivingoff in his turn when he heard his companio.i calling after him . The Deacon explained that his horse had cast a shoe ; would Bosworth drive him down to the forge near North Ashmore , if it was n't too much out of his way ? He did n't want the mare slipping about on the freezing snow , and he could probably get the blacksmithto drive him back and shoe her in Rutledge 's shed . Bosworth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two men drove off , pursued by a puzzled whinny from the Deacon 's old mare . The road they took was not the one that Bosworth would have followed to reach his own home . But he did not mind that . The shortest way to the forge passed close by Lamer 's pond , and Bosworth , since he was in for the business , was not sorry to look the ground over . They drove on in silence . The snow had ceased , and a green sunset was spreadingupward into the crystal sky . A stinging wind barbed with ice-flakes caught them in the face on the open ridges , but when they dropped down into the hollow by Lamer 's pond the air was as soundless and empty as an unswung bell . They jogged along slowly , each thinking his own thoughts.  | " That 's the house .. . that tumble-down shack over there , I suppose ? " the Deacon said , as the road drew near the edge of the frozen pond . " Yes : that 's the house . A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to tell me . Since then I do n't believe it 's ever been used but by the gypsies . " Bosworth had reined in his horse , and sat looking through pine-trunks purpled by the sunset at the crumbling structure . Twilight already lay under the trees , though day lingered in the open . Between two sharply-patterned pine-boughs he saw the evening star , like a white boat in a sea of green . His gaze dropped from that fathomless sky and followed the blue-white undulations of the snow . It gave him a curious agitated feeling to think that here , in this icy solitude , in the tumble-down house he had so often passed without heeding it , a dark mystery , too deep for thought , was being enacted . Down that very slope , coming from the grave-yard at Cold Corners , the being they called " Ora " must pass toward the pond . His heart began to beat stiflingly . Suddenly he gave an exclamation : " Look ! " He had jumped out of the cutter and was stumbling up the bank toward @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the direction of the house by the pond , he had detected a woman 's foot-prints ; two ; then three ; then more . The Deacon scrambled out after him , and they stood and stared . " God  --  barefoot ! " Hibben gasped . " Then it is. .. the dead ... " Bosworth said nothing . But he knew that no livep271woman would travel with naked feet across that freezing wilderness . Here , then , was the proof the Deacon had asked for  --  they held it . What should they do with it ? " Supposing we was to drive up nearer  --  round the turn of the pond , till we get close to the house , " the Deacon proposed in a colourless voice . " Mebbe then ... " Postponement was a relief . They got into the sleigh and drove on . Two or three hundred yards farther the road , a mere lane under steep bushy banks , turned sharply to the right , following the bend of the pond . As they rounded the turn they saw Brand 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ horse tied to a treetrunk . The two men looked at each other again . This was not Brand 's nearest way home . Evidently he had been actuated by the same impulse which had made them rein in their horse by the pondside , and then hasten on to the deserted hovel . Had he , too , discovered those spectral foot-prints ? Perhaps it was for that very reason that he had left his cutter and vanished in the direction of the house . Bosworth found himself shivering all over under his bearskin . " I wish to God the dark was n't coming on , " he muttered . He tethered his own horse near Brand 's , and without a word he and the Deacon ploughed through the snow , in the track of Brand 's huge feet . They had only a few yards to walk to overtake him . He did not hear them following him , and when Bosworth spoke his name , and he stopped short and turned , his heavy face was dim and confused , like a darker blot on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ surprise.  | " I wanted to see the place , " he merely said . The Deacon cleared his throat . " Just take a look .. . yes . . . We thought so ... But I guess there wo n't be anything to see ... " He attempted a chuckle . The other did not seem to hear him , but laboured on ahead through the pines . The three men came out together in the cleared space before the house . As they emerged from beneath the trees they seemed to have left night behind . The evening star shed a lustre on the speckless snow , and Brand , in that lucid circle , stopped with a jerk , and pointed to the same light foot-prints turned toward the house  --  the track of a woman in the snow . He stood still , his face working . " Bare feet ... " he said . The Deacon piped up in a quavering voice : " The feet of the dead . " Brand remained motionless . " The feet of the dead , " he echoed . Deacon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Come away now , Brand ; for the love of God come away . " The father hung there , gazing down at those light tracks on the snow  --  light as fox or squirrel trails they seemed , on the white immensity . Bosworth thought to himself : " The living could n't walk so light  --  not even Ora Brand could n't have , when she lived ... " The cold seemed to have entered into his very marrow . His teeth were chattering . Brand swung about on them abruptly . " Now ! " he said , moving on as if to an assault , his head bowed forward on his bull neck.  | " Now  --  now ? Not in there ? " gasped the Deacon . " What 's the use ? It was tomorrow he said  --  " He shook like a leaf . " It 's now , " said Brand . He went up to the door of the crazy house , pushed it inward , and meeting with an unexpected resistance , thrust his heavy shoulder against the panel . The door @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into the darkness of the hut . The others , after a moment 's hesitation , followed . Bosworth was never quite sure in what order the events that succeeded took place . Coming in out of the snow-dazzle , he seemed to be plunging into total blackness . He groped his way across the threshold , caught a sharp splinter of the fallen door in his palm , seemed to see something white and wraith-like surge up out of the darkest corner of the hut , and then heard a revolver shot at his elbow , and a cryBrand had turned back , and was staggering past him out into the lingering daylight . The sunset , suddenly flushing through the trees , crimsoned his face like blood . He held a revolver in his hand and looked about him in his stupid way . " They do walk , then , " he said and began to laugh . He bent his head to examine his weapon . " Better here than in the churchyard . They sha n't dig her up now , " he shouted out . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bosworth got the revolver away from him.  | THE next day Bosworth 's sister Loretta , who kept house for him , asked him , when he came in for his midday dinner , if he had heard the news . Bosworth had been sawing wood all the morning , and in spite of the cold and the driving snow , which had begun again in the night , he was covered with an icy sweat , like a man getting over a fever . " What news ? " " Venny Brand 's down sick with pneumonia . The Deacon 's been there . I guess she 's dying . " Bosworth looked at her with listless eyes . She seemed far off from him , miles away . " Venny Brand ? " he echoed . " You never liked her , Orrin . " " She 's a child . I never knew much about her . " " Well , " repeated his sister , with the guileless relish of the unimaginative for bad news , " I guess she 's dying . " After a pause @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all alone up there . " Bosworth got up and said : " I 've got to see to poulticingthe gray 's fetlock . " He walked out into the steadily falling snow . Venny Brand was buried three days later . The Deacon read the service ; Bosworth was one of the pallbearers . The whole country-side turned out , for the snow had stopped falling , and at any season a funeral offered an opportunity for an outing that was not to be missed . Besides , Venny Brand was young and handsome  --  at least some people thought her handsome , thoughp275she was so swarthy  --  and her dying like that , so suddenly , had the fascination of tragedy . " They say her lungs filled right up ... Seems she 'd had bronchial troubles before . . . I always said both them girls was frail ... Look at Ora , how she took and wasted away ! And it 's colder'n all outdoors up there to Brand 's ... Their mother , too , she pined away just the same . They do n't ever @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ family . . . There 's that young Bedlow over there ; they say Venny was engaged to him . . . Oh , Mrs. Rutledge , excuse me ... Step right into the pew ; there 's a seat for you alongside of grandma ... " Mrs. Rutledge was advancing with deliberate step down the narrow aisle of the bleak wooden church . She had on her best bonnet , a monumental structure which no one had seen out of her trunk since old Mrs. Silsee 's funeral , three years before . All the women remembered it . Under its perpendicular pile her narrow face , swaying on the long thin neck , seemed whiter than ever ; but her air of fretfulness had been composed into a suitable expression of mournful immobility . " Looks as if the stone-mason had carved her to put atop of Venny 's grave , " Bosworth thought as she glided past him ; and then shivered at his own sepulchral fancy . When she bent over her hymn book her lowered lids reminded him again of marble eye-balls ; the bony hands clasping @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hands since he had seen old Aunt CressidoraCheney strangle the canary-bird because it fluttered . The service was over , the coffin of Venny Brand had been lowered into her sister 's grave , and the neighbours were slowly dispersing . Bosworth , as pall-bearer , felt obliged to linger and say a word to the stricken father . He waited till Erand had turned from the grave with the Deacon at his side . The three men stood together for a moment ; but not one of them spoke . Brand 's face was the closed door of a vault , barred with wrinkles like bands of iron . Finally the Deacon took his hand and said : " The Lord gave  --  " Brand nodded and turned away toward the shed where the horses were hitched . Bosworth followed him . " Let me drive along home with you , " he suggested . Brand did not so much as turn his head . " Home ? What home ? " he said ; and the other fell back . Loretta Bosworth was talking with the other women while @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into the heavy snow . As Bosworth waited for her , a few feet off , he saw Mrs. Rutledge 's tall bonnet lording it above the group . Andy Pond , the Rutledge farm-hand , was backing out the sleigh . " Saul ai n't here today , Mrs. Rutledge , is he ? " one of the village elders piped , turning a benevolent old tortoise-head about on a loose neck , and blinking up into Mrs. Rutledge 's marble face . Bosworth heard her measure out her answer in slow incisive words . " No . Mr. Rutledge he ai n't here . He would ' a ' come for certain , but his aunt Minorca Cumminsis being buried down to Stotesbury this very day and he had to go down there . Do n't it sometimes seem zif we was all walking right in the Shadow of Death ? "  |p277As  she walked toward the cutter , in which Andy Pond was already seated , the Deacon went up to her with visible hesitation . Involuntarily Bosworth also moved nearer . He heard the Deacon say : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be up and around . " She turned her small head on her rigid neck , and lifted the lids of marble . " Yes , I guess he 'll sleep quieter now  --  And her too , maybe , now she do n't lay there alone any longer , " she added in a low voice , with a sudden twist of her chin toward the fresh black stain in the grave-yard snow . She got into the cutter , and said in a clear tone to Andy Pond : " ' S long as we 're down here I do n't know but what I 'll just call round and get a box of soap at Hiram Pringle's. "  | LADY JANE LYNKE was unlike other people : when j she heard that she had inherited Bells , the beautifulold place which had belonged to the Lynkes of Thudeney for something like six hundred years , the fancy took her to go and see it unannounced . She was staying at a friend 's near by , in Kent , and the next morning she borrowed a motor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It was a lustrous motionless day . Autumn bloom lay on the Sussex downs , on the heavy trees of the weald , on streams moving indolently , far off across the marshes . Farther still , Dungeness , a fitful streak , floated on an immaterial sea which was perhaps , after all , only sky . In the softness Thudeney-Blazes slept : a few aged houses bowed about a duck-pond , a silvery spire , orchards thick with dew . Did Thudeney-Blazes ever wake ? Lady Jane left the motor to the care of the geese on a miniature common , pushed open a white gate into a field ( the griffoned portals being padlocked ) , and struck across the park toward a group of carved chimney-stacks . No one seemed aware of her . In a dip of the land , the long low house , its ripe brick masonry overhanging a moat deeply sunk about its roots ,  | resembled an aged cedar spreading immemorial red branches . Lady Jane held her breath and gazed . A silence distilled from years of solitude lay on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ since the last Lord Thudeney , then a penniless younger son , had forsakenit sixty years before to seek his fortune in Canada . And before that , he and his widowed mother , distant poor relations , were housed in one of the lodges , and the great place , even in their day , had been as mute and solitary as the family vault . Lady Jane , daughter of another branch , to which an earldom and considerable possessions had accrued , had never seen Bells , hardly heard its name . A succession of deaths , and the whim of an old man she had never known , now made her heir to all this beauty ; and as she stood and looked she was glad she had come to it from so far , from impressions so remote and different . " It would be dreadful to be used to it  --  to be thinking already about the state of the roof , or the cost of a heating system . " Till this her thirty-fifth year , Lady Jane had led an active , independent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but sufficiently provided for , she had gone early from home , lived in London lodgings , travelled in tropic lands , spent studious summers in Spain and Italy , and written two or three brisk businesslikelittle books about cities usually dealt with sentimentally . And now , just back from a summer in the south of France , she stood ankle-deep in wet bracken , and gazed at Bells lying there under a September sun that looked like moonlight  | " I shall never leave it ! " she ejaculated , her heart swellingas if she had taken the vow to a lover . She ran down the last slope of the park and entered the faded formality of gardens with clipped yews as ornate as architecture , and holly hedges as solid as walls . Adjoining the house stood a low deep-buttressed chapel . Its door was ajar , and she thought this of good augury : her forebears were waiting for her . In the porch she remarked fly-blown notices of services , an umbrella stand , a dishevelled door-mat : no doubt the chapel served as the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ warmth and neighbourliness . Across the damp flags of the chancel , monuments and brasses showed through a traceried screen . She examined them curiously . Some hailed her with vocal memories , others whispered out of the remote and the unknown : it was a shame to be so ill-acquainted with her own family . But neither Crofts nor Lynkes had ever greatly distinguished themselves ; they had gathered substance simply by holdingon to what they had , and slowly accumulating privilegesand acres . " Mostly by clever marriages , " Lady Jane thought with a faint contempt . At that moment her eyes lit on one of the less ornate monuments : a plain sarcophagus of gray marble niched in the wall and surmounted by the bust of a young man with a fine arrogant head , a Byronic throat and tossedbackcurls . " Peregrine Vincent Theobald Lynke , Baron Clouds , fifteenth Viscount Thudeney of Bells , Lord of the Manors of Thudeney , Thudeney-Blazes , Upper Lynke , Lynke-Linnet  --  " so it ran , with the usual tedious enumeration of honours , titles , court and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 1790 , perished of the plague at Aleppo in 1828 . " And underneath , in small cramped characters , as if crowded as an afterthought into an insufficient space : " Also His Wife . " That was all . No name , dates , honours , epithets , for the Viscountess Thudeney . Did she , too , die of the plague at Aleppo ? Or did the " also " imply her actual presence in the sarcophagus which her husband 's pride had no doubt prepared for his own last sleep , little guessing that some Syrian drain was to receive him ? Lady Jane racked her memory in vain . All she knew was that the death without issue of this Lord Thudeney had caused the property to revert to the Croft-Lynkes , and so , in the end , brought her to the chancel step where , shyly , she knelt a moment , vowing to the dead to carry on their trust . She passed on to the entrance court , and stood at last at the door of her new home , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as intrusive as a tripper , and her hand hesitated on the door-bell . " I ought to have brought someone with me , " she thought ; an odd admission on the part of a young woman who , when she was doing her books of travel , had prided herself on forcing single-handed the most closely guarded doors . But those other places , as she looked back , seemed easy and accessible compared to Bells . She rang , and a tinkle answered , carried on by a flurried echo which seemed to ask what in the world was happening . Lady Jane , through the nearest window , caught the spectral vista of a long room with shroudedp285furniture . She could not see its farther end , but she had the feeling that someone stationed there might very well be seeing her . " Just at first , " she thought , " I shall have to invite people here  --  to take the chill off . " She rang again , and the tinkle again prolonged itself ; but no one came . At last she @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the house , and pushing open a door in the court-yard wall she worked her way around to what seemed a stable-yard . Against the purple brick sprawled a neglected magnolia , bearing one late flower as big as a planet . Lady Jane rang at a door marked " Service " . This bell , though also languid , had a wakefuller sound , as if it were more used to being rung , and still knew what was likely to follow ; and after a delay during which Lady Jane again had the sense of being peered at  --  from above , through a lowered blind  --  a bolt shot , and a woman looked out . She was youngish , unhealthy , respectableand frightened ; and she blinked at Lady Jane like someone waking out of sleep . " Oh , " said Lady Jane  --  " do you think I might visit the house ? " " The house ? " " I 'm staying near here  --  I 'm interested in old houses . Might n't I take a look ? " The young woman drew @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Oh , but not to  --  not to  --  " Jane weighed the case . " You see , " she explained , " I know some of the family : the Northumberland branch . "                     