@@469441

THE congenital inability of Ameri1 cans to perceive the difference between vice and crime is responsible for putting into jails and penitentiaries in this country each year thousands of men and women who do not belong there . Were it true that putting these people in prison did the slightest good either to them in so far as their reformation is concerned , or to the community in so far as its protection is concerned , there might be some excuse . After all , the regeneration of human beings and the protection of the community can not be estimated in dollars and cents . The fact is , however , that not only does the throwing of these people into penitentiaries or jails do them no good , but in many cases it works an actual damage to their already more or less battered characters , making them a little more helpless and a little more hopeless than they were before . At the same time the community gets little real protection from their incarceration and is put to the additional expense of detecting , convicting , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ us first clear up the difference between vice and crime . Technically , it is true that whatever the law says is a crime is a crime . For instance , if the law decrees that a man who has narcotics in his possession is thus committing a crime he can be sent to prison if the penalty for that offense so provides . But the mere fact of the law 's arbitrarily saying so does not make the man acriminal in what is or should be the ordinary meaning of the term . Likewise , if a woman engages in prostitution she may become a criminal in the eyes of the law , although in the light of common sense she may be far from being one . Similarly , members of other groups who are victims of certain appetites or habits may be jailed , but that does not make them criminals nor prove that jail is the place to which they should go . They are merely addicted to vices . They do not offend against other persons or against property , which offenses , speaking generally , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an understanding of who belongs in prison , we must eliminate first the enormous number of men and women who do not belong there . There are the chronic alcoholics . Thousands of them are sent to jails and prisons in the United States every year . They usually get sentences ranging from five to sixty days . During this time , of course , they live at the expense of the community and , with few exceptions , do little work , simply because if they go to jail not one per cent of the jails in the United States have any work for them to do . If they go to a local penitentiary or workhouse , in the majority of cases by the time they are completely sobered and restored to a physical condition in which they can work their time is up and they are sent out to repeat the process over and over again . Those who have dealt with chronic alcoholics , particularly doctors and prison men and others who have intimate contact with them , agree almost unanimously that chronic inebriety is a disease @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be cured . One would not say that it can not be cured , but experience has proved that even where repeated and conscientious efforts have been made , the greater majority of such cases remain uncured . One must see those drunks as they pour into jails all over the United States in order to get some idea of how hopeless it is to expect to solve this problem by prison sentences . These prisoners are generally too stupefied with cheap liquor to be more than even remotely aware of their surroundings . For the most part they are filthy , very often vermin-ridden , lazy beyond description , indifferent and generally shiftless . Many have physical , mental , or emotional defects which tend to make them inebriates in order to escape from the pressure of life which they have not the character or stamina to face ; they are no more responsible for these defects than they are for the color of their eyes or hair . Can you not build character ? You can where there is some foundation . But where the foundation has entirely crumbled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it is no more possible , save in a few scattered instances , to cure chronic alcoholism than it is to cure feeble-mindedness . But these facts ? and facts they are ? have apparently left but little impression on the minds of our legislators , judges , and police officials . They still seem to feel , after years of repeated failures with men and women of this type , that chronic alcoholism is some sort of a crime indulged in more or less deliberately , and that repeated jail sentences will act in some mysterious way as a deterrent . Nor is there even the excuse that by sending these unfortunates to jail we are " protecting society . " Most of these chronic alcoholics are entirely harmless so far as inflicting any real damage on the community is concerned . Occasionally they commit petty thefts to obtain money with which to buy liquor . But this they seldom do , as it takes initiative , energy , and a certain amount of courage to steal . It is much easier to beg , and many of them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The question arises : What can be done to reform or cure chronic alcoholics ? And the answer , based on experience , arises to meet it : practically nothing except in a few rare cases . Medicine has yet to find a way . What may come later , of course , no one knows . What we need to do , therefore , is to face this fact frankly and courageously . The sane way , it seems to us , in which to handle a drunk , chronic or otherwise , is to sober him up and then let him alone . Ordinary decency and humanity demand that we do this for two reasons . First , because the average man who becomes intoxicated in public makes a nuisance of himself , and , second , because while in that befuddled condition he may be injured by being run over or in some other way . There is no more reason for sending an alcoholic to prison than there is for sending a person who happens to be sick from any other cause . This may be accomplished @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . When a policeman finds a man ? or woman ? intoxicated in public it should be his duty to take him or see that he is taken home , or if he has no home , to the hospital , and that is all ; after which it will be the duty of the hospital officials to see that the man gets proper treatment . When he is sober he should be discharged . If he goes out and gets drunk again it is unfortunate , but it is exactly what he does on leaving jail , after the community has been put to the expense of maintaining him for a period of days or weeks . One can hear the objection that while the man is in jail he is at least not becoming intoxicated . This might have some weight were it not for the fact that whether or not he goes to jail depends on whether or not he has sufficient money to pay a fine . Almost invariably these men are given alternative sentences , say of ten dollars ' fine or thirty days in jail @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have the money with which to pay the fine or has a friend who will pay it for him he does not go to jail but is released immediately and departs to get drunk all over again if he wants to . So in order to be consistent , one would have to hold that all drunks should be given jail sentences and that there be no fine alternative . The lack of fifty cents may spell the difference between a thirty-day sentence and immediate release . The chronic alcoholic , generally speaking , is not a criminal and is not a menace to the community ; but on the contrary is a harmless , inoffensive weakling who is the victim of a vice , the curbing of which is beyond his control . Why not recognize him for what he is ; recognize his infirmity , sober him up for his own protection , and then let him go , instead of sending him to jail under the stupid ineffectual procedure which taxes the community to the limit , wastes the time of its officials , and effects no reform @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ problem of the chronic alcoholic is that of the chronic vagrant . Indeed , one very often shades into the other , as the vagrant is frequently an alcoholic . Butthere are thousands of the non-alcoholic type scattered over the country who do no particular harm either to themselves or to anyone clsc , but who are repeatedly arrested and jailed for a few days or weeks . At intervals there are drives or raids by the police in public parks and other places of the kind , and those who are apparently vagrants or bums are arrested , tried and jailed . At the end of their terms they are released , promptly go back to their old life , are arrested again , released again , and so on any number of times until they , like the alcoholics , simply fade out of the picture . It should be understood , of course , that the term vagrant does not apply to the unemployed , to that great floating population which starvation and insecurity have driven to the road . Theirs is another story altogether . The vagrant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they are usually panhandlers , men who solicit alms on the street . The great majority of these vagrant panhandlers do no real harm at all and they , like the alcoholics , should be left alone . There are some who , for their own protection , belong in some kind of a custodial institution , but the others do not deserve jail any more than well-dressed deadbeats who beg and " borrow " money from their friends and relatives . As in the case of alcoholics , one must see these vagrants as they drift into the jails to realize that the problem can not be handled intelligently by confining them in a penal institution over and over again . Many of them are too old to work even if they wanted to . Each year , for instance , in the New York County Penitentiary on Welfare Island several hundreds are received who are too old or incapacitated to do anything even if they had the inclination , and who must be segregated in a separate building known to the prison officers as the old men 's home @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prison , subject to the same discipline and general administration . Large numbers of others are mentally unbalanced or emotionally unstable . They are not able to fight for jobs . They can not apply themselves . They lack the ability to stick to anything . It is obvious that sending them to jail time and time again is not going to remedy mental or emotional defects nor is it going to make old and incapacitated men young and vigorous . They adopt the only means they know to obtain a livelihood , by begging or , when this fails , by frequenting the bread line . It is only those who are so mentally , emotionally , or physically unstable that they are a real menace to themselves or to the general public who should be sent to a custodial institution ? not a jail ? not to punish them , but merely through that sense of ordinary decency and humanity which every well-regulated community should have . The police could be of great help if they would use more judgment in making arrests . Indiscriminate raids seldom accomplish anything @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an easy way to get rid of them temporarily , but unfortunately it does not solve anything . It has become the great American game . Police departments , prosecutors , and the public generally have given passive if not active sanction to this custom , which has steadily grown in the past two or three decades until it is generally accepted as a matter of course as the proper procedure by these officials and the public . It is true that probation laws save from prison many of those who did formerly go there ; but it is too generally regarded as a matter of course that merely because a man has no visible means of support jail is the place for him . But here again , as in the case of alcoholics , he is usually given the alternative of paying a fine , and if he happens to have the money , whether he has panhandled it or not , he is again turned loose on the streets , notwithstanding the fact that he is still the same " menace , " theoretically at least , that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the court . A criminal court , contrary to the prevailing American idea , is not , or at least should not be , merely a place where the criminal law is administered . A criminal court should be a center for the study of the physical , mental , and emotional characteristics of the prisoner . There should he attached to all criminal courts ? and this includes those which hear only misdemeanor cases ? competent psychiatrists , psychologists , neurologists , physicians , and social workers ; and no disposition should be made of any prisoner until these officials have thoroughly studied and investigated the prisoner and his background . Putting a judicial robe on a lawyer or a politician does not make him omniscient . This seems obvious but it is difficult , if not impossible , to make legislators and those who hold the purse strings understand it . The argument is often advanced that vagrants should be sent to jail as a matter of public health because many of them are infected , particularly with venereal disease . But there is no reason why these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any other group . Public clinics and hospitals , not prison ones , should be available for their voluntary use , while their compulsory quarantine in the case of contagious disease should , as with everyone else , continue to operate . But in the case of venereal disease it seems foolish to arrest , try , and convict these persons in order to force hospitalization on them ; for the number arrested is so small when compared with the total number of such infected people in any community that it is a wasted and expensive effort . In any event , there is no excuse for continuing our present stupid , wasteful , and ineffectual method of dealing with vagrants . A few years ' trial would show whether society is any worse off for stopping the petty persecution of these unfortunates . If it should be found that panhandling increases , some sound and well-considered action to stop all unnecessary or unlicensed begging should be taken . But the fact that certain men and women are poor or shiftless or unable to provide themselves with food and shelter is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gives us a right to direct what they shall do with themselves , to take their liberty away from them or to interfere with their existence . Theirs is a social , not a criminal problem . III For years prostitutes , particularly those who have solicited on the streets , have been thrown into jails and prisons in America . Yet , like the chronic alcoholic , they do not belong in a penal institution . Almost without exception those people who are open-minded and who have had much experience with the prostitute will agree that jailing her has no effect whatever in turning her from her trade . The Women 's Prison Association of New York City , which has dealt with women prostitutes for almost ninety years , in its eighty-eighth annual report published in 1932 states the case clearly and concisely in the following words : In our experience punishment does not change the woman 's point of view . The prison term is only an interruption in her life . Her problems and her temptations afterward are just what they would have been without that punishment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a social and not a legal problem . It should be eliminated entirely from the criminal code . The term social problem here of course comprehends opportunity , employment , and adjustment to society as it happens to be constituted at the moment . But more than these it comprehends health . For the problem of the prostitute , aside from the economic , is largely a problem of health . Only those who are brought into official relationship with the prostitute ? the police , the court , and the prison officials ? have any idea of the enormous prevalence of venereal disease among them . Of those who reach the prisons as many as sixty to even eighty or eighty-five per cent have either gonorrhea or syphilis , and in some cases both . When it is realized that one woman can infect hundreds of men , the great danger inherent in this problem becomes apparent . But any attempt to tackle a venereal disease problem through the arrest of a small percentage of the entire number of prostitutes is hopeless . The spread of venereal disease is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should be left unmade to accomplish its abatement . Instead of clutching at a few prostitutes here and there , now and then , and leaving the sources of their infection untouched , as well as a tremendous number of cases existing in the community , we must formulate a program for really eliminating this infection . This is now possible because the sanitube , invented by a naval physician , has proven efficacious in the prevention of syphilis and gonorrhea . Rigorous tests have been made by the Army and the Navy and its value proved ; yet it is safe to say that not one man out of a hundred or possibly out of a thousand who constantly exposes himself to venereal disease has ever heard of it . It is along this line that efforts should be made to eliminate venereal disease , not only among prostitutes , vagrants , alcoholics , and other such unfortunate groups , but also among the general population where there are thousands of cases to the hundreds among these special groups . There should be a concentrated , thorough , and incessant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ various States , and social and civic groups interested in such matters to impress upon all men the necessity of protecting themselves and the community from these infections by the habitual use of these specifics after they have exposed themselves to disease . Prophylactics should be available without charge to those who arc unable to purchase them . There is only one answer to the problem of curing those already infected and that is the setting aside of different hospitals or clinics where not only prostitutes , but all others , both men and women , may go to receive free treatment for venereal disease . There should , of course , be attached to the clinic a place where those who wish may remain until they are cured or at least until their disease has passed the infectious stage . But if a prostitute does not voluntarily want to go to a hospital it is no more the function of the Police Department to arrest her or to throw her in jail than it is the function of the Police Department to arrest or throw into jail other people who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in themselves to obtain treatment . Counts ies which have tried the voluntary free-treatment plan have been astounded at the tremendous number of women who have come for treatment . But if they do not want to come it does not seem to us to be within the province of the police to make them . Almost invariably the woman 's partner in this so-called " crime " is not prosecuted . Women are accosted onthe streets and openly solicited by men yet there is no so ? called " vice squad " to apprehend them save where a man becomes so abusive and insulting as to create disorder . While these men do not do this soliciting as a " business , " the fact remains that they indulge in it just as steadily and persistently as the women , and if they are diseased they will spread it with just as little regard for others as does the prostitute . IV Then there are the groups of men held in prisons because they have neither the power nor the will to support their families . These nonsupport cases are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ legally separated , and they are known in some communities as " wife cases . " Non-support cases in various places in the United States are included in the criminal code . This may also be true of alimony cases , but in other places the non-payment of alimony is classed as a civil offense and those charged with non-payment of alimony are confined in civil jails . We shall not here attempt to deal with alimony cases but only those in which the man is convicted of failure to support his wife and children . Many thousands of this class are sent to jail in the United States every year . In New York City those people who fail to support their families are known technically as disorderly persons and are convicted of that charge . Cases sent to Welfare Island increased from 631 in 1926 to 1,018 in 1932 . It is true that in a certain percentage of non-support cases the man deliberately and wilfully neglects to support his wife and children , although able to do so . The present system for sending the man to jail @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ problem . In the vast majority of such confinements the prisoner has little if any work to do at all . He is sheltered and fed while his wife and children , neglected as before , must look to the aid of some charity organization . The result is often a jeering letter from the man to his wife . Sometimes she visits the prison to beg the warden to give her husband hard work in order that he may at least be punished . What should be done is to provide productive labor in all such cases , with all or at least a great part of the prisoner 's earnings going to his dependents . In this way a man who contracted obligations and then paid no attention to them would be given the choice of either using his earnings on the outside to take care of his wife and children or using his earnings on the inside with its attendant loss of liberty for the same purpose . Outside of this percentage , the remainder of defendants in non-support cases do not belong in prison at all . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the man who , although ordinarily a hard worker and a conscientious provider for his family , is entirely unable to obtain work even though he tries every means available . This type of case , of course , has increased during the depression . Surely , one would think , no judge supposedly in his right senses would send a working man to prison because of the unemployment situation . Yet the records show that many of them do in many instances . Obviously , it is society which commits a crime against the man in these cases , and not the man who commits a crime against society . What a mad situation in which men are let out of jobs through no fault of their own and are then branded as criminals and imprisoned for having no employment ! Is it necessary to point out that neither the prisoner 's nor his family 's misfortunes are cured by this process , and that in addition the family arcforever stigmatized by the fact that the husband and father has served a term in prison ? In addition , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of degraded and vicious character , and in a number of cases puts the knowledge thus gained to use on coming out of prison . Second , there is the type of man who , because of his physical condition or mental or emotional make-up is incapable of holding a job for any length of time . Out of fifty non-support cases taken at random in one jail not long ago , it was found that twenty could scarcely be expected to become steady and productive workers . Of these one was plainly psychopathic and was committed to an institution for such cases before the time of his release . Five were chronic alcoholics , one was almost totally blind and subnormal mentally . One was very peculiar and was considered a mental case by his relatives ; one had recurrent ulcers of the stomach and abdominal adhesions ; seven were very low grade mentally ; two were in a weakened condition due to venereal disease ; one was just recovering from a broken shoulder , and one was altogether incapacitated by a broken vertebra received in a fall . Third @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ steady and able to work , is prevented from doing so by some emotional disturbance on the part of his wife . Such women have been known to make scenes at their husband 's place of employment , causing the husband to lose a succession of jobs and eventually they have had him arrested for non-support . There are also women who support themselves and live apart from their husbands , yet have their husbands sent to jail for not contributing to their upkeep although the maintenance of children is not involved . Occasionally a woman will have her husband jailed for non-support because she either finds him unfaithful or suspects him of being so and wishes to put him out of contact with other women . Interference by relatives , selfishness on the part of wife or husband , or the natural strain and irritation due to poverty and unemployment are other causes for nonsupport jail sentences . Social service agencies , the very factors which ought to effect reconciliations and adjustments , are in many cases the guilty parties in sending a man to prison for non-support , although @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fault . Many wives say that they have had their husbands committed only because the organization which was aiding them insisted on this as the price of that aid . This aid too is often withdrawn on a man 's release . It is obvious that in every case where the man can not support his family there is a social problem only , and one that can only be made worse by commitment to prison . Once committed , the man usually becomes embittered against his wife and family , and efforts at reconciliation are very difficult . This bitterness increases with the length of his stay . Often wives seek to have their husbands let out when they have been incarcerated a few days , a week , and so on . Where they succeed reconciliations are often effected . But if this can be done after imprisonment , why not before ? V There is another group which often forms a considerable percentage of the prison and jail population . These are the homosexuals . This does not apply to men arrested for other offenses who happen to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at least indirectly because they are homosexuals . The majority of male homosexuals of the type sent to prison are merely male prostitutes . Those arrested canbe divided generally into three classes . First , those who are typical male prostitutes , that is , who take money for their favors or cohabit or live at different times with persons of their own sex . Second , those who contribute to the delinquency of a minor . Third , those who practice homosexuality in public places , such as comfort stations and the like , and who are arrested for indecent exposure . As to the first group , there seems to be no more reason why male prostitutes should be sent to jail than female ones . The futility of sending the latter to a penal institution applies with equal force to the former . Studies which have been made of this group show that the great majority of them give a history of inverted sexuality from boyhood . Dr. Harry M. Shulman , who has given a considerable amount of time to ascertaining the history and background of homosexuals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for this group through medical means is questionable ; that they will be effectively deterred by imprisonment is hardly to be expected . " The sending of these unfortunates to a penal institution is undoubtedly a product of the days when any sexual aberration was considered shameful ? a willful and vicious substitution of inversion for normal sex gratification . Enlightened medical men as well as psychiatrists , psychologists , and others interested in human behavior now realize that in the great majority of cases homosexuality is as natural for those so afflicted as heterosexuality is for others .. In some foreign countries homosexuals are protected by law and are entitled to the protection of the law in the living of their social and sex lives just exactly as others are who happen to have been born normal sexually . In other words , they are accepted as citizens so long as they do not contravene other laws . Those in opposition to this point of view contend that the solicitation by homosexuals of their own sex on the streets constitutes disorderly conduct and should be punished . We see no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prostitutes of the other sex . If they are not prostitutes in the accepted sense , but are merely desirous of satisfying their desires , there is certainly no valid reason for prosecuting them . As to the second group , those who contribute to the delinquency of a minor , it must be remembered that the primary reason for this delinquency is an inherent sexual inversion . The fact that the partner of the homosexual happens to be a minor is merely incidental . This , of course , does not help the minor , and the danger of inducing in him the tendency toward sexual inversion or perversion is fully realized . At the same time the homosexual is committing the offense not because he is a willful criminal but because nature has given him a sex slant away from the normal . The fact remains , however , that the members of this group are a potential menace , and if they can not be cured of their antisocial sex tendencies they should be removed from society . They belong in an institution , but not in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this group is to have suitable institutions , where through the aid of medicine , psychiatry , and psychoanalysis efforts may be made to bring them back to a normal expression of the sex instinct . If this is impossible there is nothing else to do but to confine them for life . We are speaking now only of those homosexuals who habitually contribute to the delinquency of minors , not of those composing the much larger group who obtain sex gratification from adults . The latter class harms no one and does not belong in any kind of an institution . They are responding to the in-stincts of nature , and there is no more reason for them to be in jail for doing so than there is for putting into such institutions men who happen to be redheaded or women who happen to have gray eyes . Nor should sight be lost of the fact that while these inverts are in the penitentiary they have , in many instances , an opportunity for corrupting others to all practical purposes equal to that which they have on the outside . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effort to keep this class of inmates segregated from the others , there are many other institutions which do not . Even where they do make such an effort it is often difficult owing to lack of space or segregation facilities to keep this group entirely separated . In the other institutions , of course , where no such effort is made they have all the opportunity in the world to corrupt others , many of them young men who are only two or three years past the age of puberty . Indeed , it is questionable if they do not have an even more fertile field in prison than they have out , because their prospective victims are in a more susceptible state owing to the fact that they have no means for normal sex gratification . Any prison man of experience can give numerous instances in which prisoners who were not inverts or perverts have become so during their confinement in a penal institution . In institutions where two men are confined in a cell ? and they are numerous throughout the country ? whenever a young or boyish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from various inmates claiming to be a relative of the new arrival and asking to be celled with him . And the presence of homosexuals in the population of a prison carries with it another problem than the possible corruption into homosexuals of those previously untainted . That is , the disturbance to discipline which results . The presence of this group has exactly the same effect on many of the prisoners of the more depraved type as the presence of a woman would have in a men 's prison . These prisoners carry on flirtations with homosexuals and court them exactly as they would a woman . They will fight over their favors exactly as men fight over a woman , and it is not at all unusual to have two prisoners , quarreling over a homosexual , try to injure or kill each other with knives or other deadly weapons just exactly as they will fight through jealousy where a woman is concerned . So that the presence of these homosexuals ( we are speaking now of the female or passive type , of course ) is a threat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which practices homosexuality in public places such as comfort stations and the like , constitutes a very small percentage of the homosexuals who find their way into the jails . Indeed , it is doubtful if they are one per cent of the total . And when they are arrested it is not because they have deliberately exposed themselves as exhibitionists who are heterosexual do on the streets , but merely because they happen to have been discovered by an official . In other words , they are not the class of people who obtain sex gratification by merely exposing themselves . They can not be said to do any great amount of harm or to have seriously impaired anyone 's morals , as the places in which they have been discovered exposing themselves are invariably those frequented by their own sex . It is doubtful if anything at all is gained by prosecuting them . If , however , a community thinks a prosecution essential , undoubtedly the same purpose would be served by fining instead of imprisoning them . If they can not pay the totalfine they should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the prosecution of homosexuals is that of transvestists . Transvestism , which is also called " cross dressing , " deals with those who masquerade as the opposite sex ; that is , men who dress as women and women who dress as men . In many communities this is contrary to law , and those who indulge in this cross dressing are arrested and very often sent to jail . Dr. Harry L. Benjamin , of New York City , a noted expert in sexual matters , has this to say on the subject : " The problem of these people ( transvestists ) is that they are continuously unhappy if they wear the dress of their own sex . Men , although normal in every other respect , have the intense desire to dress in female attire ; and transvestitic women likewise have the insuppressible wish to dress as men . Sometimes these people are homosexuals at the same time , but this is by no means the rule . " ( The italics are ours . ) Here again we have persons of both sexes prosecuted because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this question is discussed with the police , they contend that if men are permitted to dress as women and women as men it will increase the difficulty of detecting criminals . This is true , but the Berlin police have solved this problem quite easily by issuing a card to transvestists , simply stating that the bearer is known to the Department as a person dressing in the attire of the opposite sex and that his or her record is clear . They do not try , as we do , to change natural inclinations and what might be called " private vices . " VI Hundreds of people are sent to jail in this country every year for using narcotics , because they happen to be the victims of a bad habit . If jail did them or the community the slightest good there might be some excuse for putting them there ; but no one is harmed by the man or woman taking dope , nor is the addict himself benefited by his stay in prison . On the contrary some of his companions there may be very @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lives with narcotics . A large percentage of the inmates of any prison are very young men . They are brought into contact with addicts at a time when , owing to the depression incidental to their confinement , they are most susceptible to anything which will lighten their spirits even temporarily . Neither the stigma placed upon the addict by imprisonment nor the expense born by the public in supporting and treating him for his addiction is at all justified by the " cure " supposedly effected . Addicts imprisoned for this failing alone are not cured by any method used in prison . In practically every case they return to narcotics immediately or within a very short time after leaving . Even those addicts who go to a magistrate and have themselves committed to prison in order to " take the cure " because in most localities hospitals will not receive them , are neither cured nor desire to be . They form a considerable percentage of the total number of addicts in some prisons , and their aim in almost every case is to reduce the amount of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the same reaction while cutting down the expense . Dr. Perry Lichtenstein , who possibly has handled more drug addicts than any man in the country , says that while cures can be made , they are very infrequent and take two years of supervision by the doctor over the patient . In the same way it is possible for criminals who are incidentally addicts and are serving long terms to become cured . Even these , in the majority of instances , ultimately revert to drugs . And while in our opinion existing legislation regarding narcotics needs to be drastically revised in other respects also , so that known addicts can get narcotics from legitimate sources without the necessity of supporting a vicious bootlegging traffic , certainly there can be no two opinions , once the facts are known , about our insane and utterly useless incarceration of users . In addition to vagrants , alcoholics , prostitutes , and homosexuals , whose offenses are frequently listed under the charge of " disorderly conduct , " a large percentage of the inmates of our jails are booked on the same @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such as fighting , spitting on the sidewalk , putting a slug instead of a coin into a vending machine , petty gambling , and numerous other misdemeanors which vary somewhat in different parts of the country and are too numerous to detail here . There is , it seems to us , a much more effective and economic way of dealing with this army of offenders than throwing them helter-skelter into prison for extremely short periods . Usually a very large number ? often more than fifty per cent of the inmates of jails ? are there for some form of disorderly conduct or similar small offense , and a large portion of these have sentences ranging from one to ten days . Leaving out the groups already considered , can anyone with even an elementary knowledge of human nature , whether he be official or layman , seriously contend that these petty lawbreakers are cured or others of the same calibre deterred by four or five days in jail ? Then see how they come back for more . In a certain community which received nineteen thousand prisoners into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cent of these had served two or more terms for minor misdemeanors in that community alone . Two had served 30 , 31 , 33 , and 34 terms , and so on up to 54 terms for one man , while one of the gentler sex served 62 , one 64 , and one 65 terms , possibly proving once again that woman is the equal of man in any sphere of endeavor . It must he remembered that the greater majority of these convicted who were sentenced for ten days or less were given the option of imprisonment or fine . Any argument that these petty offenders must be sent to jail in order to render the community a safer place in which to live falls to the ground for the simple reason that if one has enough money to pay his fine he does not go , while another guilty of an exactly similar offense but who is somewhat less prosperous does . Aside from its futility , the sending of these people to jail imposes an extraordinary burden upon prison officials , all of whom , almost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , mind you , without any commensurate advantage to the community through making the prisoner a more law-abiding citizen , increasing the safety of thecommunity or deterring others . What are we to do with the petty cases which we now send to jail for brief sentences of a few days ? Here is a plan : First : Arrests should not be made in any case where policemen can avoid making them and still maintain peace and uphold the law . Without going deeply into the matter here , it should be known that an incredible number of arrests are made each year for offenses which are so trifling that no penalty is imposed , or on charges to support which there is no evidence . The public , of course , shoulders the expense , and must also bear with the many serious crimes , the committers of which somehow often get lost in the rush of trivia which overwhelms our police , prosecuting departments and Courts . Second : Of the remainder , no one should be sentenced to jail for ten days or less . Third : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ following according to the judgment of the magistrate : A. Reprimand from the bench . 13 . By making the defendant report daily for a specified period to the officer in charge of the police station nearest his home , or the place of his arrest . This will be an inconvenience to him , particularly if he is working and has to report at night , during his free time , and will be just as effective in all probability as sending him to jail . It will also save the community the cost of his maintenance . C. By fine . This should be imposed , however , only in those cases where the defendant has sufficient money on his person to pay it , or has a steady source of income . If he has a source of income and not sufficient on his person to pay it , he should be permitted to pay it in installments , even very small installments of as little as fifty cents or a dollar if necessary . D. By sentencing the defendant , particularly the one who has a job @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 7.30 P.M. to 6 A.M. for a period of at least thirty nights , in jail . This will save his job if he has one , take away his free time which every man prizes the most , save the community the cost of his food , and render unnecessary his transportation in a prison van . This sentence can also be given those who , although able , deliberately refuse to pay their fine , and those who fail to report to the police station as instructed . Undoubtedly these means of dealing with the petty offender will be ineffective in some cases . Some defendants will fail to report to the police station or jail as directed . ( it is believed that most of them will not fail , as we now give summons for traffic violations and the vast majority of these offenders appear in court at the time specified . ) But suppose some of them do not report . Suppose the very worst does happen and a few of these petty offenders escape punishment entirely . The answer is , what of it ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those guilty of offenses far more serious than disorderly conduct or its equivalent to go unpunished . When the former class of criminals escapes punishment serious harm is done because of the publicity given to the failure of justice . No such situation exists in the case of petty offenders . Let us hasten to add that the system which we have here outlined for dealing with disorderly conduct cases other than those specifically discussed previously in this article , while we believe it to he a far better one than the routine , perfunctory , and very often cruel makeshift it is designed to replace , does not solve the repeated petty offender problem . But , if we can accomplish as much by keeping people out of jail as by putting them in , we have accomplished more than as much . We have kept from many of the better class of them what would be a real stigma in sending them to jail , preserved their means of livelihood on which often entire families are dependent , and have in addition in the case of all of them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to arrive at who belongs in prison , we must first eliminate the large groups of those who patently do not belong there . Instead of gathering in hordes of people subject to personal vices or guilty at most of trifling errors , the attention , interest , time , and emphasis of all peace officers , as well as the money of the community , should be placed where they really belong : on the successful capture and prosecution of real felons ? racketeers , kidnappers , thieves , burglars , crooked bankers , stock-investment swindlers , and other criminals of this type . They are the ones who belong in prison . They are the ones on whom federal , State , and municipal governments through their police and detective departments should concentrate ; not on the hundreds of thousands of " small fry " comprising the classes discussed in this article . It is not necessary to remove the latter from society as it is the former . They do no real damage and throwing them into jail accomplishes nothing , despite our fatuous belief that if we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will take place in their characters . So far as our so-called sciences of human behavior have progressed , there is no remedy for these conditions . We ought to face this fact , to get rid of the idea that there must be some kind of cure for every evil . We ought to realize that , unfortunate though it may be , some of the world 's greatest problems are unsolvable . The sooner we do this , the sooner we shall be on our way . As it is , in the face of real demands , time and money is being spent where it accomplishes nothing . The almost complete failure of existing methods used in combating real crime in this country certainly indicates that it is high time for us to completely revise our police , prosecution , court , and prison methods .                     