@@469593

WHAT with the hue and cry over the banking bill of 1935 , and the fulminations of Father Coughlin and Huey Long on the subject of controlling the money supply ? to say nothing of the hullabaloo over silver and gold and greenbacks ? people everywhere are asking questions , with increasing perplexity and no little anxiety . What 's it all about , this business of monetary control ? Does anybody really understand it ? The answer to the second question is both yes and no . If by understanding is meant the clear and complete grasp of the workings of a mechanism that a watchmaker has of a watch , then nobody understands monetary control . But if we bear in mind that both money and the control of it arc inextricably mixed up with human behavior , there are many persons who may he said to understand the subject with as much exactitude as now appears possible when dealing with any aspect of mankind 's activity . Moreover , such a degree of understanding is not a monopoly of economists or bankers or of any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by anybody who will take the trouble to devote to it a few hours of the sort of study demanded for the mastery of anything more complicated than writing a check and drawing cash out of a bank . By this assertion I am seeking to reassure the possible reader of this article at the outset , and to entice him to continue to the end ; not with the promise that he will thereupon know all there is to know about monetary control , but with the pledge that he will encounter no serious difficulty in following the discussion . Let us get it clear at the start just what phases and how much of the subject this article purports to deal with . Obviously it can not pretend to be a complete treatise on money and banking . Neither can it cover the problem of banking reform as a whole , nor even those parts of the banking bill of 1935 which have to do with the details of bank operations . What will be attempted is a simple non-technical exposition of the elements of monetary control , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the centralized powers of control provided in Title II of the banking bill of 1935 . We shall have to begin with a fairly comprehensive picture of what is meant by the money we are talking about controlling ; of the part it plays in our economic system ; of how it comes into existence ; and of the methods by which and the extent to which it has been controlled heretofore . II The control of money means in practice the control of money created through bank credit , primarily as to the total quantity , through control . of the operations of the commercial banking system . Money , as the term is used by economists , includes all the means of payment employed currently in business and industry and commerce . It consists mainly of cash ( coins and paper currency ) and checking accounts in banks . The total supply may be defined roughly as the amount of cash in the pockets or tills or safes of all the people and all the business concerns ( that held in the U. S. Treasury and in the banks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ subject to check in all the banks . This is not a very accurate or scientific definition , but it will do for our purposes . Two things about it must be kept constantly in mind . In the first place , the cash is only a small part of our total money supply . At the present time some eighty to ninety per cent of our money consists of checking accounts . In the second place , the amount of cash in the hands of the public tends to remain about the same . This is not true in times of panic , when many persons seek to obtain cash for hoarding , drawing it out not only from banks but from other institutions , such as building and loan associations and life insurance companies ( which generally themselves have to resort to the banks for it ) , and trying to obtain it by selling securities in the stock exchanges . If the panic is severe enough they try frantically to get hold of far more cash than there is in existence ; and the Government is absolutely forced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and to keep supplying it to the financial institutions , in order to prevent economic and social chaos . But under all conditions except those of panic , the amount of cash outside the banks and the Treasury remains approximately constant . There are seasonal variations , such as those in the Christmas holidays , but they do not generally put any strain on the banks or the Treasury . Important variations in the total supply of money occur only in the amount of deposits subject to check . The main conclusion resulting from these facts is that monetary control , to be of any value , must be exercised over the supply of hank-money , or deposits subject to check , rather than over the supply of cash . Brief mention should be made here of two other conclusions , which are incidental but not unimportant . The first is that reliance on the gold standard as a means of automatic monetary control is more than a little silly , in view of the enormous gold supply and the flexibility which the gold-reserve requirement permits in the matter of expanding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ given the circumstances existing in this country , talk of inflation resulting from printing greenbacks or devaluing gold or from monetizing silver is mostly nonsense . For example , if we should be so foolish as to print two or three billion dollars ' worth of greenbacks , to pay the bonus or to pass out in some other way , the increased amount of cash in the hands of the public ( or an equivalent amount of that which is already in circulation ) might be expected soon to flow into the banks and to end up eventually in the Federal Reserve banks , where it would lie idle . If inflation occurs ? which is far from probable unless the country should be seized by senseless panic ? it is almost certain to occur in the volume of checking accounts . Now the deposits subject to check in the banking system increase or decrease as the banks increase or decrease their loans and investments . This is one of the most extraordinary things in the modern economic system ? that the banks , acting collectively , can and do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ without affecting the THIS BUSINESS OF MONETARY CONTROL 171 supply of cash one way or another , merely by writing entries in their books . Here is how it works : For the sake of simplicity , let us assume that a bank in a certain town gets hold of , say , $100,000 in cash , in addition to what it had already . It thereupon makes ten loans of $10,000 each to various persons or firms in the town or in the surrounding community . These borrowers , though , do not take cash but leave the amount of their loans on deposit , and thus the bank 's deposits are increased by $100,000 merely by setting down the amounts in its books . This increased liability is offset by $100,000 worth of notes of the borrowers , and the bank 's balance sheet is simply inflated on both sides by a like amount . Meanwhile the $100,000 in cash remains intact . Imagine now that there is only one bank in the entire community , that practically everybody has an account with it , and that there is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ safely assume then that there is as much actual cash scattered about as is required to take care of the small shopping needs of the population . The amount of this will vary somewhat ; as people spend it in the stores the stores in turn deposit it in the bank , and the people draw out more to meet everyday needs ; but the total variation will not be great . All the important business of the community is transacted by means of check payments . Those ten persons each of whom borrowed $10,000 and left the amounts on deposit immediately begin drawing checks to pay the manufacturers , the wholesalers , and others to whom they owe money . But the recipients of the checks promptly take them to the bank and deposit them in their own accounts . The bank pays out no cash whatever , but merely charges the amount of each check to the account of the one who drew it and credits thesame amount to the account of the person or firm depositing it . What then is to prevent the bank from immediately making @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and still another and another indefinitely , without ever needing to get hold of any more cash ? Theoretically , there is absolutely nothing to prevent it . Moreover , the bank could buy bonds or other securities , paying for them by setting up deposits to the credit of those who sold them . Practically , the process ca n't go quite so far , although it can go to astonishing lengths . Of course there is no such community , with its bank and its self-sufficient population . But if we consider the entire country and every bank in it as practically a self-contained system , we shall see that , with certain limitations to be discussed presently , this system functions in a manner remarkably like that of our hypothetical small community . Borrowers from banks do not invariably leave the full amount of their loans on deposit , even temporarily , although they usually do . When they draw checks though , the recipients of the checks frequently deposit them , not in the same bank but in other banks . This process would require a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were it not also constantly having deposited with it checks on other banks . But such is actually the case in practice , so that each bank is periodically paying to or collecting from other banks only the net balance which it owes or which is owed to it . Thus , since the total amount of cash in the hands of the public stays about the same , the amount of deposits resulting from the making of loans and investments by all the banks in the country simply shifts about within the banking system and increases or decreases with the total of loans and investments . The analogy with the single community is generally valid if we bear in mind the over-simplification that the comparison entails . A certain amount of cash must be kept in the system , to take care of interbank balances and for other purposes . Some must also be kept for payment to those depositors who happen to demand it ; the greater the total of deposits the larger the amount required . It is not possible to say precisely how much will be needed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ percentage of deposits and is usually somewhat more than is strictly necessary . The amount of cash thus kept in the banking system is called the reserve . As will be made clear later on , however , bank reserves , meaning the reserves of all the banks , have come to be considered not primarily as the amounts kept on hand to meet cash requirements , but as the means to place a necessary restraint upon the degree to which the banks collectively can expand the total of their deposits by making loans and investments in the manner described above . In other words , reserves provide the key to monetary control . Before dealing with the manner in which this power of restraint is or can be used , however , it will be necessary to make clear certain aspects of the operation of the Federal Reserve System , which is the central banking system of the United States . For the member banks of the Federal Reserve System , which include all national banks and such State banks as have joined the system , the reserves are prescribed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be kept must be left on deposit with the Federal Reserve banks . In the case of non-member banks , the reserve percentages are pie-scribed by the various State laws , and until they all become members ? which they must do by the middle of 1936 or 1937 in order to continue to have theirdeposits insured unless Congress should be so blind as to change the law ? it will be impossible for the federal authorities to exercise any effective control over their operations . But to avoid too many complications , let us assume that the Federal Reserve System already comprehends all the banks in the country . Without going into the details of just what are the reserve requirements for the various classes of member banks , it will be sufficient to remark that they are so prescribed by law that the banks collectively can expand their deposits , and consequently their loans and investments , to an amount equal to about ten times the total amount of cash they have on deposit with the Federal Reserve banks . For each new dollar of cash they obtain they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the form of loans or in that of investment securities purchased , the resulting deposits , of course , remaining in the banking system until the loans are paid off or the securities are sold . One of the principal functions of the Federal Reserve System , in addition to that of keeping the bank reserves of the country and performing various other services , is to come to the rescue of banks which are confronted with sudden demands for more cash than they have immediately available . This is accomplished through the rediscount facilities of the System , whereby member banks can take the notes of borrowers in their possession to a Federal Reserve bank and immediately obtain cash for them , subsequently turning over the amounts involved when the notes fall due and are paid off . Another method of arriving at the same result is for a bank to borrow from the Federal Reserve bank of which it is a member , by pledging certain collateral for short periods to meet emergencies . In both cases the practical effect is to borrow from the THIS BUSINESS OF Federal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to as the rediscount rate . But cash can be obtained from such borrowing , not only to meet emergendes but also to increase the member banks ' reserves . Consequently , despite the reserve percentages prescribed by law , there is theoretically nothing to prevent the member banks from borrowing from the Federals whenever they like , and then expanding their loans and investments , and along with them their deposits , in amounts equal to about ten times the amounts borrowed . They do not usually do so , because they find it uncomfortable to be constantly in debt to the Federals , to say nothing of the fact that generally the Federals will not permit it . Here we encounter one of the simplest methods of monetary control employed by the Federal Reserve System . By raising the interest rates on loans to member banks , borrowings may be discouraged . Conversely , by lowering the rates , member banks may be encouraged to borrow and put themselves in a position to expand their loans and investments on the basis of the increased reserves thus obtained , although @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ borrow except for emergencies . No direct control of expansion in this manner by the member banks can be exercised through the rediscount rate , except when the aggregate of deposits resulting from loans and investments is approaching the limit allowed by the amount of reserves which such member banks have already . So long as they have plenty of reserves , which is almost always the case , they can go on expanding their deposits indefinitely , without needing to borrow from the Federals . An increase of the rediscount rate is believed to have some psychological effect , as a warning that expansion is proceeding too rapidly , but the practical MONETARY CONTROL 173 decision in the matter of continuing to increase loans and investments is made by the thousands of banks and the hundreds of thousands of borrowers or sellers of investment securities all over the country according to their unrestrained judgment . A lowering of the rate of course might have the opposite psychological effect , indicating that more expansion is considered desirable ; but here again the practical decisions are made elsewhere . The futility of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the stock market crash in 1929 ; for lowering the rediscount rate has had no perceptible effect on the lending policy of the banks . II/ Heretofore the most important means of monetary control exercised by the Federal Reserve System has been through what are called open-market operations . In simplest terms , this means that the Federal Reserve banks buy from or sell to their member banks the various kinds of securities or other assets permitted by law . When the Federals buy they pay for their purchases with the equivalent of cash , that is , by crediting the deposit accounts of the selling banks , thus increasing the reserves of such banks and permitting about ten times as great an increase in member bank deposits and loans and investments . When the Federals sell , the effect upon reserves is reversed , since ordinarily the member banks must pay for their purchases out of the cash they have on deposit with the Federals . Thus , through open-market operations , the Federal Reserve System has a very considerable power to increase or decrease member bank reserves , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ credit , in accordance with the judgment of the rulers of the System as to what is desirable . This power is limited on the one hand only by the amount of funds which the Federals have available for the purchase of permitted assets or by the willingness of the member banks and the public to sell such assets . It is limited on the other hand only by the amount of permitted assets which the Federals have available for sale or the willingness of the member banks to buy such assets . In the matter of willingness this can be arranged under ordinary circumstances through the price , which is offered for the sale or purchase as the case may be , by the Federals . Likewise as to funds available , the Federals have a very large potential amount , being limited in the deposits they can set up to pay for their purchases only by their gold-reserve requirement , which for all practical purposes is no limit at all ; while in the matter of assets available for sale , the amount is usually quite substantial . Nevertheless @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ open-market operations is more theoretical than real , especially when expansion rather than restraint or contraction is desired . Increasing the reserves of member banks , when they already have plenty , can at most only put a little more pressure on them to use their idle funds for making loans and investments when they already have a strong incentive to do so , but are deterred by their inability to find enough business which they consider sound . In the past few years the member banks have accumulated an enormous volume of reserves in excess of legal requirements , sufficient to permit expansion of their deposits by many billions of dollars . They have not done so , primarily because prospective borrowers with the proper assurance of ability to repay the loans have not presented themselves . As a means to restrain monetary expansion , open-market operations would doubtless be moderately effective under ordinary conditions , but might prove to be very costly to the Federals in times of great economic activity . That is , in order to keep on selling securities the Federals might have to reduce the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Moreover , in the nature of things , there must be a limit to the amounts which the Federals would have for sale . All things considered , it has become a matter of necessity for the Federal Reserve System to have the power of getting at member bank reserves directly . And in fact the Federal Reserve Board now has this power , with respect to curbing undesirable expansion , in a little known amendment to the Federal Reserve Act , passed in 1933 as a rider to the so-called Thomas inflation amendment to the Agricultural Adjustment Act . Under the law as thus amended , the required percentage of reserves against deposits in member banks may be increased in the discretion of the Board whenever the President of the United States declares an emergency to exist by reason of credit expansion . By this means , if the Board is willing to make full use of its power , the member banks may be promptly compelled to stop expanding their deposits through making loans and investments , or they may even be forced to effect a reduction . Merely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arrest expansion or to reduce deposits to a given level , and then issuing a decree that this percentage shall rule , practically any desired result in the way of restraint could be obtained . This provision of the law is a very potent instrument if employed as a brake on a runaway business situation . Let us consider briefly now why the need for monetary control , in the sense of restraint , is peculiarly urgent . THIS BUSINESS OF In accordance with orthodox or classical banking principles , banks should make only short-term commercial loans , and they should have no other investments . This doctrine is a corollary of the extremely important fact emphasized above , that in the setting up of deposits subject to check as the result of extending credit the banks create money . New money , so the theory runs , should not be brought into existence except for use in current transactions ? that is , generally , in facilitating the movement of goods or services through the processes of production , on to their ultimate consumption . This involves only short-term loans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ complete , with the result that the money they represent goes out of existence . The entire process of course is continuous ; as old loans are paid off new ones are made for other transactions ; but the total volume of money resulting from credit thus outstanding fluctuates only with the actual need for money to carry on the current business of the country . It will be realized at once that if all banks adhered strictly to the orthodox principles , it would be comparatively easy to control their expansion or contraction of money . If the volume reached undesirable proportions other forces in the economic system might be expected to come into play , tending to bring about an automatic adjustment . Unfortunately , however , no banking system in the world can now be said to follow the orthodox principles , even approximately , although in England and Canada and a few other countries such principles are still regarded as an influence for automatic control of the money supply . In the United States , save only for comparatively brief periods , we have never even pretended @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have always used their power to expand deposits , not only for MONETARY CONTROL 175 making short-term commercial loans , but also for investing in long-term bonds and making long-term loans such as those secured by real estate mortgages . Theoretical justification for such practices comes from the fact that a considerable proportion of the deposits in our banking system are classified as savings or time deposits . They are supposed to represent money already in existence , in the form of accumulated funds not immediately needed . Many bankers reason that savings entrusted to them need not be used for short-term commercial loans , but positively ought to be employed in the creation of durable wealth , represented by long-term loans and investments . Now the theory involved here is sound enough . Its practical application is what leads to a number of problems . The principal problem , from our present point of view , arises from the fact that when a bank makes a longterm loan or investment the amount involved is usually left on deposit subject to check , giving rise to an immediate increase in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ case of short-term loans . It may mean that property or wealth of some kind , whether mortgaged to secure the loan or representing the tangible assets back of the investment securities purchased , is turned into money . But it may mean merely the establishment of claims to income ( corporate earnings , for example , or taxes ) which will not come into existence for many years , and the turning of these into money . Transactions of this kind sometimes have the effect of enormously expanding the supply of money in the country and encouraging the wildest kind of speculation , accompanied by boom conditions which are bound sooner or later to end in a collapse . Now there are no automatic controls of the expansion of the money supply which results from long-term loans or investments by the banks . Wholly unjustified expectations of future profits , on the part of millions of people , may lead to the development through monetary expansion of a business and economic situation that can only result in disaster . This state of affairs makes it a matter of vital necessity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the volume to which the money supply can he inflated through credit operations . IV We have already considered the three principal instruments of control which have been , or are now , possessed by the Federal Reserve System ? namely , the rediscount rate , open-market operations , and latterly , direct power to change the percentage of reserves required against deposits in member banks . We have seen , moreover , that the first two of these are of doubtful , or at least limited , utility . Recent experience has demonstrated their lack of practical value . Partly perhaps from fear that their vigorous use would have repercussions on business as well as on finance , partly because of the inherent weakness of the instruments of control themselves , and especially because of decentralized authority over them , they have been neither the means of curbing the dangerous expansion of money resulting from credit nor the means of stimulating expansion when , as during the past five years , expansion has been desperately needed . As to the third instrument of control , we have seen that it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ purposes of restraint . We must now devote a little more attention to the possible use of central bank action for purposes of stimulation . Monetary pundits who adhere to the so-called " quantity theory " start off with a formula which is true by definition , to the effect that the total number of transactions in any economic system , multiplied by the prices at which all those transactions take place , equals the total quantity of money in the system , multiplied by the velocity , or rate of turnover , of all that money . Since nobody disputes the accuracy of the formula , the theorists then go on to argue that by manipulating the gold standard , and especially by controlling the volume of deposits in the banks , we can increase or decrease the total quantity of money ; so that , assuming the velocity to remain about the same , either prices will have to go up or down or else the total number of transactions will have to increase or decrease . Thus if more active business is desired all we need do is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ powers of the central banking system ; and according to the more na ? ve theorists we need not trouble our heads over who gets the new money , the assumption being that automatic forces in the economic system will bring about a correct distribution of it . In the world as it is , however , this theory ? at least in its pristine simplicity ? encounters two exceedingly awkward facts . In the first place , it appears to be impossible , by any conceivable power of the central banking system , to increase the amount of money resulting from bank credit , except at times when most authorities believe that no expansion is desired . The reason is that loans are not made in increasing volume unless people wish to borrow and the banks wish to lend , which happens only when business prospects seem good . Prudent persons and business concerns generally refuse to borrow except under such conditions , and well-conducted banks can not even afford to consider other kinds of borrowers . Moreover , this would necessarily remain true no matter who owned and operated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ itself if conducted according to less rigorous principles . In the second place we know positively that the velocity of money can not he assumed to remain constant , or anywhere near it . A demonstration of this fact occurred in the spring and early summer of 1933 ? during the revival which followed Roosevelt 's inauguration ? when the total quantity of money in the country was decreasing or remaining about the same , while both prices and the number of transactions were increasing quite rapidly and substantially . This could only have resulted from a sharp increase in the rate of turnover , or velocity , of the money in circulation . It may be safely asserted , therefore , that even if we could expand the total quantity of money , the increase would be promptly compensated by a decrease in the velocity , unless other forces came into play to stimulate business activity . The more sophisticated of the quantity theorists have an argument to deal with both of these difficulties . They contend that the very processes involved in trying to expand bank deposits through central @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economic system , which will make it profitable for prudent borrowers to borrow and for well-conducted banks to lend . Without attempting to do justice to the refinements of this argument , it may be crudely stated as follows : Through lowering the rediscount rate , the cost of borrowed money will be lowered , not only for commercial credit but for long term credit as well , and consequently prospective borrowers will be encouraged to go ahead with all sorts of enterprises . To supplement the effects of this , the Federal Reserve banks increase the reserves of member banks through buying bonds and other assets , or they lower the ratio of reserves required , and thus add greatly to the member banks ' power to make loans and investments . Confronted with this situation , especially as regards increased amounts of funds lying idle , the member banks will be so eager to make loans and investments that , will ) , nilly , deposits resulting from credit will expand . This argument will have to be met with a statement of fact . Each time the Federal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was generally agreed that expansion was urgently necessary the effort has resulted in failure . But even this fact is not uncompromising enough to stump the best of the quantity theorists . They retort that where failure has occurred the action of the Federal Reserve System has been too late ; that the stimulus should have been applied sooner . I shall not attempt to answer this argument here . There are no undisputed facts to be cited one way or the other , and to deal with the matter theoretically would require a lengthy treatise . I shall merely assert that I do not believe it to be correct , although admitting that it is worthy of a great deal of respect and that it is far more difficult to refute than anything tackled in this article so far . The reasons for my disbelief lie in a conviction that forces entirely outside of , and largely independent of , the banking and monetary system are responsible for bad business conditions , and consequently , for contraction of the money supply . Those forces are numerous and complex , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ income . With a correct distribution of the purchasing power which is created in the very processes of producing and marketing goods and services , the equipment and the labor power of the nation could be used up to full capacity . All that is demanded of the banking and monetary system is that it function smoothly , and without breakdown , in response to the demands of business and industry for money derived from credit . Our analysis has shown that monetary control , in the sense of restraint , is a matter of necessity in our economic system ; that this is all the more true because of the apparently incorrigible practices of our banks in making longterm loans and investments , thus creating money not only as an offset to tangible permanent wealth but as something represented by a mere expectation of wealth to he produced in die far away future . Control might be of value , moreover , in the matter of stimulating monetary and business expansion , though here its value is more doubtful . At all events , monetary control has now become one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Government and the people of the United States . The problem has become acute , not over whether control shall be exercised but over who shall exercise it ; for we have come to realize that in the growing complexity of our economic structure no such thing as an effective automatic control system can be devised . Such control as we have had heretofore has been divided among a large number of bankers on the one hand and an agency of the Government on the other . Its lack of effectiveness may be largely attributed to this very fact , although as emphasized above , the instruments of control in the hands of the Federal Reserve System , until the recent acquisition of power to attack the member bank reserve ratio directly , have been of limited or doubtful efficacy . Such powers of control as have existed have rested largely with the management and the boards of directors of the twelve Federal Reserve banks , the majority of whom are elected by , and responsible only to , the thousands of member banks in the System . The Federal Reserve @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there can be no doubt that practically always the bankers have had the predominating influence , in so far as there has been any definite pursuance of policy . Two conclusions emerge unavoidably from this state of affairs . In the first place , a mechanism must be devised which can and will make the power , including the newly acquired power , of the Federal Reserve System effective : effective most assuredly with respect to restraint , and with respect to stimulation if possible . This can be accomplished in practice only by vesting the authority in a compact group of persons fully responsible for their actions . In the second place , the power involved in monetary control is of such importance to every human being in the country , that to confer it on anybody but the Government itself would be unthinkable . Here we come to the most bitterly controversial portion of the banking bill of 1935 , which may or may not have been enacted into law by the time these words appear in print . Title II of this bill provides for the concentration of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , with a considerable degree of direct responsibility to the President and full responsibility to Congress . Only general principles of control are laid down in the legislation , and the Board is authorized , after some consultation with representatives of the bankers , to go ahead and administer the law . No new power is conferred to exercise supervision over the detailed credit operations of the banks . These are left largely to individual judgment , as they would have to be under any banking system ; but in so far as central bank action can be used to regulate the total supply of money resulting from credit transactions , the Federal Reserve Board under the new dispensation is to be endowed with full authority and full responsibility for taking such action . For the first time in our history , full legislative recognition is being given to the all-important monetary function of the commercial banking system . Objections to the bill , except on the part of those bankers and others who balk at any kind of restraint ? even of such abominable financial practices as were all too @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a sincere distrust of political government . Without any attempt to discuss the question fully , it may be pointed out that the two dangers which seem most to be dreaded ? namely , partisan administration , and resort to the spoils system in the matter of personnel , with possible dishonesty or incompetence ? are not beyond the power of Congress or the law to cope with . In fact the banking bill of 1935 goes far to provide safeguards in both respects . A particularly clear and straightforward discussion of the whole question is contained in an address of Governor Eccles of the Federal Reserve Board before the Ohio Bankers ' Association at Columbus on February 12 , 1935 . At first glance it might appear desirable to set up for the control of money something like a fourth branch of the Government , as completely independent of the other branches as is the Supreme Court with respect to the Legislative and the Executive , thus relying on our traditional concept of checks and balances to maintain the desired degree of stability . When we remind ourselves , however @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Supreme Court in interpreting the organic law of the Constitution , and the task of administering the provisions of legislation in matters of immediate concern to everybody , it becomes clear at once that the power of such administration must rest where to some extent at least the people can get at it . The banking bill of 1935 provides for what appears to be in fact a happy compromise between the Supreme Court conception and that of direct responsibility of the political party in power at the moment , by having five members of the Federal Reserve Board appointed for twelve-year terms , while the Governor , and the Secretary of the Treasury and the Comptroller Of the Currency , as ex-officio members , hold office only at the will of the President . Control through administration has got to be exercised by somebody . In a sense the question is control by New York versus control by Washington . And without for a moment suggesting that the bankers of New York as a group might not be thoroughly competent and well intentioned , it still must be said that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be primarily in the public interest nor to be exercised in accordance with any coherent policy , merely because such control could not very well be divorced from self interest . Governmental administration at its best may be very fine indeed , as witness the experience of the Interstate Commerce Commission , the Federal Reserve Board itself in so far as it has had adequate powers , and other agencies which might be mentioned . At its worst it might conceivably be as bad as some of the outrageous performances of the Ohio gang under Harding . But even at its worst , it is preferable , in such a vital matter as monetary control , to control by irresponsible private interests ? for the very good reason that if it becomes unbearably bad it can be thrown out neck and crop by the orderly processes of the ballot box , whereas the private interests are beyond the reach of the electorate save through revolution . But the question after all is somewhat academic . The Constitution itself defines the authority and implies the duty of Congress to control the supply @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ authority and duty can be carried out only through some such responsible agency as the Federal Reserve Board , honest opposition to the powers in this respect contained in the banking bill of 1935 would appear to be based either on ignorance of the processes whereby the greater part of the money supply is brought into being , or on a deliberate desire to continue to flout the Constitution . Whether the bill as submitted is passed or not , something of the kind must be enacted sooner or later ; and surely , the sooner the better . When such measures of control do become the law of the land we should be very foolish to place sole reliance on them to keep us out of depressions . But they will provide an indispensable adjunct to the other and far more difficult efforts we shall have to make , to avoid the breakdown and destruction of our economic society .                     