@@469543

ON THE morning of November 2 , 1934 , Conservative newspapers announced reluctantly that the Red Menace was again sharpening its teeth on Britain 's neat brass door-knob . In the municipal elections the day before , the supposedly moribund Labor Party had overrun the country . It had captured 770 seats on town councils scattered all the way from Loch Ness to Land 's End . In 56 boroughs it had seized complete control . The Liberal Party had been all but wiped out ; the Conservatives had lost 635 seats . Most alarming of all , Labor had gobbled up London itself , where the returns gave it nearly half of the local governing units in addition to the powerful London County Council which it had taken over eight months earlier . If , overnight , the Socialist party in America were to kidnap scores of city and county political machines , with all the patronage which they entail , the situation might be roughly parallel . England 's Tories read those election returns with aggrieved surprise , because only three years earlier they had buried @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the grave . Labor had never , of course , been quite healthy enough to stand on its own feet . Twice ? in 1924 and 1929 ? it had won barely enough parliamentary seats to form coalition governments with the half-hearted support of the Liberal Party . Since the Liberals threatened to desert every time their colleaguessuggested any really significant legislation , these two administrations produced pitifully few results . Then , when the financial crisis struck in 1931 , England decided it was tired of a do-nothing government , and tossed the last Liberal-Labor coalition out of office by one of the most decisive votes on record . The Laborites salvaged a scant 46 seats out of the House of Commons 's 617 . Their accredited leaders , MacDonald , Thomas , and Snowden , turned renegade and helped form the " National " government ? which , as every intelligent Briton knows , is simply a Tory regime under the most diaphanous of disguises . Repudiated and leaderless , the Labor Party was pronounced dead by nearly every competent political doctor in Great Britain . Since then England @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lay the ghost of radicalism for years to come . Yet in spite of all this the Labor corpse has somehow revived . The November municipal elections were merely the most significant in a long series of indications that British public opinion is edging steadily to the left . The popularity of Prime Minister MacDonald , for instance , has dwindled so rapidly that to day his personal following would hardly crowd a rowboat . When the National government forced through its Sedition Bill , the most reactionary piece of legislation England has seen in two decades , it touched off a totally unexpected eruption of protest . A few weeks later a Tory cabinet minister was pelted with vegetables when he tried to explain the government 's agricultural policy to a Scottish audience . And , finally , those reliable political barometers , the parliamentary bye-elections , have in the last six months registered one thumping Labor gain after another . Even in Putney , a constituency which goes radical about as often as Wall Street , the Conservative majority shrank from its former 29,000 votes to a mere 2,000 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that in the 1936 general elections Labor will have an excellent chance to win , for the first time , a clear parliamentary majority . Already a few of the more hysterical Tories are predicting that the Hammerand-Sickle will be flying over Westminster before the next two years arc out . These nervous gentlemen might more sensibly put their panic back in mothballs . The truth is that the British Labor Party is not a red party at all . At the most it is a pale pink party , about as radical as the Roosevelt brain trust , and no more so . Above everything else , it is a trade union party , controlled by cautious workingmen who are desperately anxious not to upset the industrial applecart . A handful of the responsible party leaders may pay lip-service to Karl Marx and the class struggle , but there is not a real rebel in the lot . To find their prototypes , do not look to Moscow ; go to the annual picnic of the Woodworkers ' Trade and Benevolent Association , Local No. 3448 , in Milwaukee , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is George Lansbury , a lovable old gentleman with mutton-chop whiskers and a bull-fiddle voice . He leads His Majesty 's Opposition simplybecause since the MacDonald desertion he is the senior Laborite in Parliament . A crusader of the 1890 vintage , he welld look far more at home in Glad-stone 's drawing-room than in any conceivable proletarian state . Not even Lansbury himself suggests that he should actively manage the next Labor administration . He probably will serve as a venerable , silk-hatted facade ; but younger men will run the government . No . I among these able young men is Herbert Morrison , who held the transport ministry in the 1929-31 cabinet . He , beyond a doubt , will be the prime minister in title or in fact if Labor comes soon to power . To-day he is leader of the London County Council , wielding a power roughly equivalent to that of the mayor of New York . Like Fiorello LaGuardia , his American counterpart , Morrison is a man of quick decision and volcanic energy ; but at the same time he lacks completely LaGuardia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he is about equally as glamorous . Nowhere has he shown a flair for that homeric demagoguery which has been so useful to , for instance , Mussolini , Hitler , and Huey P. Long . Although Morrison can hardly be pictured as the Great Leader , he is undoubtedly an administrator with few peers . Precise , businesslike , a little stodgy , he has been running London with flawless competence . Never has that sprawling metropolis had cleaner streets , more determined progress in slum clearance , more meticulous organization of every public service from poor relief to garbage disposal . Morrison 's background is typical of many a Labor leader . He worked himself up from messenger boy to trade union official , then on to Parliament and the cabinet . No university graduate , he has an instinctive distrust of intellectual theorists . He is steeped in that passion for respectability which is perhaps the most striking characteristic of the British working class . At council meetings no tail coat is so impeccably brushed as Morrison 's , no striped trousers so faultlessly creased . Ever since @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ convince the English public that Socialism ? Morrison brand ? is safe and sane . Time and again in the suave speeches he makes so well he has assured upper- and middle-class audiences that they have nothing to fear from a Labor administration . His hatred of Communists and all other revolutionaries is implacable ; his reverence for Taw , order , and the etiquette of the British constitution is unfeigned . In some distant future he would like to see the major industries organized into a group of giant state monopolies , operating without wasteful competition and yet without any explosive disturbance of property rights . Because he believes that this kind of Socialism offers the logical , the mechanically perfect organization of society , he is eager for a Socialist regime ? if he can get it gradually and without too much mess . And Morrison honestly believes he can . An equally powerful , though much less conspicuous , member of the party 's general staff is Waiter Citrine , secretary of the Trade Union Congress . During the past decade he has turned British trade unionism into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? a man who habitually travels with two brief cases , a secretary , and a card index . From his desk in Transport House he runs his allied unions exactly as he might direct the regiments of a well drilled army . In the face of a prolonged depression he has held his ranks so firmly together that most of England 's industrialists still ca n't fire a workman , adopt a new process , or cut wages a penny without Citrine 's permission . Now the trade unions are the thews and gristle of the Labor Party . They organized it , they cast nearly hail its votes , they pay its bills . Since he dominates trade union policy , Citrine is in a position to censor virtually any program the Labor Party brings forward . Quite naturally , he tends to be conservative . Like all trade union officials , he has a substantial stake in the existing order . He has devoted his life to building up an effective union machine , and one wildcat social experiment might wreck it overnight . If British unions are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Italy , Germany , and Austria have been ? it will be over Citrine 's dead body . Inevitably he has made himself the chief opponent of the party radicals . Recently Citrine has worked arm in arm with a third dominating figure , " Boss " Sevin of the Transport and General Workers ' Union . As secretary of the most powerful workingmen 's organization in the country , Ernest Bevin carries an unrivalled prestige with the labor rank and file , and he has served admirably as Citrine 's mouthpiece . Bull-necked and fullbelted , Bevin looks like a blended caricature of General Hugh Johnson and a Tammany alderman . His contempt for parlor radicals is vitriolic and unveiled . He admits frankly that he would rather see a five-shilling wage increase all over England than any amount of theoretical Socialism . At union caucuses he likes to bang his fist on the table and talk about " our party . " In every party conference for the last three years his docile railway delegates have voted mechanically to defeat all resolutions proposed by the " bolshevik element @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dozen subordinates of the same stamp , are the acknowledged bosses of the Labor Party to-day . They have been largely responsible for rebuilding it since 1931 into the best disciplined political army England has ever seen . They have entrenched their organization deep in the field of municipal government , and given it a reputation for sane , efficient administration . So far no rivals have been strong enough to challenge their leadership . Any Labor administration in the near future will be , within reasonable limits , just what they choose to make it . According to backstairs legend , the main items of their legislative program have already been drafted and tucked away in one of Walter Citrine 's capacious filing cabinets . III Just what is this program ? Most of it reads like a chapter ripped out of the New Deal . Its whole design is reformist , not revolutionary ; and some of it is more orthodox than King George himself . To begin with , Labor wants a public works program ? a big one , sweeping enough to put the bulk of England @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them there for years to come . This will , in the main , take the form of a housing campaign , designed to give cheap modern homes to the thousands of families now living in notoriously squalid slums . Because private building stopped short in 1914 , and has never got up much momentum since , the housing shortage is one of England 's most urgent problems . Many families are crowded into hovels built more than a century ago , without decent plumbing , heating , or light . Private contractors complain that wage and material costs are too high for them to build good homes which can rent for the ten shillings a week the average workingman is able to pay . Consequently local and national governments have been putting up cottages by the thousand . In the year ending September 30 , 1934 , 52,597houses were put up by local authorities , and the total for all construction was 309,753 . The Labor Party claims , with considerable reason , that the number of these within the range of a laborer 's income is still hopelessly inadequate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a forty-hour week , with a minimum weekly wage of about two pounds . The regulations probably would be applied by an extension of the present wage boards ' system to every major industry . In some occupations ? notably farming ? the hours must necessarily be far longer and the wages lower than the theoretical standard . A further step to cut unemployment and put a stop to child labor will be the raising of the compulsory school attendance age from 14 to about 16 . The dole system will come in for a thorough remodelling . " Work or maintenance " has been one of Labor 's most effective campaign slogans , and the present dole certainly affords nothing like adequate maintenance . An unemployed man with a wife and three children now gets less than eleven dollars a week , under the increased schedules put in effect a few weeks ago . Before he can collect his payments he must undergo the " means test , " a rigid inquiry into his savings and other resources . The privacy-loving Briton regards this inquisition as an unnecessary humiliation , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . At the same stroke it probably will raise the dole to what medical authorities agree upon as the lowest possible subsistence level . Where will the money come from ? Probably from higher income and inheritance taxes , perhaps from a temporarily unbalanced budget . Labor really does n't care . To it slow starvation is a worse bugaboo than unorthodox financing . The party has lifted one more lesson from Mr. Roosevelt 's primer . It wants to reorganize England 's hardest hit industries through a system of government subsidies and compulsory price agreements , bearing a family resemblance to the RFC and NRA . A general system of codes will not be necessary , because England 's business life is already regimented far beyond anything America has yet seen . The main job will be to " rationalize " those industries which have been seriously crippled by the collapse of Britain 's export trade . In the cases of coal and textiles , for instance , all firms will be organized into one production unit , along the lines already followed by their Japanese competitors . The least @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with state funds . Output and price probably will be rigidly controlled by government boards , authorized to set different rates for internal and foreign customers . Eventually Labor would like the government to take over these industries and operate them itself ; but the urgent task is to rebuild them so they can again compete successfully in world markets . The Labor Party is pledged to do a vague something about that political anachronism , the House of Lords . To-day the upper house is representative of nothing except vested wealth , and it is , quite naturally , ultra-conservative in character . The peers had their legislative powers pretty thoroughly clipped by the famous Parliament Act of 1911 , but they still possess a suspensive veto which can hold up all legislation except financial bills for at least two years . Obviously such a delay can be used with fatal effect against any far-reaching governmental program . If the United States Senate ? to imagine a parallel case ? had decided to sidetrack every one of Mr. Roosevelt 's measures from the moment he took office , the New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The House of Lords did , in fact , do something like this to the Labor coalitions of 1924 and 1929 , when the suspensive veto was used with stubborn consistency . Consequently the party now promises that it will " take immediate steps to overcome " a repetition of such obstruction , even if it is necessary to abolish the House of Lords as a legislative chamber . This a Labor prime minister could easily do by " advising " the king to raise five hundred selected coal miners to the peerage . Once packed with this synthetic majority , the upper house would commit legal Kara-kiii by voting itself out of existence . The last important item on the party 's legislative budget is the repeal of the Trade Union and Disputes Act , passed during the reaction after the general strike of 1926 . This statute makes every general strike illegal , and raises serious obstacles against the organization of " open shop " industries . So long as it remains on the books the trade unions will feel that their activities are intolerably restricted . The foreign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It advocates the transformation of the League of Nations from an international debating society into an international police force . It would like to see the League supplied with its own army , powerful enough to crush any aggressor in Europe . Thereafter Laborite England would strive for the reduction of national armaments to the bare minimum necessary for keeping internal order . Its ultimate aim would be a comprehensive system of international law , built up by mutual nonaggression pacts , interpreted by the World Court , and enforced by a powerful League . So far the Labor program is precise , detailed , and hardly revolutionary enough to frighten anyone except the most paleolithic Tories . From here on , however , the official statement of policy begins to sound a little like Big Bad Bolshevism . Sometime , somehow , Labor hopes that the state will take over all the basic industries ? transport , agriculture , iron and steel , mining , shipping , and textiles ? and transform them into " a planned national economy , owned and carried on for the service of the community @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ full compensation , trading in their securities for new debentures whose interest and amortization payments would be a first charge upon each industry . At the same time they would be ousted from active management , and control would be vested in non-political boards , made up of technical experts , workers , and consumers ' representatives . By slow stages government enterprise would be extended to other fields . Ultimately , for example , it would provide " free medical care to the population as a whole , in the same way as primary education is now provided free . " Finally , if financial panic or willful obstruction should follow the election of a Labor government , the party declares itself ready to assume " emergency powers to deal with the situation . " This laconic phrase seems in the eyes of every good Conservative to be simply a euphemism for Dictatorship . Iv Now it is probably safe to say that the responsible party leaders do not take these last clauses very seriously . Certainly they do not look upon them as immediate possibilities . The socalled " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a concession to the small but insistent left wing of the party . They are framed with careful ambiguity . No dates are specified for carrying them out . No detailed plans for taking over industry have even been made public . Theseprovisions were , in short , meant to be little more than window-dressing , and every informed Laborite recognizes them as such . Now the really Socialist section of the Labor Party has no intention of being hushed up with window-dressing . This militant left wing is made up largely of " intellectuals " ? professors , students , professional men ? and a big bloc of the younger trade unionists . It includes some of England 's most competent publicists , men such as R. H. Tawney and Harold J. Laski of the London School of Economics , William Mellor of the powerful London Daily Herald , and George Cadbury , son of a multimillionaire chocolate manufacturer , who has recently organized a thriving Socialist news service , Among them is G. D. H. Cole , one of the godfathers of the Labor movement , who spawns books @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ read them . Racked by ill health , he still manages to direct from his Oxford study a battalion of seven hundred fiery undergraduate Socialists . Nearly all of this group belong to the Socialist League , an organization as red as a Moscow parade and twice as noisy . They want Socialism to-day , not in some Utopian future . Many are willing , if necessary , to get it by force . Their prophets are Marx and Lenin ; and their leader is Sir Stafford Cripps . No revolutionary movement ever had a stranger head . Cripps is a wealthy man , an aristocrat , and a devout Christian . The British bar has produced few lawyers of greater brilliance ; and though two-thirds of his time now goes to The Cause , he still commands impressive fees . In the House of Commons he is probably the party 's ablest parliamentarian . In spite of his radicalism , the 1929 Labor government was glad to have him serve as its solicitor-general . He is so obviously free of personal ambition that not even Ernest Bevin has ever accused @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a frigidaire , lie has none of the earmarks of a popular leader . He is perhaps a little too uncompromising , too contemptuous of demagoguery to be even a successful politician . It would never occur to Cripps to sweep a crowd off its feet , Lloyd George fashion ; his method is to feed his audience with logic , statistics , and historical example , and then leave it to make up its own mind . Yet some ' how he has won the respect of even that great majority of the trade union rank and file which rejects his ideas . At the 1934 party conference the delegates voted down every one of Cripps 's proposals , and finally , as a good-humored gesture , elected him to the party executive committee . His career there is not likely to be a peaceful one . Sir Stafford has the embarrassing habit of lashing out bluntly and often against what he regards as the pussy-footing policy of the official leaders . Morrison , Citrine , and the rest of the executive invariably froth with rage over these pronouncements , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his works . " The man loses us 20,000 votes every time he opens his mouth , " one trade union secretary complained ; and he was very nearly right . Because Cripps insists on describing what real Socialism ? as contrasted with a reformist program ? would actually involve , his picture is not always reassuring . Not long ago , for instance , he blurted out the opinion that an energetic Labor government would probably have to overcome considerable opposition from Buckingham Palace . Since the royal family is a cherished part of the British scenery , that remark doubtless scared away thousands of George V 's loyal subjects . More recently he predicted that financial interests would do their utmost to sabotage a true Socialist program , and that the election of a Labor government might , therefore , be accompanied by " a first rate economic crisis . " The Conservative press gleefully quoted the prophecy in 64-point headlines . Such forthright statements may he bad tactics , but at the same time they are backed by lots of sound political wisdom . Cripps and his few @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ party . They alone seem to realize that any Labor government , no matter how tame , is bound to run into plenty of stormy weather . They know that British capitalists are a hard-bitten lot , who have just pulled through a long depression and are in no mood to give up a penny of their desperately regained profits . English industry would be reluctant just now to consider even such milk-and-water proposals as a fortyhour week . It would be certain to meet the slightest extension of government ownership or control with bitter and unrelenting opposition . The spear-point of this opposition , the Socialist League believes , might well be Britain 's still adolescent Fascist party . Its organizer , Sir Oswald Mosley , was raised , like Cripps , in a wealthy Conservative family . He too joined the Labor Party and promised for a time to develop into one of its most brilliant young leaders . Then , after struggling rebelliously for a few years with trade union officialdom , he left in disgust and started his own private army , the British Union of Fascists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the German blue-prints , taking over every one of the Nazi appeals from Jew-baiting to rabid nationalism . His slogan : " England first , the colonies second , the foreigner nowhere . " His purpose : to preserve " the traditional class system " against Communism and Socialism . His program , like Hitler 's , may not be exactly lucid , but it does appeal to nearly every passion a clever psychologist can discover . And Mosley puts it across with magnificent theatricalism . He throws in all the color , the uniforms , the forced heroics which the Labor organization so noticeably lacks . When he struts onto a platform , looking virile and defiant as a young stallion , even a British audience sometimes loses its stolidity . So far , it is true , the Fascists have not acquired any very impressive strength . Their antics look faintly silly against the present English background , just as Hitlerism seemed a little comic in the prosperous Germany of 1928 . If Socialism ever becomes a serious menace , however , British capitalists may easily turn to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ultra-friendly to big business , he could , in a crisis , count on unlimited funds . He would have the natural support of the whole embattled middle class . And most important of all , he has the one asset which no Labor leader can boast ? a mesmerizing personality . For these reasons , Cripps argues that a Labor government must be prepared to cope with both Fascism and the systematic opposition of the whole financial and industrial world . He insists that any Labor ministry will need to seize wide emergency powers at once , and use them ruthlessly . To keep the financiers from wrecking the Socialist economic program , Cripps demands the immediate nationalization of the entire banking system . That would be comparatively simple in England , where almost all monetary affairs are handled by the privately owned Bank of England and a few big commercial banks ? notably the Midland , Westminster , National Provincial , Lloyd 's , and Barclay 's ? whose interests are closely interlocked . A currencyembargo might be necessary to stop a flight of capital while the nationalization is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should take over the heavy industries , assume control of all exports and imports , and direct all new investment . Since the worst handicap of British industry is its abnormal debt load , the present stock and bond holders could not expect full compensation for their appropriated investments . At best they should get only non-redeemable scrip , paying interest for about twenty years , or , alternatively , for the lifetime of the present owners . Because to take such steps a Labor cabinet would have to work with even more speed and decision than Roosevelt showed in March , 1933 , any delay by the House of Lords would be disastrous . Therefore Cripps wants the upper house abolished in the first weeks after Labor comes to power . " If we ever intend to replace capitalism , " he contends , " we will have to do it at one stroke . We can never nibble it away an inch at a time . If recent events in Germany , Austria , and Italy have proved anything , they have proved that a gradualist policy can not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and a heavily subsidized Fascist party probably will be their weapon . " Although this quite possibly may be valid political reasoning , the average tradition-bound Englishman finds it hard to accept . To him the safe way is still the slow way , and he is chary about spectacular experiments . In spite of its hard-working evangelism , the Socialist League has not won more than a trifling twenty-five thousand converts . Its most optimistic estimates allow years before it can wield a dominant influence in the party . With this in mind , most of the leftwing leaders look with dread toward the coming election . They feel that a victory for Labor under its present aegis can lead to nothing except failure and perhaps the eventual breakup of their party . None of them admit it in public , but privately they all pray fervently that Labor will not take over the reins of government until it has been transformed from top to bottom into a really Socialist organization . V Paradoxically , the Conservatives may help make this Socialist prayer come true . British constitutional practice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ every five years . Under this rule the normal date for the next ballot is 1936 . By that time , chances are , the Labor Party can gather enough support to win a clear majority of seats . There is , however , no obligation for the Tories to delay the contest until Labor strength reaches its peak . The cabinet has the right , in fact , to dissolve Parliament and call an election at any earlier date it may choose . Now there are indications that Stanley Baldwin , the real power behind the National government , intends to take shrewd advantage of this privilege . He has three good reasons for forcing a general election as early as June , 1935 . To begin with , the coming summer will see the celebration of the King 's Jubilee , the twenty-fifth anniversary of his reign . This occasion will be observed with much panache and pageantry , all of it excellent propaganda for Grown , Country , and Conservatism . In the second place , the cabinet now is engaged in stirring up a firstrate war scare @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ theory that " England frightened always votes Conservative . " Last of all , the National government is expected to bring forth next April its second consecutive budget showing a surplus in the treasury . With it may come another reduction in England 's crushing income tax , to contrast against the fabled spend thriftiness of Labor regimes . Armed with these three weapons , the national government could afford to go to the polls next summer , confident that it could protect at least a working majority of its parliamentary seats . If that happens Labor must wait ? possibly until 1940 ? to make its next bid for power . By that time it is just conceivable that the left wing may have won control ; and then social revolution may become a genuine prospect . In the coming election , however , no such dramatic issue will be at stake . To-day the struggle is between Conservatism and a group of Rooseveltian trade unionists . Whether Labor wins or loses , England will be no red republic for years to come .       @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @     