@@487371

THE most powerful personality in Missouri politics has lately retired in favor of his nephew , but the retirement will not be a renunciation of power , for Boss Tom Pendergast will still be consulted in all matters affecting the machine . Before the election Pendergast lay critically ill in New York with a grave heart ailment brought on by " excessive work . " Newspapers in St. Louis , Kansas City , and other Missouri cities and towns carried frequent front-page reports of the sick man 's condition and the prospects for his recovery . The reason for this widespread concern over the health of Thomas Joseph Pendergast of Kansas City is known to every Missourian and to many followers of contemporary politics outside the Show Me State . For Mr. Pendergast is much more than a citizen of Kansas City who engages in the ready-mixed cement and wholesale-liquor businesses . Whatever changes his " retirement " may make , he has been for years the all-powerful Democratic boss of Jackson County , and his sway over the party of Cleveland and Wilson lately became state wide @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , this means that he now pulls the strings of a sovereign common-wealth known for such diverse public men as Thomas Hart Benton and Francis P. Blair , Carl Schurz and George Graham Vest ( eulogizer of the dog ) , Champ Clark and William Joel Stone , James A. Reed and John J. Cochran . Pendergast is or was  --  for his illness has considerably reduced his heft of 240 pounds  --  a roly-poly , ruddy-faced man . Bright blue eyes look out positively from a large head which is joined to a prize fighter 's shoulders by a short , muscular neck . Sandy hair that is growing gray and thin is a reminder that he is well along in his sixty-fifth year . He has a heavy voice which emphasizes his plain , direct manner of speaking and his simple , ready answers to questions . He wears well-made clothes that run somewhat above the subdued in tone . Absorbed as Boss Tom has been in the development of his essentially local political machine , he has managed none the less to keep abreast of the times . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ignoramus . Michael Pendergast , his Tipperary-born father , drove a team for a dry-goods store in St. Joseph , Missouri , where the future political boss was born , but the boy went to what was then the Christian Brothers ' College in St. Joseph and to December 19 , 1936 St. Mary 's College in nearby Kansas , where he upheld the school name in sports . He might have been a baseball player of renown , for he rejected a contract as a professional . His conversation can reflect a substantial reading in current affairs . His hobby , however , is horse racing , and as owner of a stable of blooded horses he has regularly attended the Kentucky Derby and other race meets . Pendergast was Street Commissioner when James A. Reed , later Senator , was Mayor of Kansas City and about the turn of the century he served a short term as Marshal of Jackson County . Still later he was an alderman . But all that was in the long ago  --  before Pendergast really got into politics . Some political bosses like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Democratic convention in Philadelphia he was out of the public view in a New York hotel . It is true that he was not well at the time , but the fact remains that he cares nothing for public notice . When reporters sought him out on his return from Europe on the first crossing of the Normandie he protested bluntly : " I am not a national figure and I never want to be . I ca n't see what all this fuss is about . " Pendergast built his organization on the proved machine principle of personal favors . As he has expressed it , his method was to function year in and year out , not to wait until three weeks before election . The Pendergast headquarters are in the Jackson County Democratic Club , the Kansas City counterpart of Tammany Hall . People go to the ordinary two-story brick building at 1908 Main Street for a load of coal , an order of groceries , or clothes They go to get jobs , to get streets repaired , or to keep them from being repaired They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They go to have domestic troubles straightened out . They are never turned away without the satisfaction of an answer and , whenever possible , of a promise that will be kept . For years Pendergast rose at five in the morning in order to be at his roll-top desk on the second floor at six , ready and eager to meet the morning 's run of callers . As many as 400 individuals have climbed the stairs by noon to ask him to do something for them . More than four years ago the Kansas City Star described the Pendergast organization as more powerful than Tammany , " proportionately speaking . " Pendergast did not launch the organization which he came to head , but he extended it far beyond the most roseate expectations of his older brother , James , who was the founder . The Pendergast boys ran a saloon on Kansas City 's lower Main Street in the 90 's and , as was frequently the case in those days , began to mix in politics on the side . James was elected alderman and in time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . When James died , Tom took over his organization and succeeded him on the City Council . Joseph B. Shannon , now the leading Jeffersonian orator in Congress , was then the most influential politician of the city But it was not long before Pendergast 's " goats " were contesting with Shannon 's " rabbits " in primaries , and the challenger had begun to enlarge his operations so as to include the residential sections of the city as well as the riverfront . From 1912 on Boss Tom has been a factor in Demo-729 cratic politics in Missouri , but the state as a whole did not come to know him until four years ago . With one of his old local rivals , Shannon , happily shelved in the national House of Representatives , and the other , the late Casimir Welch , at last won over , the portly boss was in complete control in Kansas City . His patronage powers had grown greater under the city charter of 1922 , thanks to the omission of any reference to civil service . Still other patronage fell @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Court ended state control of the Kansas City Police Department . But his greatest stroke of good fortune came in 1932 when it was necessary to nominate and elect candidates for the national House of Representatives in a general vote of the entire state . On the basis of the 1930 census the Missouri delegation in the House was reduced from sixteen to thirteen members . Consequently a redistricting was in order . The legislature and the Republican Governor disagreed on a bill , with the result that none was passed for the 1932 primary and election . All candidates therefore , though they were perhaps known only locally , were forced to undergo the test of a statewide vote , and the bloc of more than 100,000 votes which Boss Tom controlled was eagerly sought after . Only one Congressional candidate supported by Pendergast failed to be chosen . Four Democratic incumbents who did not have his backing were defeated for renomination . Pendergast 's candidate for the Senatorial nomination that year , Charles Howell of Kansas City , lost the nomination to Bennett Champ Clark , son of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the American Legion , but the boss 's choice for Governor , Francis Wilson , a party veteran , won easily in the primary over a promising state senator , Russell Dearmont , who raised the issue of political dictatorship . A few days before the election Wilson died , and the Democratic State Committee , working behind closed doors and under Pendergast 's control , picked an obscure circuit judge from the Pendergast section , Guy B. Park , to fill the vacancy on the ticket . With Missouri joining in the revulsion against the Republicans in 1932 , the hand-picked candidate went into the governor 's seat with a sweep . Two years after he placed Park at the head of the state government , Pendergast picked a United States Senator in a manner not likely to inspire confidence in our democratic institutions . One of the minor cogs in his machine , Harry S. Truman , grew restless as County Judge of Jackson County and made up his mind that he would like to be county Collector of Taxes , an office which paid handsomely on a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ collectorship , but the nomination for United States Senator was open so far as he was concerned . So he sent the machine down the line for Truman to give him a plurality of 130,000 in Kansas City , with the result that the virtually unknown candidate won out in the statewide contest over two veteran Congressmen , John J. Cochran and Jacob L. Milligan , the latter supported by Senator Clark . The subsequent election was only a formality , Truman defeating the archaic Roscoe Conkling Patterson by 260,000 . Thanks to T. J. Pendergast , Harry S. Truman does not collect taxes in Jackson County but sits in " the greatest deliberative body in the world , " charged with such responsibilities as voting on treaties with other nations and appointments to the United States Supreme Court . In the same year Pendergast put another unknown candidate in the primary against the able and thoroughly experienced state Superintendent of Schools , Charles A. Lee . Notwithstanding his satisfactory service , Lee was defeated . Pendergast was barred from active work in the recent campaign by his physicians . Back @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , he is reported to be improving slowly . But even when he was ill , the machine was in perfect running order . When the primary was held in August , Pendergast was flat on his back in New York . Yet his candidate for Governor , Major Lloyd C. Stark , of the self-styled " world 's greatest family of nurserymen , " far outdistanced the other Democratic candidate , William Hirth , long president of the Missouri Farmers ' Association . And Stark was elected by a tremendous vote . The accusations made against him in the election campaign are old stuff to Boss Tom . Newspapers and reform candidates have been after him election after election . Such ' movements never worry him . His procedure has been to register all possible voters and get them to the polls on Election Day . How intensively the Pendergast organization cultivates Kansas City can be judged from the recent registration of more than 263,000 in a population which in 1930 numbered 399,000 . These figures mean that approximately two out of every three human beings are listed as eligible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 805,000 at the last census , enrolled only 373,700 voters at its last registration  --  less than half the population . There is a strong suspicion that an investigation of registration and voting in Kansas City such as St. Louis has been undergoing would reveal shocking irregularities . It is no secret that Pendergast 's henchmen in the state senate have steadfastly stood in the way of a permanent registration law which would improve the election machinery . A fifth federal judgeship in Missouri , created by the last Congress , will be filled one of these days . As long ago as last June Pendergast gave out the names of his first , second , and third choices , namely , James P. Aylward , a successful Kansas City lawyer , Circuit Judge Daniel E. Bird of Kansas City , and Governor Park . There can be no question as to the real reason for Boss Tom 's support of Aylward . It is not any knowledge Aylward may have of the law ; it is his loyal work as chairman of the Democratic State Committee , as Democratic national @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ County Committee for Jackson County . This is the Pendergast way . Boss Tom believes in loyalty . When he gives his word he keeps it , and he expects the same of others . There is the amusing case of the Brickey brothers . The one who lives in Festus , Missouri , fought James A. Reed for reelection in 1922 ; the other , a resident of Boonville , supported Reed that year . When the Festus Brickey asked Pendergast to support him for the nomination for Lieutenant Governor in 1928 the boss wired Reed . Reed thought Pendergast was inquiring about the Boonville Brickey and replied that the applicant had supported him in 1922 . The NATION On the basis of this information Pendergast pledged his support to the Festus Brickey . When Boss Tom found out that he was behind a candidate who had opposed Reed with all his strength , he was chagrined but resolute . " I told Brickey I would be for him and I will go through with it , " he said . And he did . One of the complaints about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ business enterprises with politics to reap a double profit . The boss has taken no public notice of this complaint , but to friends he has said that he has just as much right to sell ready-mixed concrete to the city and engage in other city contracting as any other business man if his bids are low and his materials stand the test . His wholesale liquor business was flourishing when prohibition became effective . Believing that the ban on alcoholics would not last , he kept thousands of barrels in government warehouses , and as soon as the Missouri dry law was repealed , revived his distributing company . Soon after the company began operations again , Federal Judge Reeves at Kansas City ordered the United States Marshal to seize some 900 cases of whiskey in Pendergast 's warehouse on the ground that it was adulterated and misbranded and failed to meet pure-food-and-drug tests . The boss 's warehouse manager said the adulteration had been discovered before the court order and that preparations were being made then to return the whiskey to a Kentucky distillery . Pendergast himself has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ part in the conference of Democratic bosses held in conjunction with the Democratic national convention , but the convention itself was little more than a big show to him . Not that he disapproved of the ballyhoo and demonstrations . He looks on such tomfoolery as entertainment for the politicians and their constituents . But the real work , as he long has known , has to be done back home in the precincts .                     