@@221722

Photographic evidence from Moscow and Rome to settle the most significant controversy in which Soviet Commissar for Foreign Affairs Maxim Maximovich Litvinoff has become involved in recent years arrived in the U. S. last week . The case has concerned M. Fedor Butenko , one of the New Bolsheviks who are being spectacularly advanced in the Soviet Union by Dictator Stalin to replace the liquidated Old Bolsheviks . Since Stalin 's purge has been mowing down Soviet diplomats right &; left , the Moscow diplomatic school has to work fast and overtime to keep filling up the constantly depleted ranks . Through this forcing house for New Bolshevik talent , Russia 's Proletarian Writer Fedor Butenko was put with such speed that two months ago , only two years after he matriculated , he was in full command of the Soviet legation at Bucharest , Rumania as Charg d'Affaires . His unfortunate superior , the Soviet Minister , had just " disappeared . " <P> Apparently Commissar Litvinoff , himself an Old Bolshevik , which today in Russia is risky and apt to leave one out of things @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Stalin entourage . Meanwhile , the Soviet Secret Political Police , who operate strictly on their own , were closing in upon Butenko at the very time when all Rumania was in ferment because of the Goga Cabinet collapse ( TIME , Feb. 21 ) . When the Soviet Charg d'Affaires suddenly " disappeared " one night in Bucharest , the local Soviet Tass news agency man concluded that Rumanian Fascists had kidnapped or murdered New Bolshevik Butenko . In Moscow this news electrified Old Bolshevik Litvinoff . Showing his Stalinist zeal , he ordered rushed off three hot notes in succession to the Rumanian Government , demanded that they rescue Butenko from Fascist toils , finally ordered the Soviet Minister to Czechoslovakia to rush to Rumania and personally enforce the Soviet Union 's demands . <P> Few days later , New Bolshevik Fedor Butenko quietly turned up in Rome . He explained that he had ducked out of Rumania because he had felt the hot breath of the Soviet Secret Political Police on his neck , and then provided a pretty good reason for their propinquity by going @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Soviet Union . This seems to have left the Soviet press , Tass and Old Bolshevik Litvinoff in a predicament . Thereupon , with all the authority of the Soviet Foreign Office , the Butenko in Rome was branded an " impostor. " although Commissar Litvinoff observed darkly that " torture " might have been applied in Italy to extort statements hostile to Stalin from a Russian of some sort . In Soviet papers it was said that Rome papers were printing pictures of " Butenko " which did not resemble him in the least and Soviet papers printed his true picture taken in Moscow . Only last week was it possible to place this beside the Rome picture for comparison and this was possible only outside the Soviet Union .                     