@@493862

Business Promises to Be Good THE National Association of Manufacturershas , in the memory of living man , acted as the extreme right wing of the reactionary tendencies of industry in the United States . Its convention halls used to resound with pronunciamentos against unions , shorter hours , higher pay , government ownership or regulation . It was always on hand , lobbying in the national Congress for protective tariffs and lower taxes , and in the state legislature against social legislation . Now it has just held a convention in which it pledged cooperation with the social aims of the New Deal and heralded an " era of good feeling . " It has adopted a Declaration of Principles of American Industry , setting forth in the first paragraph the following objectives : " Better living , better housing , more of the necessities , comforts and luxuries of life , steadier work , more certainty of a job , more security for old age . " Apparently the National Association of Manufacturers has pondered the election returns . It is one representative of the group @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in condemnation of President Roosevelt and all his works . The election constituted the most eloquent rejection that such an attitude has ever received from the American people . It would be impossible to go on fighting the federal government along the old lines as long as industry continued to accept a nominally democratic government . Some , who feared vengeance , humbly hastened to proffer the hand of friendship . Others , their assurance broken , decided they must have been wrong in some way , that a new dispensation was here and must be accepted . Still others , a little more shrewd , apparently came to the conclusion that what was necessary was a more modern type of window-dressing . The NAM could use the same words that had brought the President such popularity , and , like him , it could employ its own judgment in interpreting these words when it came to action . A closer examination of the text of the Declaration of Principles indicates that these persons must have had something to do with drawing it up . For in the more detailed and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have occurred in the resolutions of earlier years , or that might not have followed an introduction militantly opposed to the New Deal . Responsibility for advances in working conditions and distribution of wealth ( advances that are overstated ) is attributed solely to " the American business system . " Such progress may be continued " under a competitive private enterprise , profit and loss system . " Ours is an interdependent society , in which farmers prosper when industry prospers , and industry prospers when farmers prosper . But what is the conclusion ? That national economic policy be built upon a recognition of interdependence ? No , that " Individual initiative shall not lose the impetus and inspiration that has sic brought our people to their high standard of living . " The NAM is against monopoly in business . But it is also against monopoly in " labor " ? that is , labor organization which by collective bargaining can balance the concentration of power in the hands of employers . Besides , " a well informed public should differentiate between mere size and monopoly . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unemployed as possible and to retrain workers for occupations where labor shortages exist . It should study the serious problems of the business cycle and endeavor to mitigate its violent effect . But , by implication , government should not participate in the attempt to solve these problems . " The true function of proper government , as declared by the founders of the American system , is to protect the individual in the exercise of his rights . When this is done , social and economic progress is assured through individual initiative , responsibility and advancement . " And government should not compete with private industry . Business is in favor of economic security for each citizen , meaning " provision for the needy , aged , sick , disable-1 and unemployed . " It does not believe that the Social Security Act will achieve this end ? a judgment that is shared by many who think the government ought to go very much flirther than it does in this law . The NAM , on the contrary , leans toward privately established insurance schemes ? which have signally failed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Labor , management and investors should each receive a " fair share " of the proceeds , " according to the contribution made . " How is this sharing to be determined ? By " cooperation " between management and employees ? the employees not being organized in independent unions , and collective bargaining with the unions not being enforced . This is a legitimate inference from the standard open-shop phraseology used in the Declaration , which favors the right of labor to obtain employment " without regard to membership or non-membership in any organization , " and to bargain " either collectively or individually , " " without interference or coercion by anyone . " Likewise the employer must be " free from coercion . " If employers " safeguard the right " of workers to obtain employment without membership in a union , and to bargain individually , and if neither employer nor employee is compelled by anyone ? including government ? to bargain collectively , then of course union-smashing is the order of the day and laws like Section 7a of the NIRA or the Wagner act are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sweatshops and will support " appropriate " legislation to eliminate them . It may be well to withhold the cheers until we see what legislation is deemed appropriate . The NAM is for higher wages and shorter hours , but it thinks the progress toward them in the past has resulted solely from " the American system of free enterprise " and will continue to result merely from this system and its improvement of industrial methods . It warns against " arbitrary " reductions of hours and against national attempts to fix hours and wages . The declaration , like the Republican platform , is for a balanced budget without higher taxes ? an aim that President Roosevelt , it must be said , has also endorsed . It is for enough taxation to enable government to perform " economically " the " constitutional functions imposed upon it . " One can guess what sort Of interpretation of the Constitution the drafters had in mind . And the NAM opposes the surplus-profits tax . The manufacturers are opposed to stock-market gambling , but want the door left open to legitimate investment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of international trade , but oppose the present reciprocal tariffs and the method of negotiating them . Their tariff formula is the very one that under Coolidge and Hoover resulted in little but increases of the exorbitant Smoot-Hawley rates . It is to base the tariff on " the differences in relative cost of foreign and domestic production , " and to delegate the duty of making changes to a tariff commission . New tariff treaties should be made only after open hearings of all concerned , they should not apply to " most-favored nations , " and should be ratified by the Senate . The present administration has been enabled to obtain tariff reductions only because all these principles have been abandoned in favor of negotiations by the Department of State , which is given the power to make concessions in a real bargaining spirit . Interminable and indecisive studies of relative costs of production , and congressional log-rolling in the framing of treaties , would never have resulted in reciprocity . Finally , the NAM is against war , without the slightest word as to how war is to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ limited ideas on this subject that the peace section comes immediately after the tariff section . This is the same old Association of Manufacturers . Industry , as here represented , wants an " era of good feeling " only on its own terms . It does not intend to share any power with labor or government , or to change any of the methods or policies , dissatisfaction with which led the people to support the present administration .                     