@@165841

Fifty years ago last week at Chicago , a triennial General Convention of the Protestant Episcopal Church prayerfully considered and at length approved a four-point formula for Christian Unity . Adopted by a Pan-Anglican Lambeth Conference in 1900 , the Lambeth Quadrilateral stands today , a noble idea like the League of Nations which may some day work . Its formulators invited all Christendom to accept : " 1 ) the Holy Scriptures of the Old and New Testaments as revealed Word of God ; 2 ) the Nicene Creed as the sufficient statement of the Christian Faith ; 3 ) the two Sacraments - Baptism and the Supper of the Lord , ministered with un failing use of Christ 's words of institution , and of the elements ordained by Him ; 4 ) The Historic Episcopate locally adapted to the varying needs of the nations and peoples . " <P> Last week , to commemorate the anniversary of the Chicago-Lambeth Quadri lateral , there gathered in suburban Evanston , at the invitation of the Episcopal Church , some 150 bishops and archbishops of the Anglican communion in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Trevor Owen , and Archbishop Edward Hutson of the West Indies . <P> The Evanston gathering , whose deliberations took place in the diocesan Pro-Cathedral of St. Luke , was impressive , devout , tedious . Chief subjects considered by their excellencies of Canada , the U. S. and the West Indies were Peace and Christian Unity . Washington 's Bishop James Edward Freeman opened the Pan-American Congress with this observation : " State craft has utterly failed to abolish war , and Christianity must come to the rescue or civilization and the church will perish from the earth ! ' ' Bishop Irving Peake Johnson of Colorado disagreed . Said he : " It is impossible for the church to alter political systems . . . . The church exists to produce righteous people and that is a Herculean task . " Gloomily observed Chicago 's Bishop George Craig Stewart , host to the Congress : " A moral collapse is engulfing mankind . . . unification of Christian forces alone will destroy the enemies of civilization . " The Congress closed day after all the bishops had gone to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ self-consciousness , the annual meeting of the House of Bishops of the U. S. Episcopal Church also took place last week in Evanston . It elected three new missionary bishops : Venerable Winfred H. Ziegler , Archdeacon of Chicago , to the Wyoming post left vacant by the death of the late Bishop Elmer Nicholas Schmuck ; Rev. Dr. Douglas H. Atwill of St. Paul to the North Dakota district ; Dean Harry Beal of Los Angeles to the Canal Zone . The bishops settled another Episcopal matter which had long plagued the Church : whether Bishop Frank Elmer Wrilson of Eau Claire , Wis. had been justified in receiving in his cathedral as a Bishop Rev. Dr. John William Charles Toch Torok , Orthodox Catholic . The House of Bishops decided no.                     