@@487376

READERS of Mr. Woodward 's " George Washington " and " Meet General Grant " will know what to expect in his new book . Mr. Woodward is a skilful debunker ; he puts our traditional notions under the bright light of fresh inquiry and cuts away the parts that are rotten with the quick , incisive strokes of a master surgeon . He is honest , plain-spoken , courageous . He names names . He strikes often and hard . His books are never dull . In the present volume , his most ambitious work to date , he set himself the task of writing a history of America for the man on the street . The book begins with the reign of Henry VIII and ends , 875 pages later , with the election of Franklin D. Roosevelt ? " The way was open for the New Deal . " In the technique of writing for the common man Mr. Woodward has few equals . He has mastered to perfection the use of the short pithy sentence , the apt phrase , the colorful word In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one juicy tale after another makes his narrative vivid and exciting . He frequently employs the clever device of illuminating the past by tying it up with the present . His simple dynamic style is just the right dish for the average man . Turn the pages at random and you will find abundant evidence of his awareness of social realities made plain in hard-hitting , succinct phrases . " . . . Harding 's idea of normalcy was to give a free hand to money-getters , sharp-witted tricksters , stock manipulators , and other bandits who lived by raids on the national income . " " That is called ' individualism ' in the American language , a high-sounding term for money greed transfigured and parading as a virtue . . . . In an individualistic civilization the ability to get money is the ultimate standard of merit " Unfortunately , however , keen insight , a pungent style , and refreshing candor are not enough . Mr. Woodward has not written a New American History . He has written an Old American History in a new and engaging way @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plausible  --  but it is not new . In the old American history important happenings were often explained as being due to the ability , desires , or whims of important individuals ; in Mr. Woodward 's history personalities again occupy the center of the stage In the old history the topics were bewilderingly unrelated  --  an assorted conglomeration whose only sequence was chronological ; in Mr. Wood-ward 's history there is again no connected story with political , social , and economic events woven together into a definite pattern  --  one Administration still follows another , and the major events in each are recorded primarily in time sequence as before . What Mr. Woodward lacks is a coherent view of history . Time and again his absorption with personalities takes him off the track ; repeatedly his interest in story-telling per se shunts him here , there , and everywhere away from a central theme . One inevitable result is that he contradicts himself in several places . On page 186 , for example , he writes , " His Lafayette 's coming accomplished more for the American cause in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " But six pages later we learn that this was not really so . " It should not be understood that Lafayette evoked single-handed the formidable military aid which France gave the colonies during the last year of the war . Benfamin Franklin was the prime mover . " And finally , in the very next paragraph , we get the real truth , " Neither Franklin , nor Lafayette , nor anybody else could have persuaded the French to send an army to America if the move had not been in direct line with French policy . " ( My italics ) It is a pity that the author did not have in front of him , as he wrote , his own correct observation that " no man , or group of men , can hold back the movement of collective social and economic forces . " If he had , then he would not have made the mistake of devoting nine pages to Lafayette and only three to Shays ' Rebellion . Nor would he have given as much space to the feelings and activities of Mr. Coolidge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ term as he gave to Debs , Altgeld , and the Pullman strike . In this connection it is to be regretted that Mr. Woodward 's interest in personalities did not extend as much to labor leaders and revolutionists as to politicians , statesmen , and generals . If it had done so , then he would , in truth , have been well on the way to writing a New History . And he would have turned the trick entirely if only he had stuck to his own definition , " History is not a succession of semi-detached episodes , but a sequence of events so closely intertwined that they form a definite pattern . " One searches in vain for the definite pattern . It is n't there . LEO HUB ERMAN 