@@487402

MR . STALIN understands and fully approves the national-defense policy of France in keep- ing her armed forces at a level required for security . " With this simple , matter-of-fact statement the joint communique which announced the conclusion of the Franco-Russian Non-Aggression Pact in May , 1935 , prepared the parties of the Communist International for the reversal of its official position on armaments and war . There had been signs and portents of the coming change for some time . In May , 1934 , Litvinov had startled the world by declaring in the Disarmament Conference that the League must be enabled to give aid to any nation threatened with aggressive attack by another , " whether such aid be moral , economic , financial , or otherwise . " The implication that the peaceful nations must arm against all would-be aggressors was obvious and Moscow did not deny it . " If we may believe Litvinov , " the New York Times commented at the time , " the Russians are now prepared to give up their revolutionary propaganda in other countries and to associate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out together the joint problems of civilization . " The Communist parties themselves were the last to recognize or accept the new state of affairs They were accustomed to discounting such statements from Moscow as gestures made for political expediency , though they roundly condemned anyone who dared suggest that this was the case . As a consequence of this mental " double bookkeeping " they were totally unprepared for the open shift when it came . The Daily Worker in New York was taken so unawares that it accused the capitalist press in general and also the writer of this article of having falsified Stalin 's statement , and even went so far as to print a class-angled , expurgated version of the Moscow communiqu ? . When the truth could no longer be denied , there was an avalanche of explanations and rationalizations , with much quoting of Lenin and berating of Laval and the French capitalists , in the Communist press here and abroad . The late Vaillant-Couturier , editor of PHumaniti , for instance , expressed himself thus in his paper : Does this mean that we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ No ! Will we halt our struggle against the munition makers ? No ! Will we cease voting against war credits ? No I Will we discontinue our defense of the soldiers against the fascist cadres in the army and against their counter-revolutionary pressure ? No ! The bourgeois state and the army of the bourgeoisie remain the instruments of oppression over the people which we wish to smash in order to set up the dictatorship of the proletariat and to win the country for Soviet power . Maurice Thorez , general secretary of the Communist Party of France , took a more realistic attitude . At a mass-meeting celebrating the conclusion of the Franco-Russian pact he explained the party 's new policy as follows : If Hitler goes to war with the U. S. S. R. , what action will the Communist Party take ? Will it act in accordance with its slogan and " turn war into civil war " ? Emphatically , no ! For in this case we should not be fighting an imperialist war but an attack on the U. S. S. R. This new conception @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ward of the labor movement was quickly accepted by Communists everywhere . In Holland the central organ of the party , the Tribune ! , published this appeal on July 11 , 1936 : For the unity of the Dutch people ! For the inviolability of Holland 's borders ! For the independence of the Netherlands f .. . Guard the militant defenses of the Netherlands as the price we must pay for peace and security . Rude Pravo , the organ of the Czechoslovakian Communist Party , on . November 27 , 1936 , burst into this hymn of praise for the Czech army : Today no honest worker in the republic can be against the army and armaments . Our soldiers deserve the best we can give them . We must all be prepared to take weapon in hand against threatening fascism . We want these weapons to be the best money can buy . We want enough of them . We must all sacrifice for the army . For a while the executive committee of the Czech C. P. opposed such outbursts as deviations from the true line @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and a number of prominent party members who to conform to the new " strategy " were expIn this connection it may be of interest to recall the resolution on militarism and armaments adopted by the Seventh World Congress of the Communist International in August , 1935 : The Communist parties of all capitalist countries must fight against military expenditures , for the recall of military forces from colonies and mandated territories , against militarization as conducted by their imperialist governments , especially against the militarization of women , youth , and unemployed . This resolution was never withdrawn , but there is not a Communist Party in Europe that follows its dictates . Wherever the party does not vote openly for armament budgets , it gives a negative consent by refusing to vote . The Socialist parties fell into line with only a pretense of reluctance . Most of them had representatives in their respective governments and were already bound by their - participation to vote for military credits . This was the case in Belgium , Czechoslovakia , Finland , Sweden , Norway , Denmark , and Germany ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had supported their governments so completely and without reservations during the World War that it would have been difficult for them to do otherwise later . There were serious differences of opinion only in the Socialist Party of Switzerland , where the Socialists had always been militantly anti-militaristic , and in England , where the Labor Party had been under the influence of pacifist leaders of the Ponsonby-Lansbury school . In the Scandinavian countries , where the workers ' and peasants ' organizations had always been strongly pacifist , the labor governments were forced to carry on an active campaign for increased armaments , in which they pictured the dangers of a German fascist invasion in its most distressing aspects . In England the Trades Union Congress decided last August to support the government 's military program , and four weeks later the Labor Party followed suit . Its group in the House of Commons had dodged the issue by deciding to abstain from voting on the armaments bill , for it felt that voting against increased armaments was no longer consonant with the interests of the workers it represented . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the German and Italian governments seemed to make a change in the party 's position on national defense imperative On the other hand , the cold-blooded foreign policy of the Conservatives who calmly betrayed the high ideals of the League of Nations in Abyssinia , Spain , and China rather than endanger their imperialist and class interests made the wisdom of draining the nation 's resources to defend these aims a debatable matter . Both congresses came to the conclusion , however , that the fascist danger was the more immediate . They decided that Britain 's imperial interests would force the Tories to back the fight for democracy against fascist aggression even against their own wishes , and adopted resolutions supporting the government 's armament program with overwhelming majorities . Offhand it seems axiomatic that labor should take an anti-militarist , anti-war position , for in the last analysis it is labor that pays the bill in life and human progress The Socialist parties of Europe deserted this position during the World War , it is true , but repented when the great crisis was past . In post-war Germany @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Social Democracy during the entire Weimar period . In England all sections of the labor movement were pledged to a militant pacifism . A poll conducted by the British League of Nations Union in 1935 showed that a peace policy was wholeheartedly supported by British Laborites and by an overwhelming majority of the British people . In France the Socialist Party voted against military appropriations and denied the obligation of the working class to provide for national defense . Leon Blum wrote in 1930 , in his book " No Peace Without Disarmament , " International peace could be assured if we would all banish distrust and lay down our arms . The united efforts of the working class will bring peace to the world . The NATION That sounds hollow and ineffectual now , but it was the accepted position of world labor before and after the World War . If the last five years have taught us anything it is that such intransigent absolutes are too brittle to withstand the pressure of reality . Radicals and progressives have been choosing between impossible alternatives ever since the fight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Robespierre strenuously opposed war with Austria until the counter-revolutionary armies of the European monarchies invaded French territory . Then the Jacobins joined their political opponents at home in a common front against the foreign foe . They did not , however , establish a " civil peace , " but fought the French bourgeoisie on every important national issue . Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels admitted more than once that the experiences of the French Revolution influenced their own evaluation of the question of war and national defense . In the early years of their political activity , during the revolutionary period of 1848 , they called on the German masses to defend their fatherland in the event of a Russian invasion , not by subordinating their interests to their feudal and bourgeois oppressors , but by mobilizing the masses against all oppression . The bourgeoisie might proclaim a war with Russia ; the lovers of liberty would be fighting not Russia but czarism , wherever its manifestations might make themselves felt  --  czarism , that is , at home as well as abroad . There is no parallel to World @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that it has joined the German-Japanese anti-Communist alliance and Germany 's cooperation with Italy in Spain and the Mediterranean must convince even the most skeptical that the coming of fascism has imposed on every country and every person in the world the duty to take a stand for or against authoritarian rule . In this connection we may differ in our evaluation of Soviet Russia 's new democracy , but in any event the Soviet Union has been and will be for many years to come a powerful force for world peace . The center of gravity of its economic system still lies in the masses , while fascism represents the last stage of economic concentration in the hands of a capitalist imperialist state . There has always been a basic difference between the anti-war attitude of the pure and simple pacifist and labor 's opposition to war . The pacifist condemns war because he condemns all violence in human relationships . Socialists and Communists also abhor war but recognize that under certain conditions war may be the only defense against intolerable oppression . The rise of fascism makes this a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being will have to decide . I faced the issue for the first time in the fall of 1933 , six months after Hitler 's coming to power . Traveling through Central and Western Europe , I found that working-class leaders were preoccupied almost to the exclusion of every other issue with the question of what was then called a " preventive war . " Germany was making an open bid for Austrian Anschluss . The Saar , Memel , and Danzig were all burnDecember 11 , 1937 ing issues . As yet Germany was unprepared . Should the democracies wait until it would be ready to meet them on equal terms ? The governments of Europe were ready to strike ; if the British approved , their armies would march . As was to be expected , London refused . The plan of a preventive war died in birth , and Germany was able to continue its rearmament undisturbed . I was deeply shocked at the time , less by the idea of another war , which in the nature of things would have been a brief one , than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ failed to materialize . Liberals , Socialists , and Communists alike had looked forward to a punitive expedition against the Third Reich as the only way out of an intolerable situation . They had counted the cost and thought it not too great to save the world from immeasurable degradation . Last summer I went to Europe again . The first horror over the coming of Hitler had subsided . Refugees had adjusted themselves to their status . Conditions in the Reich had achieved a certain stabilization . It was natural to expect resigned submission to the inevitable . Instead I found the masses everywhere prepared for the worst . The millions who for decades had fought a stubborn , unceasing battle against militarism now supported the arms program of their respective governments . The equivocal position of their anti-militarist stand had been brought home to them when they clamored for sanctions against Italy and again when they urged their governments to come to the aid of the Spanish republic . In Denmark I was told by Mr. Alsing Andersen , Socialist Minister of Defense : We have been pacifists too @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the liberal democrats must hold them back . The government has increased the war strength of our army from 10,000 to 67,000 , and our own friends want even more . Dr. Koht , Foreign Minister of Norway , who visited the United States a few weeks ago , told much the same story : If the Norwegian Labor Party had one function in the past , it was to fight against armaments . Now we are all agreed that there will have to be a showdown before things can get better . We are prepared . There is no other way . Dr. Pauli , editor of Stockholm 's largest daily , the So-claldemokraten , spoke of the coming war with the same resigned acceptance of the inevitable : Europe will have to fight its way out of this mess . Swedish workers were pacifists . Today they are up in arms , for even the children know that Hitler has his eyes on Sweden 's rich natural resources . I found this spirit wherever I went  --  in France , in Belgium , in Holland . Socialists and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ problems and weighed the pros and cons of diplomatic alliances . " Why discuss war as if it were inevitable ? " I asked . " Why not try to find ways and means of preventing it ? " " That , " they replied , " is futile . We have our eyes open . Perhaps we see things clearly for the first time . " 645 Nobody doubts Marcel Pivert , of the left wing of the French Social Democracy , explained that Germany is looking for an opportunity to attack . It can not afford to wait too long . Keeping an army at war-time efficiency is bankrupting business . Besides , armaments become outmoded very rapidly . Unless you keep them up to the standards of your opponents you are licked from the start . What are the class-conscious workers to do ? There was a time when we thought that the general strike was the answer . All wars were imperialist wars ! We would so organize and educate the international working class that the workers of the warring nations would turn capitalist wars for profit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as simple as that . . . . Fascism has set new problems . If Germany were to invade France today , the French worker would be defending not only his country but that freedom which is the basis of all human progress and human happiness . . . . We know our French reactionaries and we know the British Tories . They have not changed . They are as selfish and as reactionary as they were in 1918 . But we have learned . In 1914 we were French patriots . In the coming conflict we will be workers first , fighting against a common enemy and acutely aware that our own reactionary rulers will betray us if it seems to their advantage . " Do you believe that another European war will end in a social revolution ? " I asked S. Grumbach , Socialist vice-chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the French Chamber of Deputies . He answered : I no longer speak or think in terms of social revolution in connection with these questions . One does not work out plans for a castle in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . What we need now is a powerful , united labor movement , so firmly rooted in the soil of our democracy that no fascist whirlwind , from within or without , can sweep it off the face of the earth . How can we build for the world revolution when our labor movement rests on shifting sands and we know that any day may bring the storm that will tear the ground from under their weak foundations ? Frankly , I can not see how the workers anywhere can hope to wage a successful fight against the capitalist system as long as fascism holds Germany in its power . These men speak for the European working class . They are not nationalists . They speak and think in terms of the international labor movement , though they realize that the fight against fascism will , in the nature of things , emphasize national rather than international problems and will be fought on national rather than international lines . The international working-class movement recognizes that fascism will force war on a peace-loving world and that a victory of the bloc of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ labor . By adopting the neutrality legislation the United States tried to stay out of European and Asiatic quarrels . It succeeded in the case of Spain , though that was not particularly to its credit . Now that the Japanese are invading China to get control of Chinese commerce and finances , American financial and industrial interests are demanding intervention . Labor 's stake is not of that sort . It sees its progress toward better living and working conditions endangered by fascist victories and knows that it must fight for its most vital rights . 