@@487309

T. DAVID 'S ISLAND , at the northern tip of the Bermudas , is one of the inaccessible regions of the world . An aged motor launch provides the only public transportation . With the exception of an extra trip at eleven o'clock on Saturday or other special nights , its plyings back and forth between the King 's Square in St. George 's and the small pier at St. David 's cease at nightfall . By seven o'clock the last ferry has gone and come back again . From then on through the long hours until dawn , St. David 's lies , cast loose from the world , wrapped in its own darkness . ? T HE Drifter boarded the dingy ferry in the midafternoon of a day of passing clouds , swift showers , and bright sun . The boat was crowded with children going home from school  --  there is none on St. David 's . They swarmed over the top of the little cabin among the ropes and boxes and hung like barnacles to the boat 's edges . And not one of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ranged instead through all the mellow shades unknown to racial pride and prejudice . The ferry was late in starting . Before it pulled away the Drifter had time to observe every fellow-passenger from the freckle-faced , yellow-skinned child , who immediately fixed upon him a smiling unwavering stare , to the undistinguished but ingenious dog which lay under the seat and rose at intervals to scrape his back against the sharp edge . For a while the boat with its noisy motor cut through the smooth and spacious waters of St. George 's harbor . It was when it turned into a sheltered inlet that the Drifter entered a new world . On either side the darkly cedared shores of St. David 's rose out of deep shaded water to a bright sky . St. George 's and its harbor had disappeared as if they had never existed . A T St. David 's pier there is no settlement , except for the Black Horse bar which offers a crude but well-stocked hospitality . The boat turned back , the passengers dispersed to unseen cottages , and the Drifter found @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a deserted silence that was only deepened by the presence of the child with the permanent stare who trailed behind him . She had disappeared by the time he reached the lighthouse , where an amiable and voluble Scotchman led the way to the high balcony . To the north lay the varicolored sea ; to the south St. David 's spread out in a dark evergreen mass under a smoky cloud that temporarily hid the sun . Only near at hand a few white cottages showed . St. George 's , from this height , and the boats in its surrounding waters , seemed more than ever remote . F ROM the lighthouse the Drifter followed a grassy path that ended in a broad curving beach of white sand . Two children climbing among the rocks and a row of dilapidated cabanas were the only human signs . For a long time the Drifter sat motionless while the sun sank beyond ever thickening clouds , and the rising tide , under the late light , shone as smooth and cool as steel . The sun disappeared , and every @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the encroaching sea as it ran along the sand and fell back again grew louder and heavier . Walking back through the dusk to catch the last boat for St. George 's , the Drifter was conscious of a slight breathlessness at the prospect of being left unhoused in the darkness of St. David 's night . As the little boat chugged back , loud and substantial , through the shadowy night , he reflected on the quality that induces inaccessibility and he added St. David 's to the list of those deserted islands where settling down might be a new adventure . THE DRIFTER Correspondence Regulating Utilities To THE EDITOR OF THE NATION : SIR : In connection with adequate regulation of public utilities , we hear a great deal about laws that are proposed for the creation of regulatory bodies or for the guidance of such bodies , and about the ideal functions that such bodies should serve . Since we may assume that we shall have stringent regulations before we have government ownership and operation of utilities , we might at least have a more practical explanation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ facts upon which , ultimately , rates are to be based . The public pays the substantial salaries of utility lawyers and the veritable army of utility specialists when it pays bills for utility service . The public pays , through municipal , county , State , or federal governments , the salaries of the lawyers and experts who are supposed to fight the public 's battles before the commissions . And the public pays the salaries of the commissioners and their advisers . Unfortunately , the public has been paying for better talent and facilities to defeat itself than to defend itself . This may not exactly be news , but there has evolved from the system a barrier that it will not be easy to hurdle . The utility lawyers and experts have been building up voluminous records of supposed facts concerning utility operation . The complexity of these records can not adequately be described here , but those who have observed at first hand the presentation of volumes of evidence before the various commissions know precisely how elaborate and labyrinthine these records are . These complicated records are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ begins today . We shall charitably assume that the commissions are " agents of the people " and not " mere arbitrators . " The commission staffs study the utility-organized records . The lawyers and experts for the people do likewise . Then come the hearings . ' What do we find ? We find the people 's case built upon the company 's facts . Heads I win , tails you lose . As Ernest Gruening aptly puts it , the public pays . Observe what happens at any typical hearing before a " regulatory " commission on rate matters . Observe the $50,000-a-year utility counsel , the limitless tacilities for gathering utility data . And on the public 's side ? You will observe $5,000-a-year lawyers who are , perhaps , earnest enough . They rarely have the f-leil ; t ; , .. or adequate investigation and they begin where the company has left off  --  with the " facts " gathered by the company . When The Nation discussed Governor Roosevelt 's position on valuations of utilities , it propounded inferentially the same problem . So long @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are of the reproduction-cost , prudent-investment , or catch-as-catch-can variety , I think that the records bear out my contention that we are building on foundations of sand . Why delude ourselves with " demands " upon commissions operating under existing machinery , or with hypothetical programs or terminology , until we have first planted the public 's representatives somewhere in the companies ' organizations , participating in the formation of the records and facts ? As long as the " facts " with which we deal are company facts  --  and that covers everything from mere records to the expenditure of funds by the company on its own plants  --  we shall be shadow -- boxing . If we are to move toward adequate regulation , let us now discuss how we propose to participate in the organization of all the facts upon which utility rates are based . Certainly it is evident that we must achieve such participation if we are to accomplish anything that will do the consumer any good . New York , December 1 MAURICE G. POSTLEY The Vote for Thomas To THE EDITOR OF THE NATION : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ elsewhere , was small , and for an obvious reason . His followers were determined to get rid of Hoover first . Had the Socialists in this community had any idea that Hoover would be defeated in the State by a majority of 15,000 , Thomas would have polled thousands of votes instead of a few hundred . Laramie , Wyo. , December 1 C. P. ARNOLD " Technocracy " To THE EDITOR OF THE NATION : SIR : In the several articles on " technocracy " that have recently appeared in the magazines , including The Nation , I note two omissions  --  no definition of technocracy is given and the origin of the word and theory of government connoted thereby is lacking . Technocracy is a proposed new system and philosophy of government . It implies scientific reorganization ot national energy and resources , coordinating industrial democracy to effect the will of the people . This is the concept and philosophy of government that I originated and for which I coined and defined the word technocracy . This new theory ot government I set forth in three articles published @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the February , 1919 , issue of Industrial Management , of New York , under the title Human Instincts in Reconstruction ? An Analysis of Urges and Suggestions for Their Direction . The second article , published in March , 1919 , was entitled Technocracy National Industrial Management . Practical Suggestions for National Reconstruction . Of this article the editorial foreword gave the following synopsis : " After outlining and characterizing the great economic drifts in the national developments of the past , the author declares that during the period of war the United States has developed the new form of government for which there is no precedent in human experience . He calls this Technocracy ' ? the organizing , coordinating , and directing through industrial management on a nation-wide scale of the scientific knots ledge and practical skill of all the people who could contribute to the accomplishment of a great national purpose . Carry this new form of government into the days of peace and we will have industrial democracy  --  a new commonwealth . " The third essay , entitled Technocracy ? Ways and Means to Gain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ During 1920-21 , in the Berkeley Daily Gazette , I republished these three articles , amplified by additional essays , all under the caption Technocracy . The last of these to . elve articles appeal ed June 8 , 1921 . As each series ( of four articles ) was completed I reprinted the series in pamphlet form Several thousand of these pamphlets were sent out by me in the years 1920 and 1921 to influential persons , including national and State government officials , presidents of universities , and the members of university departments of engineering , economics , and political science . Berkeley , Cal. , November 28 W. H. SMYTH Help the Workers ! Labor Prisoners To THE EDITOR OF THE NATION : SIR : Annually in the Christmas season we appeal to all sympathizers to help us bring some holiday cheer into the lives of brave snen and women imprisoned throughout the United States for labor activities . This year the need is greater than ever before . The tide of the labor struggle has been rising . Police repression has been more violent and brutal . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sentences . Their " crimes " are picketing , distributing leaflets , possessing illegal literature , organizing strikes , belonging to radical organizations . Many , like Tom Mooney , are victims of the most transparent frame-ups . The Prisoners Relief Fund aims to send each prisoner $5 to buy a few comforts , stamps , stationery , a little candy , or tobacco . At the same time it tries to do something even more important  --  to relieve the families of prisoners from starvation and want . Contributions should be sent to the fund at 80 East Eleventh Street , New York . New York , December 13 SHERWOOD ANDERSON Miners on Trial To THE EDITOR OF THE NATION : SIR : Trials will soon begin in the cases of twenty-two miners indicted on charges of murder , the outcome of a clash between striking miners and coal-company gunmen at Evarts , Kentucky , on May 5 , 1931 . These staunch union men face life-imprisonment sentences unless the General Defense Committee can provide sufficient funds for legal expenses . F. M. Bratcher , one of the miners , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first and second trials resulted in hung juries , and in the third trial he was acquitted Forty-three men were originally charged with murder , and for eighteen months the General Defense Committee has been fighting for their freedom and also providing relief for their dependents , numbering over thirty women and children . As winter approaches , suffering of the most abject character is in store for many unfortunate victims of the class struggle in Kentucky unless help is forthcoming Contributions may be sent to the General Defense Committee at 555 West Lake Street , Chicago , Illinois , or to the New York representative at P 0 . Box 51 , Station D , New York City . New York , November 30 LAWRENCE J SECO , Secretary , Kentucky Miners Defense and Relief Committee Books for Workers To THE EDITOR OF THE NATION : SIR : Textile workers in North Carolina are showing great interest in reading and study groups , but unfortunately the demand for books greatly exceeds the supply . The workers can not buy books on wages that range from $2.50 to $4 a week @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have already sent books and magazines , but we need many more . There are many requests for such publications as Tom Tippett 's " When Southern Labor Stirs , " " Clash " by Ellen Wilkerson , and the books of Upton Sinclair . Anyone wishing to contribute any of these or any other books or magazines suitable for use in workers ' study groups may send them to me at 512 Willard Street , Durham , North Carolina . Durham , N. C. , November 20 BEULAH CARTER , Organizer American Federation of Full-Fashion Hosiery Workers Union Toys for Miners ' Children TO THE EDITOR OF THE NATION : SIR : Far up the hollows that twist among the West Virginia hills live the forgotten people of the nation 's sickest industrysoft-coal miners and their families . To them unemployment is an old story . Meager relief from local agencies has decreased and in some places stopped altogether . These families are in constant need of help in the form of food , clothing , or money . At this particular time , however , we are asking for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Christmas joy that every child ought to have . Last Christmas we were able to send toys or books to 3,400 forgotten children . The number needing them is even greater this year . Enlist the help of your friends in collecting playthings  --  games , toys , children 's books , and dolls , especially dolls  --  and mail your packages direct to the Christmas Party Committee , care of the West Virginia Mine Workers Union , Room 9 , Old Kanawha Valley Bank Building , Charleston , West Virginia . Toys needing repairs or those which you can not send direct may be mailed or brought to Pioneer Youth Shop , 69 Bank Street , New York City . Cash contributions may be sent to either address . LEAGUE FOR INDUSTRIAL DEMOCRACY New York , December 14 Tampa 's Political Prisoners To THE EDITOR OF THE NATION : SIR : Shocked readers of the article Tampa 's Reign of Terror , published in your issue of December 7 , have written to me to inquire what is being done in defense of the fifteen cigar workers serving sentences technically @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Contributions have come to me for the relief of the prisoners ' families , and for prison relief of the two women among the fifteen . One correspondent tells me that the horrible story has made him " cigar-conscious " and incloses a check covering what he would otherwise have spent on cigars for the week . The legal deten , e of the case is in the hands of the International Labor Defense , and the National Committee for the Defense of Political Prisoners , known also as the Dreiser Committee , has : tinned a comm ttee to torn public attention to the vicious use of the court , in Tampa hi ' cigar manufacturers , and to collect funds for the del ensr of the prt , oners and the relief of their families , not in h tier ii ant The members of this committee are Waldo Frank , John Dos Passos , Malu Cabrera , Alberto Rembao , J. Miguel Bejarano , and the writer . The case is nationally important because it sets a precedent by which aliens especially can be punished for their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in a criminal court . These prisoners have been treated so savagely that one of the fifteen went insane after a few months . A few days ago another , Carlos Lezama , also broke down , but is still in jail instead of in a hospital . Two others , Ismael Cruz and Angel Cabrera , have recently been transferred from the Florida State Farm at Raiford to what is known as " the flat top " in the Tampa County jail . This is an instrument of torture similar to the " sweat-box " in which Arthur Maillefert was strangled . It is a small room inside the jail " just big enough for one man to be pushed into , with a powerful hot light burning over 1.1-head . " If funds are forthcoming , the case will be taken to the State Supreme Court soon enough , perhaps , to save some of the prisoners from the insane asylum , the tuberculosis hospital , or the grave . Address protests to the Governor of Florida , the Mayor of Tampa , and to Mr. Jerome Regensburg @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contributions to the Tampa Prisoners Committee , National Committee for the Defense of Political Prisoners , Room 611 , St. Denis Building , Eleventh Street and Broadway , New York . New York , December 10 ANITA BRENNER Socialist Locals To THE EDITOR OF THE NATION : SIR : Your editorial note of November 9 about the increase in the Socialist organization is appreciated . We believe it is the most significant fact of the election year . However , when you say , " In May of this year only 83 communities supported party locals , " you are confusing the number of new locals formed from January to May with the number of locals already in existence on January 1 or on May 1 . On January 1 we had nearly 1,000 local communities organized . Almost 600 new locals have been organized since then . Chicago , November 30 CLARENCE SENIOR                     