@@153664

Down the streets of Simla-mountain resort and summer capital of His Majesty 's Government in India-to the very gates of the Viceregal Lodge , the scene of as much pomp and circumstance as is displayed at Buckingham Palace , ambled a toothless little Hindu . Drawing his khaddar ( Indian " Village Industries " homespun ) loincloth and shawl about him , the wizened old man shuffled in to meet the Viceroy . Thus last week took place the long-awaited meeting between Mohandas K. Gandhi , de facto head of the Indian National Congress , and Sir Victor Alexander John Hope , Marquess of Linlithgow , Viceroy of India . It was the end of a five-year estrangement between the British Raj and the longtime leader of the Indian masses . <P> Typical of Lord Linlithgow 's efforts in his year-old rule to allay Indian distrust of the new Constitution was this crowning gesture , an invitation to Gandhi because the Viceroy wanted to make his " personal acquaintance . " The Scottish laird-banker-viceroy , who shuns the glitter of his throne , has made himself popular with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Muluk-i-lat-sahib . Lord Master of the Land , particularly because he can often be seen puttering about in his garden , jogging down the streets of Simla in a rickshaw . <P> Last week 's friendly chat capped recent events which have cleared the Indian political atmosphere . Ever since the Congress Party agreed to participate in forming provincial governments granted them under the new Constitution ( TIME , July 19 ) , the way has been open for the exchange of Anglo-Indian expressions of goodwill . According to the official news , the Viceroy and his scrawny visitor exchanged charitable views on " rural uplift " and the " condition of the peasantry , " but when India 's Legislative Assembly meets this autumn , and the Viceroy in his pale blue robes rises to address it , most of Mr. Gandhi 's political followers are expected not to make themselves conspicuous by their absence .                     