@@493595

Pan-American Prelude URUGUAY is living under a barbed-wire dictatorship . The day the American delegation arrived all Uruguayan leaders known to be hostile to President Terra were rounded up and imprisoned . Nevertheless , at the same moment Secretary Hull was being ceremoniously greeted at the quay , the Montevideo police were busy removing red flags and a placard , " Abajo de Hull " fastened to a high , near-by chimney . The chiefs of the opposition to President Terra are the Battle brothers , members of Uruguay 's best known family . They have been in exile in Rio de Janeiro for about a year , but last night one of them turned up in the suburbs of Montevideo , conferred with friends and slipped away in the darkness , presumably for Buenos Aires . The result of all this is that the Uruguayan government is finding great difficulty in keeping its collective mind on the Pan-American Conference . A North American visitor rapidly finds that the Chaco war is one of those great , labyrinthine questions , like the innocence of Mary , Queen of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ same as he went in . The base document involved is the Treaty of San Ildefonso of 1777 , and South American diplomatists have been writing conflicting interpretations of it ever since . It seems doubtful whether the Chaco will be brought up directly at the Conference at all . A League of Nations commission of investigation is now in Paraguay , and any action by the Conference would , consequently , be a blow at the authority and prestige of the League . On the other hand , it is being said in every delegation here that if the Conference meets with a war being waged a short distance away , and makes no effort to stop it , no further proof will be needed of the essential frivolousness of the Pan-American Union . Obviously , if the Pan-American Union is to continue to exist , it ought to have some sort of regional connection with the League . But although everyone here talks constantly of this problem , no one seems to be making any effort to work out a solution for it . The Roosevelt administration is throwing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has Latin America felt so kindly towards us as it does today . The New Deal has had wide publicity throughout Latin America and has begun to capture the imagination of the intellectuals , who clown here possess astonishing political power . Most of the delegates here are waiting , with a sort of pleased , self-conscious anticipation , to hear from Mr. Cordell Hull what the New Deal portends for Latin America . However , the pitiful fact is that Mr. Hull does not know , and neither does the Roosevelt administration back in Washington .. It is going to be an extremely ungrateful task , during the coming days of the Conference , to make the delegates here understand that Mr. Roosevelt , because of the pressure of the N.R.A. , monetary policy and such things , simply has not yet had time to think about Latin America . But it would have been much better if he had openly admitted this instead of raising the hopes of Latin America , and had tacked on the doors of the State Department in Washington a sign reading : " Closed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mistake to send Mr. Hull as head of the American delegation . Granting that all discussion of tariffs and debts will have to be reserved for some future occasion , a great deal of useful exploratory work could have been done here by a delegation which was representative of the New Deal and which possessed the confidence of Mr. Roosevelt . Mr. Hull , with all his magnificent sincerity and high-mindedness , is not such a person . He has little sympathy with the New Deal and almost no influence in the administration . However , the Latin American delegations do not as yet realize this . 114r . Hull has had an immense personal success here at Montevideo . Two days before the Conference opened , he unannounced made the rounds of all the hotels in town , solemnly shaking hands with every delegate he could unearth . It took him from nine in the morning until two in the afternoon , tramping doggedly up and down hotel corridors , but it was a handsome gesture and everyone was very flattered . By now nearly everyone down to the humblest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ personal word with " el gran seiior ' Uh . " The Latin Americans have heard from their missions in Washington of Mr. Hull 's difficulties in office , but , face to face with him , they refuse to credit these tales . Most of them believe Mr. Hull comparable only to Mr. Roosevelt , or perhaps Lincoln or Washington . It must be said that Mr. Hull himself has done nothing to discourage Latin American hopes . Already this situation has led to one disaster . On board the " American Legion , " the ship on which Mr. Hull came to Montevideo , was the Haitian delegation , of which M. Justin Barrau , Haitian Minister of Justice , is chief , and among the members of which is M. Antoine Pierre-Paul , one of the most interesting men at the Conference here . The first day at sea , the Haitians waited upon Mr. lull in his cabin , and petitioned for the ending of the American fiscal control of their country . According to an executive agreement now in force , American control of Haitian governmental @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ million loan floated through the National City Bank , or until 1952 . Previously Mr. Hull had had only casual knowledge of the United States occupation of Haiti , and as he learned of its sordid and cruel details , he became strongly indignant . The ending of this incident is still an official secret . However , there seems to be little doubt that on the day before landing at Montevideo , Mr. Hull either showed the Haitians a memorandum , or else told them about it , in which he recommended to the State Department that immediate steps be taken to withdraw the American Fiscal Representative from Port-au-Prince . There is also good reason to believe that two days later , in Montevideo , a reply was received by Mr. Hull from the State Department reciting the obligations assumed in 1922 by the Haitian government towards American bondholders , and pointing out the complexities of further relaxation of American control . Whatever may have been the exact contents of these communications , it is certain that the Haitians were first led to believe by Mr. Hull that American control @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wait . So far the Haitian delegation has been preserving a discreet silence . But presumably the story of this episode is going to become known during the Conference . When it does , it is going to baffle the Latin Americans enormously . They will never believe the simple explanation that Mr. Hull was selected as Secretary of State at a time when his low-tariff , laissez-faire policies were generally approved by the Roosevelt group , and that conditions have since changed so completely that he is no longer in touch with the administration , and no longer has influence even with his own subordinates in the State Department . What they are likely to think is that Mr. Hull , instead of being helpless in the situation , is carrying out some treacherous ? if incomprehensible ? policy of " imperialismo yanqui . " Throughout the negotiations with Mr. Hull , M. Pierre-Paul , who is as black as night , never shared the hopes of his chief , M. Barrau , that the United States would deal justly with Haiti . M. Pierre-Paul has perhaps more natural dignity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . When American Marines occupied Haiti in 1916 , M. Pierre-Paul took to the hills , and spent his personal fortune in arming a band of guerillas . They made one vain , and ? not very efficient , attempt to retake Port-au-Prince from the Marines . Thereafter M. Pierre-Paul had a price of $5,000 , a tremendous sum in Haiti , upon his head , but no one betrayed him . The Cubans at the Conference are all young , charming , shining-eyed . They have made the rounds of the other Latin American ' delegations , and have everywhere met with friendliness . They have a dramatic story to tell , and they tell it with an almost religious fervor . Yet somehow these young Cubans seem tragic figures . They have no personal ambitions , and consciously have no class feeling . Their hearts are pure , and they would unhesitatingly die for the humblest Cuban colono . They want to do great deeds here at Montevideo for their country . Yet they seem to have no idea of the problem confronting them , or how to begin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ young men and , except on the subject of the United States , they are about as revolutionary as Mr. Ogden L. Mills and Mr. I Limilton Fish , Jr . As the Conference opened , they had a magnificent opportunity to present their case to the world , and mobilize Latin American feeling against the United States . Yet the most they seemed able to think of to ask for was the abrogation of the Platt Amendment . if they can persuade Mr. Roosevelt to end the Platt Amendment , they will be completely satisfied . They seem entirely oblivious of the hard fact that Cuba 's troubles are far more economic than political . They can not realize , apparently , that so long as Americans own Cuba 's sugar centrales and so long as we form Cuba 's only market , the abrogation of the Platt Amendment is of purely send-mental importance . The United States is now , morally at least , on the defensive in regard to Cuba . Mr. Roosevelt has implicitly admitted that we were responsible in part for the Machado regime , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Cubans ought to seize this chance to obtain a clear , definite understanding with the United States . They ought to ask for a guaranteed sugar quota ; most authorities on Cuba believe it should have a quota of 2 million tons a year . There should also be a thorough understanding about the various Machado loans . It should be informally agreed that if the National City and Chase National banks are not willing to make a generous settlement with the Cuban government , Cuba will have the right , without fault-find- , ing by our State Department , to resort to partial default . If there is ever to be a permanent settlement of the Cuban problem , Cuba must find some way to prevent the greater part of its national income from leaving the island each year . Probably this means , in addition to a reduction of its external loans , some sort of tax on the American-owned sugar centrales . It might also mean the setting up of minimum-wage and maximum-hour laws for workers on the centrales . Such things ought to be talked out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any sort of definitive agreement between the two governments is arrived at . Otherwise , there is the danger that , the moment Cuba tries to set its economic house in order , trouble will era rt up again at once . // If the Cubans were to present a comprehensive , understandable program of what they wanted to do ? even if it were to sock American bankers and American owners of centrales ? they would find considerable popular support in the United States , But the Cubans here have no such program ; they , have not even begun to think about one . All they , know is that the Platt Amendment must be ended . Once that is achieved , apparently , everyone will become good , true , beautiful and happy . The Cuban delegates here are young , heroic and ' faithful followers of Don Quixote. 