@@487297

H OW COMPLETELY FUTILE a lame-duck session of Congress can be is being demonstrated in ' Washington today . A deadlock between the discredited man in the White House and the Democrats on Capitol Hill has already developed . The present session seems likely to drag on , until it automatically expires in March , without accomplishing much if anything of consequence . This feeling is reflected in the President 's annual message to Congress . Mr. Hoover says little that is new , and that little he puts forward wearily , without conviction . He advocates a reform of the banking system and recommends a manufacturers ' sales tax as a source of revenue . No suggestion aroused any enthusiasm in Congress . The Democratic majority in the House is clearly not disposed to accept any of Mr. Hoover 's major recommendations , while the Democrats in the Senate have already decided that they will not confirm the appointment by the President of any officials whose terms expire after March 4 . It has been intimated that Mr. Hoover , for his part , will veto all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unemployment or farm relief , which does not fit in with his notion of rugged American individualism . At the moment it seems as if Congress would do no more than pass the continuing resolutions necessary to extend the life of the current appropriations measures until the new Congress shall have had time to adopt a budget for the coming fiscal year . Happily , this will be our last lame-duck session . The Norris amendment abolishing such sessions has already been ratified by more than twenty States and by the end of January will almost certainly have been approved by the required thirty-six legislatures . T HE DISARMAMENT CONFERENCE has been saved again , this time by a five-Power agreement not published in full at this writing . It appears , however , that Great Britain , the United States , France , Italy , and Germany have signed a declaration indorsing the principle of " simultaneous equality of status " - for Germany and of security for France . One delegate is quoted as saying that " this does not mean the success of disarmament , but does avoid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been put through , . the conference in all probability would have collapsed . The present agreement insures the return of Germany to the conference , and constitutes from that point of view a great success for the German offensive begun by the Von Papen Government . It will doubtless encourage the Reich to be more aggressive hereafter in its demands for the revision of the Treaty of Versailles , and especially for the abolition of the Polish Corridor . Meanwhile , we eagerly await the exact text of this agreement in order that we may know just how far the United States has been committed on the question ' of security to France . The Hoover Government has thus far stood up very straight in refusing to enter into any treaty or obligation which would compel us to come to France 's rescue whenever and however that country might decide to engage in war . No agreement signed by Norman Davis should in any way obligate us to- be ready to guarantee France 's safety . At least , however , Mr. Davis has something to bring home as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the credit for the agreement seems to belong to Ramsay MacDonald , who finally put it through . T HE LEAGUE OF NATIONS has again refused to take positive action against Japan for its violation of the peace treaties . The smaller Powers , especially CzechoSlovakia , the Irish Free State , Spain , and Sweden , wanted to get down to cases without further delay , but their resolution condemning Japan on the basis of the Lytton Commission 's findings was quickly buried in an obscure committee . Instead of acting favorably upon this resolution the League Assembly referred the entire Manchurian question to a special Committee of Nineteen . The new investigating committee is to study the Lytton report and draw up proposals for a settlement of the controversy . This cowardly procedure deceives no one . It simply means additional delay at a most critical time . What can the Committee of Nineteen learn that the Lytton Commission was unable to discover for itself in a year of intensive investigation and study ? What proposals for a settlement could the committee agree upon that would differ very materially @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clearly , and perhaps deliberately , playing into Japan 's hands . At least that country alone stands to profit by the League 's repeated refusal to face the basic issue , Japan needs time in which - onsolidate its                     