@@486437

NOW THAT CONGRESS is in session again , persons who either will not or can not understand the deep realities of American politics are once more proposing a Congressional armistice on controversial economic ques  --  tions for the duration of the depression . This seems to us a dangerous proposal . It is not because we want to see Congressional action blocked by unnecessary political bicker  --  ing , but because we believe that an effective " adjournment of politics " would simply mean that Congress would be swallowing whole , and without adequate consideration , what  --  ever program for economic relief the Administration might hand it . Moreover , we find it difficult to believe that a Congressional armistice could be made effective . With their chances of success in the 1932 elections so brilliant , it is hardly likely that the Democrats would join with the Re  --  publicans in any legislation that might bring more credit to the Administration than to themselves . No , we expect to see the Democrats play a passive , non-cooperative game , fearing to take positive action of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hurt them at the polls next November . We have much more hope for the Progressives . The tactical position of this group is greatly improved compared with what it was last winter . Moreover , the Progressives are more determined than ever to put through their own pro-gram . That they have the strength of their own resolution , if not sufficient voting strength , was shown by their defiance of the absurd attempt of the regular Republican organization to coerce them into supporting George Moses of New Hampshire as presiding officer of the Senate by threatening to deprive them of their committee chairmanships . IT IS GOOD NEWS that there is to be a vote on pro- hibition in the House in the coming session of Congress , and that an effort will be made to give the Senate a similar opportunity to vote during the coming winter . More than that , Senator Bingham of Connecticut is proposing both a popular referendum on prohibition and also to introduce an amendment to the Constitution for the repeal of the Eight  --  eenth Amendment . Our readers are aware of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ source of the proposal will injure it ; but as we have been of the belief for a long time past that the people ought to be allowed to vote on this great question , we can not but hail a move to secure that vote from whatever source it may come . Exactly how a popular referendum may be secured we do not know , nor do the dispatches tell us what Mr. Bingham has in mind . But we are very sure that there will be no real difficulty in the way of devising a procedure if the leaders put their minds to the task ; it did not take Congress very long to find a way of registering all Americans between the ages of twenty-one and thirty-one after we went into the World War . There is no greater need today than to provide a means for the direct expression of a popular will . TN February will be convened the general disarma ment conference for which the world has been waiting these last twelve years . Upon its outcome largely depends the question of peace or war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no means impossible , but it can be had only if there are brought together at Geneva some of the world 's wisest statesmen and ablest citizens . We had thought that the Hoover Administration was aware of the tremendous importance of the approaching discussions . It was reported that Dwight Morrow had been asked to head the American delegation , and we had hoped , when his untimely death re  --  moved Mr. Morrow from consideration , that some man of like caliber would be chosen in his place . But apparently this is not to be . It is already fairly certain that the dele  --  gation will include Ambassador Gibson and other men who have represented us at the preliminary conferences in such a way as to arouse grave doubt of their sincerity as pro  --  ponents of disarmament . The chairman , it is reported , will be Henry P. Fletcher , former chairman of the Tariff Com  --  mission . We do not know just what qualifications Mr. Fletcher has that fit him for this fateful mission . The admirals and generals will be at Geneva @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under the euphemistic title of " technical experts . " In short , unless the Hoover Administration awakens soon , we shall find a group of mediocre Americans making a hope  --  less mess of this disarmament conference which means so much to the future happiness of the world . GREAT BRITAIN is sending Premier MacDonald , Germany is sending Chancellor Bruning , and France will probably be represented at Geneva by Premier Laval . President Hoover , therefore , is virtually obligated to send someone of high official position , for example , Secretary Stim  --  son , although the conference is likely to last six months and would keep Mr. Stimson away from his duties in Washing  --  ton during that period . But even the European Powers could have found better men for the job at Geneva . Ramsay MacDonald 's record on disarmament is good , but lately , particularly since the fall of the Labor Government and his desertion of the Labor Party , his attitude toward this ques  --  tion has perceptibly weakened . Premier Laval , though once a radical , owes his present @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are the real powers behind the French government and therefore behind the French demand for security before disarmament . More distressing is the sug  --  gestion from London that Arthur Henderson may be dis  --  placed as chairman of the conference . This post was offered him by the League of Nations because of personal qualities , and not because he was then Foreign Minister of Great Britain . Mr. Henderson is a sincere and consistent advocate of thoroughgoing disarmament . H'e has shown that he is above petty domestic politics in his attitude toward this question . It would be a real loss to the disarmament con  --  ference , and perhaps a serious blow to world peace , were he now to be displaced as chairman because he no longer has official-standing at home . GOVERNOR LARSON of New Jersey failed to honor the memory of Dwight W. Morrow when he appointed Warren W. Barbour to serve as United States Senator until the election in November , 1932 . Mr. Barbour is in many things the antithesis of Mr. Morrow . He has no record of public service or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the familiar big-business type . The linen factories which he inherited from his father have the reputation for having thoroughly cowed their workers , who are not permitted to join a union . Mr. Barbour himself is treasurer of the Protective Tariff League , and as chairman of the finance committee of the New Jersey Republican State Committee has frequently raised large sums of money for his party . Everybody knows now where Mr. Barbour will stand when he takes his seat ; he will be the ally of Watson and Smoot and Fess and the other extreme reactionaries in the Senate . It is truly one of the weaknesses of our govern  --  mental system that a Governor who has himself just been defeated for reelection can ' appoint to the Senate a man who stands for everything that the State of New Jersey voted against last month . Moreover , the appointment is in direct conflict with the latest expression of public opinion at the polls in New Jersey , for , on the same day that it was made , a Democrat , Percy H. Stewart , carried @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stronghold , by a majority of 1,900 . There was only one issue in the election  --  the Hoover Administration . AFTER A SERIES of precipitous declines in the past few weeks the pound sterling is now at a discount of more than 30 per cent from parity , and virtually at the low level it reached in February , 1920 . Psychologically , the present situation of the pound is remarkably similar to thatof the franc and other currencies shortly after their post-war decline had got well under way . Informed opinion in the outside world is almost unanimous in the belief that devalua  --  tion is now inevitable ; but there is neither an admission nor a discussion of this possibility  --  at least in public  --  by anyone in the present British government . The renewed decline of the pound appears to have been met in England with singular complacency , chiefly because of the widespread belief that the decline will bring about a revival of British industry . In spite of the fact that if the present discount on the pound were to be completely reflected in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of nearly 50 per cent , the depreciation of sterling has so far brought all its disadvantages with very few of its supposed benefits . The failure of British export trade to be stimulated to the extent that had been hoped for is chiefly attributable to two reasons . In a time of almost unprecedented world-wide depression like the present , with Germany , ordinarily one of England 's best customers , almost unable to buy at all , even great price advantages stimulate buying very little . But much more im  --  portant , importers of other nations must hesitate to do bus  --  iness when the pound can fluctuate in value ten or twenty cents in a few days . Until foreign-exchange stability is achieved , England will continue to be disappointed in its expectations of a trade revival . THAT MASTER-DRAMATIST , Adolf Hitler , has  - -  already assumed direction of Germany 's foreign affairs in his own opinion , and proclaims his speedy rise to actual control through the mandate of his fellow-countrymen . Hitler 's message to the foreign press , issued from a hotel opposite the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ impertinence ; it was a challenge which Briining 's subsequent silence makes all the more portentous . There may be no truth at all in the rumors that Hitler and the leaders of finance in outside countries have made a private arrange  --  ment , anticipating his eventual rule ; but ominous none the less is the calm with which his frank plays to the gallery have been received by foreign industrialists and financiers . His promise to pay Germany 's commercial debts while ceasing the payment of reparations has behind it justice and logic . But the aftermath of a German-declared end to reparations , without negotiation , threatens an upheaval likely to engulf all Europe in violence and to delay economic recovery . And even the fulfilment of Hitler 's rosy pledges , of which there is no guaranty , would be a dear price for the enslavement of the German people under a reactionary , bombastic , anti-Semitic , militaristic dictatorship . A coalition of the German Social Democrats and Communists could still vitiate the sanguine expectations of Herr Hitler , for their joint strength is greater than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ union , however , would involve the conquest of almost insurmountable difficulties . MAHATMA GANDHI goes back to his homeland bear- ing no pledge of a centralized federal autonomy , and indeed with only a vague outline of provincial self-rule . The Prime Minister , fresh from whipping the Churchill extremists in the House , and apparently cheered at having won further opportunities for negotiation , insists that the Round Table Conference was not a failure . But Mr. Mac-Donald 's capacity for seeing fruits on thistles is notorious ; U and the Indian National Congress , having gone through two disillusioning conferences , is unlikely to derive robust hope from a plan for committee inquiries and another conference to be held at some future time in India . Gandhi 's post-conference utterances have been guarded and restrained ; obviously he must consult his Congress colleagues before revealing his plans . NO all-inclusive campaign of civil dis  --  obedience is to be authorized for the moment ; but for that matter , the previous campaigns were sporadic and partly local , and yet tremendously effective . It is not without significance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gatherings of peasants , and telling his unshrinking listeners bluntly that war  --  which in the terminology of non-cooperation does not necessarily imply violence  --  is now inevitable " for all the rest- of our lives . " THE JUGOSLAV ELECTIONS have occurred  --  in their fashion . That is to say , something like 50 per cent of the electorate voted , following a campaign unrivaled even in the Balkans for the kind of clumsy ferocity which is coming to be typical of Jugoslavia . There was no opposi  --  tion list , of course , and the government of King Alexander and of his regicide Prime Minister , General Pera Zivkovich , was automatically returned , as everyone knew it would be . The sole issue was the amount of the vote . The opposition , including members of parties generally as varied in point of view as the Slovene Clericals , the Serb Agrarians , the Moslems in Bosnia , and of course the dissident Croat Peas  --  ant Party , banded together in an electoral boycott ; but the police saw to it that it was only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against the elections was , for instance , seized in Croatia and destroyed . The polling itself was a gorgeous farce . There was no written ballot , of course ; the voters were simply herded to the booths and asked verbally to declare their allegiance to one of the various government candidates . And few dared refuse . A law severely restricting the circulation of opposition petitions was convenient in saving the police the subsequent trouble of destroying them . Any kind of opposition political meeting was forbidden . Finally , by the terms of the electoral law , the-party winning a majority of votes gets two-thirds of the seats in the chamber ; and King Alexander himself appoints one-half of the senate for life terms . A practically painless method , in short , of preserving the dictatorship under a thin veil of parliamentarianism . A NEGRO named Williams killed a white man because he " only paid me fifteen cents an hour . " He then attempted , to commit suicide but was restrained and taken , wounded , to a hospital . From his hospital bed he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dragged to the courthou-se square in the center of the town , and hanged from a tree there , after - Which his body was taken down and burned . This , in an America not strange to lynching , has a familiar sound . What makes it unfamiliar is that the violence occurred in the town of Salisbury , Maryland . Maryland , under the able advertisement of persons like H. L. Mencken and of the Baltimore Sun , has for a long time been known as one of the most civilized of our United States . Of late , however , the Eastern Shore counties of Maryland have been slipping . Negroes have been threatened ; counsel for their defense have been mobbed . Maryland 's reputation right now is in a veryparlous state . Governor Ritchie and Levin C. Bailey , State 's Attorney , have denounced the latest lynching with the great  --  est forthrightness and have promised speedy prosecution for the leaders of the mob . " There will be no more delay , " said Mr. Bailey , " than is necessary for the identification of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ still have confidence in Maryland and we believe that Mr. Bailey and the Governor mean what they say . And if lynchers in that State are brought to justice for the plain , ordinary murderers they are , the lynching of Mack Williams will undoubtedly help to prevent similar occurrences in the future . T N A RECENT ISSUE of our morning newspaper we I discovered three separate items each giving a comprehen  --  sive ( and different ) explanation of the whole cause of the present depression . The most original of these contributions to economic theory attributed all our difficulties to the high schools ; but the most inclusive , the most unanswerable , and in a way the most comforting was that which emanated from the Pope in Rome , who declares without equivocation and without fear of successful contradiction that God is responsi  --  ble . According to the Associated Press dispatch , His Holiness believes that the depression is too general to be the work of man , and adds the following wise words : " It is evident that the hand of God is being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the hand of God . It was God who gave years of abundance , years which we now scarcely believe existed . The Lord giveth and the Lord taketh away . " Nothing , it occurs to us , could be simpler and nothing more comforting to those in power , who might , without this assurance , have had moments in which they feared lest they and their deeds might be in some measure responsible . Thanks to that in  --  ward light which , as a Quaker , Mr. Hoover enjoys , he was doubtless in possession of this information even before the Pope spoke , and the fact probably explains his apparent in  --  action . IF HE WERE DICTATOR , Dean Inge of St. Paul 's 1 in London would make the proper gestures toward leagues of nations , abolition of armaments , and the destruc  --  tion of tariff barriers . But he would do something which we think ultimately far more important in the future happi  --  ness of mankind . He would abolish rouge and lipstick . The discussion over whether or not a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and skilfully applied has almost stopped raging . Women put on store complexions as a matter of course , cheeks , lips , eyes , and all , and some of them do occasionally improve their appearances thereby . It is even said that some men prefer their women mascara 'd and with greasy , vermilion lips , and if they do , considering the far from perfect state of our society , we shall make no formal protest . But in an ideal state , when Dean Inge , or Mr. Chase , or any of our admirable friends has set himself up with a heavy-headed scepter to boss the whole works , we are for prohibition of facial beauty by the box if it is to be exhibited at a distance of less than ten feet . And for any woman who shaves her eyebrows and paints a black half-moon on the bulge over her eye where a wise Providence intended her to have a shadow of hair suited in shape to the rest of her face , the boiling oil will be merrily heated and , humanitarian though @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ steam arising and merely laugh .                     