@@486466

Books could hardly vary more in physical presence than do these eight , from the ponderous folios on Hogarth , Turner and Constable , and the splendors of colored illustration of the ' Pintoricchio , ' to the modest little volume of the " Popular Library of Art " ; but they are all entitled to serious consideration for one quality or another , and the order of bulk is as good as any in which to consider them . The two great books on Hogarth and Turner , though from different publishers , are really companion volumes , and both will match in size and general appearance the splendid publications on ' Reynolds and Gainsborough which have been brought out in the last year or two by Heinemann in London and Scnbners in New York The literary quality of Hogarth has always tempted writers aside from the consideration of his artistic merit , and Mr.- Austin Dobson 's text , which is not new , is no exception to the rule . His criticism is founded , generally , on the plates rather than on the original @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the psychology of the artist than with his power of pictorial composition or of painting . Recently a reaction has set in , and the world has discovered that Hogarth was really a considerable painter as well as a satirist . Under this reaction the illustration of this volume has been planned , which does justice for the first time to Hogarth 's pictures , and Sir William Armstrong has been induced to add an introduction dealing with the painter as a workman . In this we think the reaction has carried him too far , and leads him to minimize the stepping aside from art for moral and literary ends of which Hogarth was undoubtedly guilty . That artist was a sound painter , if not a brilliant one , and had a good deal of pictorial feeling , but it is surely not true that he " has so wedded probability to aesthetic fitness , over the course of long histories , that at no point can we stop and say , ' There comes in the story-teller ; there we have a detail that was not wanted in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to written - Information of the names and actions of his characters , in letters or papers which could not possibly be read at the supposed distance of the spectator , is dictated alone by the wants of the story-teller . The declaration , on the basis of the etching of Simon Lord Lovat , that Hogarth was " potentially a great sculptor , " seems to us another case in which Sir Walter has been carried beyond the bounds of sober criticism by the new interest in an art which has been neglected while the artist was over-praised for everything else . At any rate , Sir Walter Armstrong has always something to say , and of Turner he has so much to say to the purpose that one is led rather to regret the sumptuousness of the volume in which his text appears as likely to distract attention from his criticism . In spite of its splendid illustration , this book is so far from being a mere picture-book that we consider it the best analysis of Turner 's genius that has yet appeared , and regret extremely that we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and more readable form We have heard so much of Turner as a great creator , and have seen so much of his recklessness of local and even of general truth in the effort to render his gorgeous visions , that it seems at first paradoxical to maintain that he was rather an illustrator than a creator , and that Ruskin was right , after all , in thinking him a worshipper of nature , though wrong , precisely on that account , in thinking him the greatest of artists or even of landscape-painters . This , however , is what Armstrong maintains , with great ingentuty , and , as it seems to us , with great justice , explaining that lack of appeal of Turner 's works to many artists who are constrained to admit his power and knowledge , but can not like him What many must long have felt , more or less dimly , Sir Walter Armstrong has clearly formulated . His argument is somewhat scattered through different parts of his book , and we shall endeavor to condense it and put it into our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was no decorator He cared for no art but painting , and cared for that primarily as an illustration of nature , not as a thing by itself . Many painters , at first sight much more realistic than he , are more truly creators Take Corot as an instance . he thinks in pictures , and creates a harmony of tones and torms as his first business , he can stick pretty close to the facts of a given scene , and yet his subtle modulations and modifications produce something which is really entirely independent of the facts , and even of nature itself , for its essential quality . Turner had little of this instinct for making a ' picture of the simplest- materials , the materials themselves are what interest him most , and he crowds his canvas with myriads of them ; they are never splendid and varied enough to express his excited interest in natural beauty and grandeur , so he enlarges and alters and falsifies them , not to create a work of art , but to make the scene itself more magnificent and spectacular @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ himself against this or that artist of the past , and yet he never understood their art , and thought he had surpassed Claude or Poussin when he had put more natural fact into their framework ; not seeing that the amount of fact contained was the thing of least importance He had a prodigious industry , a colossal appetite for observation , and acquired a vastly greater stock of knowledge than any other landscape-painter ; but he was less a painter than almost any of them , and had , at least in oils , no respect for his material and little for the limits of his art . His interest in nature gradually swung from the facts of things to the phenomena of light , but it was always the illustration of nature that interested him , and the intensity of this interest drove him continually to attempt the painting of the unpaintable . He admired the landscape of Italy , and he tried to put it all in one frame , he was interested in moonrise at sunset , and he put the moon and sun on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adoration , without the pre-Raphaelite humility , before nature , no one scene , no one quarter of the horizon , no one hour of the day satisfied him , but he must jumble all together , producing a kind of wonderful nonsense , glorifying nature by defying all its laws He is audacious , energetic , powerful , but never self-restrained , he puzzles , shocks , excites , overwhelms , or merely disgusts , but he seldom pleases Because , with all his " splendid lies , " he yet hints at more natural truth than any other painter , he will remain , to the Ruskmian , the greatest or painters , to the lover of art it will always seem that many modest talents are more truly admirable Only a trifle less imposing in size and wealth of illustration is the volume devoted to another English landscape painter , who , though his genius is less striking than Turner 's , has had a vastly greater influence on the art of the world Turner 's chief advocate , Ruskin , could see little or nothing in Constable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in that of Constable 's legitimate successors , the so-called Barbizon School To-day we look upon these latter as the greatest landscape painters of all time , and consider it one of the glories of England that an English painter should have been an appreciable factor in the formation of their style By means of three preliminary chapters on the art of landscape before Constable and two chapters on Constable 's successors , Mr. Holmes has made his book an essay on the development of landscape art , into which is sandwiched a sufficiently detailed life of Constable himself . In such a review it is rather surprising how little the influence of Turner counts for . His scenic grandeur has counted for nothing at all in an art that has steadily grown more intimate , until the painter whom he may most have influenced by his key of light , Claude Monet , could spend his best efforts on a haystack . Constable 's own influence Mr Holmes is not inclined to exaggerate , though he does not minimize it . When the Romantic revolution was beginning in France , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of painting , it was natural that they should be affected by the only school in Europe in which painting was still alive , the English Bonington was an Englishman , and GermanIt had spent years in England . In 1824 Constable and Lawrence exhibited in the Salon , the one receiving a gold medal and the other the Legion of Honor , while Delaercax was induced by the sight of Constable 's pictures to repaint the background of his " Massacre of Scio " in a fresher key of color It is true that at this time Rousseau was only twelve years old and Corot was not yet an exhibitor , but it was far from the last time that Constable 's pictures were seen in France , and his influence was not exerted entirely through Delacroix . It was not dominating , but it was assuredly one that counted , and it was exercised in the direction of those peculiarly modern qualities , simplicity and intimacy of subject and truth of natural color and effect . Delacroix himself called Constable " le Ore de notre tic  --  le de @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was no decorator , Pintoricchio was nothing else . The lavish illustration of the present volume , much of it in colors , gives a better opportunity of judging his work than could anything short of an Italian journey devoted to him , and the result is but to confirm our impression of his essential insignificance . Only in an odd portrait or two does he show anything approaching serious artistic qualities . It is not merely that his drawing and painting , as such , are poor , but even the higher decorative qualities are absent , and he rather enriched the walls on which he painted than truly beautified them . He covered them with ornament and gold and bright colors , and produced a splendid and brilliant effect , but the harmonies of line and space that make the greatness of a Raphael are as lacking as the harmonies of light and color that make a Veronese . Signor Ricci lavishes the resources of connoisseurship in attempting to show which parts of the decoration of the Borgia apartment are by the master , and where we see the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quality is- so slight that the matter is of no importance whatever . It is all good enough for its purpose , which is the decorative effect of the whole , and for that effect we know that Pintoricchio was responsible His one merit is that of an entrepreneur of decorations , and no one cares how many hands were employed in the actual work . That of his own , too , is little better than or different from the rest It is only when it becomes possible that Pintoricchio employed a greater man than himself that the question of his assistants assumes any real interest . Did or did not Raphael have anything to do with the work in the Siena Library ? Vasari and tradition say yes ; Signor Ricci says no . The drawings in the Venice Sketch Book prove anything or nothing , according as we decide who did them , but the best authorities seem still to leave some of them to Raphael . The very uncertainty would seem to point to soles connection between the two painters . That Pintoricchio 's methods were known @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his own decorations in the Vatican , the " Disputa , " is certain , but this does not prove that Raphael had been actually Pintoricchio 's assistant . The question must finally be decided on the basis of a number of scattered drawings , and we must regret that the illustration of the present volume is here lamentably incomplete , and that the drawings are not given Even Signor Ricci admits that one or two of them are by Raphael , but maintains that Pintoricchio used them as he had before used certain sketches of Orientals by Gentile Bellini The most important of them , the squared sketch for the first of the compositions , now in the Uffizi , he " accepts as by Pintoricchio himself , " and lets it go at that , without mentioning the chief arguments of Claude Phillips and others to prove that it is Raphael 's . Were the drawing reproduced , as it is by Phillips , the reader might judge , and we do not see how he could judge otherwise than that Phillips is right We may concede that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's brush " , but that Raphael , whether as paid assistant or complaisant friend , furnished the sketch for the first and specimen composition , seems to us to admit of little doubt . Miss Cruttwell 's book on the Della Rob-bias is a modest , conscientious , thorough , and scholarly study , and probably comes as near to disentangling the work of the several members of that prolific family as is possible at present . It is likely , for some time to come , to remain the leading authority for students , while its illustrations make it a possession for the general art-lover . In her high and deserved admiration for Luca 's art , Miss Cruttwell cuts down the works attributable to him to their narrowest limits ; her conservatism yielding in only one case that we have noted . She and Professor Marquand are a minority of two in attributing to the founder of the school the beautiful " Visitation " of San Giovanni Fuorcivitas , Pistoja , a work in every way worthy of his hand . It would be difficult to find a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have a less intimate connection than in ' Nineteenth-Century Art . ' Mr MacColl , having been asked to write an accompaniment for a selection of pictures from the loan collection of the Glasgow International Exhibition of 1901 , has given us an essay on the development of painting and sculpture in the nineteenth century , together with separate notices of the most important artists of that period . Both picture and text are ? good , and the text is the better for its freedom from the petty care of conformity to the pictures . The chapter on " Art Objects ' deals more directly with the matter illustrated , but in its turn has nothing to do with nineteenth-century art . Mr MacColl 's discussion of the tendencies of modern painting , particularly of the growth of that new view of color which is broadly called " impressionism , " is admirable on the whole , but he seems to us to confuse still more the already confused use of the word " values " It is getting to be impossible to tell what any one means by " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ word in literature , meant the degree of dark or light of any color as distinguished from its hue , and generally referred it to masses of what painters call " local color " without much regard to small variations of light and shade Later it came to include , in painters ' language , all degrees of variation of light and dark from whatever cause , so that a picture was just in " value " if the variations of light and dark were truly noted , whether or not it possessed color , and even if it were done in monochrome Mr MacCell now extends it to cover the different hazes of light and shadow under colored light , and , by making it mean too much , makes it mean nothing . He is taking for an example a snowy landscape under colored light , and says " Each different angle and facet of the snow presents us with a different hue and a different tone , and the high reflecting power of the snow makes the difference of color more striking than the difference of tone . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' value ' " He goes on to speak of conditions under which two lights should be " equal in tone " and differ only in hue , and he seems still to consider that the difference is a difference of " values " A painter would say that the lights differed in color or hue , and not in value It is much to be wished that critics could agree on their vocal-ulary and restrict " value " to degree of light and dark ; " color " to the variation of hue ; and " tone " to the just combination of " value " and " color " As it is , " tone " is an even harder-worked word than " value " We have not space to consider in detail Mr MacColl 's criticisms of individual figures in modern art , many of which show a clear and acute vision . His interest in modern technical problems grapples with and overthrows his insular partialities , and his mild depreciation of some of the greatest of British artists who are not " modern " is occasionally amusing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ give an idea of what he actually did in several of the arts of design , Miss Cary 's single volume would give a better picture of William Morris than the two of Mr. Mac-hail 's official biography , but the written picture also gains in clearness what it loses in detail We see the whole man and the connection between the several and various parts of him , and find , as the thread running through everything , from his poetry to his Socialism , the curious sham-medimvalism which led him to concoct an almost unintelligible vocabulary for his later writings , and to design a Gothic type when he wanted to make printing easy to read as well as beautiful to look at He always mistook his emotions for reasoning , and his emotions were stirred only by what was old He " wanted to make John Bull over again into John Calf , " as Charles Reade said , and his ultra-conservatism led him into Socialism , because the modern world was so intolerable to him that he was willing to destroy it altogether rather than acquiesce in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ convinced him that he had really nothing in common with the agitators among whom he found himself , and he drifted back into amiable dilettantism and the futile effort at reviving the art of the past instead of improving that of the present . He made the effort pay , as far as he was personally concerned , but we can not think he will have any great influence on the future as regards either the conditions of artistic production or the style of art produced , though he undoubtedly contributed greatly to the revival of interest in the minor arts People ? still seem to take an interest in the diluted pre-Raphaelitism of Fred Walker , and this artist , whom Mr. MacColl dismisses with a few lines , is the subject of one of the little volumes of the " Popular Library of Art , " a volume far from equal to some of its predecessors in interest of subject of mastery of treatment , though it is a very good book in its way . We must confess that , for us , as for many others , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ illustrations and the water colors founded on them , like the " Philip in Church " ? things in the vein of Millais 's black-and-white work . His more ambitious oil paintings , such as " Vagrants , " " The Plough , " and " The Harbor of Refuge , " are vaguely disquieting and unsatisfactory , and at first one wonders why . Critics who have felt this have usually traced the fault to the pseudo-Greek air of some of the figures , and Miss Black quotes some of them to that effect Mr. Claude Phillips speaks of one figure as " aggressively Phidian in its calculated classic grace , " and of another as " more classical still than the fustian-clad divinity of ' The Old Gate , ' and more self-conscious " , while Ruskin speaks of " the ridiculous mower , galvanized Elgin in his attitude . " Upon this Miss Black very properly comments . " Let us grant that both figures do resemble Greek statues , let us even suppose that some contemporary of Phidias had left a statue in this very pose of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are true to that of which they and the Elgin marbles alike are but reflections  --  to life , that is , and to the natural , unstudied movements of human action  --  why complain of what the later presentment has in common with the earlier " At first blush this seems unanswerable . Why , indeed , should that very studied beauty which is a merit in classic sculpture become a fault in moddern painting ? And yet one instinctively feels that Ruskin and Phillips are right . We think the key to the difficulty is to be found in another part of this volume Walker 's " one recorded saying " about art is given on page 15 , and it is that " composition is the art of preserving the accidental look " That is the saying of a man who had little feeling for composition , and it is the lack of composition that spoils Walker 's later work . Classic figures demand to be seen in classic compositions and with classic backgrounds As long as Walker 's figures were as " accidental " as his backgrounds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enjoyable in its own way . When he began to give us studied and claSsic poses , the eye resented the absence of great lines of composition and the presence of unassimilated accident in the landscape , and found his work inharmonious and baffling . Perhaps if he had lived , he might have learned to treat the landscape as he did the figure and thus secure a graver har mony Perhaps , as some of his latest work seems to show , he would have gone back to something like Ms earlier method . It seems symptomatic of natural weakness that the painter of the French school who most impressed him was Jules Breton                     