@@469471

EARLY in November of last year , for the first time in ninety-seven years , the French government collected a huge tax without complaint from the taxpayers . Not only was there no complaint , but the levy was accepted with enthusiasm . It had been paid by two million volunteers ; no one wishing to evade payment was in any way forced to contribute . Those who did contribute were given something more than a tax receipt or a comfortable sense of virtue ; they were given as well a hope of sudden wealth and the excitement , the unquestionable thrill , of submitting an issue to chance . At half-past eight on the evening of the 7th of November , those of the taxpayers who could crowd into the great auditorium of the Trocadero at Paris were presented with a further compensation . For the government , about to make the first drawing of the newly authorized national lottery , was putting on a dramatic show for them . Upon the stage of the Trocadero , six latticed , golden globes hung like huge birdcages from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , visible behind gleaming bars , there was a sort of urn . From five of the urns , at the pressure of a button , a golden ball , bearing a number , would drop into a basin . From the sixth urn , the ball that dropped would bear a letter . Outside the Trocadero close-pressed crowds of men and women waited for announcements from loud speakers . Inside , in all the enormous auditorium , no place was vacant . As a band played , six youths and six girls , keeping step , crossed the stage and took their positions beside the globes . Monsieur Mouton , president of the lottery committee , surrounded by other functionaries of the government and of French finance and business , spoke to the audience . He wished luck . to the men and women there to see and hear him , to the crowds of ticket purchasers in the streets , in the towns and villages of Fiance , and in all regions of the colonial empire . The lad attending the first globe released the mechanism , a numbered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and with the announcement of the number , 200,000 ticket holders had each won a consolation prize of 200 francs . As the value of the prizes mounted , excitement mounted as well . On the second operation of the globes , 2,000 winners of 10,000 franc prizes were established . Through a succession of prizes , each more substantial than the last , the moment came for the final pair of drawings from which the holders of 15 tickets would have the right to a million francs apiece , and one last darling of fortune would pocket the grand prize of five million . At the end of the evening the French government , after selling two million lottery tickets at 100 francs each , had turned back 120,000,000 francs ? approximately $8,000,000 at the present rate of exchange ? to something over 200,000 lucky Frenchmen . And through this scheme of voluntary taxation , the government had pocketed a gross revenue of 80,000,000 francs . That government was already selling 2,000,000 fresh tickets for the second lottery . It had committed itself by parliamentary act to a means @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political tincture had avoided for nearly a century . Here in our own land there is talk of governmental lotteries ? city , State , and national . For instance , there is Representative Kenney 's bill , already aired at a hearing of the Ways and Means Committee of the House , for a billion-dollar veterans ' lottery . In this airing , a significant statement was voiced by Horace J. Donnelly , assistant solicitor of the Post Office Department . Donnelly said that in 1932 a check was made on money being mailed abroad to foreign lotteries ; the opening of misdirected letters inclosing lottery money gave facts to surmise that half a billion dollars flowed away during the year to European and other foreign lotteries . Does this astounding figure approximate the truth ? Cut it in half if you will , and there still remains a huge bootlegging of lottery tickets , an eager appetite for lotteries , in the United States . Then there are the current State and city proposals for lotteries here at home . Governor Horner of Illinois has been looking into the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Supported by Mayor La Guardia of New York City , Borough President Lyons is trying to engineer a lottery for unemployment relief . Governor Lehman turns an amiable ear to this scheme ; the needed legislation is actually being drawn up . And as a final example , it seems certain that before long there will be a legal lottery in operation under the American flag ; for just as I write , Governor Blanton Winship of Porto Rico has put hisname to a law restoring the lottery that was abolished on that island when the Stars and Stripes were raised there . So what has happened in France may happen in the United States for the same reason that has led the French government to tax its people through lotteries ? a desperate need of revenue . It is a pleasant method of taxation for those taxed , but it has its reprehensible side ; in modern times the moral objections to lotteries have restrained many governments from turning to them , no matter how hard pressed for money . But the rigor of any moral point of view is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ us will now admit , is as fictitious as the absolute motion of old-fashioned physicists . Theft is immoral ; but the act of the starving man who steals for bread is not difficult to forgive . Murder is immoral ; but murder done in defense of a native land conventionally loses the name of homicide and takes on the name of heroism . The morality or the immorality of lotteries has been disputed . Not every modern government has accepted the 19th Century admission of their harmfulness . In one form or another , the Italian States continuously profited from lotteries since the year 1642 , when the Genoese Republic began to take funds into the public treasury from a lottery system which had already existed in Genoa for two hundred years . Holland has had a state lottery since 1726 and Denmark since 1754 . The Spanish lottery is so old and so popular that to prohibit it would prove as fruitless there as to prohibit the bullfight or the wine shop . And , at last , lotteries have been considered or sanctioned in lands where moral pressure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of revenue . Even the British , for years inveterately opposed to state lotteries , two yea ? FRANCE TRIES ago yielded to the point of setting up a royal commission to report on the question . II As for the French , they have been playing with the notion of easy money from a government lottery ever since the War was over . The first parliamentary proposal was made by Albert Meunier early in 1923 . During the following ten years Georges Bonnefous and Louis Proust tempted the Senate and the Chamber with detailed plans . Meanwhile , year by year , although moral prejudice against lotteries still bolstered French legislators from yielding to temptation , the condition of French governmental finance grew steadily more lamentable . But it took the pressure of demands from two classes , war veterans and farmers , to turn what had been so long immoral and forbidden into something quite the contrary . I pause to wonder whether the same classes , equally hungry in the United States for government bounties , may not in our own land stand a moral judgment on its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' lottery is a straw which shows a new trend in the moral wind . To understand how the French lottery came about , it must be remembered that no French government for more than a year before the lottery law was passed had been able to solve the problem of an unbalanced budget ; its ghastly teeterings had overthrown ministry after ministry . What new taxation would meet the mounting deficit ? ? an accumulated total , since 1930 , of more than twenty-five billion francs . But with the presentation of specific proposals for new taxes , French parliamentarians , terrified by hair-raising roars from the electorate , withheld their vote of confidence from no matter what ministry . Then if there were to be no new taxes , where was the alternative of government economy to be applied ? What about the fonctionnaires , the government employees ? Their number was enormous ; if some of them could be got rid of and the salaries of others cut , heartening savings would be possible . The enormous number of them ? there was the terrifying rub for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an organization and a political power beyond anything known to our own huge body of government workers . Well , if meddling with the number and pay of fonctionnaires was foolhardy , what about veteran cuts ? What about being less liberal with grants to farmers ? I need not dwell on the fact that France , after four years of war , was saddled with a gigantic financial obligation to disabled soldiers . What she does and has done for many years to aid her peasants is not so well known . Here is an example : five or six winters ago in Provence a freeze came , a short stretch of cold weather beyond the experience of any living farmer . There in the south of France tillage of the land goes on all year . Many garden vegetables are harvested in January ; fruit trees show their blooms in February . But that winter , from a few days of astounding cold , there were incalculable losses of winter crops and especially of future fruit crops . Among other things , the autumn olive crop was wiped out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ friends , without a great number of terraces planted with olives , was reimbursed to the extent of 6,000 francs . All over the south of France , like payments , smaller and larger , must have summed a formidable total . With the proposal for veteran cuts , there was then a proposal to tighten up on these calamity grants to peasants . But once more the parliamentarian asked to support any ini nist y behind these proposals faced the bitterly disheartening snag of organized voters . Veterans and farmers ? what an appalling opposition ! In a proposed French budget for 1933 , introduced by Monsieur Cheron , fear of the farmer prevailed over the obligation to save ; but this budget did contain a provision to cut veteran payments by five per cent . It was then that necessity and years of agitation for a lottery had their effect . Ch4ron 's proposed budget also proposed a lottery , and out of the profits of this lottery the veterans were to be reimbursed for their cut . The Chamber of Deputies would have nothing of Cheion 's five @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his lottery idea ? that was another thing ! Here apparently was a new tax the voter would accept , and with enthusiasm . Not only would the public at large welcome a lottery , but through a lottery the votes of veterans and farmers could be gained instead of alienated . When the lottery law of May 31 , 1933 , with a provision for five drawings , was passed , a clause stated that all profits above 100,000,000 francs were to apply against agricultural calamities and veterans ' pensions . It seems clear that the present French lottery was born by a certain amount of political chicanery out of a pressing need for money . So its parentage is not entirely reputable . The political shifts behind it are certainly nothing to admire . And although necessity may excuse many a moral dereliction , it remains true that the hungry man who may get bread honestly , yet prefers to steal it , loses the excuse of his need . After all , the lottery was unnecessary . Veterans could have been cut , certain help could have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been imposed . In committingthemselves to such harsh legislation the legislators might have been thrown out at the polls ? but if the lottery is an immoral enterprise , unworthy of a great government , that immoral enterprise would have been avoided . There now comes up a question significant for the French politician , and , with current talk of lotteries in the United States , significant for the American politician . Is a state lottery , honestly operated , immoral ? Obviously , the emphasis on its immorality can not be so strong , so undeniable , as the emphasis on the immorality of certain other enterprises . There has always been a doubt , there has always been a strong case for lotteries as well as a strong case against them , else there would not have been continuous government lotteries for centuries in such enlightened lands as Holland and Denmark . My first experience of one of the effects of a lottery , openly and legally conducted , upon the citizens of a nation came to me in South America . I had gone to Caracas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the handsome Plaza Bolivar , outside the cafs , in the turns of narrow streets , everywhere in that old city , above the unceasing din of motor horns pressed by chauffeurs with a quenchless enthusiasm for noise , and above the sharp clatter of little , trotting Arabian horses driven by shouting cocheros , I heard the cries of ticket vendors of the lottery . For the most part they were old men or old women . They carried bundles of paper tickets in strips over their arms . The cost of a single ticket , as I recall , was a real ? the equivalent of ten American cents . And all day long the vendors cried the numbers of these tickets . Apparently , submitting yourself entirely to chance , you did not buy a number at random . You had a fixed choice . And your choice was determined by consulting a Dream Book or some other mystic device . For , in general , you , the purchasers , were poor , unlettered men and women ? laborers and servants and badly paid clerks . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ buying a ticket , it was plain that in money return your daily real put on the lottery might almost as well have been flipped into the street . But what I quickly noticed was a return that had nothing to do with financial profit . It was a return in amusement and in a quickened life . I have seen groups of Venezuelan lottery followers with heads together over cafe tables , while absorbing and labored calculations were executed to derive a certainty from the mystics of the numbers . These men were amusing themselves , and every day they were giving themselves hope . I have heard voluble servants in rear patios arguing about the same mystical numbers . These women , as well as the men , were amusing themselves and giving themselves hope . I do not know what sort of a case a statistician might have made against this Venezuelan lottery , but from my own observation , I came away from Caracas thinking well of it . Undoubtedly many a real put upon a ticket was needed for something else , but the gift of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shoes , might often have fulfilled a very pressing need . I did not even quarrel very vehemently with those Dream Books and mystical mathematics . There has always been too much harmful and base superstition in the world , but there has also been , in our day , too much arid and cocksure materialism . After the first drawing of the French lottery , the Paris-Soir published the photograph of a winning sailor who was in the act of presenting himself at a pay window in the Pavillon de Fiore to collect the money on his lucky ticket . The girl clerks behind the grille were reaching out to touch the pompon on the sailor 's hat ? for this fingering of the pompon might bring luck to themselves in the next drawing . In a materialistic world , there was something to be said for their gesture , trifling and ignorant as it was . But the relation of lotteries to superstition and mysticism , although interesting , is not a significant item in any case for or against lotteries . Really significant are the hopes , the quickened @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a lottery . Thus in the Caracas lottery of which I spoke , the price of a ticket was so little that no great prizes went to the winners . Hope could not be exaggerated . On the other hand , the French lottery , as at first organized , gave 200,000 consolation prizes amounting to double the price of the ticket , and after that distributed among 2,436 winners sums ranging from 10,000 to 5,000,000 francs . Although there was but one 5,000,000 franc prize , no more than fifteen 1,000,000 franc prizes , and only twenty 500,000 franc prizes , certain French moralists complained that both the number and the amounts of the big prizes were excessive . III One of the arguments against lotteries , as against all other games of chance , is that the winner has done nothing to deserve his gains . It is difficult to support this argument in any respectable philosophic scrutiny of it , for in that scrutiny the platitude will come out that very few of us do anything to deserve what may be called our good fortune . But there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and abrupt gains by those who have lived humbly may upset all that is worthy in the lives of these sudden favorites of fortune . In the French lottery , where the three groups of big prizes are distributed to only 36 ticket holders out of 2,000,000 , it is clear that a poor man may win as easily as a rich man . No rich man is likely to buy up enough of the 2,000,000 tickets to throw chance perceptibly in his favor . Indeed , it has already happened that some very poor men have won great sums in the French lottery . On the night of the first drawing , a little , black-mustached , lean-faced barber in the town of Tarascon had been in bed for an hour when he started out of sleep with a pounding on his shop door . Monsieur Bonhoure raised his tired , fifty-five-year-old body from the bed and went to the window . He was astonished to see a group of his friends below in the street . " Tu as gagne les cinq millions ! " they shouted to him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first he imagined that his friends were joking . But in the crowd was Monsieur Poujol , the town tax-collector , from whom Bonhoure had bought his ticket . The fact was confirmed ; he had truly won . Bonhoure got up at once and proceeded with the crowd to the Cafe du Commerce . He ordered champagne for everyone ; there was no trouble about credit . Turning to the women present , he said ; " J'offre a toutes mes clientes " ? a free permanent wave for every woman . It was the best thing he could think of at the moment . Interviewed the following day in Tarascon by a reporter from the Paris Intransigeant , he was asked what he would do from now on . " Nothing new , " he said . " I am going to keep on working . I 'd be bored to death without that . Of course , I 'll improve the shop ? and I 'm going to do something for all of my employees . " It would be interesting to follow up the case of Monsieur @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It would be interesting to follow the case of Louis Ribiere , of Avignon , a poor charcoal-seller who won the 5,000,000 franc prize in the second drawing . If wealth benefits anyone , then I have the idea that coming at it suddenly may , in general , be better than coming at it slowly . The sudden gainer is less likely to suffer from that peculiar atrophy of the emotions that too often afflicts those whose preoccupation has been gain over a long period of time . Nevertheless , the principle is widely held that lottery prizes should not be too big or the bigger prizes too many . This principle is embodied in Representative Kenney 's bill for the veterans ' lottery . The former top French prize was equal to about a third of a million present dollars . Representative Kenney 's top prize would be $120,000 and not all of this would be paid in cash . Part would be paid out by the government as an annuity . I have been unable to find anything in the newspaper stories so far published about the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gain has brought them ruin rather than benefit . Too little time has gone by ; it is not yet possible to judge . But the French , without any definite experience of their own to influence them , have lately yielded to the notion that prizes should not he too big and big prizes should be few . Early in May of this year the number and amounts of the prizes were changed . So was the number of tickets to be issued . Hereafter the ticket issue will be doubled ? it is now to stand at 400,000 , - 000 . The number of 200 franc consolation prizes has also been doubled . There is a new winning group of 10,000 prizes at 1000 francs . ( In the original law , there was a jump from the 200 franc prize to a 10,000 franc prize . Although the number of tickets has been doubled , only one fat prize of 5,000,000 will be awarded , and the number of 1,000,000 franc prizes has been relatively lowered . In this revision of the law , presented under cover @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so much a yielding to moral pressure as a determination to extend the scope of the lottery . It is difficult to see how morality is being greatly served by reducing the relative number of big winners . Under the new law the amounts of the prizes and the number of winners have been rearranged . These changes are essentially without much meaning . What is meaningful is the fact that the number of tickets to be issued has been doubled . The lottery taxpayers will still get back in prizes 60 per cent of the money paid in ; but if the government is able to sell 4,000,000 tickets instead of the former 2,000,000 , it will turn 160 , - 000,000 francs into the treasury instead of 80,000,000 . Clearly enough , from the standpoint of tax collecting , the French lottery has been a success ; the people like it , and the government believes that it can double the tax . Indeed , so vividly does the lottery capture popular attention , that its existence may have been deeply influential in averting a revolution in France . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ looked upon each new , short-lived ministry with an increasingly skeptical eye . Many causes contributed to this want of faith in the government ? the unbalanced budget , the economic depression , the threat of new taxes , the threat of curtailed benefits to certain groups such as fonctionnaires , peasants , and veterans , the inability of any ministry to command a parliamentary majority , the fear of Hitler Germany , and the widening popular conviction that all governments , of no matter what ministerial complexion , are of one stripe ? that is to say , dishonest . Popular lack of faith in the government was crystallized when the astounding corruption of the affaire Stavisky unfolded itself early this year . Rioting began in Paris . And it happened that on a February night of very serious rioting indeed there was a drawing of the lottery . Royalists and communists , for the moment joined in a common cause , battled with police and gendarmes in the streets of Paris . But in the great amphitheater of the Trocader ? , a capacity audience watched the golden globes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Outside , another crowd , forgetting their grievances against the government , listened with drawn breath to words blared forth from the loud speakers . In theaters , in cinemas , in cafes , and in homes there was the same tense listening . A few thousand royalists and communists were at that moment engaging police and soldiery ; dead and wounded men were dropping in the streets ; but the great public of Paris , who might have joined the rioters and made all police resistance futile , had ears and thought for nothing but the lottery . This popularity of the lottery , so dramatically exhibited in a moment of impending revolution , reveals itself in other , less theatrical guises . For example , a vast number of little lotteries turn like satellites about the great , central luminary of the national lottery . One may reasonably predict that if a legalized national lottery appears in the United States , we shall witness a similar phenomenon . What happens is this : a newspaper buys up a large number of tickets . Since , mathematically , there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the purchase of a sufficient number of tickets reasonably guarantees some sort of return . For each new subscription the newspaper offers a ticket of its own , this ticket representing a certain share in whatever is won by the lottery tickets already purchased . I have cited a newspaper as an example ; but the satellites of the national lottery are thrown off from all imaginable enterprises . Butchers , grocers , bakers , department stores , even cinemas , have taken up the practice of issuing private tickets that guarantee some fractional participation in the possible gains from lottery tickets . Indeed , the ramifications of the national lottery are so extensive , that it is not exaggerating to call them a new French industry . I have no statistics to back this statement , but I surmise that activities directly and indirectly associated with the lottery have perceptibly cut down unemployment in France . IV There is no reason to believe that a legalized American lottery would not equal the popularity of the French . Years ago Cavour said : " The lottery is a tax upon imbeciles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ days by declaring that , " The national lottery is supported almost entirely by the needy , whose want only makes them brave the disadvantages of an unequal play . It is almost always the bread of misery that is risked there , when it is not the fruit of crime . " However true these opinions may have been of former lotteries , they no longer do justice to the ticket buyers of the present . Unless we are to assume that virtually the whole French Republic is made up either of imbeciles or of the miserable poor , one of the older moral objections to lotteries no longer holds water . A whole nation now plays at the lottery in France and mightwell play in America . When a government nowadays taxes its people through a lottery it no longer taxes merely the fools and those who want for bread . But if it is now untrue that lotteries are vicious because of the character of the people taxed , the very fact that people of all classes , all conditions , currently buy lottery tickets , immensely reinforces @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is that lotteries permit and encourage gambling . Now I do not wish to think in sophistries when I say that there is no activity in life that does not reveal the face of chance , some gamble . This philosophic platitude does not do away with the objection to lotteries as a game of chance . But it must underlie any reasonable examination , and judgment , of the gambling element in lotteries . First of all it permits us to understand the willingness of nearly everyone to play at some game of chance . That widespread appetite comes out of a conscious or unconscious recognition that not only in games hedged about by easy rules , but in all the complex affairs of living , where the rules are difficult or impossible to discern , issues large and small are submitted to chance . But it would be silly to argue that there is no difference between the man who risks crossing the street because his business calls him to the opposite side and the man who risks a stack of chips in a poker game . A reasonably @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and gambles of living and the games of chips and cards and wheels and tickets . Nevertheless , the two are so intimately related that out of the larger game comes the almost universal appetite to play at the smaller . Compared with the popular appetite for gambling , the popular appetite for alcohol is trifling . It is as easy to find a man who never takes an alcoholic drink as to find one who does . It is nearly impossible to find a man who does not play some game of chance , if it be nothing more disreputable than dominoes , and who does not risk something in the play , if it be nothing more grave than dashed hopes at losing . I make these obvious statements to point out that an attempted and absolute prohibition of all games of chance would be measurelessly madder than the late , attempted prohibition of alcohol . But we will restrict the character of games of chance and say that those to be prohibited are those in which money is gained or lost . To a degree it is indeed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of games of chance . But here again complete prohibition is mad and impossible . Imagine an attempt to outlaw the game of bridge , for example , on the grounds that it is commonly played for some stake per point Yet bridge , in that the player can not control the cards dealt to him , is a game of chance . On the other hand , there are certain kinds of gambling games which by common agreement should be or have been outlawed at one time or another . These are the games in which there is too unfair a risk . The unfairness of the risk may rest in dishonesty ? the game is not decently conducted by those who control it . Or it may reside in the temptation offered by the game to risk far more than the player can afford . Thus gambling on the game of bridge is widely countenanced because the risk per point is fixed beforehand and can not rise with the rising excitement of the play , whereas the game of poker is frequently condemned because the risk is not always @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for games of chance , the impossibility of wholly prohibiting them , even perhaps an emotional need for them , the reasonable man will grant that a gambling game should be legal , should be openly permitted , if it fulfills the conditions of honest operation and restricted risk . Now does a lottery fulfill these conditions ? Apparently , in the opinion of some European peoples , it does , or so commonly fulfills them that in Spain , Italy , Austria , Denmark , and Holland , we have had uninterrupted legal lotteries for centuries . Yet in the past lotteries have been subjected to dishonest manipulation , in both the drawing and distribution of prizes . It was no doubt the dishonest conducting of the royal lottery that caused its abolition in France and set the face of French governments against national lotteries for nearly a hundred years . In 1700 the King , entering into coin-petition with private lotteries , declared : " ' His Majesty , having observed the inclination of the majority of his subjects to put money on private lotteries , and desiring to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a sure and considerable income for the rest of their lives and to enrich their families . .. has judged it appropriate to establish a royal lottery . . . " This lottery , offering nearly 175,000 tickets at two louis each , proposed to recompense the winners with annuities amounting to the gross sum of 500,000 livres . The tickets were sold , the money collected , and the winners were given their annuity certificates . But on these annuities the King 's Controller paid neither interest nor principal ! Thereafter lottery scandals mounted in France ; either those who conducted them were accused of dishonesty or the risks were unfair to the players . During the five or six years preceding its abolition in 1836 , the royal lottery issued so many tickets and turned back so little money to the ticket holders , that popular clamor at last forced its suppression . When the recent French lottery was legalized the rules to govern it were laid down after a careful study of lotteries past and present . First , it was determined that the government would accept less @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by selling tickets . Second , the governance of the lottery was put in the hands of an eminent committee , which included chiefs of the greatest banks of France . Third , cash payments of the prizes were to be immediate . Fourth , the method of drawing the lots was made simple and visible , yet was provided with the mechanism of the globes , which virtually defies dishonest manipulation . If lotteries are to be legalized in the United States they might very well follow the modern French model . As a means of taxation lotteries are obviously popular . The taxpayer looks upon them , as a writer in the Malin of Paris put it , with yeux doux . A lottery can be honestly conducted , and for most participants it is , by its nature , free from risk , built up by excitement , of unwarrantedly large play . The excitement of a lottery lies in the hope of winning and the drama of the drawing ; but the play is over once a ticket is bought . There is no fatal doubling , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ losses . A national lottery , properly run , satisfies the universal instinct to gamble without tempting a sane man to ruin himself . Indeed , I half suspect that had a comparatively harmless participation in a national lottery been possible during the boom days , the public instinct to gamble would often have flowed into this channel and not so frequently into the disastrous channel of the stock market . But a lottery is a game of chance , is obvious gambling . Earlier in this article I mentioned the report of a British royal commission to investigate lotteries . In that report , the Commission declared against a national lottery on the grounds that the Government should not practice anything contrary to the morals of many citizens . In England and the United States , lotteries , without very great reason it seems , have for so long been looked upon by many citizens as an especially vicious form of gambling , that it might be well for neither of these governments to countenance them . Yet one could wish for a little more consistency in the moral viewpoints @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decide to keep its hands unsoiled by taxes raised in a lottery . Or at least the left hand . But with the right hand it will continue to accept taxes raised on gambling in the stock market ? a kind of gambling which , unlike the play of lotteries , may ruin not only the man who plays , but the very nation itself. * * The author thankfully acknowledges the extensive assistance of Mr. Herve Schwederslty in gathering the factual material for this article .                     