@@469820

ON THE fringe of New York 's Times Square , and within a spotlight 's range of a dozen theaters , stands a building which was obviously designed to house a bank . Too young to know the harsh caress of cleansing sandblast yet old enough to be shabby , it probably served many actors in the good days when actors had use for banks . This would have been before its parent , the Bank of United States , collapsed amid the most sensational publicity of the infant depression . To-day this building again serves the actor , but in rather a different way . It shelters the New York offices of the WPA 's Arts Project No. 1 ? the Federal Theater . From this and similar headquarters in twenty-seven other States the activities of 12,500 theater people engaged in relief projects are supervised . They are divided into nearly 270 units , playing to a weekly audience of approximately 500,000 persons , of whom about 100,000 pay an admission fee . In players , technicians , and audience , this is very likely the largest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New York offices in an abandoned bank building is more than slightly symbolic of the whole project and its genesis . When America was enjoying the security of its highest income , and could most easily afford to lavish a few unimportant millions on a national theater , little was done to realize that desire . Now we arc poor . Government cost-sheets are figured to thethousandth part of a cent . Cries of " boondoggling " fill the air . Nevertheless , we find ourselves busily patronizing the arts , music , and the theater in particular . It is natural to be impressed primarily by the perversity of the situation , but there is a consideration far more fundamental . A federal theater has grown out of need . It has not been created artificially . The men and women who fill its stages , build its scenery , and direct its plays are doing these jobs because the maintenance of life depends upon it . They are not the finest specimens of our acting and directing talent brought together in a chaste spirit of art patronage . They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the privilege of tilling once again the field which they have chosen as their life 's work . Whatever their shortcomings ? and they are neither few nor unimportant ? they have embraced their work with the passion and the zeal that root only in deprivation . The results they achieve have many weaknesses , but a lack of vitality is not one of them . Though relief of unemployed theatrical workers has been a government concern since the days of the CWA , the scope of that relief was modest until the WPA was created , and the plan of re-establishing unemployed craftsmen in their own vocations developed on a wide front . The joint resolution of Congress by which four billion dollars was appropriated for relief purposes , was adopted on April 8 , 1935 . Of this amount , $300 , - 000,000 was specified for " assistance for educational , professional , and clerical persons , " and an executive order was issued authorizing the establishment of a federal theater as one of the four arts projects . Much valuable time was wasted while a plan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the educational as well as the practical branches of the theater were invited to submit programs . Among these was Hallie Flanagan , whose name was known to her students at Vassar , to a few librarians who had filed her book Shifting Scenes , and to scarcely anyone else . Skeptically , she submitted her outline . To her considerable surprise , it was followed by an invitation to visit WPA Administrator Harry Hopkins on May 28 , 1935 , and shortly after , by the announcement of her appointment as National Director of the Federal Theater Projects . For the use of the arts projects $27.000,000 had been appropriated from the general fund ; and , on the basis of unemployment surveys , $6,784,036 was allocated to the Federal Theater . It was Mrs. Flanagan 's task to employ 12,000 persons for six months from this fund . The approach she proposed took cognizance of two factors : on the one side , a large group of actors whose skills were deemed worthy of preservation , though their destitution had progressed to the point where they were maintained by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ included millions of persons who had never seen a play , and even more others who could no longer afford to pay luxury prices for tickets . The problem then was to bring them together . Originally the project was designed to keep alive the bodies of these thousands of Americans during hard times . When their bodies had been cared for , attention could be directed to their souls . So fine an actor as Harry Irvine , who earned unanimous praise in " Murder in the Cathedral , " had been turned away byinnumerable commercial managers because a slight tremor of the hands gave them the impression that he was " too old . " Similar experiences were common in the allied programs of the four arts projects . A violinist in one of Florida 's WPA orchestras apologized to a visiting executive fox the performance of himself and his associates because their hands were still stiff from work on road gangs , the only relief previously available to them . Another visitor to a WPA art exhibit , impressed by a painting of cloud formations , learned that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could see . Paralysis confined her to one position , and until the local arts project supplied her with painting materials , she did nothing but lie on her back and wait for the food basket to be delivered . The Theater project , being more largely dependent on co-operative effort than any of the others , posed the largest problems of organization and administration . Projects could not be established arbitrarily where the directors thought they would do the greatest good , as the plan provided for a theater unit only where twenty-five persons at least ( on relief rolls as of November 1 , 1935 ) could prove they had previously earned their living in the theater . In order to repair the lack of certain specialized talents among the unemployed , a concession was finally obtained whereby ten to twenty-five per cent of the total number on a project could be drawn from non-relief sources . To this leniency may be attributed some of the most valuable results achieved by the Federal Theater . Before much could be done about actually putting the players to work , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ division of the enterprise , who could accept responsibility for the activities of as many as five thousand persons . Among those who agreed to co-operate were Elmer Rice for New York ; Jasper Deeter , of the famous Hedgerow Theater , for Pennsylvania and New Jersey ; Thomas Wood Stevens , once head of the excellent School of the Drama at Carnegie Tech , for the Central Region , and nine others . Their experiences were varied ; their problems no less so . In each region two administrations had to be created ? one to supervise the expenditure of money , the other to care for the technical details of rehearsals and productions . Where a locality includes more than one project , each unit has a separate personnel of actors , stage designers , and a director . In addition , agreements had to be reached with heads of the unions related to the theater , including Actors Equity , the American Federation of Actors , the International Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employees , the Union of Wardrobe Mistresses , the Union of Electrical Workers , even the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ compromises ensued , until a formula was produced whereby the relief wage of $23.86 per week would be measured against the prevailing union wage in each area ( $40 a week for actors in New York ) and a proportionate amount of service rendered by each group . Since the workers would be paid a salary whether they were playing or rehearsing , Actors Equity agreed to permit its members to give six performances a week , or somewhat more than the number of hours compensated for on the " prevailing wage " basis . But rehearsal schedules are limited to four hours a day , which remains a considerable handicap in the preparation of new plays . Consistent with the theatrical tradition that stage hands are the most expensive unit of any production , the Federal Theater must employ two crews weekly for each play . Apparently three nights a week is all the service the government may receive from these virtuosi for its $23.86 . Closed shop or open shop was another point of contention . The government could endorse no distinction , but local administrators seek to evade @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plan is possible . Although these steps suggest a logical progress from point to point , a swift con-summation of the details involved , weeks and months were spent in effecting each gain . Recommendations on policy or important decisions on procedures had to pass from a local supervisor to his regional director to Mrs. Flanagan to the assistant WPA administrator in charge of the arts projects ( formerly Jacob Baker and now Ellen Woodward ) to Aubrey Williams , deputy administrator of the WPA , and wearily back down the line again . In especially important matters Harry Hopkins himself might be asked for a ruling . How Iong one might wait while a paper languished for a signature or an envelope for a franking stamp was unpredictable . As late as April of this year the general administration was still so confused that no bills for supplies for the Hartford , Conn. , unit had been paid in six weeks . Local citizens thought well enough of the venture to advance the necessary money , other than the relief wage , and the company was able to continue its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Theater of Hartford contributed $50 to help launch the project . G. Lester Paul has spent his own small salary as supervisor to appease objecting creditors . The scenery used by the company is the personal property of the stage hands . Even the change in the box-office on the opening night was borrowed from a friend . " Nor was the New York project , show-window of the enterprise , free from troubles . A door-hinge ordered by the Procurement Department for the set of " American Holiday " failed to make its appearance after days of waiting . On the night of the opening the carpenter finally salvaged one from a dressing-room door so that the play might go on . When the problems of selecting a personnel , establishing administrative procedures , sorting the workers into units , had finally been adjusted , so that productions could actually be scheduled , difficulties with local and national points of view still remained . So remote a master as Shakespeare was the center of one disturbance , in New Britain , where a performance of " The Merchant of Venice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ local Jewry . In Boston , cradle of American liberalism , Maxwell Anderson 's depiction of Washington in " Valley Forge " caused another bitter battle . It finally ended with the transfer of Hiram Motherwell , local supervisor , to New York . The play was not given . In Minneapolis , the presence of a Ruby Bates ( who had once been arrested for fan dancing ) on a variety bill to be presented at a CCC camp caused so much criticism that the entertainment had to be abandoned although Miss Bates was to have danced fully clothed . In Los Angeles a chorus boy was dropped from a WPA musical show because of " undue political activity . " He had chosen to run for Congress on the Communist ticket . Undoubtedly the most widely publicized contention arose in New York through Elmer Rice 's intention to present , as the first production of the " Living Newspaper , " a dramatization of the events leading to Italy 's invasion of Ethiopia . As players in the drama were characters depicting Mussolini , Haile Selassie , Anthony Eden @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were quotations from speeches . Nevertheless , government censorship intervened , with Baker wielding the ax . It was asserted that he had previously issued an order stating " no issue of the ' Living Newspaper ' shall contain any representation of the head , or one of the ministers , or the cabinet of a foreign state . " Rice indignantly refused to make the changes suggested ; and Baker , with the usual regrets , " accepted " a resignation which Rice had tendered to him on the occasion of a previous disagreement . Crying " The issue is free speech ! " Rice asserted that his resignation had been forced not because of " Ethiopia , " but because his program contained a number of scripts distasteful to the official palate . Regardless of what secondary motives may have been involved , it is difficult to see how any government could allow an official and subsidized enterprise to portray , for purposes of ridicule , the executives of stateswith which it maintains friendly relations . Rice 's sincerity can not be questioned ; but it was exceeded only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ furor about " Ethiopia , " and other local disturbances elsewhere , the wheels of the machine were gradually beginning to turn . Ten days later ? on February 3rd ? the first production by the WPA was given in New York , the Negro Theater 's " Walk Together Chillun . " During the remainder of the month two other plays opened in Manhattan , and in March the season was enriched by four more productions . Thereafter new openings came steadily . Activities commenced in the vast territory in the Northwestern , Southern , and Western States . Obscure but none the less important aspects of the project ? the Children 's Theater , the vaudeville units , open-air theaters , circuses , touring companies , the twenty-five marionette shows , the Studio Theater ( which trains workers to supervise every branch of theatrical presentation from carpentry to play directing ) ? began to function . What has been accomplished since then ? What is likely to be accomplished in the months till January , when the present life guarantee expires ? What is the outlook for the future @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there has been no lack of them ? have concentrated on the situation in New York , accepting this as characteristic of the country as a whole , or else disregarding the activities elsewhere . That there is abundant material in New York to engage the attention does not make such an approach less a fallacy . With the largest number of unemployed theatrical people , the largest theatergoing audience , and the largest nontheater-going but potential audience , the New York area has seen the greatest number of productions , the highest level of quality , certainly the most vital plays , the most original productions . It produced " Triple A Plowed Under , " an issue of the " Living Newspaper " which has since been staged in half a dozen other cities ; it sponsored " Murder in the Cathedral , " the T. S. Eliot play which marks the finest accomplishment of the Federal Theater in sheer artistry ; it achieved an eleven-weeks ' run for the negroid " Macbeth , " which is currently on tour . It also provided the major disappointment of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's bitter struggle for justice , which , as " Injunction Granted , " was neither dramatic , bitter , nor just . Here too was produced " Help Yourself , " a competent European farce based on unemployment . In a city where facile acting , bright scenery , and slick direction arc much more highly regarded than eloquent or sincere writing , the Federal Theater 's New York unit has managed to attract a surprisingly wide audience . Skeptics who amusedly paid their fifty-five cents for one or the other of these productions , that they might be properly provided with dinner-table conversation , have been astonished to find them remarkably professional in execution . Moreover , not one of them ? save " Macbeth , " which was plainly a tour de force ? has lacked relevance to the contemporary scene . In a season which produced , as its particular boon to posterity , " Idiot 's Delight " ( anointed by the Pulitzer Jury ) , the ambitious if misguided crudity of even " Injunction Granted " was a blast of fresh air on a sultry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ activities to the world of actualities has saddled the Federal Theater in New York with one of its most vexatious burdens ? all those adherents of the Cause , from parlor pinks to cafeteria-reds , who are only too eager to embrace anything which suggests , however vaguely , approval of their own attitudes . The number of Communists within the framework of the Federal Theater , one may be certain , is slight ? despite the designation by the outraged of everyone from Mrs. Flanagan to her lowliest publicity-writer as " an emissary of Moscow . " But the praise of those leftists who have attached themselves to the Federal Theater , and adopted it by their vocal and written encouragement , has frequently been as embarrassing as it is unwanted . Devoid of responsibilities or obligations , they may express their opinions without stint ? unaware , or indifferent to the realization that their endorsement may be the one factor certain to influence curtailment of the project . In addition , their applause on dialectic grounds has generally been unmerited . A reviewer for The New Theatre found it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Triple A " : " I do n't think anyone should get the idea that this show , or a hundred like it spread through the country , will be a shortcut to the revolution . " At the opening of " Murder in the Cathedral , " a group of leftists burst into applause when one actor said : " Under certain circumstances , violence is permissible , " although it was Fascist violence that Eliot 's character was condoning ! Following the unenthusiastic reception of " Injunction Granted , " a misguided comrade sought to console one of the authors with the praise : " It was perfect according to Marx . " A more sublime missing-of-thepoint would be difficult to conceive ? to consider fidelity to a philosophic point of view more important than satisfying the immemorial rigors of the medium : the presentation of an absorbing and well-constructed drama in which forcible material , justly treated , would impress a miscellaneous audience with its own relationship to reality . An inevitable result of this adoption has been to arouse the antagonism of the anti-Administration press , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the minds of millions in New York alone . Though an invitation showing of " Ethiopia " had caused Arthur Brisbane enthusiastically to misquote Burns by describing it " a magnificent pageant of ' man 's brutality to man , ' " " Triple A " was assailed by the same Hearst press as " the most outrageous misuse of taxpayers ' money that the Roosevelt Administration has yet been guilty of . " In the sober pages of Liberty Bernarr MacFadden characterized " Triple A " as an attempt " to stir the ugliest passions of the poor against the rich and destroy the foundations of private property . " Further , it was " a drama of hates , " and the whole editorial was titled " Inciting to Riot . " Why ? Merely because the climax of the drama offered an impersonation of a leading member of a duly registered and constituted political party speaking words quoted from a public speech . To be sure , the person was Earl Browder , now candidate for the presidency on the Communist ticket . Is it possible that Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interpretation of the Bill of Rights ? It is illuminating that these difficulties have been almost exclusively in Manhattan , where the so-called subversive elements are the most resonant , the guardians of the status quo most alert to their responsibilities . Elsewhere in New York , and through the country , the Federal Theater has pursued a program as impressive as it is ambitious . One need only scan the reports from the press of the many cities where the Federal Theater has been the living theater during the past six months to realize that whatever its misadventures in New York , the project has rendered inestimable service to millions of Americans who have never seen Broadway except in a newsreel . Thus , during April , Milwaukee saw " Outside Looking In " ; Detroit had " Liliom ' " ; six WPA theaters in Los Angeles . were functioning at once , presenting everything from " Six Characters in Search of an Author " to plays in Yiddish , French , and Mexican ; probably for the first time in its history Asheville , N. C. , witnessed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Brother Mose " ; a touring company presented " Twelfth Night " in the town hall of Littleton , Mass. ; the Rutherford , N. J. , Republican , announcing the imminent production of " The Thirteenth Chair , " added , " a twelve-piece symphony orchestra will assist " ; a little later six projects were operating in Chicago ? an Americana company whose schedule included " The Texas Steer " ( one of Charles Hoyt 's political satires of the ' 90 's ) , " Secret Service , " and " Three Wise Fools " ; an Experimental Theater in which " Chalk Dust " and " Triple A " were offered ; a Negro company rehearsing " Everyman , " to outshine New York 's " Macbeth " ; a Laboratory Theater , giving new plays ; a Dance Group , and a Pageant unit . By the beginning of June , works by dramatists from Euripides to Wilde , Shakespeare to Ibsen , and including contemporary scripts by Shaw , Elmer Rice , Hatcher Hughes , Lynn Riggs , Sutton Vane , and R. C. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the only absentee of consequence on this list appears to be Eugene Gladstone O'Neill . III In one sense the fundamental objectives of the Federal Theater had been achieved . The actors were no longer merely existing on relief , but utilizing and developing their abilities ; the audience whose existence a few short months before had been merely a theory was actually coming to the theater , in many instances paying an admission charge and coming again . But there was little promise of enduring vitality in such a program . A firmer relationship to the public had to be established . The functional character of the enterprise could not be confined to the needs of those on relief . They in turn had to work in relation to the needs of others ? their audience . What , exactly , is a functional theater ? As an intellectual catchword " functional " has been enjoying a modest vogue recently . Its use implies a desire to evade a definition rather than to articulate it . But a " functional " theater is definite and tangible . It means @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ something of significance both to the players and the audience ; a theater in which designers and carpenters work within the limits of a restricted budget , accepting this as a spur rather than a halter to the imagination ; a theater in which swiftness , simplicity , vitality are the touchstones of excellence ; a theater in which the trite and the sentimental have no more place than the dishonest or the spurious ; it means the development of a theater which has roots as well as branches , which bears the fruit to sustain life as well as the blossoms to ornament it . As Michael Garnett has so well said : " Art must always be functional , especially the art of the theater . When it ceases to perform some useful function it becomes show business . " As a point of departure , the supervisors in each region were urged to solicit scripts from local sources , preferably plays having a basis in the life of the region or the history of the country . Mrs. Flanagan has stated the problem thus : " It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Theater only in terms of what we have hitherto experienced . We must see the relationship between the men at work on Boulder Dam and the Greek Chorus ; we must study PavIowa as well as Pavlov , Einstein as well as Eisenstein , must derive not only from ancient Bagdad but from modern Ethiopia . " That is the ideal : the progress to date has been hardly more than rudimentary . Some plays have been extracted from regional sources and put on the stage . The Negro unit of Birmingham , Ala. , has produced a comedy of local life , " Home in Glory , " which was well received . In Reading , " Feet on the Ground , " concerned with the life of the Dunkards ( the Dutch settlers of that region ) aroused so much interest that the farmers asked that it be sent to their annual fair . Indianapolis has seen " The Campbells Are Coming , " a play of Hoosier life ; and Asheville , N. C. , has been regaled with " Smoky Joe , " a portrait of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gone slowly , since it involves creation as well as perform-ante . By the encouragement of the group and the factual method of writing plays , the Federal Theater is hopeful that valuable material will be assembled . These productions are remote from the goals visualized by the Director ; they are merely cited to indicate that a beginning has been made . The ambitious plan to send " Jefferson Davis " on tour reflects the difficulties to be encountered . Though ample co-operation was secured from historical societies in the South , and much advance interest was aroused , the tour ended in virtual disaster . A too rigid adherence to historical presentation of the material and a meagerness of drama in the writing are blamed for the failure . The experience served the useful purpose of demonstrating to the more optimistic among the project 's executives that the requirements of the theater are inexorable , that regard . less of documentary excellence , action and movement are inseparable from effectiveness on the stage . Even the predisposition of an audience toward a subject can not be relied upon to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are the platitudes of playwriting to be sure ; but each playwright must learn them for himself , and only by experience . In addition to restudying the actual materials of its presentations , the Federal Theater has devoted itself to finding new outlets for talents which no longer command public interest in their traditional uses . One of its major concerns has been vaudeville , in which unemployment was severe even before the general depression . By common consent , the materials of vaudeville are dead , their attractiveness to the public exhausted . Yet the technics of the vaudevillian ? the brisk making of a point , the art of putting one 's self over in eight or nine minutes , the blending of acrobatics , music , and dance , the development of that fertile showmanship which underlies the abilities of some of our most prominent comedians and actors ? are of the theater 's essence , and merited preservation . How to turn these resources to fresh employment , to find the framework in which they would again attract the public , was one of the most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The most gratifying success was achieved in Los Angeles , which was exceeded only by New York in the number of its unemployed actors , especially vaudevillians . Under the direction of Eda Edson , formerly employed in vaudeville as a conductor , the variety unit wrote the sketches , lyrics , and musk of " Follow the Parade , " a full evening 's entertainment . Part topical revue , part circus , part dramatic show , it ran in Los Angeles for ten weeks before large audiences , and then was taken to the Texas Centennial in Dallas , where it played for the rest of the summer . In the vivid language of Daily Variety " The Federal Theater 's ' Follow the Parade ' is the biggest half-buck 's worth of entertainment dished up locally in many years . " In Chicago , an experiment with vaudeville shows in three parks was so well attended that six more units were added to give nightly performances . These units put to work more than half of the 685 people on the Chicago project , and the park department @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enterprise that it now contributes the production costs ? light , heat , scenery , and costumes . Result : the government expense here is only one and seven-tenths per cent above the relief wagel Other outlets for vaudeville talents have been in CCC camps , in hospitals , in underprivileged districts , in prisons , reformatories , and asylums . One such show recently took place on the lawn of an insane asylum in St. Louis , with the less violent patients seated before the improvised stage , the other inmates gazing out of the windows of the building . One who was present describes the transition from hostility to interest to enthusiasm on these staring , stolid faces as one of the most remarkable experiences of a lifetime spent in the theater . It is not unlikely that some of the most valuable work accomplished by the Federal Theater is being done in these repositories of the diseased , the bodily weary , and the mentally sick , far from Broadway , from the commercial theater , and the reviewers . Undoubtedly a book could be written ? and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which drive off from various headquarters in Western and Southern cities , into regions where commercial touring companies have never penetrated . The first of these efforts to decentralize the theater had North Carolina as its locale , with a production of " The Post Road " on tour during May . In addition to playing in such little towns as Wilson , Kinston , Chapel Hill , and Fayetteville , the company struck off into the mountains to give performances , literally , in the backwoods . Where there was no auditorium or church hall to serve as a theater the production took place outdoors , on an improvised stage , with economically rigged scenery , and automobile headlights to provide illumination . Another such unit played a one-night stand in Valley , Nebraska , which has a population of one thousand . Eight hundred crowded into the little hall to see the first dramatic presentation ever given in Valley . Its mayor , writing his appreciation to the National Director , besought her to find some way in which the players could become domiciled in Valley , and give @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ present , affording entertainment to a vast audience , and looking to the future with the experimental production of new plays , the Federal Theater has attempted to illuminate the past of the American stage by subsidizing research , encouraging documentation by memoirs , and caring for the preservation of historical materials . Under the direction of Rosamond Gilder , this Bureau of Research and Publication has undertaken to compile a bibliography of the world 's plays more comprehensive than any in existence . Each play will be synopsized , with a notation on the number of sets and characters it requires , that a director may know without further inquiry whether it suits his needs . In addition to reading new plays as they are submitted , and making recommendations on their quality , the Bureau is extracting specimens of early American drama from libraries and museums , preserving them in an accessible form . As an incidental activity , a day-by-day chronology of the stage in New York is being assembled from 1875 ( where the researches of Brown and Odell leave off ) to the point where the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ life has value far beyond its utility to the specialist . IV It will offend few persons , I am sure , to say that except for a handful of executives and a few writers who have studied the subject , no one has an accurate appreciation of what is actually being done by the 263 units now part of the Federal Theater Project . Its vastness ? in personnel , divisions of operation , and mere geographical extent ? eludes casual comprehension . Wherefore , the enthusiasm of those who can see , at best , a small part of it , is alI the more remarkable . In the Bridgeport Times-Star of May 21st , an editorial declared : " It should be noted that the latest production of the Park Theater has , by its very excellence , raised the WPA theater project there far beyond the level of anything such as ' boondoggling ' and establishes the possibility that there may develop a civic theater which will find its legitimate productions warmly welcomed by the community . " At the same time the Raleigh NewsObseraer was saying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ producer in the world ? confounding the doubters with abundant proof that a governmentally subsidized theater is the correct solution to both the immediate problem of finding employment for actors and allied workers and of stimulating and perpetuating a native American drama . " From Butte , Mont. , comes aplea ( Standard , May 20th ) that " these big hit shows ? Macbeth , ' ' Murder in the Cathedral '  - -  take to the road so that the taxpayers in the tank towns and one-night stands may have an opportunity to see what their money is achieving . " Save for an occasional blast at an inkling of subversive attitudes in an issue of the " Living Newspaper , " or in the choice of a playscript for one of the widely publicized units , opposition to the Federal Theater has virtually subsided . The excellence of certain productions no doubt was an important factor in this conquest , but the evidence of people actually paying money , willingly , to aid in the support of a government project has undoubtedly abashed its more resonant critics . When the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ squandering the taxpayer 's money " ; since everyone is agreed that relief must be maintained in some form , that objection is hardly tenable when a good part of the " other than labor costs " ( government phraseology for everything beyond the relief wage ) is met by income from productions . The ten-weeks run of " Murder in the Cathedral , " the enduring life of the Negro " Macbeth " on the road after three months in New York are familiar enough . It is a little more surprising to learn that in Indianapolis sixty thousand persons attended the productions of the Federal Theater during its first eleven weeks . With a more modest organization and a smaller public , the Omaha unit played for five months to an average of one thousand persons a week . Though the New York project is not to be accepted as typical of the Federal Theater 's financial fortunes throughout the country , since it commands an audience of habitual playgoers ? a handicap as well as an asset ? there is abundant interest in its record to the 15th @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ given since the establishment of the Federal Theater , of which ten are hold-overs from the CWA organization . The total audience has been 4,020,876 , of whom 422,730 paid admission . The free performances have totalled 4,214 , the paid performances 1,116 . ( The latter figure is somewhat deceptive ; a proportion of each audience is composed of persons on home relief , who are admitted free . ) The average attendance has been 754 . From these performances the government has received a revenue of $119,180.64. * Indeed , the government now finds itself in the novel position not of apologizing for a large appropriation or expenditure , but of explaining the disposition of the money earned by the project . To be sure , $119,180.64 is no vast sum , measured against the cost of the project . But even this has an extremely practical value in extending the scope of the theater 's activities , in meeting production costs , royalties on scripts ( in most cases $50 a week ) , paying for the rent of lighting equipment , a modest amount of advertising , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the basic relief wage . When money first began to accumulate it reverted to a general fund , credited to the whole project . When the sums increased it was decided to earmark the earnings for the use of the unit in which they originated . Each theater charging an admission has a bonded agent cashier in the box office at all times . When the day 's business is concluded the money is transmitted to the local branch of the Treasury Department . These daily deposits may eventually be one of the major factors in impressing hard-headed legislators with the merit of the project . While it is absurd to expect one or several persons to maintain actual contact with 12,000 workers spread over 15,000 miles of theaters , the aspirations of such an enterprise can be no loftier than those of the people in command . It is certain that whatever the accomplishments of the Federal Theater have been to date , those of the next few months will be better . There has been ample evidence that the executives intend it to be neither a com- . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and length of runs will find them in the Personal and Otherwise columns.petitor of the commercial theater nor an imitation of it . That it has been , on certain occasions , both of these things , is inherent in its hasty organization , the necessity to have a working plan on which improvements could be effected . In any case , it is not likely that such plays as " The Patsy , " " Smilin ' Thru , " " Your Uncle Dudley , " or " Lightnin - will long remain the limit of the Federal Theater 's horizon , even in the outlying areas where these scripts have served for the organizational period . The current dramatization of Sinclair Lewis 's " It Ca n't Happen Here " is the most exciting development in the Federal Theater since the conception of the " Living Newspaper . " Not merely because the important material of the book will reach an enormous audience , or because twenty-eight units will present the work simultaneously in fifteen cities , or because it wilI be given in Yiddish , Italian , German @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ each of these cities and racial groups will see the play in a production devised by the staff of each unit , with the action projected before a setting indigenous to the locality , in terms of an unmistakable relationship to the life of the audience . In one place a dairy farm may be the locale ; in another , a sheep ranch ; in another , Doremus will be the editor of a Yiddish newspaper ; in another , of a " race " publication . Thus the essential point of the book ? that it can happen anywhere ? will be enforced tremendously . The affiliation of an author of Lewis 's stature with the Federal Theater is no mean triumph either . Though the present plan will yield him and his collaborator the sum of $1,450 weekly in royalties , it is certain that a commercial production would double that sum . Nevertheless , he has expressed himself as content with the previous earnings of the book and eager to embrace the opportunity for such an audience as no commercial manager could promise . It is precisely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of any lingering resemblances to " show business . " No less ambitious is the plan , now in the conference stage , whereby the eighty fully staffed units of the Federal Theater will each present in January a new play by an American author . In other words , there will be eighty simultaneous premieres ? fat none of the plays will have been seen previously , and each unit will give a different play . It is not likely that any country but America could give birth to so audacious a scheme , but it is a program definitely illustrative of the objective of the Director : " A theater American in idea , national in scope , and regional in fact . " The temptation at this point is to call loudly for permanent establishment of any government enterprise sponsoring so generally admirable a program ; but those in authority avoid public discussion of the remote future . They conceive their job to be in the present , asserting their belief that the project must be sustained if a public need for it is incontestably demonstrated . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one can quarrel with the soundnessof it , as an ideal of procedure . Already there are signs that the interest of local groups in subsidized drama is keener than it has ever been before . In June the State of Washington 's department of education announced that it will sponsor a stock theater in Tacoma this fall , aided by a loan from the Rockefeller Foundation . Classic and romantic plays will comprise the schedule at first , with two five-week tours through the State a specification of each year 's operations . Also a Jewish national charity has expressed its willingness to take over the activities of the Yiddish groups through the country if government underwriting is withdrawn . Other local groups have suggested the possibility of similar action for their units V Those who profess optimism about a permanent subsidy for the Federal Theater must do so in ignorance of the nature of unions , their unwillingness to accept a relief wage as a permanent standard , the difficulty of retaining the present level of executive ability at the salaries the government can afford to pay , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scheme of operation would have to be drastically altered , an organization much more mobile created . Partial participation of local treasuries would very likely be indispensable . Even if a changed Administration should decree that a Federal Theater is not consistent with its objectives , at least it has been demonstrated that government underwriting of artistic enterprise need not necessarily be a disastrous thing . And in America , where so much is governed by precedent , from the decisions of the Supreme Court to the actions of voters on Election Day , the undeniable success of such an innovation ( do n't forget those agent cashiers and their little boxes going down to the Treasury each night ) is of incalculable value . Fifteen cities seeing " It Ca n't Happen Here " ; " Camille " in Asheville , N. C. ; an audience of Croatian children in Gary , Indiana , watching " Reygoch , " drawn from their parents ' folklore ; Shakespeare in a Dakota farming village ; a group of actors in Jacksonville , explaining the fervor of their performance of " Saturday 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ play because we are all ' Saturday 's Children ' " ; touring units crawling over the face of a dozen different States ; and the government participating in all of it . What visionary would have dared to paint such a picture a year ago ? 