@@153553

No plays opened on Broadway last week . None had opened for a fortnight nor would for two months . For , the sun having swung south from the Tropic of Cancer , the U. S. Drama swung out across the city limits. * In a hundred remodeled barns , churches and casinos , on college campuses and at amusement parks , several thousand professional , semiprofessional and amateur performers greased up and caught their cues as the summer theatre season got under way . <P> There are a few summer theatres in the U. S. that are more than 30 years old . But the migration of show business to the country in pursuit of vacationing customers did not become a general movement until the early , depressed 19305 . It had started , however , in the preceding decade when stage-struck Eastern collegians-notably the Princeton group headed by James Stewart , Myron McCormick , Joshua Logan and Bretaigne Windust-began spending their vacations doing old and new plays in New England resort communities . In 1930 there were 15 active " straw hat " companies within a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ numerically the peak season , Variety could list 105 summer stock companies . At first Broadway producers thought that summer playhouses could be advantageously used to try out shows under consideration for the following season in town . Result was that three years ago 135 new plays were given rural premieres . But as time went on it became clear that limited resources of every sort , plus the abbreviated rehearsal periods common to all stock companies , prevented summer theatres from being able to give an adequate tryout . Nowadays , as a rule , only the least gifted writers permit their plays to be given a summer production . Significantly , of the 75 plays tried out by summer companies last year , only ten were rated at the time as " possibilities " and none that reached Broadway clicked even softly . This year there will be hardly more than 50 country premieres . <P> This year , also , there will be fewer country theatres . In 1936 , Equity counted 55 . This summer season 's total will fall about ten behind , but on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of previous seasons . Instead of depending on brand new shows whose authors are willing to waive royalties on the chance of a producer 's seeing and liking their work , typical 1937 rural playhouse will stick to tried &; true , love &; laughter shows from bygone seasons . More than one summer stock company will offer Let Us Be Gay , Candlelight , The Second Man , Meet the Wife , not the least of whose virtues is that royalty rates are low . They will be performed by ambitious youngsters from little theatres , conscience-stricken celebrities temporarily on leave from the films , Broadway people with their futures before and behind them . New York and New England will as usual see the largest concentration of these plays and players ( see map ) . A representative , but by no means comprehensive , summary of summer theatricals there and elsewhere :                     