@@469490

How many persons know that there is at this moment a national police force , or , if they know it , realize what this implies ? During the past few years the share of the Federal government in the prosecution of crime has been vastly expanded . The Seventy-Third Congress , in session last spring , added more to the provisions of the Federal criminal code than all previous Congresses . The States have almost been deprived of their traditional control of crime . To a greater or lesser extent the Federal government now has jurisdiction over obscenity , prostitution , rape , assault , indecent exhibitions , kidnapping , mayhem , blackmail , extortion , racketeering , criminal libel , murder , robbery , burglary , and grand larceny ? a long and varied array of offenses . One might have supposed that the experience of Prohibition would have taught the country a lesson as to the value of the Federal government as an agency of law enforcement ; yet this great expansion of the Federal criminal code took place , ironically enough , even while @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would end the disgrace of the country as a paradise of crime ? It is not easy to account for the success of the sudden agitation for the new form of Federal interference . To be sure the trend of the last few decades has been unmistakably in the di.rection of Federal centralization , and the Roosevelt Administration particularly has accomplished a tremendous concentration of Federal power . The New Deal in criminal law enforcement fits in well with the general assumptions of the New Deal . But exactly how was Uncle Sam cast in the ' ale of dens ex machina ? The most inattentive reader of the newspapers will have a ready explanation . The kidnapping of the Lindbergh baby a few years ago outraged the whole nation ; the editorial writers unanimously considered it " a challenge to the nation . " Now it is the immemorial habit of the American people when it is confronted by an emergency to pass a new law . The State of New Jersey already had a law against kidnapping which would have made it possible to sentence the offenders to life @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if new laws were to be passed they could only be Federal laws ; and , since there was a general disposition to stop at nothing , not even at calling out the army and navy , there were passed the so-called Lindbergh laws . One of them forbade the use of the mails to transmit a kidnapping threat or a demand for ransom as well as to commit blackmail , extortion , or criminal libel . The other prohibited the transportation of a kidnapped person across State lines . These laws were passed while the Hoover Administration still directed the destinies of the country . But it is significant that the Department of Justice , in the person of Attorney General Mitchell , showed little enthusiasm for this accretion of Federal jurisdiction . In fact , Mr. Mitchell issued at the time a statement to the press in which he pointed out that not too much should be expected from the efforts of the Federal government , and that , after all , it was the States which were primarily responsible for the prosecution of crime . Moreover , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a bill passed the House to enact a Federal anti-theft statute . As the result of his opposition the bill had been killed in the Senate . But the assault upon the criminal jurisdiction of the States is even older than the Hoover Administration . Until after the Civil War it was pretty generally agreed that the Federal criminal code should be confined to direct offenses against the Federal government such as treason and counterfeiting and various other crimes relating to the discharge of Federal functions such as running the post office and collecting the national revenue . But with the pestilence of moral passions which soon broke forth , the Federal statute books began to be cluttered up with prohibitions to prevent the individual from going to perdition in his own sweet way . First came the notorious Comstock acts against the transmission of obscene literature and contraceptive information through the mails . For a few decades there was no further move , but toward the close of the century a second moral victory was achieved by barring lottery tickets from the mails and interstate commerce . A third step @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ infamous Mann Act , which was interpreted by the Supreme Court to apply not only to commercialized vice but to any interstate elopement without benefit of clergy . Two years later the Federal criminal code was burdened with a further statutory nuisance banning the interstate transportation of prize fight films . The final and greatest triumph of the zealots was , of course , national Prohibition . But the present trend is quite different in character and motivation . The post-Civil War legislation was justified by the presumed existence of great moral emergencies . The present legislation is an effort to cope with the " crime wave , " and the demand for its enactment has come chiefly from the business associations . The present virtual abrogation of State criminal law is primarily the result of the pressure of big business . Business men have always been Federalists . It is the so-called National Motor Vehicle Theft Act of 1919 , also known as the Dyer Act , rather than the Lindbergh laws , which was really the first success in the present movement for Federal crime control . The movement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States Attorneys of convicting notorious gangsters for failing to pay their income taxes . II The story of the drive for Federal crime control centers in the activities of an organization known as the National Crime Commission which was organized in 1925 . The N.C.C . must not be confused with the later Wickersham Commission . It owed its existence not to governmental initiative but to a gentleman by the name of Mark 0 . Prentiss , who had had the singular privilege of accompanying Mussolini in his march on Rome , and who naturally became an admirer of the methods of the dictator . Incidentally , Prentiss believed that a majority of crimes of violence were committed by aliens . Prentiss interested the late Judge Gary of the United States Steel Corporation in the formation of a small national association of prominent men for the purpose of combating crime . The N.C.C . was organized at a meeting held in the Directors ' room of the United States Steel Corporation . The first executive committee consisted of several prominent captains of industry , two brigadiergenerals , several educators , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ offered to Richard Washburn Child , who had been American Ambassador to Italy , and who in this capacity had struck up a firm friendship with Mussolini , coming to believe that there was more democracy in Italy than in the United States . From the very first the Commission championed " vigorous measures . " It definitely supported the treat-'emrough school of penology . One of its first successes was the notorious Baumes Law of New York , which has recently been modified in the interests of humanity . Two years after its organization the Commission was in a position to assemble a tremendous national conference at the Willard Hotel in Washington . It was attended by a throng of law professors , criminologists , prison officials , and representatives of associations including the American National Retail Jewelers ' Association , the Furriers ' Security Alliance of the United States , the Jewellers ' National Crime Committee , the Salvation Army , and the Rotary International . When the N.C.C . was organized , Dean Wigmore of the Northwestern University Law School , after a preliminary observation that it seemed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crime situation , continued : " We confess to doubt about this type of Commission , however composed , being able to accomplish much practically . . . . National Commissions on problems lying within State constitutional powers are an anomaly and a novelty in our history ; and our people are not accustomed to heed them . " It is true that many crime commissions have come and gone , and the Dean 's prediction would probably have been fulfilled but for an important accident of history : A member of the executive committee of the N.C.C . and an enthusiastic supporter of its program of national attack upon the crime problem was then a comparatively obscure State governor by the name of Franklin Delano Roosevelt who within a few years was to become the thirty-second President of the United States . The Roosevelt Administration attacked the problem almost as soon as it took office . The Seventy-Second Congress found time to appoint the Copeland Committee to investigate crime and racketeering , and from its inception the sentiment of its members was strongly in favor of Federal crime control . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the actual propaganda was the United States Department of Justice itself . It drafted what became known as " The Twelve Point Program of the Department of Justice . " In favor of this program , Attorney General Cummings , abandoning the skeptical attitude of his predecessor , employed his oratorical powers before the Daughters of the American Revolution . " We are now engaged , " he proclaimed , " in a war that threatens the safety of our country ? a war with the organized forces of crime . " Thus the victorious war theory of crime control , as it has been called by Mr. Ernest Jerome Hopkins , was officially adopted by the law-enforcing agency of the Federal government . There was really little need for all this zeal . The Roosevelt steam-roller rapidly flattened the opposition . Practically the whole of the ambitious twelve-point program of the Department of Justice was enacted into law . Indeed this new legislation , which definitely reversed the traditional American policy of State crime control , was adopted without a record vote . Two other circumstances of the legislative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been appointed to investigate a legislative problem , it has been customary for Congress to await its report . But the Copeland Committee had not yet terminated its labors , and , when the new laws were enacted , its only " report " was a speech of Senator Copeland to the Senate . Congress apparently did not need much enlightenment . Even more remarkable is the relation of Professor Raymond Moley to the whole business . President Roosevelt had appointed him as a presidential one-man crime commission to report upon the advisability of the pending Federal crime bills . Whatever may be said of the Professor 's capacities as an economic adviser , he was undoubtedly an authority upon criminal law administration , for he had published several excellent books on the subject . It might be thought that Congress would wait to digest his report . This report is dated May 15th but it was not actually issued to the press until May 23rd . But all but one of the laws enacted had been approved on May 18th ! A reading of Professor Moley 's report may make @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the President , he was hound to extend him a degree of support , but as a criminal law expert of great experience , his conscience must have said No . Thus he praised the Administration programof criminal law enforcement with faint damns , accepting the extension of Federal jurisdiction in principle but disapproving of many of the specific measures . III Never had legislation been enacted which was more unnecessary or dangerous despite all the glowing propaganda in its favor . This propaganda was a curious mixture of misinformation , colored by a highly romantic myth , which made it seem plausible . It was proclaimed on all sides that what America needed in order to do away with crime was nothing less than an American Scotland Yard . Not for nothing have our statesmen read detective stories in their spare time . Indeed Mr. Louis McHenry Howe , friend and confidant of President Roosevelt , credits the first proposal of the American Scotland Yard to his chief . President Roosevelt himself is supposed to have first made the suggestion in a letter to the New York Crime Commission @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ equivalent of Scotland Yard has been rationalized as follows : Crime , which was increasing to vast proportions , was no longer a local phenomenon but was conducted by interstate gangs who operated across State lines . Moreover , modern means of transportation had given criminals tremendous advantages in eluding capture . By means of the automobile , the motor boat , and the airplane , they were able to cross from one State into another . On the other hand , State prosecution was breaking down . The police of the great cities were hopelessly corrupt . The rural system of crime control which was lodged in the sheriff and the constable was unsuited to modern conditions . If the elements of an offense were not all committed in a single State , such criminals might sometimes escape prosecution altogether . There was thus an obvious need for such a national centralization of crime control as existed in England . But , alas , Scotland Yard is not a " national police force , " as it has often been stated . Indeed , it does not even police the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its own Constabulary . It is true that Scotland Yard may enter a case in any part of England , but it can do so only upon the special request of the local authorities It would be possible to compare Scotland Yard with the Federal Division of Investigation if the latter were confined to assisting the police of any State upon their request . But the jurisdiction of the Federal government is not a purely police jurisdiction but is independent and exists by virtue of Federal law whose expansion has created new crimes and punishments . As for the greater mobility of the modern criminal , it is forgotten that there are two factors in the equation of crime and criminal justice . It is true that modern criminals have means of swift escape ; but the modern police may employ the same means for swift pursuit . The police not only have the automobile and the airplane at their disposal but also the telegraph , wireless , and long-distance telephone . Once the criminal is known and the alarm is spread , his chances of getting away are not good @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ existence of State lines is extremely naive . One would suppose that the police of different States dealt with one another only at arm 's length . But police co-operation not only upon a national but upon an international scale is too much of an everyday phase of police work to need comment . Criminals have often been chased across the five continents . In case of hot pursuit it may be ventured that the police do not always halt punctiliously at State lines . Furthermore , the jurisdictional difficulties in convicting the criminal have been exaggerated even more grossly than the difficulty of catching him . The jurisdictional dilemmas in the case of interstate crime are either non-existent or are of such a highly theoretical character that they can apply only in a negligible percentage of cases . The fact is that States constantly exercise jurisdiction over crimes which have been only partly committed within their territories . IV The " crime wave " has indeed been very much advertised since the early days of Prohibition but its existence has been very much doubted by the more sensible criminologists . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has become more mountainous in recent years , or that gang activity has become increasingly interstate , or that the police departments of the leading cities of the country , which naturally take the lead in the fight against crime , have become more outrageously corrupt than ever before . Indeed , in the latter respect the tendency has been toward improvement , as most students of the police problem would agree , and in at least one great city , Chicago , this improvement has been marked . The criminal statistics which are now being exhumed in support of Federal crime control are the same which have been going the rounds for the last two decades and have reappeared again and again in the crime surveys and the reports of the Wickersham Commission . They are now employed simply to point a different moral . No general effort has been made to prove that there has been a marked increase in the crimes over which the Federal government has assumed jurisdiction . Moreover , most of the new Federal crimes are not predominantly interstate in character . In fact some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , most of the new legislation is not even justified by the premises of the current movement . Despite the fact that kidnapping has been so important in stimulating the present expansion of the Federal criminal law , there is probably no crime with respect to which the States have needed Federal aid less . Doubtless the crime has increased somewhat in frequency in the last few years , but a survey made in 1932 by the St. Louis Police Department , which sent questionnaires to 948 cities requesting data on kidnapping , brought replies from 502 cities and these reported only 285 cases in all . Compared to 15,000 murders a year in the United States , the figures on kidnapping would not seem to justify the prevailing mood of excitement . It has not even been established that this crime is characteristically the work of organized gangs , although gangs may have participated in a few cases . The opinion of at least the New York Police Department is that kidnapping is an amateur crime , and this impression is certainly borne out by most of the front-page stories @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Even Louis McHenry Howe admits that " at present kidnapping gangs are local . " Most of the interstate cases have occurred when the kidnapping takes place in a large city near a State border . In the nature of things it is extremely dangerous for the kidnappers to travel very far once the alarm has been given , and whenever possible it would seem that they would seek a hiding place relatively near the scene of abduction . In only 46 of the 285 cases reported in the St. Louis survey was it claimed that the victims weretransported across State lines . This was only 16 per cent of the cases . Yet it is easy to understand why so much has been made of the crime of kidnapping in the propaganda for Federal crime control . Kidnappers are far easier to catch than other criminals , since the process of collecting a ransom is extremely dangerous . The percentage of convictions for kidnappings being very high , it has thus been possible to establish an excellent case for the almost superhuman abilities of the Federal sleuths . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Department of Justice has been very brilliant in the kidnapping cases in which it has assumed jurisdiction . But it has been conveniently forgotten that the record of local police forces has been brilliant too , the Lindbergh case to the contrary notwithstanding . It may safely be predicted that no comparable degree of success will attend Federal prosecution of the crimes against property over which to a large extent it has now assumed jurisdiction ; i.e. grand larceny , bank robbery , extortion , and racketeering . The present assumption of jurisdiction over larceny when the value of the stolen property is over five thousand dollars comes by way of extension of the National Motor Vehicle Theft Act . Since 1919 , when the Dyer Act went into effect , Federal agents have been instrumental in the recovery of 34,393 stolen automobiles ; but it has been estimated that for many years 250,000 automobiles have been stolen annually , which would make the percentage of recovery ( not of course the same as of conviction ) about 1 per cent . There are indications that automobile thefts have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , is attributable not to the Dyer Act but to the enactment of title-registration laws in a constantly increasing number of States . Stolen goods which , unlike automobiles , are not registered should prove even more difficult to recover . Bank robberies have recently also been declining owing to banks ' protective measures . In relation to the country 's total deposits the crime is almost negligible . Thus bank robbery need hardly have been made a Federal crime . It is true that the Federal law is confined to robbery of Federal Reserve Banks and banks under Federal charters , but these include over fifty per cent of the country 's banks . Moreover , by 1937 it is probable that almost all banks will be obliged to join the Federal Reserve System to make themselves eligible to profit by the Federal Deposit insurance act . Bank robbery , moreover , is certainly a highly localized crime . So too is the murder or assault of Federal officials , which has also now been made a Federal crime . In taking this action Congress has reversed a policy that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now it has been content to leave the protection of its officials to the State courts . Even during the Prohibition era , when Federal agents must have been attacked more frequently than ever before , no change was made . The murder or assault of a Federal officer is no more and no less than murder or assault . in addition to covering murder and assault , the new law contains a provision which makes it a crime to " forcibly resist , oppose , impede , intimidate , or interfere with " a Federal officer . This language is extremely vague and dangerous . It would seem that the Federal government in its new drive against crime is taking a preliminary step of removing the existing indirect control of the State tribunals over its agents . The Federal crime measure which almost failed at the last session of Congress , although supported by the Administration , was a Federal anti-racketeering act against which determined opposition developed on the part of liberals and organized labor , which very justifiably felt that the measure might be used to curb the activities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ generously exempting the " lawful " acts of organized labor ? a form of exemption which has been proved again and again to be illusory since it leaves to the courts the determination of what acts are " lawful . " The fundamental difficulty in drafting an anti-racketeering statute , of course , is that it is impossible to define racketeering . Quite obviously it includes much more than plain cases of extortion , but the difficulty is that it is impossible to say how much more . The fact that a Federal extortion statute was adopted at the very same time as the Federal anti-racketeering statute is pretty good proof of this . Since the new extortion statute applies to extortion in interstate commerce not only by means of telegraph , telephone , and radio , but also by means of any " oral message , " it gives practically complete jurisdiction over the crime to the Federal government . Yet that the extortion statute may be interpreted widely to give it most of the effect of an antiracketeering statute is plain from the statement of Professor Maley in his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ powerful weapon to be used against racketeering . " Incidentally it would be safe to guess that one of the most common forms of racketeering has suffered a considerable decline since the inauguration of the present Administration . This is the form of racketeering in which gangsters have been used as an extra-legal police force to organize particular industries which wished to engage in monopolistic practices but which could not do so legally because of the anti-trust laws . The N.R.A . by facilitating this tendency toward monopoly must have deprived many gangsters of their former social usefulness . Another of the new Federal measures condemned in large part by Professor Moley as well as by many other critics was , nevertheless , enacted . The act makes it a Federal crime for any person to flee from one State to another for the purpose of avoiding prosecution or the giving of testimony when the crime charged is murder , kidnapping , burglary , robbery , mayhem , rape , assault with dangerous weapon , or extortion accompanied by threats of violence . In effect the Federal government is clothed with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which this monstrous act has been accepted is that , since it is limited to the major crimes against person and property , it can be used against " gangsters " only . But a glance at the list of crimes must make it plain that this is not so . Any perfectly respectable citizen may find himself accused of murder or mayhem or rape . He may wish to avoid prosecution at a particular time in order to shield another person , or because , although he is innocent , appearances may be against him . Now if he is apprehended the original charge need no longer be approved against him . He can be put into a Federal penitentiary for five years for attempting , in effect , to avoid extradition , even if it should turn out that he is not guilty of the crime charged against him . Moreover , does a person always know that he is wanted by the police ? Such ignorance would doubtless be a defense but it will certainly be hard to prove . From now on it will be exceedingly dangerous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vacation in another State . There can be no doubt that the abrogation of extradition accomplished by the act will lend itself to the periodic round-up of so-called criminal elements . It is particularly alarming to contemplate the effects of the act upon Negro rights . In the future a Negro charged with the murder of a white man or the rape of a white woman who prefers for good reason not to submit himself to the course of Southern justice will not only be unable to rely upon the protection which may be afforded by the process of extradition , but will also become a Federal criminal . Although the Southern States are vehemently opposed to a Federal anti-lynching law , they have loudly applauded the present Federal program of criminal law enforcement . The new law should help to perfect the technic of legal lynching . It is rather remarkable that the Fugitives Act was not fought by the N.A.A.C.P. The provision of the Fugitives Act which applies to witnesses crossing State lines to avoid giving testimony is even more infamous . It is well known that witnesses who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their lives . The act makes it a Federal crime to attempt to protect themselves . It is no wonder that Professor Moley concludes , " If local authorities are so impotent as to permit this harrowing of witnesses , it should not be made a crime for a witness to protect his own life . " V Of course only a fool would contend that the criminal justice of the States could not be improved . If , however , the administration of the criminal law in the States leaves something to be desired , the obvious thing to do is to work for its improvement . Co-operation of the Federal government with the States might in some respects produce beneficial results , but this would not necessitate interference with State criminal law administration . It is particularly to be feared that both State and Federal judicial administration may be imperilled by the new policy . Division of responsibility leads to the evasion of responsibility . The States will now be in a position to blame the Federal government for any shortcomings in the suppression of crime , and at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the challenge . There are those who argue that it has the great advantage that its agents are free from corruption ; but if the Federal government goes after crime upon a wholesale scale , they will not long remain incorruptible . Certainly the effect of the new policy upon the civil side of Federal judicial administration should prove especially disastrous . The Federal courts were all but swamped in the Prohibition era . Their new criminal jurisdiction is even more vast in its reach . Of the many positive objections which may be raised against the expansion of the Federal criminal jurisdiction , ! east need be said about those of a constitutional nature , in view of the rather friendly interpretation of the Constitution which has long been established in this connection . Yet it may be worth while , in passing , to observe the extent to which the usual constitutional mechanisms of the postal power and the power over interstate commerce have been strained . Business men who have run away with their secretaries have been mightily surprised to discover that they have been engaged in ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of crime which have not the slightest relation to business yet , nevertheless , have become acts of interstate commerce . Moreover , the triumph has now been achieved of dispensing with any real proof of interstate transportation . Under the amendments to the Lindbergh Laws in the last session of Congress , when a person is kidnapped , it is simply presumed after seven days that he has been transported in interstate commerce ! This is probably the most transparent fiction ever put upon the Federal statute books . But apart from considerations of constitutionality , does not the Federal exercise of jurisdiction represent a grotesque penological perversion ? The theory of the classical criminal law , despite the many assaults upon it , is still the basis of the modern criminal law . According to this theory the scale of punishments must have a direct relation to the gravity of the offense . Attempts to commit crimes must he punished less severely than completed offenses . For the criminal law is supposed to aim not only at repression and deterrence but must take into consideration the moral state of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the punishments of the Federal criminal code . There is hardly a Federal crime for which the punishment is not at least five years or five thousand dollars ' fine or both . Yet the formal crimes for which these punishments are incurred are such acts as dropping a letter into a mail box or riding an interstate train , which in themselves may represent only attempts to commit a crime , or be entirely harmless acts . In other words , under Federal law penalties are imposed for inchoate crime which are infinitely more severe than those which would be imposed in State courts for the completed crime . The tendency to applaud long terms for gangsters who have failed to pay their income taxes reveals the same penological obtuseness . Such sentences really undermine the deterrent effect which the criminal law is supposed to exercise . But it is not only the Draconian severity of the penalties under the new Federal laws that marks a penological reaction . In fact the whole program of Federal crime control is reactionary . The circumstances of its origins , the character of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the country , the haste with which it was adopted , the extreme nature of many of the specific measures , the lack of convincing proof of their necessity ? all are grounds of suspicion and alarm . Accompanying the unprecedented concentration of Federal power , and a Fascist spirit in the world at large , the assault upon local criminal jurisdiction betokens , to say the least , a danger of widespread assault upon civil liberties . The friends of civil liberty are always talking of the Constitutional guaranties of the Bill of Rights . But the character of the criminal law itself , particularly the mode of its administration , is even more relevant . The chief drawback to Federal crime control is the very fact which has been used so frequently to recommend it , namely , that no political influence would affect the course of Federal criminal prosecution . The absence of political influence in the administration of the criminal law can be a greater menace to the public safety than its abuse . Efficiency can be bought at too high a price . The prosecution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Only a local police force can have that intimate knowledge of the underworld of a great city which is so often necessary for success in criminal investigation . The criminal law is the depository of the results of social conflicts and adjustment which can proceed only by a process of local collective bargaining . The dangers of criminal law enforcement require the maintenance of strictly local control and influence . When the police in a given community get out of hand they can be called to account by pressure upon the part of the local electorate . A Federal police force would not be responsive to local feeling . The very readiness with which police forces of all kinds tend tohigh-handed and even illegal action only emphasizes the importance of local police control . It is not necessary to indulge merely in surmises . The history of the statewide police forces presents abuses which arc now apparently to be repeated upon a national scale . The State police as the result of their activities against labor and radical groups have become known as " the American Cossacks . " In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strikes , and have been involved in many bloody episodes . For this reason organized labor has opposed the extension of State police systems . A Federal police force would be even less subject to restraint . But the United States Department of Justice itself has a sorry record as an agency of law enforcement . Its illegal practices in the war and post-war periods became the subject of a governmental investigation which resulted in a highly condemnatory report by a group of law professors which included Roscoe Pound , Felix Frankfurter , Zechariah Chafee , Jr. , and Ernest Freund . Indeed the present head of the Division of Investigations of the Department of Justice , J. Edgar Hoover , was an agent in the Department in the heyday of the Palmer red-baiting era , who , even after the Red scare had somewhat abated , devotedly spent a good deal of his time in shadowing harmless souls in the national capital . The record of prohibition agents in the dry era is no more encouraging . IL legal searches and seizures were commonplaces despite the law degrees of many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ government must increase its police force , if it is really to cope with crime adequately , may be gauged quite readily from the fact that there are at present about 175,000 State , municipal , and county police officers , as compared to about 450 police officers in the Division of Investigation . While , of course , the force of the Division will riot , at least for the present , be increased to any figure approaching the national police total , it will undoubtedly be increased to at least 1,000 men , for this number was suggested as desirable in Professor Moley 's report . The increase , no doubt , will soon be made , since Congress , in addition to the regular appropriation of $2,880,000 , has appropriated an extra $1,500,000 for the conduct of the Division . The dangers of Federal police investigation are increased by the arrangements for Federal prosecution . Even if new Federal crimes were to be created , their prosecution might have been left with the State courts . But while Federal jurisdiction is not exclusive under all of the new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when to step in . Furthermore a stiffening of Federal criminal procedure has begun . That this is occurring simultaneously with the expansion of the Federal criminal code is the best indication of the penological philosophy underlying the whole of the new movement . Already the law of searches and seizures has been relaxed and the bar of the statute of limitations has been affected . But there are also pending proposals to discourage too frequent resort to habeas corpus and to give the prosecution the right to comment on the failure of an accused person to take the stand at his trial . Some of the more violent patriots are urging the universal requirement of cards of identity , the fingerprinting of all babies at birth , and the inauguration of penal colonies on the Aleutian Islands off the Alaskan coast . These proposals definitely mark the lunatic fringe of the present movement .                     