@@222315

A Detroit housewife appeared with a black eye . One mother bounced 880 miles from Columbus on a motorcycle . Houston women , like all good Texans of 1936 , boosted their State 's Centennial by wearing cowboy hats . From San Francisco arrived a team calling itself the Dr. Painless Parkers , * arrayed in jockey caps , white satin blouses , black satin pants . When these and some 1,500 other women reached Omaha three weeks ago for the 19th annual tournament of the Women 's International Bowling Congress Inc. , the oldest competitor , Omaha 's own 67-year-old Mrs. Nevada Helen Robertson Tillson , opened play by cutting a crepe-paper ribbon , then whipped the lopsided ball she has used for 33 years down the alley for a strike . <P> Though previously warned of the enthusiasm of women bowlers , Omaha 's Hotel Fontenelle remained skeptical up to the last minute , had to send out for extra cots for its 600 female patrons . Popeyed , Omaha 's citizenry gaped at the husky visitors , most of them over 30 , who resolutely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of beer , sang their own bowling songs , whooped the Wahoo song in honor of nearby Wahoo , Neb . But what surprised Omaha most was to find that , aside from stenographers and salesgirls who sent ball after ball into the gutters , certain women could bowl as well as certain men . <P> There was dignified , plump , white-haired Floretta D. McCutcheon , whose shrewd pressagent has built her up into the No. 1 female exhibition bowler . There was robust Marie Warmbier who , with an average of nearly 200 in three years of exhibition bowling , did poorly by sacrificing accuracy for speed in the Omaha tournament . There was freckled Mary Jane ( " Little Marie " ) Huber , 15-year-old schoolgirl , a hopeless cripple until she was 10 , who handled the ball like a grape fruit , outscored her coach , Marie Warmbier . Pretty , buxom Ella Burmeister , a grocery clerk , so excited one male spectator with her nine-game total of 1,683 that he fell off his high perch , broke his ankle . Marge Slogar , 22-year-old @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Girls ' softball championship team last year , swaggered around the alleys in a baseball jacket , shot a 612 singles , had a nine-game total second only to Bowler Burmeister 's high mark in the first days of the tournament . <P> As usual , the two outstanding figures were the Congress ' President Jeannette Knepprath and Secretary Emma Phaler . A spiritualist , married to a Milwaukee chiropractor , President Knepprath has been handling bowling affairs for 18 years , is still a poor bowler herself . So is Secretary Phaler whose pleasant efficiency ( " She is the kind of woman you could run over and borrow a cup of sugar from " ) has made her the backbone of the organization . A certified public accountant , she sends out the prize money so soon after the tournament 's end that the delegates gladly elected her for the fourth time . Despite underground opposition from a rebellious Chicago clique , Jeannette Knepprath received her fifth presidency .                     