@@301918

When Franklin D. Roosevelt was Governor of New York , he considered the control of venereal disease his State 's biggest public health problem . To lead the attack on something which Society rates below the polite conversation line but which causes a larger economic loss to the country than any other disease , he took Dr. Thomas Parran Jr . from the U. S. Public Health Service , where he had long been Assistant Surgeon General in charge of venereal disease control . As New York State 's Commissioner of Health ( salary $12,000 ) , Dr. Parran began to spend $15,000 to $20,000 a year for prophylactic stations , clinics , moving pictures , lectures and pamphlets to teach New Yorkers the ravages of syphilis and gonorrhea , and to cure as many of those infected as could be induced to apply for treatment . Commissioner Parran wrote and lectured on the subject whenever he had the opportunity . Such an opportunity was presented to him last week in the form of 15 minutes broadcasting time scheduled over 60 stations of the Columbia Broadcasting System . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a series of 19 lectures on medical economics which the Rockefeller-sponsored National Advisory Council on Radio in Education is broadcasting over CBS under the general title of " Doctors , Dollars and Disease . " The American Medical Association disapproves that series because , if the socialization of medicine which the lecturers advocate ever becomes a reality in the U. S. , doctors may some day find themselves the hirelings of Government . <P> One night last week the CBS audience that habitually listens to " Doctors , Dollars and Disease , " tuned in to hear Dr. Parran on " Public Health Needs . " Instead they got 15 minutes of orchestra music . Next day a few of them learned why . Dr. Parran had prepared a talk on syphilis . Infantile paralysis , diphtheria , tuberculosis , and cancer are diseases which broadcasters frequently discuss over the radio but Columbia Broadcasting drew the line at Dr. Parran 's subject . Nonetheless , he appeared at CBS 's Manhattan studio to tell the nation about syphilis . Would he alter his prepared text to conform with what the company @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Thereupon CBS refused him a microphone . Next day Dr. Parran resigned from the National Advisory Council on Radio in Education because its Secretary-Director Levering Tyson had not backed him up . He also set up a vigorous cry against radio censorship . <P> In a formal statement CBS gave its position thus : " Editorial responsibility for what the Columbia Broadcasting System puts out over the air must be assumed , and is assumed , by Columbia itself . In deciding what is proper for us to broadcast , we must always bear in mind that broadcasting reaches persons of widely varying age levels and reaches them in family and social groups of almost every conceivable assortment . For this reason we do not believe that it is either wise or necessary to discuss , and sometimes even to mention , some things which may more properly be discussed in print , where each person may individually and privately concern himself with the subject . "                     