@@154771

Accused ( Criterion ) starts in the formula of a backstage musicomedy , ends in the formula of a courtroom melodrama . The transition occurs when someone murders the leading lady ( Florence Desmond ) of a Paris revue , just after her advances to the show 's male dancer ( Douglas Fairbanks Jr. ) have aroused the indignation of his knife-throwing wife ( Dolores Del Rio ) . <P> Current problem of the cinema industry in England is whether the U. S. talent that it is now importing will supply it with a trace of Hollywood dash . Second production of enterprising Douglas Fairbanks Jr . ' s London studio , with an American author ( Zoe Akins ) , director ( Thornton Freeland ) and two Hollywood principals , Accused suggests that , on the contrary , England may infect Hollywood emigres with that dignified lethargy that has been the drawback of so many British pictures in the past . Well-acted by conscientious members of the vast theatre population which is one of London 's chief attractions as a cinema capital , it suffers from a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suspect that the murdered leading lady is not really dead but dozing . Good shot : Dolores Del Rio-whose next U. S. picture will be Devil 's Playground-in a jealous rage . <P> The Plainsman ( Paramount ) , one of the most expensive westerns and one of the most grown up , consciously preserves the faults and virtues characteristic of ordinary westerns . Hordes of Indians bite the dust , 1,200 genuine Montana Cheyennes having been lured by $3.50 daily pay envelopes from the comfortable inertia of WPA work . Bad characters are smeared in charcoal black , heroes and heroines arrayed in magic garments of daring and beauty , playing a game of desperate designs upon a landscape lonely , hostile and magnificent . Its technique is the technique of the chase . Through most of its turbulent length it is excitingly devised , brilliantly photographed and filled to overflowing with Nick Carter characters who suddenly take on larger-than-life proportions , as if sculptured by Rodin . <P> " Wild Bill " Hickok ( Gary Cooper ) , famed scout , is detailed by General Custer to go after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who is leading his people on the warpath . At the same time Hickok 's friend Bill Cody ( James Ellison ) rides to relieve a Federal garrison beleaguered by the Indians . Hickok 's girl , Calamity Jane ( Jean Arthur ) , can cut a man 's hat off at 40 ft. with a mule-skinner 's rawhide but can not quite bear to watch Wild Bill roasted on a spit by the Cheyennes . Her disclosure under pressure of the trail taken by Cody 's detail causes Cody fall into an Indian ambush , Wild Bill to renounce his love Preview audiences wrote the studio protesting as unlikely the scene in which Cody and a handful of soldiers broke by volley firing the charge of a far superior force ot mounted Indians . Studio defense 48 troopers saved themselves from 800 Cheyennes by this means at Beecher 's Island Colo. , on Sept. 17 , 1868.                     