@@469390

question might be put another way Who is to blame for the mediocre quality of most radio entertainment ? the broadcaster , the advertiser , or the public ? Most discussions on the subject end by placing the onus of responsibility on either the advertiser or the public . The advertiser , for having such a low opinion of public taste ; the public , for accepting the advertiser 's estimate of its mental age . As the harassed middleman , the broadcaster usually comes off best . To anyone with an intimate knowledge of American broadcasting the soundness of these conclusions is debatable ; but whatever the correct answer may prove to be , it seems probable that the near future will see the whole question of radio threshed out more thoroughly than it has ever been before . The conviction is growing that our air-and-ear entertainment is not all it should be . As yet no larger than the proverbial hand , the clouds of discontent are already numerous enough to give warning of the storm which soon may be raging . For radio to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ problems , it has never suffered from a lack of whole-hearted criticism . But in the past few months the criticism has assumed a different character . In place of being the expression of individual opinion , it has begun to emanate from organized groups with proven political power and a known capacity for political action . That immeasurable section ofthe radio audience , the so-called intelligent minority , stone-deaf to countless pleas to express its preference by fan mail , appears to be making ready to seek action through Congress rather than through the Post Office . Concurrent with the gala opening in Radio City of the newest broadcasting plant , a national convention of women 's clubs enthusiastically applauded a speaker who served warning on the broadcasting industry that the club women of America were growing weary of being considered morons . Coming from an individual , the statement would have possessed neither novelty nor importance . Received with every indication of approval by an immensely influential body of women , it acquired both . Of equal moment are complaints made by the parent-teacher groups against the majority of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thousand high school debates on the relative merits of the British and American systems of radio control , which are taking place during the present winter . And , fortifying these unrelated evidences of dissatisfaction , are the surveys undertaken by magazines and newspapers in increasing numbers , to determine exactly what the public does think of the radio fare it now receives . It would appear that radio , having grown in a single decade from a fascinating toy to occupy the position of a fifth estate , is about to enter its third WHY IS N'T RADIO BETTER ? phase : that in which it will be examined as a social force , instead of a combined vehicle of advertising and entertainment . In spite of impressive mechanical advances and many exciting achievements in broadcasting , there has been little improvement in the quality of programs for the past four or five years . The names may change , but the old acts continue . Programs which once delighted because of their freshness grow monotonous . Having reached substantially the same stage of development as the movies in 1911-12 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ point . Having been content to absorb the talent developed in other fields of entertainment , and having at last consumed the available supply of proven good material , radio now seems at a stalemate . At the moment , there is no prospect that radio will follow the road traveled by the movies . In their worst days , there was always some visionary to insist that the movies were an art . However feeble his voice , however scornful his reception , he remained to pipe his faith and to maintain that nucleus of creative talent which steadily developed higher artistic standards . Nowhere inside the broadcasting industry can one find a similar point of view , nor can one find any reason to suspect that those who provide our radio entertainment are not completely satisfied with it as it is . Under such circumstances , it is likely that radio will be elevated from the realms of personal controversy to those of political action . With the Canadian experience in government control of broadcasting to guide one , no great prophetic gift is needed to predict the lines @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one hand there will be demands for a drastic curtailment of advertising and an increase in the number of deliberately cultural programs . An ocean of ink will flow to extol the superiority of British broadcasting . Many fine things will be heard about the Canadian experiment in which a government commission is attempting to combine the features of the British Broadcasting Corporation and an American chain . And there will be a concerted effort to institute government control and operation , to be financed in the European manner , by license fees levied on set owners . On its part , the broadcasting industry will produce an impressive body of evidence to prove its devotion to the public interest . It will point out that its educational programs have been superior to those broadcast by purely educational stations . It will marshal the facts concerning the broadcasting of grand opera and of great symphony orchestras . It will draw attention to the thoroughness with which all important events have been covered . It will show that it has served , with a commendable lack of interference or censorship , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fact that under its stewardship radio in America has escaped the political interference common to other countries . It will insist that only through the existence of some six hundred freely competing stations could listeners have enjoyed the prodigal variety of entertainment provided in the past . And it will underline this point ? the American radio owner has no nuisance tax to pay . Should the advertiser ? who pays for every syllable and every grace note shot daily through the air ? become involved in the discussion , it can only be to point out that his sole concern is to give listeners the kind of programs the greatest number of them seem to want . To weigh the relative merits of these conflicting claims one must have some knowledge of the economic influences which affect radio and of the effect these influences have had throughout the entire range of broadcast entertainment . With such knowledge , however , the inevitability of the present situation becomes apparent and , of greater moment , a clue is obtained as to the means whereby the broadcasting industry might revitalize itself in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ government control . II The growth of radio has been almost incredible . In 1920 the first radio broadcast was made from Station KDKA . By 1924 there were over 1400 stations on the air . In 1920 the receiving sets were numbered by the hundreds ; fourteen years later , over 17 , - 000,000 sets are said to be in use . Starting with a few hundred dollars , costs have risen to a sum estimated to exceed $100,000,000 annually . In the early years , costs were a minor consideration . The stations were low-powered , the thrill of broadcasting and the bait of free publicity made talent available , and even when no talent appeared the limited audience did not greatly care , for its interest was not in programs but in dialing new stations . With the mass production of receiving sets operated by electric current , both the size and the demands of the radio audience increased by leaps and bounds . No longer were listeners content to hang on ear-phones , waiting for the call letters of remote stations . They began to demand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ known public , artists would no longer donate their services for the fun of going on the air . Costs began to mount alarmingly , and as yet no one had the slightest idea who could be made to foot the bill . An appeal was made to the manufacturer of sets . It seemed reasonablethat he should be asked to bear the costs of broadcasting , since without programs there could be no market for his product . Sensible though the scheme appeared , no backers were found . Next , WEAF and probably other stations invited listeners to help defray the expense of programs they enjoyed , by sending donations , however small , by mail . The public showed no inclination to contribute . Not until 1925 was the solution hit upon . In that year , Station WEAF announced that its facilities could be hired for broadcasting purposes by any reputable person . Slowly , but in appreciable numbers , cash customers appeared at the wicket . The burning question , " Who is going to pay for radio programs ? " had found its answer , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possibilities if broadcasting were established on a national basis . So quickly was the significance of this vision grasped , that within a few months the elaborate system of network broadcasting which we know today had been evolved and put into operation . To attempt to minimize the scope of this achievement or to belittle the imaginative genius of those who , with nothing to guide them , organized chain broadcasting would be foolish . But up to this time radio had been an absorbing adventure , and little more , for those connected with it . In receipt of trifling salaries , its workers had found their satisfaction in the development of a new , exciting medium and in their hopes for its future . Artistic standards had been sought and efforts made to observe them . With the creation of the networks , these working conditions and the attitudes they had fostered disappeared . Radio was no longer a series of disjointed experimental laboratories , sharing with the public the exhilaration of each new achievement . It had become a private profit-making industry , heavily capitalized and burdened with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of view and the era of factory production of entertainment soon followed . Quantity became of more importance than quality , and the profitable exploitation of a marketable commodity the principal concern . Revenues , however , materialized with disconcerting slowness . All that had seemed necessary was a sufficient number of sponsors who would include radio in their advertising appropriations . But in the search for sponsors an unforeseen obstacle was encountered . It was discovered that sponsors who had thought lightly of spending a few thousand dollars on a local station hesitated to commit their companies to the hundreds of thousands involved in chain hook-ups . Now industrialized , radio was no longer a worthy object of charitable donations , to be made in the interests of science and public amusement , but had become a costly advertising medium . Not unnaturally , sponsors turned for advice to their advertising agencies ? the specialists who plan , create , and place most of the advertising in the country . And not unnaturally , the agencies showed no signs of enthusiasm for this new way of spending their clients ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ publications in which the agencies bought advertising space , radio was a serious threat to their very existence . Not only had radio made no provision for the agency , but there seemed to exist a tangible possibility that the broadcasting industry might easily usurp the agency 's function and become the largest of all advertising agencies itself . Without the good will of the agency , there seemed no hope for radio 's economic future . Under the terms of their agency contracts , many advertisers could not appropriate sums for radio , even had they so desired . Others refused to go against the advice of experts who had served them brilliantly in the past . It would seem that the infant industry had no alternative but to adopt the trade practices of newspapers , magazines , and trade publications ? the payment of a fifteen per cent commission in the form of a discount to agencies buying space from them . The principle of rebating fifteen per cent of station and network costs was accepted . The agencies were welcomed into the scheme . In certain instances commissions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a client off the air . As the sales of time increased , radio 's control of its own destiny decreased . In order to build an economic structure that would permit its survival , it was forced to subject itself to influences which may in the end prove its undoing as a private enterprise . At the time there seemed no choice but the one that was made . Having given radio its blessing , many factors tended to increase the agency 's influence . Although the broadcasting companies were prepared to build and sell programs of any character , this arrangement soon proved unacceptable to the agency , which assumed a function for which it was never designed and for which it has doubtful qualifications ? that of the impresario . The broadcasting companies themselves were in part to blame for this step . Had they had a more able personnel it should have been possible to retain control of this most essential phase of broadcasting ? the choice and creation of entertainment . On the other hand , the agency saw clearly that it must play a more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was to play any part at all . Radio departments were developed in the larger agencies . Staffed by youngsters with little background and with no theatrical experience , these production mills began to create most of the important commercial programs . The broadcasting companies , so far as this type of program was concerned , were relegated to a position where they often did no more than rent studio space and transmit the sounds made in them . Once behind the scenes and vested with all the authority and power of a paymaster , the agency quickly molded radio into its present pattern . With no responsibilities either to the public or to the broadcasting companies whose facilities it rented , the agency had but one interest in radio ? to satisfy its individual clients . Any lingering idealism concerning the larger significances of the broadcasting medium vanished . It was recognized as a mass medium of entertainment , whose effective exploitation for advertising purposes demanded programs which would interest the largest number of listeners . The experience gained in the pseudo-scientific analysis of a thousand markets was used to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The clues offered by the movies , newsstand thrillers , and popular fiction gave direction to the search for the lowest common denominator of public taste . The sole criteria for judging the worth of programs became the number of listeners and the quantity of sales . A good program sold goods , but a better one sold more goods . To radio 's attitude that it was an industry was added the agency 's theory that it was a midway . In defense of the agency may be mentioned certain things . In most cases it does not have a free hand in the choice of program material , but has to satisfy some single individual in a client 's organization whose opinion of his company 's radio efforts may be determined by the reactions of his wife , the maid , the chauffeur , the stenographer , or the office boy . With no appeal horn , arbitrary individual judgments , as may be made in the case of books , music , the theater , or talkies , to informed critical opinion , the agency must strive to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the program it is supplying for him . To this discouraging influence on the desire for finer things is added the truly appalling lack of discrimination on the part of the radio audience . One reason why radio programs are no better than they are is because there is no need for them to be any better . Improvement in quality may easily defeat the very object for which programs are designed ? to attract the mass audience . Stupendous efforts have been made to secure concrete evidence as to the actual opinions of this audience . Fan mail was highly regarded until the discovery was made that supplying it had become a racket , ? that any interested person could buy letters to New York at so much a ton . To-day the broadcasting companies and larger agencies judge the relative popularity of programs by the statistics gathered through an elaborate and continuous telephone survey to which they contribute . Whatever method of analysis is used , this much is certain : the taste of the radio audience does not differ materially from that of any cross section of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the explanation of the quality of radio most commonly heard when the agency boys lock the door and put their feet on the table . Granting the difficulties of satisfying both an amorphous audience and an opinionated client , the agency may still be held accountable for certain unfortunate developments . In the fiercely competitive search for sensational programs , talent costs have been driven to heights where comedians are paid five thousand dollars for a thirty-minute appearance before the microphone . By any sane standards , such fees are preposterous and would never have been possible had not competing agencies , lavishly scattering someone else 's money , established them . Lacking any desire to experiment or any interest in the welfare of the broadcasting industry , the agency has always played safe by imitating established success . In life , imitation may be the sincerest form of flattery , in radio , it is a slow form of murder . While the agency has helped give listeners a variety of entertainment possible under no other system , and has induced sponsors to spend prodigious sums to broadcast the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very questionable if it has made one single creative contribution to radio . Its triumphs have consisted in bringing to the microphone talent which has perfected its art and made its reputation in some other field . And so the stars from the adjacent skies of Broadway are being rapidly used up . No more great comedians are left . Burlesque and vaudeville no longer exist to develop new ones , and radio has made little effort to establish a training school to replace the material it consumes so quickly . Since no program can retain the charm of novelty for forty weeks running , and no comedian can make the same gag seem fresh and sparkling for two successive years , the triumphs of to-day make to-morrow 's triumphs more difficult . One news commentator a night was interesting , two were tolerable , six may easily become obnoxious . The agency could , if it would , induce sponsors to assist in attaining a better balance in the pattern of an evening 's programs ; it might , if it had the foresight , aid in developing the creative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it would be fatuous indeed to expect the agency or the commercial sponsor to do either . But , someone reasonably interjects , " What of the sustaining programs ? Are these not entirely free from commercial interference and completely under the control of the broadcasting companies ? And if this is the case , why should not sustaining programs be of such outstanding merit that they would do much to help counteract the effect of tedious , commonplace commercial ones ? " These are pertinent questions , but ones for which no single answer can be found . The networks would probably answer that many sustaining programs are of outstanding merit . They would only need to cite opera , symphony orchestras , world series , political conventions , inaugural pageants to prove the point . But the question would remain unanswered . Although ninety-five per cent of all worth-while advances in radio have been originated by broadcasting companies , the run-of-the-mill sustaining programs are no better , but particularly outside the networks , are generally worse than those paid for by advertisers . The reasons seem to be in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the attitude which considers broadcasting an industrial operation . This attitude has made radio studios into factories staffed for quantity production . There are , roughly , three types of programs . First ? The commercial program , paid for by the advertiser , which provides the broadcasting companies with by far the greatest portion of their revenues . Second ? Programs originated by such bodies as The National Advisory Council on Radio in Education , which pays the cost of speakers or actors , but which receives the use of the broadcasting facilities free of charge . Third ? Sustaining programs , the cost of which is borne entirely by the broadcasting cornpanics . The third type can be subdivided into : a. ? Special sustaining features : programs of exceptional public interest . h. ? Ordinary sustaining features : run-of-the-mill programs designed to keep the station on the air for the hours allotted to it , as required by the regulations of The Federal Radio Commission . Over fifty-five per cent of all broadcasting time is devoted to sustaining programs . Outside the key network stations , the talent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sustaining programs over half are put on the air in the hope that they may attract a commercial sponsor . The others are designed to widen the popular appeal of radio , to promote good will , and to assist in building a body of evidence with which to refute the criticism that national broadcasting under the present system has been derelict in the discharge of the obligations entailed in a private and semi-monopolistic control of a great medium of public education and improvement . It is evident that sustaining programs , designed for sale to advertisers , must inevitably follow the pattern set by advertisers , so that we find the same point of view which produces commercial programs influencing a majority of sustaining programs . But the question still remains unanswered : " Why are there not numerous sustaining programs of a quality so outstanding as to establish standards for all radio entertainment ? " The explanation must be sought in the economics of broadcasting . Costs are enormous . The only important source of revenue is from the sale of station time . From this revenue must be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ boom days , heavy telephone tolls , the not inconsiderable costs of covering outstanding events and arranging for spectacular hookups , and lastly , the expenses of providing sustaining programs . It may yet develop that the present structure of chain broadcasting is economically unsound . We may find that the advertiser can not carry the entire burden of providing the American public with its radio entertainment . It is certain that the revenues received from the sale of time are either not large enough or are not administered efficiently enough to permit the experimental work which should be a primary undertaking of the important broadcasting studios or to pay salaries large enough to attract workers of proven creative ability from collateral fields of endeavor . This reference is not to highly paid stars but to the permanent staff workers who serve the entertainment-assembly lines in the larger broadcasting factories ? the writers , directors , and performers . When we write " factory " instead of " studio " we are only being precise . The industrial attitude has evolved the system of mass production common to all forms of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ creation of entertainment has done away with artistic standards and has established an atmosphere in which artistic desire or integrity is impossible . Quantity , quantity , quantity , is the never-ending demand ? quantity at a minimum expenditure of time and money . Only the writer , musician , or actor who brings to radio the standards of his own profession and who has a sufficient reputation to insist that these standards are respected , can hope to surmount the callous indifference to good craftsmanship which permeates the great broadcasting plants . Organized , staffed , and operated on factory lines , it is not surprising that these plants should tend to stultify the imagination , atrophy every creative impulse , and offer a level of uninspired , slovenly sameness . Much of radio 's raw material is pounded out by staff continuity writers , who grind out whatever is required of them ? sketches , playlets , dramalogues ? day by day and week by week . They are not particularly well paid and are never accorded the respect paid writers in other fields . The " by-line " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a rarity , for seldom does the writer hear his name mentioned on the air along with the announcer , the orchestra leader , the product , the cast , and any visiting fireman . The writer is not considered a literary worker but an advertising worker . No advertising is ever signed , therefore no radio program is signed . Radio reserves its laurel wreaths for the Cantors and the Wynns ; the men who write their gags are unknown . With their egos kept on a starvation diet , and no compensating rewards in the weekly pay envelope , is it surprising that radio writers should regard their work much as they would shovelling snow ? The next cog in the machinery is the director . His exact status is nicely illustrated by the fact that he is not known as a director , but as a production man . Even the terminology fits . Exactly the same influences affect the director as those which insure a poor performance from the writer . Many radio directors have been recruited from the theater , many seem to have drifted into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their initial enthusiasm for a new , strange medium , insufficient rehearsal time , the unceasing pressure to get programs on the air , and the complete indifference of everyone concerned to anything more ambitious than an easily attained competency make thoughtful , conscientious effort on the director 's part a fabulous impossibility . In any form of dramatic art the actor plays an important role . He is the vehicle by which drama comes to life . In radio the actor is little more than areader of lines , equipped with some simple tricks of voice to indicate movement and some elocutionary voice changes to suggest emotional upheavals . Acting before a microphone , even for the most intelligent actors , requires more painstaking direction than does either stage or screen . At the microphone the actor can have no knowledge of the effect of the words he speaks . He must be guided . What happens to him ? Trained on the stage , where acting is regarded as an art and the theater its temple , the actor soon realizes that he is in a foundry where entertainment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ handed a script with dialogue that would make the editor of a penny dreadful wince . He is subjected to a production man who is either too indifferent or unskilled or too pressed for time ( probably all three ) to give more than a few perfunctory instructions as to where to stand and how loud to speak . Is it astonishing that the actor soon conditions himself to the shoddy standards already accepted by those about him ? In the theater four to six weeks are spent on the rehearsal of a play . In the talkies shots are taken and retaken . In radio the rehearsal time for a half-hour program is ordinarily two and a half to four hours ; very seldom is it more than six . There is never time for anyone to sit down quietly and think about it . The production man has seldom had a chance to study a script before arriving in the studio for the rehearsal . He has probably been able to do no more than glance over the material , choose his actors , and make requisitions for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the rehearsal arrives . The studio to be used may have been on the air for the preceding period . Anything from five minutes to half an hour may be spent clearing the studio of the outgoing program . Finally the director and his cast assemble , ready to commence work . Neither the musicians nor the noise makers have put in an appearance ; they will not arrive until the dress rehearsal . Casting , considered in the theater of such paramount importance , can occupy but a few minutes : hardly longer than it takes the director to read out the list of characters and allot parts . If a role is miscast , well then it is miscast . The inexorable march of the red second-hand on the clock face above the control booth is a continual restraint on artistic procrastination . The reading rehearsal begins . This first reading of a thirty-minute script may take from fifty minutes to an hour and a half . Since neither the director nor the players have been given any opportunity to study the program , the rehearsal accomplishes little beyond @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a half to two hours have been consumed . The director then retires to the control booth and listens to the program as it will sound on the air , but still without either musicians or noise makers . This rehearsal before live microphones enables the director to clear up any glaring faults and , of more importance to him , gives him some indications as to whether the playing time is going to be over or under the estimate . At the end of the first " mike " rehearsal , having read the script at least twice , the cast is considered to he pretty well prepared for the artistic ordeal before them . Forty-five minutes or so before the program goes on the air the noise makers and musicians arrive . In all probability the musicians will he prepared to go to work as soon as they set up their instruments . The noise makers , however , being the temperamental plumbers of broadcasting , are always discovered to have forgotten some essential tools . While they are off making good the omissions , the director has a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leader . If the music proves to be badly chosen there is little or nothing that can be done about it . The second-hand is marching on . With thirty-five to forty minutes left , the dress rehearsal begins , and the director hears his program as a complete entity for the first time . A few minutes later it is on the air . This is a restrained description of the preparations involved in a majority of sustaining programs . While there are exceptions , most of these belong to that type of program which comes to the microphone already prepared such as symphony orchestras , operas , scenes from current stage plays , dance bands , and so forth . In these cases radio is simply a transmitting device . When called upon under the prevailing system to create its own material or to modify existing material to the peculiar limitations of the microphone , radio simply has no creative capacities whatsoever . One conversant with the processes of broadcasting wonders why psychologists have always limited their investigations of mental ages to the radio audience only . Perhaps the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is ; the mystery may be that it should be as good . Its virtues are the direct outcome of high-pressure competition ; its vices lie in the mass-production methods such competition has evolved . A youthful industry , it is engaged in a hybrid undertaking which overlaps the fields of communication , publishing , and the theater , but which has no positive analogies to any of them ; certainly no analogies close enough to serve as an absolute guide . Most of radio 's knowledge has been self taught and it faces one complication which is unique . Instead of serving One master , radio serves two . Dependent for zport on the patronage of the amercial sponsor , and dependent .. or its very existence on retaining the good will of the public , the broadcaster 's lot is not a happy one when these two come in conflict . Faced with the conflict , it was not unreasonable for the broadcasting companies to accept the dictation of those who were prepared to sign the checks . Whatever its duties and obligations to the public may be , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is to pay its way . The broadcasting industry has a definite commodity to sell . The most elementary law of merchandising requires that the seller remain on good terms with the customer . Where there is but a single customer the law assumes the force of self-preservation . Under the circumstances is it to be wondered at that the commercial sponsor exerts the dominating influence in American radio ? He pays . Having reached this point in analysis of radio 's shortcomings , the conventional solution of the problems posed is to evade the issue by placing the entire blame on the listening public . It is usually done in one of two ways . Either the public is accused of having the intelligence of baby snails or a plea is made to cultured listeners that they become chronic letter writers in order to convince broadcasters , sustaining and commercial , that a vast , eager audience is waiting to appreciate and applaud better programs . To blame the public is like blaming the rank and file of the armies in the late War . While privates could have stopped @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the objective conditions were all against them . So are the conditions against the radio audience doing anything about radio by appealing to the broadcasters . If action is taken , it will he along other lines . The crux of the matter seems to lie , first , in the position assumed by theadvertising agency and , through it , that assumed by the sponsor ; second , in the contemptuous attitude which exists throughout the broadcasting industry , both toward the entertainment it provides and toward the public it serves . The fact that the advertiser pays for the support of radio is no reason why lie should have been permitted to become the entrepreneur of the country 's entertainment . He also supports most of the magazines and newspapers , but he neither writes the editorials , chooses the illustrators , nor decides what fiction and what articles shall be published . No one would pretend that he is fitted either by temperament or experience to discharge these functions capably . He is no more fitted to be the arbiter of radio entertainment . The fundamental error @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , was permitted to assume a dominating position . Since then , the broadcasting industry has seen its only equity , the good will of the public , continually threatened by the commonplace quality of most advertising programs . If radio is to improve , the broadcasting companies must reassume control over their own medium , providing not only the facilities but the programs broadcast through them . The sponsor and his agency should occupy the same relation to radio as to the magazine and the newspaper . Given this change , given the removal of the commercial point of view and the return to the broadcaster of control over his own destinies , other necessary changes would follow . The broadcasting plants would no longer need to be factories dedicated to mass production . The experimental work that is so urgently needed could be undertaken and the creative elements within radio discovered and fostered . The broadcasting industry seems to be facing three dangers at the present moment . Unable to derive sufficient revenues from a maximum sale of commercial time , the chain system may vanish within a few @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ few high-powered stations , located at strategic points for coverage . The second danger arises because of the dearth of fresh entertainment material and the possibility that the audience , trained to expect sensational new novelties every few weeks , will lose interest . Should the radio audience grow appreciably smaller , it seems likely that commercial support would rapidly diminish . If this came about there would be every probability of private enterprise withdrawing from radio and allowing the Government to assume the profitless burden . The third danger lies in the active , reformist minority , mentioned at the beginning of this article , organizing an effective movement for government control . No one who has made a thorough study of the American , British , and Canadian systems of broadcasting , can contemplate government control in this country without profound misgivings . If commercial sponsorship and quasi-control have developed objectionable features , political sponsorship would develop features infinitely more objectionable . From the standpoint of the average listener particulady , variety and interest replaced by monotony and up . entertainment features of radix ever , although they are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to create and influence mass opinion . With government control , in place of six hundred stations , each operated by a different personality , there would be a single group of stations , controlled by a single personality , in the form of an individual or a commission . Under such circumstances , as the experience of European countries has shown , nothing could prevent radio becoming an instrument of special interests . That any great number of listeners with government control is extremely doubtful . On the other hand , there is a growing dissatisfaction with radio as it is . If this dissatisfaction is organized and gains appreciable strength , the only alternative that can be offered will be government supervision and control . Unless the economic structure of radio collapses , the road it is to travel must be chosen by the broadcasting industry itself . Either the industry will acknowledge the responsibilities of its position and will develop the courage to lead both sponsors and the public or it will continue its present policies until they bring about the eventual destruction of private enterprise in radio @ 