@@153272

Last week two learned pharmacologists bickered politely over intestinal worms . The roundworm , which resembles the earthworm in form , is the most common parasite which infests the intestines of human beings . Children between the ages of three and ten are especially good hosts for these worms . Male roundworms grow four to eight inches long , females seven to twelve inches . In some cases as many as 1,000 have been found , but usually only half a dozen roundworms infest an intestine . They live on blood drained from the intestinal wall . <P> Such worms may travel from the intestines to the stomach whence they may be vomited , to the nose , to the middle ear , to the larynx where they occasionally cause fatal suffocation , to the common bile duct where they may cause jaundice , to the pancreas , to the vermiform appendix . A child who suffers from digestive disturbances , capricious appetite , abdominal pains , gas , vomiting , restlessness and irritability , itchy nose , grinding of the teeth , foul breath , headache , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be suffering from roundworms . <P> Because roundworms and earthworms look alike , from time immemorial the lethal effects of roundworm vermicides have first been tried on earthworms before application to humans . Only last spring Pharmacologist Glenn Llewellyn Jenkins of the University of Maryland , chemist and assiduous inventor of synthetic drugs , published an article in the Journal of the American Pharmaceutical Association on " Rational Use of the Earthworm for the Evaluation of Vermicides . " This profoundly agitated Pharmacologist Paul Dudley Lamson of Vanderbilt University , caused him to write a vigorous rebuttal which Science published last week . Snapped Professor Lamson : " The human Ascaris roundworm is a parasitic animal living in the gut of man . It has no respiratory or circulatory system in any way related to that of an earthworm . It can live under anaerobic without free oxygen conditions . The earthworm is a free-living species inhabiting not man , but the ground . It feeds on substances in the soil rather than those of the human gut . It has no chitinous coat . It is dependent upon a circulatory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of these organs through which circulates blood containing both corpuscles and hemoglobin . Except for its shape , there is nothing which under any consideration could be used as an excuse for taking such an animal as a test object for ascaricides , especially when one can obtain with great ease pig Ascaris , which are morphologically indistinguishable from the human Ascaris . " <P> Then Professor Lamson revealed for the first time that he had tried out 121 widely different chemical substances on both earthworms and pig roundworms , found only seven which killed both kinds with equal efficiency . More than half the 121 vermicides killed earthworms quickly , had no effect on the roundworms.                     