@@468694

THE work a man does , the condi- tions under which his work is done , and the wages he receives for doing it determine in great measure , for him and those dependent upon him , the circumstances of his life , the house he lives in , the clothes he wears , the food he eats , and his recreation . A man 's occupation is , therefore , probably the most potent single factor in deciding the state of his health and fixing the span of his life . In the peace and security of an English or American parsonage the minister at the beginning of his professional career may look forward with considerable assurance to a ripe old age . His chances of enjoying a long and healthy life are greater than if he had chosen almost any other occupation . Long life also can be expected by other professional and white-collar workers . At the opposite end of the scale are found those who work as miners , sandstone grinders , and those who are ? or rather were ? engaged in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ life and a mortality rate about two or three times that of the average . Between these two extremes the various occupations may be listed ? ranging all the way from the best to the worst according to the degree of hazard or protection pertaining to the specific job in question . In this paper we propose to discuss some of the relationships between work and the life span , so that we may know what dangers attend work in our modern industrial civilization and what is being done under private auspices and by the agencies of government to make occupations safer and to smoothout the inequalities which tend to shorten the lives of workers . The relationship between occupation and the length of life is not a definite and simple one of cause and effect . Whether we shall live to a ripe old age and enjoy good health ; whether we shall be disabled long years before we die ; or whether our span of life shall be comparatively short depends on many conditions in addition to our occupations . Inherited vigor or weakness , the surroundings of our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the families into which we are born play a very important part in determining longevity and health in later years . Unfortunately it still holds true that hard work and poor pay often go together . When earnings are small the worker and his family suffer privations of ninny kinds ; they may lack what others consider bare necessities . Their food and clothing arc apt to be inadequate and their living quarters crowded and insanitary . Men working in the lowest income groups , where the daily bread depends upon current wages , will often continue to work under handicaps of ill health long after they should quit and seek medical advice and treatment . Economic pressure is powerful enough to keep men on the job after common sense and sane medical judgment would suggest a vacation , and perhaps even a period of medical attention in a hospital or some other institution . It is , therefore , not always possible to say how much of the sickness and death which occur among wage earners is due to their occupation and how much results from other conditions some of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's work . Unskilled workers are generally disadvantageously situated in all respects ; but their higher mortality may often be the result of small wages and a low standard of living rather than the hazard of any particular occupation . These indirect effects of work are obviously difficult to disentangle and to measure accurately ; but an analysis of the available data shows that they vitally affect the picture of longevity . The experience of the life insurance companies throws much light on this subject . Their records cover large groups of people called " Industrial " policy-holders , who earn their livelihood in manufacturing plants , mines , transportation industries , and other mechanical pursuits . On the whole , they command only moderate wages and constitute a fairly homogeneous economic group which may be described as the urban , wage-earning population . In contrast , there are the " Ordinary " policy-holders who earn higher incomes consisting mainly of persons engaged in non-hazardous pursuits ? the clerical , professional , mercantile , and commercial classes of the community . Agricultural workers and the better paid mechanics are also represented @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of life of these two groups we find a difference of seven years in favor of Ordinary policyholders . At age twenty they may expect to live an additional forty-nine years , which gives them an even chance of reaching sixty-nine ; whereas the industrial workers of the same age have an expectation of life of only forty-two years and may , therefore , expect on the average to live only to an age of sixty-two . We believe that the type of work which a man does is a most important influence in this difference of seven years ; especially if to the direct hazards arc added those indirect social and economic factors which are so intimately connected with occupation . The latest report of the Registrar General of England and Wales confirms this hypothesis and helps to clarify the relationship between grade of occupation and the duration of life . It groups the workers of England and Wales into five social and occupational classes , which are also broad economic divisions of the population . The first includes the professions and the higher ranks of business life ; the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the third , the skilled workers ; the fourth , for the most part , agricultural laborers ; and the fifth , the large group of unskilled laborers . It was found that the death rate of men in the lowest economic group exceeded by more than 50 per cent that of men in the highest . As one went down the scale from the top to the bottom , judging by income , there was an unbroken increase in the rate of mortality . In general , the mortality from nearly all of the principal causes of death was higher among the poorer classes . Tuberculosis and other diseases of the respiratory system were relatively much more common among them , while diseases of the genito-urinary system and diseases of the digestive system occurred relatively more frequently among the higher economic groups . Our American data , although less authentic , support the same conclusions . In 1927 , the United States Public Health Service attempted to evaluate economic position as a factor in health conservation . The study substantiated the correctness of the prevailing opinion that sickness and premature @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well-to-do . This is strikingly true of the victims of tuberculosis . In spite of a very gratifying decline in recent years , this disease is still responsible for a loss of about two years in the longevity of workers and goes a long way to explain the differential of seven years in their lower life expectation . Recent studies show that the disease is chiefly prevalent in the congested and poorer areas of our cities . In New York City the heaviest mortality is found in the old wards of the lower west THE JOB AND side , whereas the lowest death rates are always associated with the choicest residential areas of the city . The heavy incidence of this disease among workers is due partly to their poverty and partly to specific occupational hazards . On both these scores , as one might expect , professional men and women occupy an extremely favorable position . Records which cover a long period of years show that the mortality of Protestant clergymen is exceptionally low , being only about half that of the general run of working people . For some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , although their death rates too , according to English figures , still remain very decidedly better than the average . It is interesting to note that suicide is almost an unknown cause of death in this group , only the Anglican ministers showing anything approaching the average rate . Likewise cancer mortality is extremely small , reaching the very lowest figure recorded in any of the 178 occupations studied . Teachers are another group exhibiting an unusually good mortality picture . A careful study made some years ago of the physical disability of school teachers in New York City disclosed that their death rates were among the lowest for any occupation . and that the rate of disability was one of the lowest found among employees of the various departments of the city 's service . Contrary to prevailing opinion , the death rate from tuberculosis was very low ? instead of being above the average as has been claimed . The main causes of disability among teachers were influenza and bronchitis and nervous diseases . The data did not permit us to state definitely that the considerable number of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Teaching is admittedly exacting work in its demands upon vitality ; nevertheless , it is quite possible that some nervous diseases are the outgrowth of the individual teacher 's personal constitution rather than a result of the character of the job performed . The fact that a large group of female clerical employees showed as high an amount of disability as a result of nervous disorders would seem to substantiate this point of view . Other American investigations record essentially similar findings ; in England and Wales , likewise , the mortality of teachers was exceptionally good . Physicians , apparently , do not enjoy as favorable a mortality situation as other professional workers . In fact , they have an expectation of life at age thirty ? when they are entering upon their chosen careers ? of between two and three years less than a selected insured group ; and they surpass the general population in longevity by barely a year . In spite of the fact that as a group doctors are endowed with better than the average physique , mentality , and social position , their irregular hours @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hour of the day and night , and exposure to all kinds of weather which inevitably accompany rural and small-town practice more than counterbalance their assets . Influenza and pneumonia are very common causes of death and explain in part the high mortality . These diseases may be considered occupational in character since doctors are constantly exposed to them in the course of their day 's work . Organic heart disease and diabetes are also decidedly higher among American physicians . The suicide situation in this group has often attracted attention . In this country available figures , although inconclusive , suggest that the suicide rate is slightly above the average . In England and Wales , however , mortality from suicide is very high , being twice the average . The mortality of dentists is lower than the average for all occupied males ; but like that of doctors , it is not as favorable as that which the professional and white-collar class as a whole enjoys . The mortality of trained nurses . on the other hand , is very favorable . This is probably due to the fact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and , as is generally known , spinsters have an exceptionally low mortality . But even if we compare the mortality of nurses with that of spinsters , their situation is very good . Much has been written , especially in Europe , about the danger of infection as a result of nursing tuberculous patients . Some European investigators have found that as high as 12 per cent of the student nurses have been infected . There is considerable difference of opinion in the United States regarding this important question , since the issue is clouded by the fact that many institutions for the tuberculous have employed nurses who are themselves sufferers from tuberculosis . The opinion is rather generally held that nursing entails comparatively little danger because of the care and precautions which the larger and better equipped hospitals and sanatoria take to safeguard the health of their staff . The few studies which have been made in this country indicate , however , that the incidence of tuberculosis among nurses is about a third higher than among women of the same ages in the general population . It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hazards such as accidents from dangerous machinery and unsafe processes , the inhalation of harmful dusts of various kinds , the absorption of powerful poisons , the necessity of working in excessively hot , cold , or humid places , and the strain which heavy , unremitting labor produces . Many groups of workers are not so fortunate as the white-collar class but are subject to one or more of these factors ; these combined with low incomes tend beyond a doubt to shorten their lives and injure their health . The most important hazard from the standpoint of the number of men directly exposed to it is industrial accident . There are at least twenty-four thousand deaths and three million accidents annually serious enough to cause loss of time from work among the 45 million occupied persons in " careless America . " If we compute the loss of future working life due to fatal accidents and to accidents which cause permanent disability and add the actual days lost because of temporary disabilities , we arrive at the staggering total of close to three hundred million days of labor lost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the full-time labor of a million men working a whole year . The cost of these accidents in lost wages alone amounts annually to well over a billion dollars . To this loss must be added the cost of medical care and the losses that the employer sustains through decreased production owing to lessened efficiency in his plant . Over three thousand men out of a total working force of one million are killed each year in mine and quarry accidents ; while the toll of fatal accidents among one and three-quarter million railroad employees is approximately 1,500 men . Large numbers of men are killed on the farms and in lumbering operations , in iron and steel mills , and in other metal-working establishments . Building operations and the use of motor- and horse-drawn vehicles also cause a large number of occupational deaths . In spite of much admirably organized accident prevention work , the situation is still very unsatisfactory in our country . Underground coal miners , for example , have a death rate from accidents almost ten times that of clerks and men in non-hazardous occupations . Accidents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a mortality about twice the general average , and that their expectation of life at age twenty is curtailed as much as ten years . That this loss is not inevitable is clearly indicated by the much lower accident rates of English miners working in deeper mines . Excessive accident rates are found also among electric light and power linemen , THE JOB AND structural iron workers and bridge builders , railroad brakemen , hull construction workers and riggers in shipbuilding trades , as well as among sailors and marine workers and factory workers who handle explosives . Finally , there are divers , steeplejacks , building wreckers , and aviators whose accident hazard is so great that the life insurance companies will either not accept them for insurance at all , or if they do , only at much higher premiums . The increasing number of persons taking up aviation , both as a profession and as a mode of travel , has recently led the insurance companies to determine how great the flying hazard really is . Although the companies are anxious to write this business so that pioneers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lack of trustworthy statistics has been a real handicap which the Bureau of Aeronautics of the United States Department of Commerce is now trying to overcome . A few companies reckoned tentatively upon a fatality rate of 10 deaths per 1,000 aviators , and upon that basis charged an extra premium of $10 per 81,000 of life insurance . In a very short time this amount was found inadequate to cover pilots . For aviators as a class ( excluding those engaged in racing and " stunt " work ) the fatal accident rate for full-time pilots is now estimated at anywhere from 25 to 50 deaths per 1,000 annually . Even if the smaller figure is correct , the mortality of aviators would be from four to five times the average for men of their age . It has become clear that the hazard to passengers taking an occasional flight is negligible , so that applicants who admit flying from time to time are now insured without additional charge . What has the safety movement , so extensive in America , accomplished in reducing industrial accidents ? Much thought has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been spent in fostering the safety movement in industrial plants . The activities of the National Safety Council are especially noteworthy in this connection . In many industrial organizations a systematic attempt for more than thirty years has been made to induce workers to take proper precautions . The railroad companies probably show the best results . For example , in 1889 one railroad employee in every 357 was killed in the course of his work ; whereas in 1927 the figure had dropped to one in every 1,136 . In the iron and steel industry there has been a decline of over 62 per cent in the accident frequency rate , and 52 per cent in the severity rate between the years 1910 and 1925 . Especially spectacular are the records of the United States Steel Corporation , which is recognized as a pioneer in accident-prevention work . This company reports that , reckoned on the basis of frequency of accidents involving death , permanent disability , or temporary disability lasting over 35 days , 58,553 employees were saved from serious injury in the period 1912 and 1928 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nevertheless , the tangible results for industry , as a whole , appear to be rather disappointing . Some years ago when we studied the trend of occupational accidents among the millions of industrial policy-holders of the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company , we found that while the accident rate had decreased somewhat during the decade , the reduction had been rather slight in extent . Our statistics indicated that gains had been made , but also that the hazards of industry had been increasing as the result of changing methods and the more widespread use of machinery . Machine processes are more and more supplanting hand methods ; the automobile is replacing the horse-drawn vehicle ; building operations are conducted on a far larger and more daring scale ; chemical substitutes are replacing wool , cotton , and silk . Perhaps the best thing we can say is that the accident record would have been far worse because of the additional hazards of industry had it not been for the timely development of the safety movement in a number of our leading industries . Dust is next in importance after accidents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dusts , which contain a very large percentage of free silica , are especially harmful and shorten the lives of men engaged in a number of industries . Exposed to this hazard are many metal miners , ore-mill workers , granite and slate quarriers , granite cutters , hard-rock drillers , and sand blasters . In fact , the very highest mortality rates and the greatest curtailment of life are found in those occupations where there is combined liability to accident and exposure to hard-stone dust , as in the case of gold and silver miners , copper miners and , especially , lead and zinc miners . The mortality in these occupations runs over three times the average , with a resultant loss in life expectation at age twenty of possibly thirteen or fourteen years . In England and Wales , likewise , the very highest recorded mortality is that of tin and copper miners who are exposed to hard-rock dust . These English miners have a death rate from all causes over four times the average ; while the rate for respiratory tuberculosis is more than twelve times the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with exposure to this particular type of stone dust . The lungs of workers become infiltrated with particles of dust , and as a result either of mechanical or , as is now more generally believed , of chemical irritation , fibrosis sets in , making the lung a fertile incubator for the tubercle bacilli . A study of mortality among the granite cutters of Barre , Vermont , discloses a death rate from pulmonary tuberculosis almost ten times that of the general adult population of the State . The pneumatic tools now used apparently generate a greater quantity of fine dust high in silica content and cause more tuberculosis than did the old-fashioned hand tools that they have supplanted . Axe grinders and polishers in a Connecticut factory had a death rate from tuberculosis of 10 per 1,000 , which was twelve times that for other employees of this factory . Exposure to silica dust constituted the chief difference in working conditions . A valuable report on silicosis among rock drillers , blasters , and excavators in New York City showed that 81 per cent of the blasters , 59 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the excavators were suffering from the effects of inhaling stone dust . In spite of attempts to control the hazard from rock drilling , the majority of workers so exposed are as badly off as ever . Some evidence indicates that other forms of dust also go hand in hand with a high death rate from tuberculosis . Barbers and hair dressers , furniture and other wood workers , bakers and some textile mill operatives , as well as shoe-factory and tobacco-factory operatives have also a high incidence of tuberculosis . But in no case do we find the extreme rates associated with occupations exposed to silica dust . That certain dusts , on the other hand , may have a protective effect on individnaLs is suggested by the peculiar condition found in all parts of the world among coal miners , who have a death rate from tuberculosis lower than that for occupied males generally . In England and Wales during the years 1921-1923 the death rate from respiratory tuberculosis was 25 per cent lower for coal miners between the ages of 20 and 65 than for all males @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ among cement mill workers . It has been suggested that lime dust , like coal dust , exerts some protective influence against the development of tuberculosis , but this has not as yet been definitely established . A well-directed research in this field may disclose that the inhalation of this subTHE JOB AND stance acts as a measure of protection against tuberculosis ; this would mean that the medical profession may some day be able to control the bacillus of tuberculosis by chemical means . V The absorption of poisons such as lead , mercury , phosphorus , brass , arsenic , benzol , carbon monoxide , and other substances extensively encountered in industry is responsible for many deaths and much ill health among workmen . With the poison hazard we might also include the exposure to x-rays and radium of doctors , dentists , nurses , and laboratory technicians . Workers employed in the manufacture of luminous watch dials are likewise sometimes the victims of a horrible condition known as " radium poisoning . " Unfortunately we do not know even approximately the extent of industrial poisoning in the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ obscure that general practitioners are often unable to detect them . Consequently , many cases are not reported in spite of the fact that the laws of a number of states require it . Recently a number of states have made certain occupational diseases compensable under the Workmen 's Compensation Act , and we shall soon have a clue to the extent of such affections . The New York State Compensation Report for the year ending June 30 , 196 , for example , shows 1,437 reported cases of occupational disease and poisoning . If occupational skin diseases , which are not reportable in New York State , were included the total would be much higher , judging by the record of Ohio , where there are nearly six hundred cases a year . In general , the number of persons exposed to a specific poison is small ; moreover , these workers are scattered over many different industries , making it difficult to study the mortality of the group as a whole . The difficulty is increased by the constant introduction of THE LIFE SPAN q.45 new substances to replace @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ continuously or for a sufficiently long period of time . In fact , the elimination of an injurious substance , the substitution of a harmless one , and the introduction of adequate safeguards often follow immediately upon the recognition of danger . For example , since about 1913 a prohibitive Federal tax upon white phosphorus matches has virtually eliminated the use of this form of phosphorus in match manufacture . Recently the Commissioner of the Bureau of Labor Statistics suggested abolishing the use of radium paint for making luminous dials on watches and clocks because of the very heavy toll which their manufacture entails . Though we have little accurate information for determining the full effect of industrial poisons upon death rates , a few available facts show the relationship . Painters who are constantly exposed to lead have a mortality somewhat above the average , and we have found that about two per cent of all their deaths are due to lead poisoning . The effects of chronic lead poisoning are also apparent in the high mortality rates of painters from nephritis , cerebral hemorrhage , apoplexy , and paralysis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mortality of pottery painters , glazers , and dippers . In England and Wales a very high death rate among file cutters is attributed in part to lead poisoning . Those working with molten brass are exposed to the fumes of zinc oxide and sometimes suffer from brass founders ' ague . These fumes may account for the inordinate mortality of brass founders from diseases of the digestive system , tuberculosis , and pneumonia ; although heat and dust , so common in foundries , are perhaps equally important causes . VI This brings us to the fourth of the principal occupational hazards ? the harmful effects of exposure to excessive heat and to sudden variations in temperature . Those who labor in iron and steel mills , in foundries , in pottery and glass factories , in engine and boiler rooms and in the stoke-holes of steamers are subject to respiratory diseases of various kinds , the death rate from pneumonia being extremely high . In fact , iron-foundry workers show the highest proportion of deaths from this disease . Pneumonia is the leading cause of death among them . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and steel mills exceeds the average by 50 per cent , while that of laborers runs much higher . Certain groups of workers in textile mills exposed to heat , together with humidity , suffer from many ill-defined ailments which are not infrequently reflected in a high mortality . Often men employed in operations where steam is liberated , such as in cleaning out tanks and vats , fall victims to chronic rheumatism , chronic bronchitis , and circulatory disturbances . Other groups suffer from excessive dryness , a condition which promotes disease , produces irritation of the nose and throat , chronic catarrh , and susceptibility to respiratory ailments . The health of workers exposed to extreme cold may also be impaired . Makers of artificial ice and workers in cold-storage plants suffer inordinately from rheumatism , neuritis , and chronic kidney trouble . Respiratory diseases are also prevalent . As in the case of workers in extreme heat , the great danger apparently lies in passing from one extreme of temperature to another . The fifth occupational hazard is fatigue . The old adage that hard work never kills @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Raymond Pearl . His conclusion from an analysis of the Registrar General 's Report was that hard physical labor does shorten the life of a man who has passed the age of 40 . Doctor Pearl says , " It has long been known that the lives of galley slaves , the Chinese treadmill coolies , the Japanese ' ricksha runners , and the toilers in the rice fields of Java are cut short by the extreme energy expenditures involved in their occupations . . . . There is a direct positive relation between the magnitude of the death rates from the age of 40 to 45 years on and the average expenditure of physical energy , even after the deaths resulting from special occupational and industrial hazards have been deducted . " This held true whether indoor or outdoor work was considered ; and evidence supports also the belief that hard work , or rather the resulting fatigue , was the primary cause of premature death . In a recent study of 22,000 iron and steel workers in England covering a period of over six years it was found that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ greater sickness rate than those working at ordinary temperatures , and the more strenuous the work the greater the sickness frequency . Steel smelters showed a sickness rate 23 per cent in excess of all workers and the rolling mill men , an excess of S per cent . Another investigation has shown that primary cardiac overstrain due to hard labor is frequent among soldiers , porters , miners , and blacksmiths ; while arterial strain often afflicts stevedores and longshoremen , and others who do heavy labor . Likewise , those who Lift heavy weights or who are forced to do work requiring excessive muscular strain are likely to suffer from hernia . But on all these points , especially on the exact effect of fatigue upon the organism , we need fuller and more accurate information . VII In spite of the foregoing enumeration of the hazards which workers meet in the routine course of many occupations , it must not be assumed that all jobs are specifically injurious to health . Many men gainfully employed are no more exposed to risk than are their mothers and wives at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to receiving a death warrant or even a sentence that life will be curtailed . Many trades , professions , and mechanical pursuits exert no harmful effect upon life , limb , or vitality as far as we can measure . Professional and clerical workers , merchants , salesmen , farmers , and financiers are especially advantageously placed . Skilled workers , such as carpenters , plumbers , bricklayers , and other building trades workers ; printers , compositors , and pressmen ; tailors and garment workers ; bakers and barbers , as well as mail carriers , storekeepers , and auto mechanics , all show practically average death rates . Skilled and semi-skilled factory operatives in a wide variety of industries encounter no specific occupational hazards and exhibit average mortality rates . Moreover , a great improvement in mortality has taken place among wage earners since the beginning of the century . All classes of the population are enjoying added years of life and declining death rates ; but during the past two decades these gains have been most marked among workers , both men and women , as insurance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ important causes of death have declined most . During the last two decades the lower general mortality has added about five years to the life expectation of each industrial worker at age twenty . This is no trifling gain ; it is an indication of our more enlightened social consciousness and of our concern for the welfare of wage earners . Many factors have contributed to this result . We have already referred to the fine achievements of the National Safety Council in the field of accident prevention . This organization has distributed widely pamphlets and posters prepared with the greatest care . These teach working men how to avoid unnecessary risks and how to exercise caution in their work . The enactment of workmen 's compensation laws has helped materially to reduce the accident rate in most states and has proved highly satisfactory to both employer and employee . These Jaws have done away with expensive litigation and have provided financial relief to injured workmen , thus enabling them to secure adequate medical attention ; they have also stimulated employers to safeguard their machinery and to build up efficient safety @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ employers have begun to realize also that it is to their advantage to cut down sickness and disability among their employees whether occupational in origin or not . Such sickness and disability results not only in loss of wages to the workers but in diminished or defective production , in idle equipment , and in general discontent . It , therefore , pays employers to provide better working conditions , to improve ventilation and lighting systems , and to seek in other ways to raise the morale of their employees through a variety of activities . These include cafeterias and lunch rooms , group insurance , old age pensions , annual physical examinations , and what is perhaps most important , well-organized medical service . Some employers provide only emergency and first-aid treatment ; others go very much farther , providing complete medical care and guidance . These medical departments have demonstrated their value to industry and have greatly increased in number in recent years . For example , in 1920 , according to a report of the United States Bureau of Labor Statistics , 407 companies employing about two million @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more treatment rooms , and 34 had first-aid equipment only . Large numbers of physicians , nurses , dentists , and oculists are now engaged in such work . Similarly , American workmen are displaying widespread interest in all matters pertaining to health . They are probably more alive to the hazards of occupation than are workers in other lands . In a number of industries groups of workers have combined to furnish their own health protection . This is particularly successful in the garment trades . A number of states and cities now have bureaus of industrial hygiene which study the hazards of industry and co-operate with employers and employees in eliminating industrial diseases . The United States Public Health Service , the Bureau of Mines , the United States Bureau of Labor Statistics , and the Women 's Bureau have made noteworthy contributions to our knowledge in this field . The life insurance and casualty insurance companies have also played an important part in disseminating useful information . But just as important has been the reduction in the length of the working day and especially the high wage scale @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ throughout the United States . There is every reason to believe that the prosperity of the American worker will continue and that health activities in industry noticeable everywhere will be extended . The extraordinary efficiency of industry in this country has produced an economic standard of life which makes the typical American workman the envy of the world . Such standards will result in further reduction in mortality , and it is entirely possible that at a not far distant date the expectation of life of wage earners will approach , even if it does not quite equal , that of the more favored classes of the population .                     