@@431006

 | MISTAKES OF MORALISTS BY RALPH W. SOCKMAN WHY is it that moralists are so unpopular when morals are the subject of best sellers ? The moralist is commonly thought of as a bother . To some the word suggests a person of puritanical temper prying into the motives of others and seeking to restrain them from doing things which he is afraid to do himself . In some minds it raises a vision of the man with anaemic desires who wants to frustrate the emotions of others . Is all this a caricature drawn by those who love darkness because their deeds are evil ? Or is it due to the mistakes of the moralists ? In cases of criticism the manager of a store makes a principle of giving the benefit of the doubt to the buying public . It pays in the long run . " The sons of light " might well learn this bit of wisdom from " the sons of this world . " If the styles of conduct offered by the moralists are scorned by the crowd , should they change @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Not necessarily . But they should at least be led to some searching self-criticism and to some intelligent study of the public taste . The naivete of moralists is one of their mistakes . A few years ago when Henry Ford found that his famous car was losing its appeal , he took a drastic step . At tremendous temporary loss he shifted emphasis from production and distribution to research . As a result he regained his market . Has the time come for the makers and distributors of our moral models to take similar action ? Certainly it is no secret that the sales are down . To be sure there is considerable contemporary re-examination of morals . In psychological laboratories and in sociological forums the modes of human behavior are under dissection ; but the significant fact is that this criticism and investigation are going on mainly outside the precincts of the Church , which has been the traditional custodian of morals . The result is that outside research often serves to strengthen inside reaction . The Church 's defense mechanism is aroused . It rallies itself to maintain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rise with the effort . Overzealous moralists , however , are incendiary rather than illuminating . Pulpit lightning and pulpit thunder are poor substitutes for the incandescence of intelligence . They presage a storm , but they are not a " preface to morals . " To continue our commercial figure , the situation among moralists to-day is that the research department has not a good working connection with the sales force . On the one hand are the professors and men of letters , the Bertrand Russells , Walter Lippmanns , and the others who from detached positions dissect the codes of conduct and diagnose the disorders of our contemporary morality . On the other are the preachers and teachers , the parents and social administrators who are engaged in the local and personal direction of moral attitudes . Morality is  | not a subject which can be studied in academic aloofness or literary seclusion apart from concrete contact and practical interest , for the man on the street furnishes the raw material for ethical experimental study . Neither can it be promoted by " blind guides " or high-pressure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ There ought to be better co-ordination between the theorists and the promoters . The lack of it results in mistakes within both groups . Is it not the difference in social data which largely accounts for the divergence in views between a Judge Lindsey and the average clergyman ? One set of errors is due to the fact that moralists have not understood how deep is the ethical disturbance of our time . During the years of theological upheaval , from Darwin down to the second decade of the twentieth century , it was generally assumed that our moral foundations were unshaken . Pulpits proceeded on the theory that while men might not know what was right to think about God , they at least knew what was right to do toward men . Now when they hear that the Ten Commandments have to pass an intelligence test in order to matriculate in most academic circles and that the moral principles of the Sermon on the Mount must submit to the canons of the sociologists , many moralists are inclined to blame the sudden change on the bumptiousness of professors and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the temper of our teaching and our science is more the product than the cause of a general social attitude . The Great War has been cited by many moral guides as the cataclysm which turned our generation aside from the paths of rectitude . It does seem that the minds of men released in the wildness of the World War have not been content to settle down into the tameness of a traditional past . But the War did not change human nature ; it revealed rather what an unchanged human nature was capable of doing in a high-powered changing environment . As Professor Coe says , the War was no meteorite dropped on our world from outside our system ; it was a direct and entirely to-be-expected development from within the system . Our present moral revolution ? and it is a revolution ? began farther back than August 1914 . The " new psychologists " have also tended to shunt the moralists into superficial misunderstandings of our changing morals . Various schools have gained a hearing , each with a glib explanation of behavior based on single instincts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mind , came the self-preservationists who offered that urge us the one law of life . Following this have come among others the Freudian school of psychoanalysis with sex as the one controlling instinct , the school of Trotter which demonstrates that our conduct is dominated by the " herd instinct , " Adler with his emphasis on the " masculine tendency , " and Jung 's followers who admit the joint rulership of two instincts , " power and love . " Strained and superficial have been the attempts to make the facts of life fit the formulas of the psychologists , as when the champions of self-preservation say that a mother 's love for her child is due to the instinctive desire for protection by her child later , or when the Freudians asserted during the War that men feared the Zeppelins not because of their destructive powers but because of their phallic symbolism . With such shallow and discordant explanations in the air , is it any wonder that many moralists acquired a superiority complex toward the " new psychology " and attacked it as the foe of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sur-  | rendered to some particular school . Some wrote popular books on why we behave and why we misbehave . Pulpits gave themselves over to the new psychology ? as long as it was new enough to draw . And whether in denunciation or devotion , moralists have focused their gaze on these surface experiments and explanations . Moreover , interest in current social problems has served to divert the moral guides from deeper questions . They can not quite grasp the fact that the perplexity is now not so much in regard to the superstructure as to the foundation of morality . A British man of letters has pointed out the difference in emphasis between the older school of contemporary English writers and the younger . Wells , Shaw , Kipling , Galsworthy were concerned with problems like socialism , imperialism , and other matters of ethical application . The younger writers are raising more ultimate questions such as : What is the good life ? Is there a purpose running through the universe ? Moralists have not yet realized that they must talk to a generation of this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ principles to industry , racial adjustment , and kindred problems they must not forget the necessary and more primary work of explaining the existence of those principles . In short , our moralists , looking on the turbulent stream of modern life , have made a common error of mistaking eddies for currents . They have seen local movements and thought they were general trends . They have been too immediate in their interpretations . They have not realized that " the acids of modernity " have been working for some four hundred years and that they have eaten away not only at the pictures of God given by the theologians but at the portraits of man as drawn by the humanists . They have not fully perceived the strange irony of history 4 that in this day of man 's increasing mechanical power there are deterministic theories which reduce man 's moral power and responsibility toward the low estimate placed by the medieval theologians ; that the rise of the machine has been accompanied by a modern fall of man . Moralists have not sensed the full implications of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ soil to the city but changed the patterns of thought from laissez-faire to economic determinism . The urban world refuses to be judged by the old moral code , which was based on an agricultural order . City minds which live amid the fluctuations of markets and the fickleness of fortune do not give the same heed to the moralists who talk about " whatsoever a man soweth that shall he also reap . " The temper of thinking changes with the tempo of living . The half-mystical mood of those who wait upon the Lord of the harvests is not known to those who wait for street ears and watch ticker-tapes . However much we may generalive about the idea that human nature never changes , the fact is that " the man in the street " is not . the same material for the moralist as " the man with the hoe . " A year or so ago Virginia Woolf essayed to trace the influences which make the modern mind and morals as those influences have been reflected in English literature . In her book Orlando she presented @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hundred years ago as a male . With true imaginative insight the author followed the lad through the exuberance of his youth in Shakespearean England , his flirtations with Continental spirits , and then his change from male to female at the beginning of the eighteenth century . Orlando , donning skirts , has to endure the inanities and sterilities of the next hundred years only to be  | saturated in the sentimental dampness of Victoria 's nineteenth century and then catapulted into the dizzying maelstrom of twentieth-century traffic . Some day we shall turn to this book as we now turn to Gulliver 's Travels and Tristram Shandy for insight into the moral history of our modern times . But did our moralists understand and appreciate this artistic personification of the Zeitgeist ? No , most of those who read Orlando were shocked at her change of sex and advised others not to read it . Failing thus to see how deep-seated are the causes of our moral symptoms , the moralists have prescribed too superficially . Thinking that our contemporaries were merely in a fainting fit following the War @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by cold dashes of rebuke in our faces . Physicians , however , can not cure pernicious anaemia with repeated applications of cold water . It is the blood stream of moral behavior which has to be built up , and that is not done by mere challenges to the will . Moral treatment has been fragmentary as well as superficial . So many discussions of modern morals deal with mere segments of conduct . So central , for instance , has been made the subject of sex that immorality has come to be almost synonymous with a misuse of that single instinct . If life is more than meat and the body more than raiment , then immorality is more than lust of the flesh and indecency of dress . The moralist has too much conceived his role as a censor of surface manners and a fire extinguisher for flaming youth . Moralists also have made the mistake of substituting militancy for intelligence . Preachers have too often been intent on flogging the wills of their parishioners rather than on feeding their minds . They conceive their function as being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against social evils . But hungry troops have a tendency to mutiny . The army of the Lord loses morale when led in the dark without proper mental rationing . And such is the situation to-day . Stirring appeals for national prohibition do not satisfy congregations which want to know about their personal inhibitions . Urging laws to make people behave is not an adequate substitute for interpreting the laws by which people do behave . In Biblical language , the shepherds are focusing their energies fighting the wolves , but the Church 's moral problem is less the wolfishness of the wolves than it is the sheepishness of the sheep . In short , the moralist 's method to-day is predominantly one of attack rather than of examination and interpretation . Such tactics are temporarily more spectacular . Preachers know that there is a psychology which makes thousands of people come to see a fellow knocked out in a prize fight while only a few will come around to the hospital the next day to see him put together again . Likewise , if they can make their pulpits prize-fight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stage , the shamelessness of the modern woman , the lawlessness of the local community , they can usually fill the ringside seats . Almost every city or town has its favorite fighting parsons . But while the negative moral sentiments are more easily developed than the positive ones , they tend to make men irascible , censorious , and unsympathetic . It is with these qualities that the word moralist has come to be associated in the minds of men . He is considered a critic but not a creator . II A second type of mistake has been made by the moralists through their failure to welcome the empirical  | method of science . The physical sciences collect their data by observation and experiment , and on the basis of these make new formulas and adopt new methods . But in the realm of morals such a method of procedure has been deemed dangerous , if not sacrilegious . Our moral traditions have been inherited . The stamp of divinity is considered to be on many of them . They are the foundation of our precious institutions . If @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it not mean undermining the whole structure ? Hence , while scientists have been proceeding from observation to principles , moralists have been proceeding from principles to observation , the object of which was to buttress the traditions . The result , of course , has been that the public has come to have more respect for the openmindedness of the former than of the latter . In fact the scientists are better accepted by many as moral guides than are the professional moralists themselves . It should be admitted in defense of the moralists that it is very much more difficult to keep a cool and disinterested mind in approaching revisions of moral codes than in changing scientific formulas . One can be more dispassionate in regard to the Einstein theory of relativity than he can be in regard to the trial marriage of his relatives . Moral principles seem more a matter of life-and-death importance , occasionally at least , than do the findings of the laboratory . This is a fact which critics should remember when drawing their frequent comparisons between the cool accuracies of scientific discussions and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nevertheless , the fact remains that moralists have given their energies to defending principles rather than to discovering data . They have been more devoted to talking than to listening . Only recently a prominent Protestant minister was hailed as an innovator in ecclesiastical circles when he declared how much he was indebted in his preaching to a " confessional " which he conducts . What comparatively small proportion of time do preachers , parents , and teachers give to finding out the emotional reactions to their endeavors ? It is within the last five years that religious education has taken systematic and scientific steps to ascertain the moral results of the vast volume of Sunday School instruction . And the findings have been rather disconcerting . During the current year Dr. Vernon Jones of Clark University and Teachers College , Columbia , has published the results of a most illuminating study of the moral judgments of secular school teachers . To eighty-two experienced teachers and thirty-six juniors and seniors in college who were preparing to teach , he submitted sixtyeight moral situations and asked an expression of what they thought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " and also an expression of what they thought was considered right or wrong according to " generally accepted standards . " The tabulation of answers showed a wide difference of opinion among the teachers . Character education should not be established in schools on the assumption that teachers always know the difference between right and wrong or that the learning of moral rules gives the solution in specific situations . But do moralists fully grasp these facts in their impassioned pleas for moral and religious instruction of youth ? Do they not look upon morality as a set of fixed principles to be handed down by the elders in a patronage of wisdom rather than to be considered by them in a partnership of experience ? The subject of morals has been taught too much as a multiplication table of abstract rules . But there are no abstract sins and virtues .  | If moralists would share the public respect accorded to scientists , they must shift their focus from rules to results . This does not mean that they should run to the error of the Utilitarians who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consequences . The intelligent moralist will study both the subjective and objective sides of behavior . He will recognize that disposition is the steady and controllable factor , and also that consequences give the only instruction we can procure as to the meaning of habits and dispositions . He will improve his methods of analyzing , registering , and reporting both motives and results . He will see that the good man must not only determine if his heart is right but also find out whether his head and hand are right . The moralist might even come to ask the question whether he himself is trying to be right or to do good . This empirical method , if adopted , would serve to correct the irritating mistakes of judgment common to moralists . It is a human weakness to generalize too broadly on insufficient data . An American business man pays a milliner 's bill in Paris and comes home with a complete philosophy on the fallacy of cancelling the French debt . A tourist talks to a bell boy in a Shanghai hotel and returns to say that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ observes a single act and makes a classification as to character . Hence the hasty herding of characters into sheep and goats has made the judgments of the Church a joke in the eyes of intelligence . Until a few years ago , when research began to be made into the psychology of " transfer of training , " we lacked means for understanding how opposite qualities could exist in the same character . Even yet there is a great deal of guesswork about mixed motives . There is the old Calvinistic idea that wrong caneels merit , and there is the modern theory that merit cancels wrong . But there is no cancellation in consciousness . There was a mathematical exactness about the old classifications which was anything but exact . What cruelty would be avoided if our moral cases were approached with something of the same completeness of clinical record which every competent doctor procures in dealing with his patients . Perhaps the practicing moralist will learn something from the practicing psychologist at this point . The latter at least gives the subject a chance to talk . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scales in her hand is hardly adequate . To be just it is not enough to weigh impartially the facts before you . One must see if he has all the facts before him . The moralist if he would be just must take off the blindfold . With a more scientific spirit of observation , morality would be delivered from its traditional error of sacrificing personalities to principles . Deeds done by men acting " upon principle " have wrought almost as much harm as those perpetrated by the unprincipled . Well-intentioned uplift work often serves only to upset . The Golden Rule practiced without intelligence and imagination frequently results in sheer irritation . Moral codes are made to seem alien to human nature . Moral conventions appear negative and restrictive . Seen as such they are bound to stir resentment . They are looked upon by the public , and especially by youth , as stereotypes put over on people by social censors , and not as aids put over to people by social servants . The doctors of divinity are regarded by many as social vivisectionists using the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rather than as true surgeons of the soul working with scientific temper and curative purpose . It might be  | added that a moralist may become a doctor of divinity by cultivating a single college president , but to become an accredited doctor of humanity he must be a comrade to all classes and conditions of men . Moral principles are much easier to learn in the abstract than in the concrete . Bernard Shaw 's trenchant phrase , " the sacrifice of people to principles , " has application not merely to the Puritans , the public reformers , the fanatics , but to the local practicing moralists of the home , the school , and the church . To shift emphasis and put personality above principle does not mean that we should discard all moral rules and enter every isolated situation with an eye single to expediency . To do so would be as foolish as to throw away formulas when going into the laboratory or discounting medical experience when called into the sick room . Progress comes through capitalization of experience . Moral principles represent the findings of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ primary concern should not be the protection of that accumulated body of tradition but the service of the bodies and minds of men . That advice would be revolutionary in respectable circles but it is not new . It is as old and as radical as Jesus , for it was he who said , " The Sabbath is made for man and not man for the Sabbath . " Respect for conventions must not go before reverence for personality . There is no goodness of God apart from the good of men . Morality is made for man and not man for morality . Some nineteen centuries ago an eminent social diagnostician made a distinction which still merits pondering . He wrote , " Scarcely for a righteous man will one die : peradventure for the good man someone would even dare to die . " Righteousness and goodness are not identical twins . In fact they are not necessarily even sister virtues . They may be born of different motives . Righteousness springs from a love of principles ; goodness from a love of personalities . For the good @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be willing to see die . III A third set of mistakes is made by moralists through their failure to appreciate how thoroughly the democratic spirit has tempered our attitudes . Moral advice has to be served in cafeteria style . Men wish to walk up unsolicited and get what they want when they want it . People desire to feel that they are thinking for themselves . To be sure , there may not be much evidence that such mental processes are taking place , but the illusion at least has to be preserved . They wish to go for moral aid as they go to the doctor for bodily help or to the lawyer for legal counsel . The doctor who attempts to force his services on others , even by advertising , is discredited by the better public and ostracized by his profession . The lawyer who chases ambulances in his desire to extend his helpfulness comes under the ban of the Bar Association . These professions retain the public respect only if they are sought rather than seeking . If the moralist would wait to be consulted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Such passive waiting is not the traditional attitude of the moralist . Nor is it a possible position for him . Sick souls do not send their possessors to specialists as do ailing bodies . A broken commandment does not call for help with the immediacy of a broken bone . The trespassing of a moral law does not prompt the retention of counsel as does the violation of a civil or criminal statute . Furthermore , the best physicians and lawyers do not confine themselves to private practice .  | They are interested in public health and social justice . Just as the better type of medical practitioner gives himself to preventive medicine and the better type of attorney to the inculcation of law observance , so the moralist must devote himself to preventive as well as to curative morality . The Church can not content itself with being a clinic for those who know they need it . The moralist must be aggressive if morality is to be progressive . His task then is suggestion from above . His problem is to render this unsought service in a way @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must , for one thing , revise his conception of moral authority . The democratic temper of our time challenges tradition 's right to rule in conduct as elsewhere . With many age does not win respect for moral rules but rather the reverse . Not what is behind a moral convention but what is before it , gains regard . The parent can not rest his authority on the fact of his physical fatherhood or the necessity of preserving the institution of the home . The only tolerable parental rule will have to be based upon reverence for personality and ability to serve it . The pulpit moral guide can be convincing not on the ground that he is sent from God but that he knows how to get to people . Although some ecclesiastical institutions may stem the tide of intellectual inquiry for a time , the public will follow moral leaders on the basis of apostolic success rather than apostolic succession . The moralist 's authority will have to work its way by the demonstration of its authenticity . He must convince since he can no longer command @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the people and for the people and by the people . " The recognition of this does not mean that the moralist can posit nothing back of our moral codes but the changing choices of majorities ; but it does mean that he will find what is back of morality not by going over the heads of people to a transcendental divine lawmaker but by going through the minds of men to an immanent divinity . He does not need to replace the concept of a Kingdom of God by that of a United States of consciousness as the Humanists do , but he does need to see that the " Kingdom of God is within . " It will be remembered that when Jesus stressed the inwardness of this divine rule , the people , even the common people , at once detected the difference between his method and that of the legalists , saying , " He speaks as one having authority and not as the scribes . " The scribes had written authorities ; Jesus had living authority . If morality is thought of as rising democratically from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an aloof divinity , it may seem more rational to the intellects of men , but will it have force over the wills of men ? That question of course will arise . Humanism has already raised it ? and answered it in the affirmative . John Dewey says , " In an empirical sense the answer is simple . The authority is that of life . " From the Christian point of view the moralist can say even more , but not here . Let it suffice to say here that Christian ethics must not , and need not , be more fearful of the democratic spirit than is Humanism . This revision in the concept of moral authority will have to be accompanied by a revamping of the moralist 's methods . The word " service " has been jingling around in our pulpit and philanthropic vocabularies until , like a coin carried too long in the pocket , it is worn smooth . It is no longer socially negotiable . It connotes too frequently the taint of patronage . Service so often means the handing down of something @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ignorant , the rich  | to the poor . Not seldom it is an activity by the party of the first part which does not stimulate a corresponding response by the party of the second part . The word service might well be reminted into the word partnership . Perhaps that expression would soon grow wearisome . But the idea is essential and lasting . It implies cooperation and mental comradeship . The moralist 's aim should be partnership not service ? in the hackneyed and professionalized sense . The attitude of partnership will save morality from the iconoclasm of radicalism and the resentment against paternalism . Observe this in the home . The modern home must be democratic in spirit . The nursery , however , is hardly the place to put into practice the Wilsonian doctrine of pure democracy which guarantees the right of small bodies to govern themselves . Nor should family constitutions be amended by vote of the youngest constituents . Somewhere between a bolshevism of adolescents on the one hand and a paternalism of parents on the other there should be a partnership in which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the younger . In education this democratic principle of partnership if applied would mark a transformation in character training . The old futile pointing of morals which is still practiced in many schoolrooms would be abandoned . Teachers and pupils would try to think together in terms of situations rather than of set rules . This project method in moral instruction would tend to give the student the feeling of first-hand discovery in place of his traditional distaste for moralizing . It also offers hope of keeping the adult guides open-minded . The older generation almost invariably assumes that youth presents a problem of wildness to be tamed and forgets that age on the other hand presents a tameness to be disturbed . The research of Doctor Jones , referred to above , shows a wide gap in the teachers ' minds between " ideals " and " generally accepted standards " of right and wrong . Adult minds need the continuous infusion of youth 's fresh idealism . Moral education must be a co-operation of older and younger fellow-seekers . And as for the Church this democratic theory would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ method in moral instruction . The word " preach " carries most unpleasant connotations . It implies moral superiority on the one side and mental weakness on the other . Speakers seeking to win the favor of an audience always disclaim any intention of preaching . Churches , like colleges , must aim to teach their members how to think rather than what to think . Persons trained in the laboratory technic of progressive schools are not going to sit supinely on Sundays and be exhorted by sermons which show little sign of experimental study and offer no opportunity for refutation . The minister of religion must be a partner of his people in the progressive enterprise of moral enlightenment . His specialized training and spiritualized purpose should fit him to be a teacher and interpreter . His parish activities should be a combination of the lecture and laboratory methods in the proper proportions to encourage free inquiry and firsthand discovery . He will have attained true artistry as a moralist only when his parishioners shall say , " Our minister does not preach to us. "     @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @       