@@145037

Century ago the most notable thing about Protestant Christianity was that most of its practitioners throughout the world were optimists who believed in progress , creature comforts , civilization . Such Protestants looked down their noses when Pope Pius IX , speaking for the Roman Catholic Church , denied that it was the duty of Catholicism to come to terms with political or religious liberalism . Today , progress is not so popular a notion , and liberalism has few friends among European religious thinkers . <P> Europe 's theologies today are predominantly those of " crisis . " designed not only for catastrophes which may over take the world but for crises arising be tween men of faith and their God . Published this week was a valuable guidebook to crisis theologies - Contemporary Continental Theology- by Walter Marshall Horton , professor of theology at Oberlin College . <P> Despite political disorder , widespread paganism and actual persecution , the at titude of European churchmen is not one of defeatism but , according to Professor Horton , " of courage , hope and active service of God @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ objectives very far in advance , since the whole surface of European life is cracking and sinking under foot like a thawing ice floe , but which receives its orders day by day from God , who alone knows what will be required of his servants by tomorrow ! " Since the Russian Orthodox Church , before the War , was deepest bogged in reaction , its recent recovery has been the most spectacular , under the leadership of Nicholas Berdyaev and Dean Sergius Bulgakov of the Russian Orthodox Seminary ( for exiles ) in Paris . Protestant thought , to Professor Horton. is most stimulating in the Lutheran nations of Scandinavia , in Czechoslovakia , whose Philosopher-President Dr. Thomas Garrigue Masaryk was " the last great liberal humanitarian , " and in Germany , where Karl Barth , most famed if not most influential of European theologians , stirred up the most provocative religious discussions of modern times , before exile to his native Switzerland .                     