@@487778

As the campaign moves into its final weeks , the Re- publican strategy , formed partly by cold calculation but finally by desperation , becomes crystal clear . The Republicans feel that their sole chance of victory now lies in throwing the voters into a state of panic . Just as in 1928 the voters were told that they could not afford to imperil the roaring Coolidge prosperity by putting the Republicans out of office , so now they are told that the Hoover depression is so bad , the situation so delicate , that they can not afford to make it worse by putting the Republicans out of office . Beginning in the fall of 1929 and continuing throughout most of 1930 , Mr. Hoover constantly denied that there even was a depression , and kept predicting a revival in one or two months . He has now finally decided not only to acknowledge the depression but to make an asset out of it . With this strategy , it follows naturally that the worse he can make the depression seem , the bigger the asset . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was his assertion at Des Moines that " at one moment " last winter or summer he was told that " unless we could put into effect a remedy we could not hold to the gold standard but two weeks longer . " Mr. Hoover 's faithful yes-men , including Senator ' Watson , Senator Reed , and Secretary Mills , have all supported this statement . In his second reply to it , Senator Glass , chairman of the Banking and Currency Committee , has crushingly exposed its falsity . He shows first of all , quoting from public records , that last February , when , according to some of the Republican spokesmen , the desperate " moment " occurred , Secretary Mills was testifying as follows before the Banking and Currency Committee of the House of Representatives : I am here as a responsible government official supposed to give you facts , and I say ' to you that I am perfectly confident of our ability to meet all demands that may be made upon us . We have on hand sufficient gold resources at home to permit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senator Reed of Pennsylvania as making a similar statement on the floor of the Senate on February 17 , while Governor Eugene Meyer of the Federal Reserve Board offered even more emphatic testimony before the Senate Banking and Currency Committee . All the figures , Senator Glass shows , support these former statements , and belie the present statements of both Mr. Hoover and his followers . Senator Glass shows that on February 1 , the approximate date of the great gold crisis according to Senator Watson , the amount of gold held by the Federal Reserve System was $579,000,000 , and not the much smaller amount mentioned by Watson , and that the withdrawals each month were not one-third of the figure mentioned in Senator Watson 's telegram , while the Federal Reserve banks had a sufficient supply of gold in reserve to extend additional discount facilities of $4,000,000,000 . Senator Glass 's statements are all supported by Professor E. W. Kemmerer , one of our foremost currency authorities . " Unless certain facts and circumstances have been withheld from me and other economists , " asserts Dr. Kemmerer , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country going off the goldstandard as the result of the withdrawal of gold by foreign countries . " Wholly apart from these authoritative assurances , the official figures of the Federal Reserve System speak for themselves . The American gold position , according to these figures , was at its very worst on June 15 of this year . But at that time the Federal Reserve banks still reported the holding of the legal reserve of 40 per cent in gold against Federal Reserve notes , the legal reserve of 35 per cent against deposits , and , in addition , $967,000,000 in gold . Even if this enormous excess of nearly a billion dollars in gold had not existed , we should still not have been within two weeks or any like period of being forced off the gold standard . For the Federal Reserve Act provides that gold reserves may go below these 40 per cent and 35 per cent limits , provided the banks pay a progressive tax and raise their discount rates . Finally , at the time that this worst position was shown , the ability @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States had practically come to an end . Two other misstatements in President Hoover 's Des Moines speech must be touched upon because they too are being repeated by all the other Republican orators . One is that it was the Democrats in Congress who " produced the cash-bonus bill . " The other is that it was the Democrats who " passed a price-fixing bill creating what might be colloquially called the ' rubber dollar . ' " It might be well to remind him that in the House fifty-six Republicans voted for the cash bonus and fifty Democrats voted against it , while in the Senate the bill was defeated by an overwhelming majority of Democrats as well as Republicans . ( The exact vote was : for the bonus , seven Republicans and ten Democrats ; against it , thirty-five Republicans and twenty-seven Democrats . ) The Goldsborough bill , which Mr. Hoover calls the price-fixing bill , was voted for not only by 156 Democrats but by 123 Republicans ; and it was thrown out in the Senate by a Democrat , Carter Glass . What is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for no other purpose than to secure his own reelection , is , willing to circulate false and misleading statements about the Federal Reserve banks ? Even if the President 's statements were true , he would still stand convicted of complete irresponsibility . For though ' he and his lieutenants were loudly and repeatedly asserting last winter and spring that our adherence to the gold standard was beyond question , they now say that they were not then telling the truth . Confidence , as Mr. Hoover has repeatedly assured us , is absolutely essential to recovery ; but Mr. Hoover is now , for political reasons , deliberately undermining confidence . To tell us that we were only two weeks away from abandoning the gold standard last winter or spring is to imply that we can not be so far away from it even now . And for him to confess now that he was not telling the truth last winter or spring , to confess that he is willing to deceive the American people and Congress whenever necessary in order to create a false confidence , is completely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ give . This alone renders him unfit to continue in his present office . Scholars ' Paradise T HE announcement that Dr. Albert Einstein would head a department in the new Institute for Advanced Study was sensational news . Rightly enough , the newspapers played it up in front-page headlines , and a general public which understands personalities far better than it understands learning will sense the importance of Dr. Einstein 's coming as it would sense the importance of nothing else concerning the magnificent enterprise of which he is to be a part . Nevertheless , it would be a pity not to see beyond this single fact and not to realize that the new institute promises to be more important than any one man could be . So many educational enterprises have looked well in the announcements . So many large gifts have seemed to promise so much , only to be dissipated in one way or another and to leave the world of our universities much as they found them . But when Louis Bamberger and Mrs. Felix Fuld put their five-million-dollar grant into the hands of Dr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has not only an unrivaled knowledge of the educational institutions of the world , but also vigorous ideas of his own . He will use it to further a plan which has long been maturing ; and what we seem destined to get is an institution absolutely sui generisone not only devoted to advanced study but so liberated from all the ' influences which hamper the work of our other universities as to make it a veritable scholars ' paradise . Outward show , wasteful duplication , and a destructive einphasis upon mere size have been the sins of our colleges . Huge endowments meant only more and more gaudy buildings , larger and larger student bodies , and more and more repetition of the same courses in dubious subjects . The richer We became , the more probable it seemed - that higher learning would be extinguished in the confusion of " vocational courses , " " extra-curritulum activities , " and " preparations for life , " in the midst of which a few professors of real distinction struggled in vain against overloaded classes . But one needs onlyto read @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ each of its provisiOns was made for the definite purpose of protecting it against the destructive influences which have proVed so nearly fatal to all other graduate schools . No buildings will be built until there is something for them to house , and the institute will have temporary quarters at Princeton . No departments will be organized or professors appointed except as the right men are found , and no students will be admitted except in so far as the few who seem likely to profit from an intimate association with the most distinguished workers in a given field present themselves . Professors will be paid salaries sufficiently large to relieve them from the necessity of any outside activity , and around them will be grouped assistants and scholars chosen only because they seem likely to advance one or another of the sciences . In a sense , the plan is simple : to found an institution of learning which will be that and nothing more . But simple as the plan is , it promises to produce something of which no other of America 's innumerable educators seems ever @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ world having been found available , the department of mathematics isfounded first and will probably begin its work next fall . Our own distinguished Professor Oswald Veblen will also be a professor , and Dr. Einstein will be assisted by Dr. Walter Mayer , who has worked with him in Germany . Probably the department of economics and history will be the next to be organized , but Dr. Flexner wishes again to emphasize the fact that that will depend upon whether or not suitable professors are available , and that the institute is to be formed upon a plan radically different from the plan ordinarily followed . We do not , of course , underestimate the importance of democratic education . We do not fail to recognize the need to give to every man as much education as he can possibly use . But every student of the situation has realized that the educational system of our country lacked a real summit , and that the gradual popularization of even such a university as Johns Hopkins was making the lack more and more evident . The Institute for Advanced Study @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ institutions in its determination to be exactly what it calls itself . Heretofore there has been no answer to the rebuke that America had no institution of learning quite like some of the great European universities . It looks now as though we might be able to turn the tables and to boast that no European country has one quite like Dr. Flexner 's new institute . Professor Einstein is quoted as having said , " This is Heaven . " For scholars it promises to be hardly less . Slatin Pasha ATE early marked Rudolf Slatin Pasha for her own , and thereafter toyed , now magnificently , now brutally , with him . At Seventeen it set him to exploring the Sudan , which fascinated hirri and continued for years to dominate , most tragically , his life . ' At . twenty-one , a first lieutenant in a crack Austrian regiment fighting for ' his fatherland on the Bosnian front , he received an invitation from General Gordon , the famous " Chinese " Gordon , to take service under him in the Sudan . There , incredible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ governor-general of the huge province of Darfur . When he died in Italy a- few days ago , there snapped almost he last human tie with the Sudan of both Gordon and Kitchener . Certainly no other living figure was so directly or so prominently connected with the tragedies of 1883 and 1885 , which stirred - the whole world . There were other eyewitnesses of the terrors of the rule of the Mandi and the Khalifa who also lived to escape , Charles Neufeldt and Father Joseph Ohrwalder among them . They too , like Slatin , for years wore chains on their legs and iron collars bearing chains connected with their ankles . They all suffered in Omdurman hunger , want , horrible cruelty . But it was reserved for Slatin Pasha to endure the greatest torture of all as he lay chained one day in his tent in Omdurman . It was on January 26 , 1885 , when he had already been a prisoner for more than a year after his surrender of Darfur because of the complete disloyalty of his troops . In agony he heard the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ triumphant mob appeared before his tent . As Richard Bermann in his brilliant new book , " The Mandi of Allah , " has told the story : Somebody shouted exultantly ; somebody was weeping aloud ; somebody jeered . Slatin no longer distinguished anything ; his heart stood still . The Negro , Shatta , removed the cloth from a bundle he was carrying and a bloody head appeared , with snow-white hair and side whiskersGordon 's head . The blue eyes were open , the mouth was smiling peacefully . " Is that the head of your uncle , the unbeliever ? " asked the Negro Shatta . Slam answered at once : " He was a brave soldier and he is happy now that he has fallen . " ? .. The savagery of Africa was let loose , robbery and murder and the whip ran riot in Khartum , and the ghastly tumult of animal-like cries sounded across the peacefully flowing Nile . But not for one moment did Slatin the prisoner dare to show his grief . Only the fact that he had espoused the Mohammedan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ display of emotion at the death of the unbeliever Gordon might have sealed his fate . Thereafter , for ten and one-half long years more , Slatin was the prisoner of the Mandi , and after the Mandi 's death the slave of the Khalifa , the Mandi 's successor . Outside of his door , as a slave , and as a symbol of the Khalif a 's power , Slatin sat day after day in the heat and the rain for six long years , always wearing his chains . Then he rose in the Khalif a 's favor until he had a house of his own and slaves , while the Khalifa sent him wife after wife , and was much disturbed because Slatin immediately gave them away to others . But never a day was his life out of danger . The merest whim of the tyrant , who thought nothing of butchering hundreds in a day , would have ended his existence . But youth , unbounded courage , and never-failing hope sustained him until a trusty messenger reached him after several vain efforts had been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rescuers were near at hand . On February 20 , 1895 , he left Omdurman by night , riding a fleet camel not less than 130 miles in twenty-one hours , stopping but once during the entire period . Not until twenty-four days had passed did he reach safety at the outpost of Assuam , where he was received with jubilation and honors . To two men he owed his rescue , the Austrian charge d'affaires and Major Wingate Bey , who were unceasing in their efforts to make life bearable while he was in captivity and to save him for future usefulness . Wingate Bey , now Sir Reginald Wingate , succeeded Kitchener as Sirdar of the Egyptian army , serving as such from 1899 to 1916 , and as High Commissioner of Egypt from 1917 to 1919 . It was given to him to reconquer Slatin 's Darfur in 1916 , thirty-one years after Slatin had been compelled to strike his flag , and to command in the battle near Gedid when the Khalifa fell . Now a full general on the retired list , he , with Slatin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of danger and ceaseless activity which brought peace and order to the Sudan and to Upper Egypt . They made history together , For the rest of his life fate made up to Slatin for the horror of those dozen years of dire suffering . Franz Josef created him a baron in 1906 . He rose to be a lieutenant general in the Egyptian army , and during the World War was head of the Austrian Red Cross . Decorations and honors were showered upon him . Wherever he went he was a marked man ; had not romance and tragedy made him theirs ? Lay-offs and Profits W E have come to accept fatalistically and to view tolerantly the wholesale laying off of workers in great industrial plants . After all , if goods can not be marketed , men can not be employed . We wait for the clouds to lift and meanwhile we hold up the inadequate umbrella of public charity over the miserable heads of the victims . It is not a pleasant sight , however , when large and still prosperous employers of labor attempt to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the public relief funds as a cover for their own bad industrial morals . Case after case has arisen in which great companies have laid off men by the hundreds of thousands , even while the profits were still coming in ; with the result that the public is asked to pay for the support of these workers and their families . A most flagrant instance of this sort of behavior is the recent action of the Brooklyn Edison Company , an important member of the group of affiliates held by the Consolidated Gas Company of New York , which within three recent weeks turned off nearly 3,000 employees . Such an act could only have been justified by dire financial straits and a consequent need for retrenchment , and even then it should have been fully explained to the men and women involved and to the public which must face , at the beginning of an ominous winter , this additional burden of relief . What actually happened ? According to a letter of protest addressed to Governor Roosevelt by the Brotherhood of Edison Employees , the workers were laid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ statements of the company show dividend payments and a gross revenue for 1931 higher than any previously recorded . Nor can the officials claim a lack of work waiting to be done . The company has promised to complete the job of changing from overhead to underground wiring , an improvement long delayed and long demanded by the people of Brooklyn . " The recent discharge of nearly 3,000 men , " says the employees ' letter , " means that the borough will continue to be menaced by the dangerous overhead system for an indefinite period . " The company , meanwhile , has refused to give out any statement on the men 's charges , although The Nation applied to its publicity department for an explanation . It would be hard , we suspect , for even a utilities press agent to reconcile the incongruities of this particular performance . It would be necessary not only to think of plausible reasons for laying off thousands of men , but also to explain away a whole series of remarks made by Edison officials in regard to this very matter . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ president of the company , announced that " the executives of the electric companies were determined to maintain wages and employment and would spare no effort to do so , " On July 13 Mr. Parker assured a delegation of the Public Committee on Power Utilities and Labor that no large-scale lay-off was intended . To insist so righteously upon their sense of social responsibility and then to act ruthlessly and irresponsibly is to make a bad matter fairly odious . Nor does it lessen our sense of outrage to learn that the above-quoted Mr. John C. Parker has just been appointed executive chairman of the Brooklyn division of the Emergency Unemployment Relief Committee of New York .                     