@@222816

Fortnight ago when the top-ranking tennis players of the world assembled at Wimbledon for the 58th All-England championships , most international of all tournaments , the spotlight played on the distaff side . So completely has California 's red-haired Donald Budge dominated men 's tennis in the past year that no one mentioned the possibility of his defeat . But for women it promised to be the greatest championship in Wimbledon 's history . <P> Except for England 's No. 1 Dorothy Round Little , whose recent marriage prevented her from defending the championship , all the best women tennists were entered : Chile 's Anita Lizana ( U. S. champion ) , France 's Simone Mathieu ( French champion ) , California 's Dorothy Bundy ( Australian champion ) , Poland 's Jadwiga ( " Jaja " ) Jedrzejowska ( last year 's runner-up at Wimbledon ) , Denmark 's Hilda Krahwinkel Sperling , California 's Alice Marble , Helen Jacobs and Helen Wills Moody . Of the two most famed rivals , Helen Jacobs , out of recent competition because of an injured shoulder , was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her third comeback in international tennis after three years out of major tournaments , was no better than second choice to win over Co-Favorites Alice Marble and Jaja Jedrzejowska . <P> Last week , defending Champion Donald Budge having annihilated all other opposition without losing a single set , ambled nonchalantly onto the famed centre court , in the presence of Queen Mary and 18,000 Britons , to meet England 's Henry W. ( " Bunny " ) Austin , seeded No. 2 . In just 66 minutes-6-1 , 6-0 , 6-3- Champion Budge disposed of Bunny Austin who was playing excellent tennis even though he had become a father during the tournament . With this victory Donald Budge became the only player ever to hold the Big Four championships of ten-nis ( U. S. , Australian , French , English ) simultaneously and the only man ever to win at Wimbledon without the loss of a set . Next day he won the men 's doubles ( with Gene Mako ) and the mixed doubles ( with Alice Marble ) , and became the only person ever to win three @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ complete supremacy 23-year-old Donald Budge relegated himself to comparative obscurity . <P> For tennis addicts this was a women 's Wimbledon . Every day capacity crowds filled the old green stands , anxious not to miss the dramatic defeat of Mrs. Moody , which they feared or hoped might happen any day . To British galleries the 31-year-old Californian had demonstrated that she was still good enough to win and also shaky enough to be beaten-which she twice was , in pre-Wimbledon warmup tournaments . Her opponent in the semi-finals was Hilda Sperling , the same Hilda Sperling who had trounced her two weeks before in the London championships . But when the semi-finals were over , and Mrs. Moody had downed Frau Sperling after a grueling free-for-all ( 12-10 , 6-4 ) , the galleries knew at last that Mrs. Moody was once more at the top of her game .                     