@@468824

IT WAS one of those languid , gently breathing summer days when one plans for the future the more readily because both future and any sort of activity seem far away . Separated from the deeply shaded lawn by a sunny pasture , half a dozen fair-haired babies were bathing in a little natural pool bordered by overhanging trees and made to look more lifelike by an old rowboat tied up to an equally old moss-grown pier . Small , prematurely yellow leaves floated through the quiet air to shine like small gold coins on the deep plush of the lawn . Summer was full and abundant , taking its ease , and not yet casting regretful backward glances . The mothers of the six children stirred the amber liquid in tall glasses , clinking ice thinly against cool thin glass " Miss Morgan wants to experiment with some children , and I want mine to be experimented with , " one of them observed liberally , her glance on the little bodies flecked with forest shade . She is an intelligent person , a poet of some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In the intervals between these two vocations she does her housework very competently with one hand , while she gardens both aesthetically and practically with the other . Her name is not legion , so many gifts are not usually united in one person . But as I looked at her I remembered with somedismay that the names of parents eager to have their children experimented with is legion and that , like this lady , many of them represent the best we have of brains and energy and intellectual achievement . Their children are among the best fruits of a generation , and they are being liberally offered up to the god of educational experiment . New gods come when old ones fall from their former estate into the category of devils . It takes years to topple the old ones off their pedestals , and much good work with pick and crowbar . It takes so many years , and so much bitterness grows out of the sweat and fury , that finally just to be unlike them is considered godlike . If the old god demanded mental discipline @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from undisciplined , that is to say , uncorrupted , nature . If the old god demanded craftsmanship , the new one turns primitive and demands guts . For many years magazines have been filled with the fine things the new schools are doing . School-teachers ' conventions are told of the fine things the new schools are doing , parents are told of them , the public is told of them , including the mother who was stirring her tea . We believe the more readily because the old system is so patently bad , and because the new teacher is usually an engaging creature . She is often better educated than the old , she is frequently better paid , she treads buoyantly because she has a mission , or because she knows she is in the advance guard of a movement . She is much more likely than her predecessor to be young and pretty and jaunty and chic . Hers is a great field , and she has rushed into it with enthusiasm . Are you sure you want them experimented with ? I said to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ glass , thankful , I knew , that her children had been born in an enlightened age . " Would n't you ? " she asked me blandly , but with a hardening in her manner , as if to say , " So you are against Us . " " At any rate I did , " I said . " Now , after ten years , I 'm sending her to a conventional school . " " And why ? " she asked , maintaining her blandness with an effort . " I should be interested to know . " Straightway I was the victim of the sort of confusion that occurs when one is asked to put one 's philosophy into a nutshell , or to describe a wreck at sea in a few well-chosen words . This was a tea party , not the lecture platform . My mind scurried breathlessly through the great forest of modern educational theory . " There is the tyranny of the herd , " I said . " Of course it 's one of the beliefs of the new educators that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so in many schools the authority of the teacher is largely removed or concealed . My daughter 's school abhorred piddling , half-way measures and it removed the teacher 's authority as completely as possible . She remained in attendance ready to suggest or perhaps even to stimulate , but seldom to interfere . " " And how did it work ? " the experimental mother asked , a trifle absentmindedly . " Someone always runs a gang , " I said . " In this case it was Polly Ross , a very decent , tomboyish sort of youngster with tremendous verve . She could run faster than any boy in the class . She excelled in all their games . And she was a good sport . A very decent sort , all things considered , to be a boss . It might have been just some youngster with a flair for politics and intrigue , as in another class I know . " " I see you do n't like the devious processes of democracy , " the experimental mother observed blandly . " It was n't democracy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ despotism of Polly Ross operating instead of the benevolent despotism of the teacher . . . " But at this moment a fearful wail arose from the pool . Someone had ducked someone else , and someone had thrown mud at someone else . Miss Beers , the English governess , was overwhelmed by the violence of the American fray , and four mothers , newly hobbled by long skirts and corsets , made such speed across the rough pasture as they could . Sinee no child of mine was implicated , I stayed discreetly behind and pondered on the despotism of Polly Ross . II At ten years old she was an extraordinarily good scout , but limited . Among her limitations was a keen lack of interest , in fact a spirited contempt , for any sort of self-expression other than that to be found in games . One of the leading doctrines of the left wing of educational theory to which this particular school belongs is the validity of natural creative impulse . Keep from restraining them , keep from destroying their confidence by criticism or advice , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arts , they said . And in proof they regularly exhibited the certainly vigorous and often delightful paintings and modellings of their free children . The class to which my daughter belonged was no exception . At five their drawings were indubitably extraordinary . At six various fond parents were beginning to look forward hopefully to brilliant artistic careers . But at nine the impulse began to weaken , and at ten the class was producing almost nothing . Such rash infants as did persist in daubing colors on canvas were apt to see their works torn from their easels and kicked derisively about the schoolroom floor . Possibly owing to their devoted adherence to the tenets of their new gospel , it took the educational experts of the school several years to connect this phenomenon with the predilections of Polly Ross . In fact , so completely convinced were they of the freedom of their children that it took them an equal number of years to discover that Polly was a despot . Anyone who ever visited the class could easily forgive them this apparent dullness of perception . Only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , could so much noise have been made , and so many rings within rings of conflict have been staged . The despotic rule of children maintains itself by as varying means as the despotic rule of adults . There are bullying children and intriguing children . There are children with a talent for organization and children with a talent for leadership . Almost the only sort of child in whose existence I 'm inclined to disbelieve is that sainted one trailing clouds of glory , who , if left to himself , would develop all his own best qualities and sternly repress all his own undesirable ones . But all varieties of rule are more individual than typical . Polly Ross , although she could bully , if necessary , and organize quite brilliantly , and although she had an undoubted talent for leadership , displayed all these excellent qualities in her own way . She was a blonde , thin , lively child , always in motion , with violent congenital likes and dislikes whose soundness she never questioned herself nor permitted others to question . She came especially @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because she had no talent for them , but more likely because they all involved sitting still ; and sitting still bored her intensely . If Emily Truman had disliked painting as much as Polly did , she would have started a whispering campaign against it . And if Roger Whitefield had disliked it equally , he would have suggested that there were other more important things to do . Either method might in the course of time have considerably weakened the devotion of the class to the arts . Polly was more direct . When boredom overcame her she leaped out of her chair and began walking about the room . As she went she gazed disapprovingly at one after another of the paintings adorning easels . " Such funny legs , " she said . " Who ever saw legs like those ? Look at this head . It 's put on crooked . Look here , kids , this head is put on crooked . " One day , a fateful day for the future of the plastic arts with the Ten Year Olds , though nobody knew @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ front of the picture most commended by the visiting painter who looked at the class productions once a week . Doubtless she had often had to watch her own paintings passed by , and other , silly looking ones commended ? she who could throw any buy in the school and who was always chosen first when sides were counted out . But I suspect that as she stood there that fateful day looking at a blue horse , she was thinking more of the dreary boredom involved in sitting still while others painted than of her own deficiencies . With a sudden movement quite unsuspected by the artist , she tore the painting from the easel , tossed it into the air , and kicked it neatly across the DOOM . " But , Polly , " the non-interfering teacher remonstrated in spite of herself . " It 's cuckoo , " Polly said . " Come on , kids , let 's play soccer . " The boy to whom she kicked the painting had kicked it to a friend , who kicked it to another friend . They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Year Old whose work they were thus desecrating was watching them with somber eyes . If she got mad enough she could put on a wonderful show . " Anne , Anne , garbage can , " they called at her to aid the process . " Come on , let 's play soccer , " Polly yelled back from the doorway . She never bothered to bait anyone when she could think of other things to do . A room had a way of turning dull when she left it . The three boys clung stubbornly to their sport , even after the others ran whooping after Polly ; but for some reason the game had lost its interest for them , and soon they were trailing after the others . They found a lively altercation . " It 's the day to play basket ball , " Ruth Burson said . " We 've played soccer all week , and yesterday you promised to play basket ball to-day . " Ruth Burson came as near to being a rival to Polly as anyone . She played games almost as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wrestling for any boy in the school . But she was a little debauched by intelligence and , therefore , not so completely sure that she was always right . Resides , as her qualities came out , Pelly had promptly disarmed her by making her her closest friend . To do this , to be sure , she had had to dethrone a previous closest friend ; but Polly was impersonal about people and quite iinweakened by sentiment . " All right then , " she agreed now amiably . " You kids play . The doctor said I could n't raise my arms today . Go on , II be umpire . " But Polly was the Captain of the Greys ! ' Without her they would n't have a chance . " Oh , make it soccer , " they cried . " Do n't be mean , Ruth , make it soccer . " Ruth looked at them and looked at Polly and gave in . That amiable despot was standing in the middle of the field , already energetically kicking the ball about in practice , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pretty in a few years . She limped a little from a strain she had suffered when she had fallen from the roof of one of the school buildings a few weeks ago . The school had an outside staircase , low balconies and projecting first story , all offering places for the sort of climbing in Follow the Leader that its principal remembered from the lost paradise of small-town days . When Polly fell not a whimper was heard from her , although she fainted before they succeeded in carrying her into the nurse 's room . She had won her leadership by honorable means . As I looked at her , standing there in the yard , I admired her too and liked her , and her subsequent fate stirred not a little partisanship in me . For when it was discovered that Polly was a despot , and when it was further discovered that the falling off in the class 's artistic production was due to the fact that she comprehensively called all paintings " cuckoo , " she was consigned to outer darkness with a speed and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is not the sort of child who is adapted to our type of education , " they told her mother sympathetically . This lady was somewhat bewildered . Up to that time she had been perioditally congratulated on the delightful qualities of her child . I think they would have done better if they had said , " Polly is not the type of person we want to run this class . And since our system of education requires the teacher to abdicate her leadership to the class , and since Polly is strong enough to make the class abdicate its individual freedom to her , we ca n't have her around . " But they did n't say this , and her mother spent many a sleepless night over the notion that Polly was n't fitted for a free type of education . They could n't mean that the child was lacking in initiative , because they had often congratulated her on Polly 's initiative . They could n't mean that she was n't a good sport . They had often narrated with pride all the details of Polly 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ she was mentally deficient , because Polly ranked in the middle of the class . Could it be that there was something worse than these possibilities , something the teachers were too polite to mention ? I think they would have done better to say that Polly was being dismissed for qualities that until then had been eagerly praised . The modern spirit is begotten by toleration out of curiosity . It is the exact reverse of the cut-and-dried formalism of barbarism . It is artificial and civilized , and it may possibly be opening the way to another great blossoming of the human spirit . It is because they want the human spirit to blossom that the new schools have come into being . They see that the old method , wrongly applied , has too often squeezed the juice of life out of its pupils ; that the apelike learning of numerous facts too often stultifies natural intelligence . They see that the human being is infinitely more various and interesting than any system that can he framed to enclose him . And so they say that their children @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ freedom they remove the authority of the teacher . This first step plunges the class at once several centuries backward into barbarism , and effectually banishes freedom from the classroom ; because the society that the little child is able to achieve is one comparable to barbarism , and it tolerates no divergence in the individual from the tribal concept of normality . In fact , the tyranny of a childish gang is an infinitely more stultifying tyranny than that of the most autocratic and narrowminded of teachers . Even a narrowminded adult has , by definition , a broader mind than a little child . And children are less vitally affected by an alien tyranny than by one set up by their fellows . The human mind sees clearly only occasionally . The originators of the new schools saw clearly that the old system of magisterial control turned out , in so far as it was successful , stultified intelligences , and that in so far as it was unsuccessful , it did n't count very much for or against enlightenment . They saw that a free intellectual environment was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not see that the substitution of the tyranny of Polly Ross for the tyranny of the teacher was far from being a step toward freedom . III We must be forever grateful to them that among the things they saw clearly was the extremely important one that the excessive cramming of facts into youthful heads impoverishes intelligence , if only because it leaves it little time and energy to operate . They looked with horror on periodic examinations , and presently many of them threw overboard what had come to seem to them the whole silly baggage of systematic instruction . Let the child wander delightedly hand in hand with his own awakening perceptions through the smooth public parks of knowledge , they said . When definite instruction was patently necessary , as in mathematics the learning of certain formulae , the instruction was disguised as play . Each of the classes of Do-as-they-please Hall found its introduction to mathematics in the keeping of the school store . Possibly because we are a mercantile people , store-keeping has always been an absorbing play to our children . The Eight Year Olds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ afterwards , and with serious reservations as to the bookkeeping . They were proud of the small profits they made in the course of the year and they certainly learned a little about figuring . How much they learned is a matter on which opinions differ . In numerous papers written about the methods of the new schools by their proponents , the claim is made that their unconventionally instructed children get better marks on such examinations as they occasionally take than the poor Little machine-made products of the conventional schools . But when free children pass on to other schools the teachers to whom they are intrusted often have occasion to doubt these claims . When my daughter reached the sixth grade I transferred her to another modern school . It examined her work and stated that as far as mathematics was concerned she was just ready for the second grade . Another accomplishment which obviously requires some practice is handwriting . Instead of resorting to anything so stupid as writing drill , the school evolved a delightful play for the class . At eight years old they had kept @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ project would be to print all theschool notices . Some of these were done on a real little printing press , which greatly delighted the class ; many others were hand-lettered . The children were taught to rule off spaces an inch or a half inch high on cardboard , and by the end of the year they were turning out almost professional notices . These two projects , the keeping of the school store and the printing of school notices , consumed the major efforts of the class for two years . It would doubtless be a carping critic who should observe that at the end of that time they could have qualified neither as competent store clerks nor as professional printers or sign-makers ; but it seems to me very much to the point to know that neither their arithmetic nor their handwriting ? the two accomplishments supposedly being acquired under these pleasant disguises ? had profited as much as they might have from a small proportion of the time required by this elaborate method of instruction . In short , a chasm occurs in the thinking of many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the cramming of facts is intellectually stultifying and their practice . The practice begins excellently by taking essential information or drill out of the province of dissociated learning and putting it where it belongs in the practical world . It then proceeds very badly , I think , by trying to sugar-coat the fact that the given information can be secured only by drill . Drill can be an absorbing game in itself . This particular part of many of the modern programs , the sugar-coating of the act of learning , proceeds on what seems to me the quite erroneous assumption that children do n't like to learn . On the contrary I think they have a quite enormous zest for acquiring information , and that when they shy away from instruction it is because the instruction is lifeless and unrelated to the things they know . That they found the mental pabulum offered to them in my daughter 's first school very thin , seemed to me proved by their growing insubordination , if it is permissible to speak of insubordination in a school where the conviction reigns that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ camp follower . At five they were delightedly engrossed with the ingenious toys provided for them ; at six they built block-houses amiably ; at seven some three or four of them who liked to hammer and saw were entranced with the idea of building a real little house in the school backyard . Most of them did n't like to hammer and saw for more than a minute or two . Especially Polly . She pounded her thumb more often than the nail , and did n't like it . " What 's it for ? " she asked rhetorically , pointing her battered hand contemptuously at the house . " No one can live in it . Building houses is all right for babies like the Sixes . " And off she rushed about the halls and playing yards , followed by all of the others except the three or four who really liked to hammer and saw . These became odd . to Polly 's mind . At eight many of them were interested in the store , but internal politics and certain weighty sex information surreptitiously acquired @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . At nine , when they were spending their hours making large letters on cardboard , they became definitely a handful ; and at ten the educational experts of the school devoted many perplexed hours to them . The rather obvious explanation that they were insufficiently nourished mentally seemed never to occur to these experts . Were n't the new schools in open revolt against the Cramming System ? So the Ten Year Olds , with all the world of knowledgewaiting for them to explore , went on straining at their bits . Meantime they amused themselves by baiting the two or three among them who were most unlike Polly Ross . Iv It has taken the modern world a long time to kill the devil , and there are those who rashly assert that when man finally accomplished this he killed God as well . It has taken educators a long time to kill the Bad Child . The fact that so many bad boys turned out to be able , energetic men , and that so many good boys were never anything but dry-as-dust automata failed for a century @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ As a result initiative , energy , originality were too often penalized in school rooms , and lazy or timid conformity was too often rewarded . The modern educator performed a great and useful feat when he killed the Bad Boy . It is to be regretted that many of the new educators show a disposition to set up in the place of that horrific creature a new and much more blackly damned offender , whom they call the Odd Child . Foremost among the goals of attainment which the new schools have substituted for the classical three R 's is the ability of the individual to function happily and constructively in his social environment . The Odd Child is one who for one reason or another does n't seem to be able to do this . At this point of the discussion it may occur to the reader that some of the qualities which prevent the Odd Child 's adapting himself to his environment may be excellent , and some of them distinctly anti-social , and that if an adult were running the class instead of Polly Ross , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the anti-social ones . The mere drawing of this distinction , one might think , and the making it patent to the children might be of great educational value to them . But in the highly endowed , expensively staffed , and fervently operated school I am describing such an interference on the part of the teacher in the natural promptings of the children 's hearts would have been severely frowned upon . There were twenty members of the class , and during each of the six years my daughter belonged to it there were several odd children in it . She was classified among them because she was tall , and another child because she was short . I was not without advance warnings in the matter , and as I looked at the unsuspecting mother then engaged in restoring order by the pool , I remembered how lightly I had taken them . When my daughter entered Do-asthey-please Hall the principal told me sadly and inexorably that she would probably have difficulty with her social contacts because she was too tall . Nancy was five years old at that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before . Yet the principal proved a true prophet . The school was an exceedingly earnest one . Frequent staff meetings were held in which all the mental and physical characteristics of the children were thoroughly ransacked . In these meetings Nancy 's height was discussed with sad shakings of the head and sad prognostications of woe . No teacher ever looked at her without thinking , " She will have difficulty with her social contacts because she is too tall . " This attitude eventually communicated itself to Nancy . For the first time in her life she became self-conscious . She wondered if people liked her . She decided they did n't . She planned campaigns to make them . Entrenched in their theory , the school was sadly determined to have herodd , and if she had remained there much longer she might actually have become so . There was never very much onus attached to being a Bad Child . The other children usually sympathized with the one who was stood in a corner or subjected to corporal punishment . Often they looked on him as their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be odd . The odd child or man is outside the human pale . He is an outcast from human sympathy , from the ordinary human joys and woes . If five fingers were considered odd , most children would cheerfully chop off one in order to resemble their four-fingered companions . One and all promptly abandoned all characteristics and preferences not acceptable to Polly Ross . She was a charmingly matter-of-fact young person , and her followers grew up hard-boiled . No flights of fancy ever disturbed her . When in the midst of a story Nancy stopped to say that wet tree trunks after rain shone like shiny new rubbers , Polly fixed her with an amused and indulgent air . " You always were a funny kid , " she said . " Is n't Nancy a funny kid ? She 's just a baby . " The non-interfering teacher would never have dreamed of seizing the opportunity to point out that Nancy 's observation was delightfully exact , and Nancy 's natural inclination to observe trivial things of the sort shrank back within her for a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ back , and Ruth 's desire to read , and Rachel 's desire to sit alone and think . V The modern schools are much interested in various new psychological theories . One of the best known in New York resorts for its guidance to psychoanalysis . Another , which considers itself more realistic , sits at the THE DESPOTISM feet of behaviorism . Most properly , they consider the child as a complete organism , not as a receptacle for receiving arithmetical facts or biological facts or geographical facts . They make elaborate physical and mental examinations and tabulate results . They can tell you to a dot whether the child 's achievement equals or excels his capacity . My own child 's achievement was for four years reported to be exactly equal to her capacity . Since I knew that she never studied , even after reaching an age when preparation was required for her lessons , this slightly surprised me , and I tried a little experiment of my own . I kept her out of school for four months . During two of these I had her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ four subjects , with the result that when she returned she was ahead of her class in both , and that she received higher marks in both than ever before . If she had done as well as she could before , and if now she was doing immensely better , although she worked only an hour a day ? but the problem did n't come out right , and I gave it up . Possibly because being able to tell me to a dot that Nancy 's achievements were exactly equal to her capacities took elaborate investigations and comparisons and faculty discussions , the school was not able to follow the actual achievements in much detail . This was her second school , famous for its use of a method to save those large quantities of the children 's time wasted in ordinary schools by their indiscriminate lumping together into classes , where the clever must sit wearily listening to the stupid drone through their lessons , and the stupid must sit biting their nails while the teacher and the clever travel over their heads . Although any teacher in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intelligence test , no one seemed to know that she had been able to see her mathematics teacher only two or three times a month , and that she usually turned in a full month 's assignment of problems before she could secure even those coveted audiences , sought for by the children as eagerly and gained as arduously as ever were audiences with king or minister . Nor did anyone discover that the same difficulty dogged her in the realms of French and science . A really well-equipped modern school is such an elaborate structure ; it has so many cogs within cogs , that both child and studies can fall through some unregarded hole without their absence being soon discovered . /- The schools ' psychological devices are in quite a different category of importance and in no danger of being lost . Those as to achievement and capacity , whose value if intelligently used I should be the last to question , are the mere a b c of their psychological work . Often each teacher is an amateur psychologist and leaps with joy upon an opportunity to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the disciples of Jung and Freud and John Watson . A case in point is that of the fifteen-year-old daughter of a friend of mine who was sent to a particularly expensive and well-equipped summer camp . It especially prized the services of an itinerant psychologist who journeyed from camp to camp . One day my friend received a telegram , advising her to come at once to her daughter , who had been sent to a Boston hospital for mental diseases for examination by a noted psychiatrist . When she arrived at the hospital in such trepidation as one can easily imagine , she was reassured by the psychiatrist , who informed her that he found nothing wrong with her daughter . She took the next train to the camp to learn why such a course had been pursued . The girls were lodged in small separate cabins . The anxious scientists of the camp staff had soon learned that every night Anne 's light was to be seen issuing from her cabin and disappearing into the woods . The fact that it promptly returned did not mitigate their fears @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or in questioning Anne . They had hit at once upon the fearsome fact of sleep-walking . Continued sleep-walking , they knew from their books , was caused by continued mental disturbance . Promptly and efficiently the child was shipped off to a hospital for mental diseases . That such an experience might be seriously unsettling to her mentally , no one seemed to have considered . And they listened with surprise to the rather simple and naturalistic explanation of this major anxiety . The child 's light had in fact issued from the cabin every night , but it had not been carried by a sleep-walker or an incipient mental case . It would be ridiculous to condemn the various attempts now being made to apply new psychological discoveries to children in school because of one such painful absurdity . Over against it can be set stories of extraordinary benefits conferred on children in their care by properly trained and astute psychologists . One of the most delightful concerns a boy about to be dismissed from a Brooklyn public school for mental defect who entered college with honors a few @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the properly trained physician onto the school scene is of inestimable importance to the welfare of the child ; but only a little reflection shows the danger of too exuberant or hastily considered psychological experiment with any human beings . We would never offer our children to be operated on by unskilled medical students ; yet even the most sophisticated parents have been cheerfully offering them up to the subtle and far-reaching dangers of psychological experimentation . All the jolly girls and boys just out of college who man the staffs of the new schools ca n't possibly he experts on all the extra-curricular subjects with which they deal so confidently . It is just possible that their inexperienced scalpels will inflict lifelong scars . It would be equally absurd to condemn the new schools root and branch because some of their tenets have led them into dangerous bogs . I think them still , as I thought them ten years ago , most hopeful and fruitful experiments ; but I realize now , as I completely failed to then , the dangers run by the objects of their experiments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ run by the child under the old system because they strike at more vital aspects of his being . On the whole , much more intelligence goes into the new schools than into the old , but in their ardent desire to rectify at once all the major defects of the admittedly bad old system , they have undertaken so many innovations simultaneously that they are unable to form an adequate opinion as to how these innovations work . Moreover , their reforms have not been launched without much acrimony and smoke of battle . This being the ease , their best energies go to proving that their innovations are good , and very few are left over for the impartial weighing and assaying that experiments of the sort so urgently need . No manufacturer puts a machine or even a part of a machine onto the market until he has subjected it to every test that his ingenuity can devise . These educators launch a whole new system for training the infinitely various and suggestible young mind . Having done this , too many of them form themselves into a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any critical eye turned on their work . Further , being in the forefront , as they believe , of educational theory , they are naturally disposed to absorb other new theories afloat . Almost all knowledge directly or indirectly concerns the developing child . Many of the schools gleefully incorporate theories into their system as rapidly as they are hatched . In the vulgar phrase , they have bitten off more theory than they can chew , much less digest . It is no wonder that in their efforts to apply all these theories at once they almost lose sight of the child himself ; that is , of the child as an actual being , instead of the child as a theoretical storm center . Almost any competent teacher of the older schools would have discovered Polly Ross 's despotism several years before our new school experts sleuthed it out . The new schools are here to stay , I hope . Unless I thought so I should hesitate long before I took the risk of weakening their position by drawing attention to what seem to me to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been in the main a cut and dried affair ; for too long it has been assumed that the acquisition of any kind of knowledge by any kind of means is desirable . Knowledge maketh a full man , the theory runs , and students have been turned out full . I know one thriving institution which , during a three year course , pumps into its students almost nothing but long discarded exegesis on the Old Testament . They come forth full , and scatter their pitiful sawdust on the heathen of China and Africa . Into the house of this old complacent theory have come bursting the disciples of Dewey and Kirkpatrick , far outstripping their masters in their zeal , huffing and puffing with all their might to blow the house down . Not all facts are worth remembering , they say , and some that arc are more important than others that are . Facts are less impor tant than intelligence , they say ; and intelligence in young children is a tender plant that can be dwarfed or killed by an injudicious administration of facts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ say . They come bursting into the house , huffing and puffing , and the walls begin to fall down . Having begun , they fall faster than the walls of Jericho . The danger now is no longer that the brave outposts of the new schools will be routed ; it is rather that their theories will sweep the whole field before they have been sufficiently tested . VI Peace had returned to the group by the pool . No one was ducking anyone else and no one was throwing mud at anyone . The English governess had resumed her seat on the grass , and a distant appearance of serenity . The four mothers were hobbling back across the rough pasture . The liberal one , eager to offer up her children for experimentation , resumed her seat by my side . " You were saying you did n't like the new schools , " she said . " Perhaps it 's true that liberty is only for a chosen ? for certain types of children , " she corrected herself graciously . I counted ten . " Liberty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ except possibly lunatics and imbeciles . The question is , do the new schools give it ? " But the experimental mother was following her own line of thought . " Have you seen the really wonderful painting and modelling they do ? " she asked . " The work of five-year-olds is really amazing . " " Is n't it , though ? " another mother agreed heartily . So her child , too , will go to school to Polly Ross , I thought .                     