@@492124

" rO SENSIBLE person supposes that the whole or even the main burden of law enforcement - A. - should rest upon Washington . But to a discouraging extent , rightly or wrongly , people have lost faith in state and local governments . More and more they are looking to the Federal officials for help , so it is only natural that in the matter of violent , predatory , ruthless and often murderous crimes , of which kidnaping is a spectacular example , the tendency should be in the same direction . Never before have so many individuals and organisations given such intensive study to the subject of crime as now . It is always dramatic , compelling attention and stimulating interest . It is as old as the human race . In its wider aspects , crime involves the whole structure of society ; with ramifications in the fields of heredity , environment , education , the home , the school , childhood , youth , and indeed almost every activity and every side of life . But the difficulty with treating crime from this larger @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The result is at best a series of vague generalities regarding which nobody does anything . Thus it may be useful to concentrate upon the definite and understandable steps which the Federal authorities can and should take . Such an approach as this narrows the subject to workable dimensions and throws light upon the whole problem . The framers of the Constitution left law enforcement . primarily to the local authorities . Such offenses as murder , burglary , robbery and arson , unless committed in Federal Government territories or reservations , are prosecuted in local courts . It . is not even a Federal offense to murder a Federal officer , such cases being tried in the state courts . Indeed , there are no common-law Federal offenses ; each must . be covered by specific statutes , and , relatively speaking , there are only a few of these . Up to a comparatively short time ago , practically all crimes were actually local in nature . But imperceptibly , because of the speeding up of transportation , and almost without the public realising it , many forms of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the usefulness of the local constable , the county sheriff and even the city police goes hack to times when the county was the extent of a day 's transportation . Now the hank robber and the kidnaper have a means of swift and immediate escape , or get-away , in the high-powered car . In earlier days there was no escape except by way of railroad station or yard , both of which were easily guarded . Now , it is but natural for criminals to dash from the scene of the crime into another sovereign state from which they can be brought back , even if captured , only by a long-drawn-out and legalistic process known as extradition . The criminal seeking refuge crosses county and state lines at will , but for the officer , appointed and paid to safeguard society , these boundaries arise as impassable barriers . It is necessary in extradition to . secure the consent of the governor of the state to which the fugitive has fled , and if the latter fights the process , an incredible amount of red tape is involved @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ governor , thus giving the defendant advance information of the prosecution 's ease . Indeed , it . is of ten necessary for the police to secure a certificate from the city ( Continued OR Para 82 ) // TOOK at the photographs . Then think of the waste that goes on , constantly , when bulk steel wool or the old style pads are used . Sun Ray Pads ? built in layers ? have stopped this waste for many of America 's largest steel- wool users . You can easily see why . Unwind the pad , turn back the used layer  --  and there you have a fresh , clean surface . Repeat the process  --  using Layer after layer , right down to the end of the pad . Every square inch works ! Waste of steel wool stops  --  also waste of workers ' rime . Reach for a pad and Ask your hardware or paint dealer , auto supply or department store for Sun Ray Steel Wool Pads  --  or send dealer 's name and we will mail you a sample pad FREE , postpaid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wool D. Lyude , formerly head of the Cleveland Associated Charities , who organized the public relief of that city with outstanding success . He spoke emphatically on the vital importance of having the first application taken by a trained social investigator , instead of by a mere clerical worker . " If it is necessary to skimp somewhere on the quality and number of workers in relief organizations , " he said , " it would better not he in the intake department . The discriminating work of our trained interviewers in Cleveland resulted in our being able to turn away nearly half of the families which came to us each month , because they had resources which they could use : and yet. , in most instances , these people were turned away , not with a feeling of despondency but with strengthened morale  --  and the door was not closed to their return . " It should be emphasized that the detective system of putting applicants through the third degree , looking in closets and building up an intricate network of espionage is both expensive and defeats its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and is a had policy in the end , for honest people resent such treatment and dishonest ones are clever enough to outwit the traps laid for them . It is not surprising that municipal authorities should have made some egregious blunders when the vast tidal wave of unemployment struck the country with colossal force , At the outset of the depression , few city officials clerk that the judge is really a judge , and from the commissioner of elections that the judge was really elected , and from the county clerk that the prosecutor is really the prosecutor . It is then necessary to go to the governor of the home state to have the state seal attached , even before the governor of the foreign state can be approached at all . Not only must constables , sheriffs , city police , eounty police and even state police stop dead at the boundaries of the forty-eight sovereign states but , as a matter of right , the chief of police in one city can not demand help from the police of another city , even in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the most severely localized of any civilized country . There are many nations with government institutions no less democratic than ours which grant to the national authorities control in the management of local police operations . Of course , in practice there is a great amount of cooperation on the part of different police forces , and they do a great deal for one another as a matter of courtesy . But these organizations vary enormously in their efficiency , in the extent to which they are politically influenced , and in the degree to which each police chief is worried as to whether he can keep his job . Nor is there anywhere any official or legal coordination of such forces . In view of these conditions , the strange thing is not that we have so much crime but that we are not completely overwhelmed by it . The sinister fact is that desperate , armed criminals are increasingly congregating in or close to cities near state lines and have their nests , or hide-outs , across the line . The police of a largo had any knowledge of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ DO organizations to cope with the new situation , and they were further hampered by an acute dearth of funds . It was easier and cheaper to keep people on the dole and pauperize them than to provide constructive work ; and some municipalities chose the easiest way . But now , with state and Federal funds rolling in , and with the Administration heartily supporting public work projects , the situation has materially changed . The day is past wheh wasteful methods and ignorant , fumbling leadership can be excused in the name of emergency . The taxpayers who are paying the shot for all this stupendous outlay have a right to demand that city commissioners in charge of relief shall be trained men with broad experience in welfare work , not mere politicians , and also that . organizations shall be manned by efficient social workers who understand their jobs . For it is only by putting these organizations on a sound business basis , as private welfare agencies have done years ago , that human distress can be intelligently alleviated and waste curtailed . There is along , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ form an important item in the budgets of our cities for years . And the sooner municipal authorities get down to careful , efficient management of relief problems , the sooner the whole country will get out of the red . city may be very efficient , but if there is a small town across the river in another state , it is not . likely to have a police force of the same strength and equipment . Without implying that the fact is necessarily significant in all the cases mentioned , yet it should be noted that many of our large cities are close to state lines . New York is immediately across the Hudson River from New Jersey and also close to Connecticut . Chicago is close to both Indiana and Michigan . Boston is not far from both New Hampshire and Rhode Island . Baltimore is fairly close to Pennsylvania. , Delaware , the District of Columbia and Virginia . Washington immediately adjoins Maryland and is directly across the Potomac River from Virginia . Philadelphia is directly across the Delaware River from New Jersey . St. Louis is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Missouri , where , at the Union Station Plaza , on June seventeenth last , one of the most atrocious and defiant shootings of modern times took place , is not only across the Missouri River from Kansas but is a comparatively short automobile run from Iowa and Nebraska . Detroit is only a sixty miles ' run from Toledo , Ohio . The Kansas City and Detroit situations should be described in slightly more detail . The Federal Government has long maintained a large prison at Leavenworth , Kansas , near Kansas City . Criminals thus have two motives for congregating in or near Kansas City . One is the nearness to three other states , and the other is the possibility of hawing fast automobiles in readiness for friends and accomplices ( Continued  --  en Page 85 ) ( Continued front Pee . R2 ) who might manage to escape from the Federal prison . On the other hand , Alcatraz Island , the new Federal prison in San Francisco Bay , to which desperadoes will be removed , is not only remote from state boundaries but , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consider the Detroit-Toledo situation . Crimes are committed in either city , followed by immediate flight to the other . The criminal , if caught , can be extradited . But the other members of his gang , themselves carefully avoiding participation , spirit the witnesses into the other state , or frighten or persuade them into going . Thus , even if the criminal is caught and extradited , he can not be prosecuted because the witnesses can not be forced to return . In one of last summer 's sensational kidnapings , the victim was lodged in an adjoining state within a few hours of seizure . Several hours later ransom notes were dispatched in a third state , and shortly after the money was paid over it was being exchanged by members of the gang in a fourth state . The Bloodhounds of Uncle Sam Now , when we come to the Federal investigating or police agencies , such as the post-office inspectors , who handle only postal offenses , or the Secret Service of the Treasury Department , which handles only counterfeiting , or the Division of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Federal offenses not specifically placed elsewhere by Congress , we find an entirely different situation . In the first place , the quality of service is far more uniform , all the agents of a bureau being under one head . In the second place , the chief of the bureau in Washington does not ask his agent in Dallas , Texas , if he will investigate the crime for him as a. matter of courtesy ; he orders him there on the instant . In the third place , while the Federal authorities can not move a criminal for trial without removal proceedings , they can arrest in any part of the United States , and fleeing witnesses are brought back more readily than in loeil cases . Federal judges , unlike most state and local judges , are appointed for life . Federal juries come from a wider area and are supposed to be subject to less local influence . Generally , the Federal authorities have a longer arm ; their agents are subject to less political influence , they are surer of their jobs , and they work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well-known fact that criminals are far more afraid of " G men , " which term they apply to Government agents , than they are of local authorities . Thus , offhand , it might seem as if the immediate , practical solution of the crime problem is to nationalize or federalize all law-enforcement agencies . Unfortunately for this apparently happy solution , a very large percentage of all crime remains distinctly local , despite all the striking changes already referred to . For one thing , it would be difficult to show that crimes are more numerous in cities near state borders . I can think of one great city well over 100 miles from any state border which has a staggering annual total of crime , What is more to the point , vast numbers of murders , assaults , burglaries and robberies are committed in large cities by young men who have never been out of the state and who do not leave it after the crime . A great amount of the stealing of automobiles is done by local , neighborhood youths who are not connected with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the sympathetic intervention of local friends of the family . Another significant local crime is the holding up of service stations . Because of the very small amount of cash kept . on hand , these holdups are rarely done by hardened criminals , but by young men who are members of local gangs , often in the very neighborhood where the station is located . Then , too , a larger proportion than is commonly realized of these minor holdups are not really holdups at all but are actually inside jobs . Murders , assaults , burglaries and robberies of strictly local origin and method reach staggering and sickening totals in our large cities . For the most . part , these crimes can be solved only by local officers obtaining local information . The patrolman who catches a wayward neighborhood boy robbing a warehouse should not be obliged to report to a functionary who in turn reports to Washington . Such a system would not only do violence to all our constitutional limitations and traditional principles of government but it would necessitate a standing army , larger than any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ topheavy and divided into scores of divisions and bureaus . The public understands the heinousness of kidnaping and does not care who catches or prosecutes the criminal . But there are laws the breaking of which is a matter of indifference to large sections of the public or which are not thoroughly understood . Prohibition was a striking example of this type of law . For Federal authorities to go into every locality and handle all cases would create no end of friction . The Weather Vane of Public Opinion But there are more immediate and practical reasons for not favoring a revolutionary upheaval in law-enforcement methods , such as nationalizing all police , declaring martial law , banishing all criminals to the Aleutian Islands or adopting measures of great brutality . Not only do extreme measures intoxicate with authority the officials who employ them , but sooner or later there always comes a public reaction . Even the precautions taken last summer by the Department . of Justice to prevent certain notorious kidnapers from escaping met rather sarcastic reference as to their severity in at least a few newspaper comments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ another in regard to the degree of severity to be used in dealing with criminals . The particular forms of crime which horrify the public change from time to time , but the campaign against crime itself is of long duration . For fifty years in this country we have neglected the subject in a disgraceful manner ; we have allowed deadly instruments like submachine guns and revolvers to fall into the hands of criminals . Now we are paying the price . But hysterical and spectacular measures will only defeat a long-time program of steady pressure . Turning now from a general view of the subject to particulars , the first and most obvious step for the Federal Government to take is to provide an increasingly effective clearing house and nerve center for the war on crime . To be quite specific , the Department of ( Continued on Peg . 87 ) ( Continued from Page lilS ) Justice should establish at the earliest opportunity a national institute of criminology , including both a crime laboratory and a police-training school , to serve the police departments and other law-enforcement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ without any constitutional change , and possibly without even.mandatory legislation . Nor would the cost be prohibitive . Offhand this may seem a rather mild provision , but its importance far transcends what appears on the surface . First of all , a national crime laboratory and police-training school would grow naturally out of the-work already being done in the Department of Justice . Much has been written about its fingerprint collection , which began in 1924 in one small room with two employes and is now by far the largest criminal clearing house in the world , requiring nearly 300 employes and a whole floor in a large office building to house the 4,000,000 cards . This growth has been due to the cooperation of thousands of separate and heterogeneous law-enforcement agencies throughout the country which have made of the Department of Justice a great coordinating and unifying factor in their work . As a result , 2200 fingerprint cards are received daily from thousands of state and local sources , and 45 per cent are identified as having prior criminal records . In this way there is coming about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crime . In a purely physical sense , this coordination could he made much more effective if the Division of Investigation of the Department of Justice were tied up by means of telephone-typewriter service or radio , not only with all of its own twenty-odd field offices but with the headquarters of all state-police systems . Unfortunately , fewer than half the states have police of their own . If every state were so equipped , and all the systems tied in with Washington , a great step would be taken to prevent the escape of fugitives , such as hank robbers . In a given case it would not be necessary to notify all state police but only those in the group or block of states surrounding the site of the crime . The Need for State Pollee A crying need in this country today is the establishment of police in every state to take over some of the work of local constables and sheriffs , to get away from the excessively split-up nature of police work and the heavy duplicating costs which go with it . Many of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ major administrative districts of Europe , and for them to have police of their own is logical , in view of European experience . Indeed some of the older state-police systems in the northeastern section of this country have a record of achievement which authorities say duplicates that of the finest integrated systems of Europe . But returning to the project of a national crime laboratory , it should he ilOted that the Department of Justice is developing , separate and apart from its main fingerprint filo , a single-fingerprint file . The regular print is of all ten fingers , obtained from the person himself . But latent prints of only one finger may be left upon some object at the scene of the crime , becoming visible upon the application of a. particular chemical . Thus , in a separate file several thousand well-known gangsters , racketeers , kidnapers and extortioners can he located quickly , even though ten prints may not be in the large 4,000,000 file at . all . Also the department gathers statistics of crime , sends out lists of fugitives from justice , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for its own use and without special appro'priations , a crime laboratory at which an increasing amount of scientific work is done . Just what might be done in such a laboratory , enlarged to serve the police forces of the entire country and operated in conjunction with a national police-training school , requires a brief explanation . To begin with , there are now no such facilities in this country except in the big cities , and these do not . serve the smaller places . On excellent authority it is stated that the criminal institutes in cities like Brussels , Paris , Rome , Berlin , Dresden , Munich , Lausanne , Lyons and Vienna have more modern and scientific facilities than any of our police departments with the possible exceptions of New York and St. Louis . The Duel of Experts Now , it must he remembered that the number of experts in such fields as ballistics , toxicology and bloodstains is comparatively limited ; the average police department can not plunge very far in the employment of such men . Often it is necessary to send to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ employed in a particular case the defense often tries to hire another to testify to just the opposite . The result is confusion on the part of the juries , discrediting of scientific attainments in the mind of the layman , and obstacles in the path of justice . Naturally , there is a tendency under these conditions to commercialize scientific work . A central Government crime laboratory , on the other hand , could send experts wherever needed , such men being civil-service employes on salary and with no motive for twisting testimony to earn a large fee . They would have no interest at stake except to serve the scientific truth , and their impartiality would be an important factor in many cases . Besides gunfire , poisons and bloodstains , a crime laboratory would study clothing , shoe leather and hair from victims ; it would devise all kinds of electrical and wiring contrivances to trap the criminal ; it would study the different kinds of ink , especially invisible ink , the watormnrks on paper and the treads made by different automobile tires . Then there are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ finally the whole great subject of photography , the ultra-violet and the X ray . Now , all these activities in the aggregate are not exactly police or even investigating work ; they pertain more to a scientific institute . Washington is tilled with scientific bureaus scattered about among the different departments , in Agriculture , Commerce , Treasury , War and Navy . Thus it would be far easier to set up a criminological institute and secure a staff or faculty there than in most cities . Moreover , the large new Department of Justice building now nearing completion will contain the equivalent of four city blocks of space for this criminological work . A police-training school naturally becomes part of such an institute . The idea is to send a selected number of men from , say the Cincinnati police force , for an intensive period of training , not to become Federal officers but to go back as better members of the Cincinnati force . There are cities which have excellent training schools for their police , but it would be strange indeed if the Federal Government could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the smaller cities do not have any schools at all . Most police have some sort of training in gunfire , but it is by no means universal to train them in machine guns , gas weapons and similar paraphernalia of the hardened outlaw . A national training school could give courses not . only in all the subjects mentioned but in the keeping of records , such as booking prisoners , in which police are often lamentably weak , in what to do when a crime is committed , in how to interrogate both prisoners and victims , in practical psychology , in the use of one 's powers of observation , and in testifying before a jury . There is the likelihood that a well-conducted national training school might gradually raise the whole tone of the American police system . Everybody knows that a major reason for the lower crime rate in European countries is that police work , generally speaking , is on a permanent-career basis , more like that of an honorable profession , instead of being a political hodgepodge as in this country . We @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is very little security of tenure in the higher positions , which are generally subject to local political change and patronage . This is a subject much exploited in the press , in reports of crime commissions , resolutions of bar associations and the like . Everybody recognizes the evil but nobody does a blessed thing about it . There is nothing but talk . A national police-training school would be a concrete measure for at least beginning to make a career out of police work . This could hardly have been done at a much earlier date , certainly not until after President Coolidge. some ten years ago , appointed his college classmate , Harlan P. Stone , then dean of the Columbia Law School , as Attorney General , to clean up the Department of Justice , following the Harding regime . Coliege  --  Bred Detectives The American people do not realize what a debt of gratitude they owe to Mr. Stone , now a Justice of the United States Supreme Court . Among other reforms , he cut out the wire tapping , use of the third degree @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Division of Investigation . He put it on a nonpolitical basis , which example has been followed , most fortunately , by the subsequent Attorney Generals , Sargent , Mitchell and Cummings . In addition , Mr. Stone took a leaf from the practice of nearly all European countries , which require attendance at . a university law school for those entering the higher police ranks . When Mr. Stone took hold only 1f3 per cent of the agents were lawyers , whereas today $5 per cent have their law degrees , practically all being either lawyers or accountants . These agents have been dubbed " boy detectives " or " boy-scout detectives , " but the implication was both ignorant and foolish . For it was these same young college-bred men who quietly captured the desperate armed kidnapers , certainly of the most criminal type , who for a while so terrorized the country last // summer . These same young lawyers and accountants also manage to obtain an extraordinarily high percentage of convictions . Many new duties have been put upon the Department of Justice in recent years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sales under an NRA code being only a very few of the more recent and spectacular . As a result of the great stir over kidnaping , the public has gathered the idea that the department has a small army of at least several thousand special agents scouring the country . With thirty or forty other Federal offenses besides kidnaping to look after , there are less than 300 agents altogether , considerably less than when the 1924 reorganization took place and when there were fewer Federal offenses to look after . Obviously one of the simplest and most practical steps which could be taken immediately to combat crime would be to enlarge this force , not into any great national police system which would resemble a standing army but to a size which bears some logical relation to the vast area and variety of conditions and offenses to be covered . This consideration is the more pertinent because of the almost certain action of Congress at the present session in adding to the number of Federal offenses . Divided Responsibilities The Department of Justice has the major investigating and , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ police organization of the Government , with far the widest range of activities . But there are many other smaller , though very important and specialized , organizations of a similar nature in the various departments , with a tendency to increase in number as new agencies , such as the NRA , spring into being . If the Department of Justice were given an adequate number of special agents , this tendency might he checked . It is natural and , perhaps , convenient for a new or ambitious Government establishment to want its own investigators , but the result is to split up and render less efficient , in the opinion of many judges and police chiefs , the campaign against crime . If the President by executive order or Congress by statute should consolidate or , at least , in some way coordinate a number of these investigating agencies , the local police and other law-enforcement officers would have a simpler problem in dealing with the Federal Government , and there would certainly be a more unified , responsible , powerful and , possibly , more economical and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is clear that the Lindbergh baby did not give its life entirely in vain . The success of the Patterson-Cochran , or so-called Lindbergh , Kidnaping Act , and the National Motor Vehicle Theft , or Dyer , Act , giving the Federal Government power to prosecute the kidnaping of human beings and the theft of automobiles , respectively , where there is an interstate element involved , lays the foundation for a great but practical forward step . This would be to enlarge the Dyer Act to include the interstate transportation and possession of all stolen property above say $3000 in value . If this works well and does not create too many new offenses for the Federal authorities to look after , the limitation might be lowered later on . The real purpose of such a law would be to enable the Government to prosecute fences who deal in property stolen in other states . To be still more specific , the object is to break up the fence situation with respect to furs , jewelry and , more particularly , securities . A criminal may rob a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sale in Chicago the next morning . Methods of transportation are such and the issuance of securities is so great that detection is highly complicated and difficult . An actual case is that of bonds stolen from a bank in Michigan , sold in Pittsburgh and the money sent to a broker in Chicago . All this has become a great industry , and its interstate character is so marked that the Federal Government fits into the picture beyond any question . No sensible person proposes that Federal agents make it their business to catch a petty thief who steals a five-dollar hat and carries it into another state . But when we have the complicated business of receivers of large amounts of stolen securities being in a state different from the one in which the robbery takes place , of go-between lawyers living in still a third state , and of not all surety companies eager to prosecute if they can get the securities back without prosecution , it becomes a matter for the law-enforcement agency with the longest reach . Another practical step is for Congress further to restrict @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , to law-enforcement officers . Already important restrictions have been placed in the appropriate code , but actual legislation is expected . The subject has been discussed extensively in newspaper articles and need not be referred to in any detail here . It is important , however , in bringing up the whole broad question of firearms . Disarming the Criminal Now , of course , the great majority of crimes of violence are committed with firearms , either submachine guns or revolvers . Many of the states have had restrictions upon revolvers for years , and Congress can add to the difficulties of getting them with legislation , somewhat along the lines of the Anti-Narcotics Act . But it is probable that the confirmed criminal will arm himself , even under the most severe restrictions . If a gang can not buy a submachine gun it can frequently steal one from tin armory or other lawful repository . Thus it is fatuous for high officials to intimate that they are promptly going to disarm the criminal by some process of law . It can not be done , short of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any more than the ownership of automobiles can be confined in anything like the near future to careful drivers who are financially responsible . To think that any law can disarm all criminals is just as foolish as it was to suppose that prohibition would stop all drinking . A shotgun , it is said , can be sawed down into a concealable weapon like a revolver in nine minutes , and , naturally , shotguns and rifles can not be prohibited while there are millions of hunters and woods full of game . One of the most effective weapons in dealing with crime , as everyone knows , is the fingerprint . Naturally , any reasonable enlargement of the great central collection in Washington would be of service . In theory , universal ( Continued on peg , , , 00 ) ( Continued from Page 8S ) registration , fingerprinting- , photographing and identification , or at least similar action in regard to all automobile owners and operators , would be highly desirable , but as a Federal matter it is administratively impractical . Nearly all crimes of violence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ use of both firearms and automobiles in combination . Which is the more important and worse in this connection no one can say . It would be an ideal plan if all automobile drivers and owners were required to carry with them their fingerprints and photographs as well as their names . But the Government could have no jurisdiction unless a car crossed a state line , and it would hardly be practical to take the fingerprints of every honest driver crossing a state line and compare them with those on his card , even though Machine Gun Kelly made many automobile trips in which he covered twelve states each time . Nor could the Government operate in this field as a practical matter unless all the states took the same concurrent action . There is very little the Federal Government can do to bring about the desirable registration of noncriminal elements in the population . All Federal civil-service applicants are already fingerprinted , and this might be extended to include all persons admitted to Federal hospitals . Also the huge fingerprint collection of the War Department should be cleared or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , obviously , any large collection of civil or supposedly noncriminal fingerprints always shows up a small percentage of criminals . There are available also cards marked NOWRIMINAL , which can be voluntarily filed by any citizen in the great central collection , and are of manifest advantage in case of sudden disappearance , accident or illness . These are for the fingerprints of one 's children or any other members of one 's family . The Pros and Cons of Fingerprints I , for one , fail to see how universal or even general registration can come except gradually and by local action . On the strictly criminal side all cities should try out the experiment now being made in a few of them , to require all convicted criminals entering the city to register with the police , failing which they can be held on that charge alone . Turning to the noncriminal side again , it is manifest that all applicants For licenses as chauffeurs , taxi drivers , and the like , should be fingerprinted . But by far the most important immediate , practical step which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ municipalities to require a fingerprint of all applicants for public positions of every description . This having been done , the states should then apply the same regulation to all applicants for automobile licenses . Those measures are practical ; they would serve to tighten up on the criminal element , and they would protect the noncriminal . Any thoughtful person must realize that the present lack of system by which millions of people can float at will around this vast country without any means of identification is dangerous to honest men and greatly facilitatescriminal. escape . But we are an independent people , restive even at such minor annoyances as the examination of baggage for customs purposes . Increasing restrictions in the interest of public safety can not be made at one fell swoop by central authority . Contrary to popular conception , universal registration is not required in the majority of foreign countries . However , it is required in Belgium and is optional with regard to French citizens in France . But practically all foreign countries require registration of all aliens and foreigners , and it is common @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ houses to report to the police the movement of guests . Coming back to practical Federal activity , it is possible by congressional action to tighten up on court . procedure in respect to the defendant 's use of alibis , and delay in removal proceedings . Also it may be possible , with or without constitutional amendment , to copy the British system , now allowed in a few of our states but not in the others or in the Federal courts , which permits the prosecutor and the judge to comment on the defendant 's failure to take the stand . Practical Steps Against Crime It would be possible , of course , to create a large number of new Federal felonies , several of which might hav far-reaching and drastic effect . Perhaps the most radical suggestion is to make it a Federal felony for a convicted criminal to cross a state line . But there is grave danger that in making many new and sweeping violations of Federal law , we shall break down all state and local effort together with our whole system of democracy . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is to improve the general run of police , prosecutors and courts , taking them out of polities and giving them security of tenure , as in the European countries . Only second in importance is the establishment of state police in all forty-eight commonwealths , and , in connection therewith , the forming of compacts , with the consent of Congress as already permitted by the Constitution , by groups of four or five states , for the return of fleeing witnesses , the simplification of extradition and the establishment , if not of regional police , at least of clearing houses for groups of four or five different state police forces . Nothing the Federal Government can do will begin to equal these practical measures in efficacy , and they can not be put into effect by Federal officials . Fortunately , Mr. Cummings , the present Attorney General , was for ten years a state 's attorney  --  that is , a prosecutor  --  and dealt with some 4000 criminals , beside a helping a governor of the opposite political faith to reorganize the state prison system . Joseph @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ kidnapers last summer , also had had previous experience in criminal prosecutions in his own state . Like nearly all men who have dealt with the crime problem right down in the- trenches , these two officials know that the Federal Government can not do the whole or even the main part of the job .                     