@@487879

Deal . Our first author , Mr. Wasserman , differs from most men in daily contact with finance in that he is not afraid . He pins his faith on the machine . He would bravely tie up civilization with its development , and he proposes a financial scheme which would tax old machinery in the interest of more and newer machinery . It is a sound program for a capitalist , and would assure the performance of the chief service of corporate wealth , employment , more successfully and permanently than the present regime can hope to do it . It may even be that his general objective is the one hope of the regime of wealth to survive for a time , since the community is still in a mood to yield its economic independence in return for the comforts of security . But even if all employables are put to work , the care of the aged and the infirm must still fall to the community , and we doubt whether the country would again accept a system which leaves their safety to the charitable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's program is appreciation of the truth that the modern individual , however much he needs security , above all needs freedom , not merely freedom to provide himself with shelter and nourishment , but the freedom which comes from being an integral and responsible member of society . Granting that Mr. Wasserman 's plan would put the unemployed to work , a people dominated by the corporate wealth which controls the machines would not tolerate a subordinate status longer than it remembered the anxieties of the depression and was thankful for safety . A machine-made economy would still be inherently unstable . Mr. Wasserman can retort that he is discussing an economic solution and not a philosophy . He may accept our criticism , and say he offers his plan in an attempt to do no more than bring clarity to the addled contradictions of Washington . But we can not introduce his contribution and those to follow without reminding our readers that the philosophy matters even more than the brilliance of economic solutions . A New Internationalism / T is safe to say that no other step taken by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those suggested in the memorandum submitted by Messrs . Tugwell and Taylor , American delegates to the International Institute of Agriculture at Rome . Here , without the fanfare of publicity which accompanied the ill-fated World Economic Conference at London , we have a proposal that attempts for the first time to deal in a realistic manner with the basic problems of the world depression . The London Economic Conference was essentially an attempt to restore an international laissez faire economic structure such as existed prior to the - World War . On the assumption that existing maladjustments could be eliminated only through the restoration of economic flexibility , it concentrated on proposals for the leveling of trade barriers , the stabilization of currencies , and the revival of international lending . The conference failed , not because world interdependence had ceased to exist , but primarily because the desire for greater flexibility was in direct opposition to the whole trend of economic development . The New Deal in the United States , the new forms of economic organization in Germany and Italy , and the planned economy of the Soviet Union @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tendency which has been apparent for the greater part of a century  --  for nations and groups , capital as well as labor , demand a larger measure of security than can be provided by a system of free competition . With the collapse of the London conference the drift toward economic nationalism , as well as toward rigidity and planning , has continued unchecked . While there has been a certain degree of domestic recovery in many countries , international trade has not shared in the improvement . This has meant continued hardship for those sectors of the economy which are dependent on the world market . In the United States the pinch has been felt primarily , though not exclusively , in agriculture . The Administration 's crop-reduction program has been matched by increased production abroad , so that its net effect has been far from beneficial . In recognition of this fact , those in charge of agricultural policy have increasingly come to realize that the United States must make a definite choice between its present nationalist policies and a restoration of the world market . The experience @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ besetting the nationalist path . A permanent loss of export markets not only would involve tremendous hardships during the transition period , but would entail lower living standards and a degree of regimentation wholly unpalatable to the average American . Yet restoration of the old order is beyond possibility . The obvious solution of this dilemma lies in the extension of the principle of planning to the international sphere , which is essentially what has been suggested in the memorandum presented at Rome . While this entails grave difficulties , as illustrated by the vicissitudes of the international wheat agreement , it is the one road on which progress has been made during the past few years . Plans for international commodity control have been either formulated or actually put into effect in the case of sugar , wheat , rubber , and tea . In regard to other commodities , agreement has been blocked by the failure to win the cooperation of enough producers . But it is now widely recognized that there can be no solution of the anarchy existing in the production of basic raw material except through @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thorough study of the results and possibilities of national and international production control , but suggests that agricultural planning on a world scale may be the means of avoiding a repetition of the events of recent years , and proposes that this planning be coordinated with long-range economic planning in other fields . It has the additional- virtue of recognizing that little progress can be made toward international control as long as present trade barriers continue to exist , and that these in turn are closely bound up with monetary ? instability . It advocates a frank reexamination of current trade policies in order to determine whether they serve to increase international commerce , or whether they obstruct trade or divert it from its normal channels . But perhaps the most encouraging feature of the American proposal lies in its tentative nature . By no stretch of the imagination can it be charged that this is merely another utopian plan which the Brain Trust is seeking to impose on an unsuspecting world . It is flexible and exploratory in character , accepting the fact that the field of international economics has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Moreover , thescheme has the great advantage of having been presented unobtrusively  --  in striking contrast to the pitiless glare of publicity that attended every move at the London Economic Conference and made necessary concessions virtually impossible . There can be no assurance that the memorandum will receive favorable consideration from the various foreign countries at the present time . Any proposal by the United States purporting to be in the interest of the world as a whole is bound to encounter suspicion . Recent developments in Germany , France , and the Far East indicate that the forces of economic nationalism are more powerful today than ever before . But the very extremes to which they have gone have created the necessity for a return to international cooperation . This will not be easy ; it may not even be possible in view of the warlike passions which the economic struggle has engendered . But if it is to come at all it will be through patient study and research such as has been suggested at the International Institute of Agriculture . The Epic of Upton Sinclair I F @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to prevent him from becoming Governor of California . we have not heard about it . As a result the State , and the nation as well , is fairly swarming with the low forms of life generally to be found under stones long unturned . Perhaps the most notable single specimen is the literature poured out by the United for California League , which calls itself non-partisan , presumably because it does not care who beats Sinclair . In a propaganda campaign that must be costing somebody a great deal of money , the league quotes from Mr. Sinclair 's voluminous works to prove that he is an atheist who advocates revolution , communism , free love , and the scientific care of children . Like the Bible , the vast writings of Upton Sinclair can be cited to prove almost anything , but even one Bernice H. Johnson , who issues a leaflet in exactly the same format as those of the United for California League , has a hard time proving moral turpitude against the last American Puritan , Upton Sinclair . The substantial opponents of Sinclair  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  are using other methods which have grown at once more hysterical and more unscrupulous with the approach of the fatal day , November 6 . The Republican Party of California ( - and of Herbert ? Hoover ) went to the length of making a friendly reference to the fantastic Townsend plan by which every worker past sixty would receive a federal pension of $200 a month , to be spent in thirty days if our present so-called economic system could stand up under it that long . What is much more serious , the Republican Attorney General has instigated actions in Los Angeles County to strike from the registration rolls 100,000 or more names , most of them from downtown working-class districts . The burden of proof rests upon the registrants and it is physically impossible to hear anything like 100,000 cases before election day . As a result thousands of voters are likely to be disfranchised  --  with violence at the polls certain to follow . To describe this hair-raising opposition would , in the case of any other candidate , be equivalent to recording his defeat . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ propaganda himself , and his counter-attacks , marked by the ingenious simplicity which is his special talent , have turned what might have been a sordid political dog fight into an enlightening and almost gay affair . When the flight of capital was announced , Epic News , Sinclair 's weekly news sheet , reported that Mr. Sinclair ( like St. Therese ) was " not interested " in the results of a Wall Street manipulated stock market . To the accusation that he was an atheist , Epic News replied with an overwhelming resolution from the Methodist Preachers ' Meeting of Southern California to the effect that Upton Sinclair " believes in a personal God . " To the report that thousands of " hobos " were heading for California , Epic News replied that the statement was untrue , while Sinclair said in effect " What of it ? " and went on to say that his policy was assuredly different from that of his opponents , who were determined to keep the people in California so poor that no one would be tempted to move in . If @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his own economic ideas are workable , he has proved that prevailing economic methods are definitely not workable , and in the process he has shown , in sometimes amusing and always vivid terms , who benefits by their non-workability . His analysis of California 's present condition , in his latest campaign document , " Immediate Epic , " is unanswerable . It also represents Sinclair 's most ingenious achievement to date . When the Democratic Party took him under its nervous wing , it assumed that he would stay put , and the statements of leading Democrats supporting his candidacy were hopefully based on that assumption . He was persuaded to drop his idea of a $300,000,000 bond issue . But he has already flown over the capitalist fence again . In " Immediate Epic " he proposes a heavy tax payable in cash , goods , or services on all corporations assessed at $100,000 or more , without regard to income . In a blithe paragraph he says : Let us take the Southern Pacific Railroad as an example . The Southern Pacific is now burdened with a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is compelled to maintain its rights of way , tracks , and rolling stock . It has a far-flung executive organization . Its capacity to do business is vastly more than the business being done . If it paid a tax in the transportation of new freight , this would mean only hooking on to existing trains an occasional car for the State , and such new business would necessitate but a small amount of additional labor , fuel , and upkeep . Careful study makes it appear that the railroads of the State could pay an Epic tax for not more than 20 per cent of value measured in their customary rates . We are sure that the Southern Pacific will be delighted if and when Mr. Sinclair takes it as an example . Given the average American legislature and the endless network of legal devices by which the owners of the country 's wealth are able to escape " confiscatory " taxes , Mr. Sinclair , as Governor , would find it almost impossible to put EPIC into effect . But if he proves that even his cheerful brand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ State , that will be worth finding out . Meanwhile the rights of workers would receive more consideration than they have had for some time in California . Tom Mooney , who would go free one half-minute after eleven on the morning of January 7 , is one of the workers we have in mind . An Ellis Island for Books L " ITERARY Expert Made Censor of Book Imports . " Thus runs the headline in the New York Herald Tribune , but the fact is not really as bad as it is made to sound . Thanks largely to the effort of Morris L. Ernst and others , the Customs Department has learned that it can not really have a censor however much it might like the privilege , and the courts with whom the final decision on any book lies have recently shown an encouragingly liberal tendency . In the now famous case of " Ulysses " the guardians of our portals proposed but the Justices Hand disposed , and the surprising adventures of Mr. Bloom are now to be had at any bookstore . What the new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Department have decided henceforth to consult some literate person before making a decision which is likely to be called into open question before a federal court . In the past it has worked in mysterious ways . Officially , at least , no one knew who read the books which were denied admission , and the common suspicion that the office boy was glad to oblige seemed justified by some of the odd proceedings  --  as when , for example , copies of the " Decameron " were held up , despite the fact that it had been printed and sold in this country for many years . In the future the authorities propose to look before they leap , and if any silly moves are made we shall at least have the satisfaction of knowing who is responsible . Huntington Cairns , a Balti- more lawyer , is the bearer of the new and odd title " literary expert attached to the Collector of Customs . " He is said to be a gentleman of cultivated and literate tastes , and we probably have good reason to rejoice that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , to some Board of Snoopers appointed by the D. A. R. and the Federation of Women 's Clubs . This is not , however , to say that we envy Mr. Cairns his job or think that he or anybody else is needed . : We see no reason why the prosecution of books printed abroad should not be left to the District Attorney 's office , which is responsible for action against allegedly obscene works printed in this country . In the first place , the latter arrangement puts both the initiative and the burden of proof up to the prosecution , instead of , as is the case with foreign books , allowing an arbitrary action against which the proprietors of the confiscated works have merely the power of making a legal protest . In the second place , the whole assumption that some special precaution has to be taken against wicked foreign influence seems to us a remnant of the ancient theory that Europe is a wicked old man bent upon corrupting the innocent youth of America . Nevertheless , we have some hope for Mr. Cairns @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ publicity . He is not , we understand , the kind of man likely to take a Comstockian pleasure in exhibiting himself as one of those pure to whom all things are simply terrible . Any time that he feels himself slipping and begins to get that **40;233;TOOLONG feeling , we suggest that he pay a visit to the Columbia University library , which has just accepted as a historical treasure the very copy of " Ulysses " which the Customs Bureau held impounded for several years .                     