@@493524

ests ' program . A special committee on national water-power policy has just made its report and its recommendations are being put to a referendum vote of the local Chambers over the nation . One proposal is that " the Muscle Shoals project should be sold or leased " ; another strikes at public ownership ; another hits federal regulation ; another urges that public plants be put under the regulation of state commissions , and so on . Ballots are returnable by December 22 . The result is foreordained ; immediately after the holidays , when the Norris and Couzens bills will probably be at a critical stage , the allegedly united voice of business will be hurled against them . Watch for the headlines ! If the small business men of the country knew just how power officials , also officials of the Chamber and in charge of its publications , have directed its power policy for several years past , the vote would be different and the decision less conclusive . Then there is the national organization of State Public Utility Commissioners , which in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ oppose public ownership , federal regulation and even the Walsh resolution for an investigation of the power trust . In Charleston , in November , these officials passed a resolution which in effect opposed the Couzens bill for federal regulation , on the grounds that it might invade states ' rights . The convention significantly omitted a proviso that it had no objection to federal regulation in fields where state commissions have no legal jurisdiction . But this action need surprise no one who recalls the Federal Trade Commission 's revelations of the financial support which the regu lator 's organization receives from the National Electric Light Association . The people 's side of the contest will , of course , be defended by progressives of both parties , under the leadership of Senator Norris . A few liberal organizations and groups will be active ; but , back of all , exists the power of the rapidly growing public opinion which spoke so decisively at the recent elect tion and will speak still more decisively in the next . Three conclusions stand out . First , the power interests are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ state or federal , that they can not control . They are determined to wipe out twenty-five years of achievement in conservation and to exploit water power henceforth in the same un hampered fashion used in regard to oil , coal , land , timber and other resources . The history of the railroads is to be repeated , with stock jobbing as a first concern and public service coming a fterwardsif at all . Second , the Hoover administraticn has shown that it is just as hostile to effective regulation of private power companies as it is to public ownership . Third , there is good evidence that the influential portion of the public which for a quarter of a century has determined state and national policies in favor of regulated private , as against public , ownership is now quietly saying to itself that if the power trust continues its present tactics , pubs lic ownership is the only way out . Its decision will determine the future . That is why the power issue looms so large against the political sky of 1932 and why this Congress and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Sold " on Foreign Bonds IV . Bankers as Bond Salesmen A s POINTED out in the preceding articles , foreign government financing is a complex of two processes : governments spending more than revenues , and bankers selling bonds . This article is concerned with the selling process . The significant act by which the investor becomes a lender is that of buying a bond . He buys the bond because he is sold a bond . The salesman makes the investor believe that a foreign bond of a given high yield is a safer investment than a domestic security promising the same yield . Whether the element of safety is , as represented by the seller , time will tell . Foreign bonds , especially those of poor-credit countries , have always been sold largely to small investors , most of whom are among the investment illiterates . It has always been the widows , orphans and retired rentiers who have , in great part , been caught holding the bag . In the earlier phases of our financial organization , money lending was usually done on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made loans of their own funds or of funds entrusted to thern as agents . Money is still so lent by banks . This forn ? of financing will probably never disappear under our present system , but its relative importance diminishes as governmental and corporate borrowers procure more of the funds they wish through the sale of securities . There are several important differences between financing by direct loans frolicil the capitalist and his agent to the borrower , an financing through the sale of the borrower 's pal ' ' l. to the capitalist by security merchants . it When a commercial bank lends to a borrower% is lending chiefly the funds entrusted to it by de positors . But it is also risking the capital , resets " and surplus of the bank . Before the depositors 1 ? , 5f ; the owners of the bank must sacrifice their ellti . " L stake in the bank . The investment banker who so securities to investors does not risk his own money as an investor or as an agent of the investor . He merely runs a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a profit the commodity which he has bought in wholesale quantity . Once sold , the bonds are solely the investor 's risk . The relationship between the bond-selling banktrs and the public , or real money lenders , is not that of a banker to a depositor , of an agent to a principal , of a trustee to his cestui ( the beneficiary of the trust ) . It is not a fiduciary relationship . It is the relationship of a seller to a buyer , of a horse trader in the market to his customer . Duress , fraud and deceit are barred by the common law , blue-sky laws and stock-exchange regulations ; the sky is the limit so far as high-pressure salesmanship goes . The governing rule is , let the buyer beware . CAVEAT HORSE BUYER A person who bought , twelve months ago , at the price of $130 , a horse which has since developed defects making its present worth only $30 , would stand a better chance in a suit against the horse dealer than an investor against a banker in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the ' hundred-thirties to investors last year by one of the largest banking organizations The America . It is now selling in the low thirties. ) rhe buyer of the horse might , conceivably , be able to show that some of the present defects existed In the animal twelve months ago and that they should have been known by the horse trader , an ex-Pert , and disclosed by him to the buyer , an amateur . But the banker is protected by the market appraisal of his commodity and his own innocence of falsehood and fraud . Creating an artificial market ap Praisal by market manipulations or propaganda is Permissible for the banker , provided he does not make washed sales of securities or tell lies . Telling ? Illy a part of the truth is likewise permissible to the seller . The difference between the price at which the banking syndicate buys foreign bonds from a government and the price at which they are sold to investors , or the " spread , " covers a number of items , such as expenses , selling commission , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or in-betweens which the bankers call " commissions " and which the critics of the government call graft , I could cite from personal knowledge numerous bankers of large payments of graft by American and contractors in connection with loans in carious countries . These payments were made by ? 0 me ' of the largest banking institutions in America oe are typical rather than exceptional . Such prac- t'i'lc . s in the United States would expose the respon-the le Parties to prosecution and probably invalidate Contracts in whole or in part . The details only Q'toe out when , as in Peru or Brazil , the govern-1 , ? ent is overthrown and the officials are brought to trial , or when , as in Italy , some of them are discredited by their superiors . Even then , the facts are kept out of the American press . If the spread is large enough and the deal successful , there are profits for the participants . The amount of the spread depends on the difficulty of selling the bonds , the commissions and graft to be paid and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the wider the spread and the larger the profits for the bankers , if the bonds can be sold . The spread may be as small as one or two points or as large as seven or eight . The profit may he regarded as a fair compensation for the banking service of obtainincr funds for a borrower and the mercantile risk and service of selling to investors a commodity they want to buy . Small dealers , by reason of their more intimate and even friendly relations with their clients , feel a more personal interest in their financial welfare . This is something approaching the professional relationship , the attitude that keeps a physician from performing an unnecessary operation in spite of the fact that he can get paid for it . Such dealers at times have manifested objections to selling some of the more speculative foreign bonds . The big New York investment syndicate , however , usually forces small dealers to take and dispose of their quotas of speculative bonds under threat of " blacklisting " them for all future issues by members of the group . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ excellent securities to sell along with the bad . The investor , or real lender , knows , ordinarily , nothing about the borrower or the transactions beyond what he is told by the sellers of the bonds . These sellers ' representations are carefully prepared by experts and passed on by lawyers to ensure their being within the law and as highly favorable as possible . Blue-sky laws of numerous states governing the sale of securities within their jurisdictions usually exempt foreign government bonds . The exchanges , however , require for the listing of all securities the disclosure of much information , some of which might be enlightening to an expert . Investors rarely read stock-exchange listing applications , and few of them are experts . PROFITS FROM UNSOUND LOANS Enough has been said to make it clear that profits from the traffic in foreign government bonds , and subsidiary operations which the investor does not know about , are the mainspring of the business . These profits do not necessarily depend on the soundness of the loans . Other incitements are political pressure by the government of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ confer on the bankers . The French government forced the French bankers from 1888 on to divert a steady stream of the savings of the French rentier into the financing of Russian deficits , misrule and preparations for war . Today French investors , mostly people of limited means , hold $2,200,000 , - 000 of repudiated Russian bonds , not counting interest arrears . The bankers who sold them this worthless paper are the richer in profits and honors for having done this patriotic financing . Other governments , including our own , have promoted foreign government loans as instruments of national policy . The State Department , as is disclosed by its published correspondence , openly submitted Mr. Knox 's loan projects for Honduras and Nicaragua to New York bankers . Our enormous loans to Germany afford the latest examples of the traditional alliance between diplomacy and international finance , of almost unvarying ill omen for investors and world peace . How IT BEGAN The present-day art of merchandising foreign securities had its initial development here during the Liberty and Allied bond-selling campaigns of the War . The American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with bad government bonds , were introduced to government bonds ? the world 's best ? under strong emotional and patriotic stimuli . The bond merchants built up , during the late " new era , " large selling organizations with heavy overhead expenses . These huge organizations required vast supplies of bonds to keep the salesmen busy . The bankers sent buyers to the far corners of the earth to persuade politicians to borrow and spend more American money . Economists , accountants , lawyers , college professors , experts of all sorts , were mobilized to prove the business sound . It was a borrower 's market . The interests of bond sellers and political spenders coalesced . The interests of American investors and foreign taxpayers were usually without an effective advocate . The only limit to what politicians can spend is what they can get . It is easy to raise tax rates to cover increased debt charges , as long as good times last and the proceeds of the loans are being spent . Tax-bearing and debt-paying become onerous when further borrowing proves impossible and income is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seen in South American revolutions and Hitlerism in Germany . The results abroad were higher taxes , bigger budgets , bigger deficits to be covered by bigger loans ? all this regardless of costs , interest rates , discounts on issue price , ruinously expensive refunding operations or otherwise onerous terms . In Peru 5-percent bonds selling in the eighties were called at a hundred with new money from 6-percent bonds , which really cost the government 7 percent . When , in 1927 , Colombia found it could obtain from American bankers $25,000,000 , it started projects to use up money at this rate ; when it found the next year that it could obtain $35,000,000 , it increased the number of projects . When it discovered , a year later , that it could place no further bond issues abroad , it was forced to abandon scores of jobs , throw thousands of men out of work in the midst of an economic depression and lose a good part of the material and work done on the unfinished projects . Conceivably a yearly program of $10,000,000 for additional public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of years , while certain carefully studied projects were being completed . Or , possibly , one or two projects might have warranted the expenditure of $60,000,000 for completion within the extremely short space of two years . Certainly no one was justified in supposing for a moment that Colombia could go on borrowing at the rate of $35,000,000 a year until the hundred-odd projects begun could be finished . The same planless folly characterized the financing in other countries , notably Peru and Bolivia . The bankers required no adequate program or adherence thereto . They bought bonds to sell while the selling was good . They stopped buying bonds when the selling ceased to be good . They were all highly reputable firms . They acted legally . They are subject to no legal sanction or moral censure in the present state of our law and ethics . They sold goods at the market price without fraud , as fraud is now commonly defined by the law . Competitive merchandising developed a technique of advertising and selling , which , although well within existing laws and ethical standards , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ absurdly high prices . The technique consists in emphasizing the apparent , though often unreal , merits and concealing the defects of the security . The public was educated to judge government bonds by unscientific standards . To expose the innumerable tricks of this trade would fill a large volume . Only a few suggestive indications as to credit factors affecting government bonds may be given in this article . LEARNING THE WORST The following are a few points about which the investor should know the worst : Present unfavorable economic trends . EverY thority has known for the past three years that svOt1.1 production of staples such as wheat , coffee , sugar , 016 ton , copper and tin , on which South America dePen ahea ua for its debt-paying capacity , has been running z of consumption . Everyone has known that stocks ( ) ; these staples have been accumulating and that , initigriA instances , such as Brazilian coffee or Peruvian 11,11 : Chilean copper , prices have been artificially tained . The present status of the currency , ban k.credit ? bot ) ; structure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commercial collections , frozen 103.0 , in the banks and a falling or artificially pegged change ? These conditions were notoriously prevalent in several South American countries two years ago as I observed at that time while traveling through them . True , economics is not as exact a science as mathematics , but neither is it black magic . Unsound conditions are perceptible . Disasters are foreseeable like breakdowns in the human body . The moment of occurrence and course of development can not be accurately predicted , but the trends are always susceptible of objective diagnosis . PROP I-IETEERS AND PROFITEERS The trouble has been that during the late " new era " a security-selling , vested interest in Wall Street has suppressed effective critical analysis and encouraged a ' speculation-crazed public to believe the impossible about the future prospects of every field from which securities could be profitably sold . Washington has aided Wall Street with this " come-on " propaganda . The investors who were " sold ' during this period are now holding the bag of depreciated and still shrinking values because of their faith in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of New York . Emphasizing apparent and unreal elements of strength in a bond issue is the second part of the selling technique . A common representation that is highly misleading states the number of times the revenues cover the service charges of the bonds or , of the public ' debt . The number of times the net revenues of a railway , after operating expenses are Paid , equal its bond charges is a significant figure . But the number of times certain or all revenues of a State cover the charges on one or all of its outstanding bond issues is a ratio of no significance whatever . The reason is that this absurd " coverage " ratio leaves entirely out of account the fact that a government , like a railway , must pay operating costs before it can pay bondholders . The untruthfulness implicit in this general type of representation , ingeniously worded by clever lawyers , is at times especially shocking . The gross receipts of a State often include many items which never reach the treasury as revenues , or which , like custom-house @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only bookkeeping entries . New ork bankers have represented figures including tPLese items as revenues pledged to cover bond charges . If a State-owned enterprise has a gross h revenue of a million and operating costs of nine undred thousand , the only revenue available to l ' ay the bondholder is , of course , one hundred thouvand . If operating costs are a million , then , ob-ari ? uslY , the revenues that interest the bondholders the zero . In each case the New York bankers put , ? e . revenues at a million . ' When they cite as se-gritY for a loan the gross revenues of a State to-monopoly , they disregard the patent fact that ese receipts can never possibly be available to the State , since out of them must first be paid the costs of materials and their manufacture into cigars and cigarettes , as well as the costs of distribution to customers . These artful representations are found in a number of South American bond circulars , notably those of Peru and Colombia . A large Brazilian bond issue was secured @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which has never earned its operating expenses . The State must really pay these bond charges out of taxation , just as it pays the operating deficit of the railway . The State would be better able to pay , bond charges if it did not own and operate that railway . Fiscally speaking , the railway is as little an asset to the State as a public almshouse . A public loan can have only one of two elements of security : the will and capacity of taxpayers to pay , or the proved capacity of a piece of property to earn , over and above operating costs , an amount equal to loan charges . This being true , it follows that the most important data for the bondholder relate to the balancing of the budget . By balancing the budget I do not mean balancing one budget with revenues , while one or more other concurrent budgets are balanced partly or entirely with borrowing or debt . In this genial and habitual way , any one budget can be balanced without a deficit or with any surplus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expenditures may exceed total revenues . Fictitious budget surpluses of this variety have been widely advertised by the bankers . The statement as worded by a clever lawyer is usually true , but it is not the whole truth . When a government borrows through a bond issue , it should at once increase taxation to meet the service charges on the new bonds and , obviously , all the costs of government . It should then spend no more than revenues plus the amount it has thus soundly borrowed . It is assumed , of course , that the necessary tax increase can be borne by the people . The willingness and ability of the people constitute the only rational measure by which to limit further borrowing . Determining the limits of willingness and ability to pay more taxes obviously involves consideration of innumerable controlling factors . USELESS FACTS Irrelevant statements about the natural wealth of the country or the peculiar charms of the loan contract are almost always misleading . Information which does not show that the people will probably be willing and able to pay enough in taxation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in addition , without impairing their standards of living , is irrelevant and immaterial . The number of square miles in Brazil , the quantities of wheat exported from the Argentine , copper from Peru or Chile , petroleum from Colombia or manufactured goods from Germany are data which by themselves are utterly insignificant . These ' data have an important place in a competent economic survey of the country ; hurled at the investor as so many factual statements in a bond circular , they serve mainly to mislead the economically illiterate . WHAT THE INVESTOR WANTS TO KNOW Especially deceptive are manifold varieties of sinking funds and other complicated devices supposed to ensure the gradual paying off of individual bond issues . If the government is borrowing more new money each year through new loans or increases of the floating debt than it is paying off through these mechanisms , they only serve to make business for bankers , augment the costs of financing and mislead the public . There can be no amortization of the public debt except by the amount it is reduced out of a surplus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ care a straw about a sinking-fund provision through which his bond may be paid at some unknowable date , determined by drawings by lot , within twenty-five or fifty years , except as a gambling proposition when he has bought the bond below par . Obviously , the sooner a bond bought at 90 , say , is drawn and paid off at 100 , the bigger the speculative profit . The intelligent investor is concerned over two , and only two , things about his bond : First , the prompt payment in gold of his semiannual interest coupons ; secondly , the possibility of being able to sell his bond in an open and free market for more or less what he paid for it , at any time he may need // the money . Such salability and market price , in normal times , depend almost exclusively on two factors : the current interest rate and the credit standing of the borrowing government at the moment . They do not depend in the least on provisions in the loan contract for the supposed benefit of the bondholder @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ usually without obligatory amortization and with freedom for the government to amortize when and as possible out of a genuine surplus ? such loans have been good loans for a century . Hundreds of bond issues of other governments have gone into default although called loans for public works , or productive , secured , compulsory sinking-fund loans , and although replete with special covenants for the protection of the bondholders . This proves most conclusively that British and American national finances have been soundly conducted and that , so far as creditors are concerned , little else really matters about any nation 's loans or public credit . LAWRENCE DENNIS . In his concluding article , which will appear in next week 's issue , Mr. Dennis will discuss international finance in its relation to our export surplus and prosperity and also as an instrument of national policy . He will conclude the article by suggesting various methods for regulating the traffic in international securities to protect the interests of society and investors. ? THE EDITORS . Will Hays , Himself W ILLIAM HARRISON HAYS , he was christened . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the hero of Tippecanoe and ninth President of the United States , although it is true that the boy often heard it said that he would be President some day . He was named for his grandparents , William Cain and Harrison Hays . He did not become President , in spite of maneuvering for the nomination in 1920 , but he ascended to a post , as " czar " of the motion pictures , which paid him twice as much as the Chief Executive receives ; and his employers insured his life for two million dollars . Hays soon reduced the Harrison in his name to a mere initial ; he even thought there was " something hifalutin and ostentatious about William . " To recall this is a little odd , in connection with his recent serious endeavor to substitute , for the slang " talkie , " the phrase " auricular film , " surely hifalutin and ostentatious . Born of Scotch-Irish parents in the village of Sullivan , Indiana , Hays entered the Presbyterian Church there , won a medal for Sunday-school attendance and in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ten cents per service . HiS father had been a lawyer and an elder ; the son be . came a lawyer and an elder . He was well versed in the Bible , he avoided profanity , he did not smoke or chew tobacco . Despite his admirable habits , be did not take on weight or come by his inches as he might : full grown he was but two inches above five feet , but fifteen pounds above one hundred . It has been said of Emerson that he lived at large in his clothes . We may be sure that Hays did nothing of the sort . He was early distinguished as Sullivan 's nattiest dresser . He was alert , up-and " coming , self-confident , unafraid . His manner Was friendly and candid . Such was the surface Per " sonality behind his exceptional political and business successes . Most of us employ the word personality a little loosely . It has come into its modern usage since ! Hays was born , fifty-one years ago . It is true that Wycliffe , six centuries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he was the first ? in designating the qualities peculiar to human beings as distil from lower categories of the animal vv ? 11 , d , , ( Shakespeare seems not to have known it. ) 