@@486462

In the Driftway TWO aspects of the passing of prohibition interest the Drifter . One is that prohibition had to die to win . Not only did nothing in its life so become it as its death , but its one solid , substantial success came at the moment of its dissolution . In New York City , at least , and the Drifter surmises elsewhere , the only considerable drought in the life of the Noble Experiment occurred as its spirit was passing away on the night air of December 5 and during the obsequies which occupied the next few days . According to general testimony , liquor was never so hard to get in fourteen years as in the interregnum between the folding up of the speakeasies and the time when legal dealers were able to acquire licenses and obtain adequate stocks . It was one of those ironies which keep life from becoming dull because of its expectedness  --  comparable to that awful moment after the armistice of 1918 when our war profiteers went around mumbling one to another , " Peace is hell . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which the Drifter is impressed is the way in which the bootlegger was allowed to pass from the scene unhonored and unsung . Republics are notoriously ungrateful , but never has ours been more indifferent than toward its bootleggers . The men who through the heat and burden of fourteen years assuaged our thirst and revived our cheer were abandoned without a remembrance or a reward . It was reported even that the bootlegger of the State House at Annapolis , Maryland , was told he was through eight hours before prohibition ended . A policeman was sent to him with a curt notice to quit . There were no engrossed resolutions of thanks from thirsty legislators ; no committee waited on him with a gift of a gold-headed cane or a diamond-studded watch ; nobody even gave him the address of the nearest employment office or relief agency . OF course the Drifter realizes that there were some difficulties in the way of publicly honoring the men who did so much to keep the Dry Decade from becoming arid . It is understandable that President Roosevelt could not invite them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . 1VIere numbers would have made such a gesture impracticable even had public policy permitted it . It is possible also that it was not advisable for chambers of commerce in our leading cities to arrange large public dinners as testimonials to their local bootleggers as these worthies retired from office . Some of the leading men of the profession might have preferred not to sit in the glare of the speakeasy speakers ' table . Yet the Drifter feels that Something Should Be Done , even if anonymously , to commemorate the services of a group which did its bit in time of need . He proposes , therefore , a public subscription to erect in Washington a monument as large , expensive , and ugly as any other that shall be dedicated to the memory of the Unknown Bootlegger . THE DRIFTER Correspondence Is This the Voice of the South ? To THE EDITORS OF THE NATION : I wish to address you publicly on a matter which immediately concerns many thousands of peaceable citizens living today under the flag of the United States ; and I do so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ various radical groups , I believe you to be honest and fair-minded enough to wish to hear both sides of a debatable issue . I believe this because last spring , when the British engineers were on trial in Moscow , you urged on their behalf a fair trial . It is because of another trial and its possible consequences among our people , that I wish now to speak . The Scottsboro case , as I now write , seems likely to go against all the defendants . Whether the matter will then be carried into the Supreme Court , I do not know . But I can envisage your comments on the case even before I read them . You will equate the Scottsboro trial with that of Sacco and Vanzetti in Massachusetts as horrid examples of American class legislation , and then proceed to a blanket condemnation of the whole course of Southern justice . It is against this attitude that I , as a Southerner by birth and upbringing , wish to protest . We in the South do not legislate against - the Negro as a class @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ field laborer , his status is the same . Unlike Massachusetts , which did Sacco and Vanzetti to death not because they were guilty ( they were not ) but because they had agitated for better conditions of life among the industrial proletariat , we do no Negro to death because of his political affiliations . But we are determined , whether rightly or wrongly , to treat him as a race largely dependent upon us , and inferior to ours . Unquestionably certain Negro intellectuals , such as James Weldon Johnson , suffer from such discrimination . For them , we have of recent years encouraged the building of great schools and universities . We believe that under our system the great majority of the race are leading happy and contented lives . But our system , we admit , has one defect . If a white woman is prepared to swear that a Negro either raped or attempted to rape her , we see to it that the Negro is executed . It is this feature in our attitude which has moved you , along with other papers published @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to assert over and over again that no justice is ever done to the Negro in the South . I would urge upon you to pause and reconsider this matter ere you pursue that course , which can only lead to a much worse situation . Suppose , for example , that the Supreme Court decided to destroy President Roosevelt 's National Recovery Act by declaring it unconstitutional . You would be the first to protest , in the name of outraged public sentiment . Can not you see that it is precisely the same public sentiment that is dictating the present policy of the South toward the Negro , and that if you , from the vantage-ground of the North , attempt violently to alter the public sentiment of the South , you will only stiffen Southern resistance ? Into the merits or demerits of the Scottsboro case , I have no desire to enter . Whether the defendants have been given , or could have been given , a fair trial under the circumstances I do not know . But the conduct of Mr. Leibowitz , the attorney brought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it seems to me , now definitely turned the scales of justice against the defendants . They will , it appears now , be convicted and executed . You are entitled to say , if you like , that this seems to you an act of injustice . But justice is in itself an abstract matter , and as every great lawyer knows , has always to yield to the morals , the usages , the customs and conveniences of a living and functioning community . That the South is such a community was proved this very summer . With the Scottsboro case still in doubt , the people of Tuscaloosa County turned out and lynched four other Negroes . Three of them were quite probably innocent , and in the case of the fourth there is considerable doubt . But the fact of the matter is that Mr. Leibowitz 's conduct , as well as the taunts of the metropolitan press , have unstrung that section of the South which adjoins Scottsboro . We will not saffer further dictation from the North as to what we are to do about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the ruins of Civil War and of Reconstruction is again at stake . Rather than permit our own peculiar conceptions of justice to be questioned , we will take the law into our own hands , by a resort to violence . If , therefore , you sincerely wish good to every citizen of America , black or white , I beg of you , before you and other Northern editors proceed to condemn the South en masse , to pause and reflect on our situation . By ranking the South alongside of Massachusetts , and still more , alongside of California , you are yourself supplying the ferment of irritation which has gone on now to a point where the patience of the South is rapidly breaking down . More ; you are tacitly encouraging the official Communist propaganda which , as everyone knows , has gone on down here ever since the Russian Revolution . That propaganda counsels a new civil war between the white and the blacks . You are forgetting that the experience of post-war Chicago and other Northern places has shown that the people of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ see the Negro in large numbers , to adopt an even more hostile attitude than that of the people of the South . Further , you are demonstrating that you are unwilling or unable to see that the Negro is peculiarly not your , but our , problem : We in the South alone can find the solution to that problem . We will never accept any solution that comes to us from the North . Rather than that , we will again take up arms in our cause . Therefore I ask you to pause and reflect before you proceed to fresh moral denunciation of Scottsboro . I believe that the Scottsboro defendants will now be executed . I believe that this decision , fair or unfair , has been forced on the people of Alabama by the way in which the defense in this case has been conducted . I believe that further trouble is to be expected down here between the blacks and the whites , unless the Northern States rapidly show more disposition to listen to the South 's case , and to cease their interferences and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I am speaking on behalf not only of Alabama but of the overwhelming majority of the Southern people today . Little Rock , " Irk. , December 5 JOHN GOULD FLETCHER The Editors of The Nation print Mr. Fletcher 's letter under the above caption because they honestly would like to know how large a section of the South he represents . They are inclined ' to believe that these opinions are the opinions of a South that is happily changing . They believe no less than they hope that a new South with a more recognizable kind of justice for the Negro is arising . If this is not true , they are willing to admit error but not to change their own convictions . Taking Mr. Fletcher 's letter seriatim , they wish to say first that they take the most rigorous exception to the conduct of the Scottsboro case in Alabama , not because they are primarily interested in class justice or injustice , but because it is an example of egregious particular injustice . They believe that the nine Negro youths accused of the rape of Victoria @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they were guilty , they did not have a fair trial . And they believe that these Negroes should not be sent to the electric chair for a crime they did not commit . They find unendurable the Southern position , as stated by Mr. Fletcher , that the Negro must be treated " as a race largely dependent upon us , and inferior to ours . " From considerable knowledge of the economic , political , and social status of the Negro both in the North and in the South , they do not agree that " the great majority of the race are leading happy and contented lives . " And they would say that Mr. Fletcher 's description of one aspect of the Southern " system ' as a " defect " is almost laughable understatement . They refer to the sentence : " If a white woman is prepared to swear that a Negro either raped or attempted to rape her , we see to it that the Negro is executed . " Since Mr. Fletcher does not indicate that anything beyond an allegation is necessary , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shockingly irresponsible but downright unlawful . The Editors of The Nation would not be ready to assert that " no justice is ever done to the Negro in the South . " This brings them to Mr. Fletcher 's contention that it is not only idle but dangerous for the North to attempt to change the attitude of the South with respect to the Negro . They assert that Southern opinion and the Southern attitude on this question in the last twenty-five years have changed very much , and a good portion of this change is due to the pressure of indignation and moral censure brought upon the South by other parts of the country . The decline in the number of lynchings , they believe , is largely attributable to this cause . And the marked increase , in the Southern States themselves , of the same sort of indignation and censure is a direct reflection of opinion in the country at large . The better element in the South , the educated , intelligent , law-abiding majority , the press , the church , State officers , even Southern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ justice for the Negro . Mr. Fletcher is hereby referred to a number of statements made by groups of Southern women in several States , for example , the Georgia Association of Women for the Prevention of Lynching , a group of leading women in North Carolina , and a protest meeting which took place in November , 1930 , under the auspices of the Committee on International Cooperation , at which women from eight Southern States were present . At this meeting a resolution was adopted which expressed the feeling of all these bodies . It said in part : " We are profoundly convinced that lynching is not a defense of womanhood or of anything else , but rather a menace to private and public safety and a blow to our most sacred institutions . Instead of deterring irresponsible and criminal classes from further crime , as is argued , lynching tends inevitably to destroy all respect for law and order . It represents the complete breakdown of government and the triumph of anarchy . " Mr. Fletcher states that he has no desire to " enter into the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " whether the defendants have been given , or could have been given , a fair trial under the circumstances , " he does not know . This is so astonishing a statement , when Mr. Fletcher is reproaching The Nation for its attitude on the case , that the Editors find themselves unable to answer it . They can only reply by stating that they have such a desire . Finally , Mr. Fletcher adduces the example of the recent lynchings in Tuscaloosa , Alabama , to show what happens in the South when attempts are made by people of the North to interfere in what the South considers its own business . Let us say first that lynchings occurred in the South many , many years before the International Labor Defense first injected itself into the South 's affairs . And with particular reference to the Tuscaloosa matter , an attempt was made forcibly to remove the Negroes from the jail in which they were being held a month before the appearance . of the International Labor Defense in the case , and Circuit Judge Henry B. Foster charged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this first would-be lynching mob . The Nation believes , with the Southern Commission on the Study of Lynching , which has just reported on the Tuscaloosa cases , that " the Negroes were lynched when it became apparent that the courts . . . might not impose the immediate death sentences which the community demanded . . . . With the Negroes out of the way , the entire blame for the whole situation was heaped upon the ' outsiders , ' a convenient scapegoat . The I. L. D. complicated rather than created the racial situation which culminated in the lynchings . " The Editors do not expect to convince Mr. Fletcher by any of these arguments . But they have gone into the subject at this length for two reasons . First because Mr. Fletcher is himself one of the intelligent , educated Southerners who might be expected to express himself differently , the more because he has lived for many years in a country where the " Negro problem " does not arise . And second because they wish to make clear to Mr. Fletcher and all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of view in this matter and to assure him that even if responsible Southerners were not coming more and more to agree with The Nation 's attitude on Southern injustice to the Negro , The Nation would still champion this position with as much strength and eloquence as it could command . The Editors find themselves opposed to injustice not only in the case of two Italian anarchists whom they believe innocent of the crime for which they died , but in the case of the members of a race who for more than a century were enslaved , and who have , since they were granted their freedom , had small opportunity to escape from an equivalent slavery . Justice to Germany ? From time to time The Nation receives letters similar to those of which excerpts are printed below . It will be seen that some of them are good-tempered and some call names . Some indicate an honest effort to find out the truth , some are biased in advance . The Nation does not believe it has done any serious injustice to the Nazi regime : the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ positions of intellectual importance , neither of which are denied by the German National Socialist Government , would be indications enough , if other evidence were wanting , of a wholly intemperate and unjustified attitude toward another race . Nevertheless , it is perhaps only fair to our readers to make it clear that other opinions are held by some of them. ? Emzoas THE NATION . To THE EDITORS OF THE NATION : I write as an Englishman who also spent last summer traveling in Germany , having entered the country without any prejudices for or against Hitlerism . I personally found nothing against which I could complain , in the form of Jewish persecution . I was free to do as I liked in Heidelberg . Nor was I affected by the " militarism " of the Reich , as long as I tried to consider myself a German living in Germany . If I remembered that my home was in a country bearing many resemblances to America , my nerves objected strongly to parades and flag-waving . But if the German is happy with his marches and his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Germans , crushed by the inflation , can not afford a war , and every indi --  vidual I met was definitely anti-war . The expulsion of the Jews has itself temporarily crippled German finance . That there were atrocities in Germany is undoubted , but what is not certain is the balance achieved by current reports and  --  more important  --  the impingement of those reports on contemporary human feeling . German individuals can not give credence to the stories of the physical persecution because they individually are incapable of committing such actions . Then why insult these single persons  --  in insulting a nation you insult all its units  --  when they are personally not concerned , especially at a time when the country has been passing through a revolution ? Without in any way doubting the accuracy of various reports , which have appeared in your pages , I wish to emphasize that it might be a big temptation to a suffering race , which knows it is morally supported by the rest of the world , to enlarge upon its troubles at such a time . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an endeavor to find a little sanity . In a world in which national boundaries , for right or wrong , are recognized and established , what passes socially and politically within the limits of another country is nobody else 's concern . If people wish to help Jews who have left Germany , if they wish to damage German commerce , that is their own affair . , Germany may thereby learn her lesson and emerge from her revolutionary period rather more rapidly than she would otherwise . In the meantime there is no point in irritating her by mixing in matters which the outside world has no right to try to control . Oxford , England , October 28 ROBERT W. GREEN To THE EDITORS OF THE . NATION : From one point of view I must take issue with The Nation  --  that is , in regard to its presentation of Nazi-ism in Germany . I am not quarreling with the side it takes , but if it is prompted by a sense of fair play and justice to all , should it not present information about the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ least unbiased ? Its insinuations that the new leaders are men without conscience  --  in short , cruel , inhumane , selfish , and even immoral , lacking one redeeming characteristic ? I resent . I resent , them because I have many friends in Germany whose judgment I respect and rely upon as conservative and mature . If they are infinitely happier and more optimistic than they have been since pre-war days , can we say to them without absurdity , " We are not going to have any further dealings with you , because we do not believe the government you have is good for you " ? The Nation has admitted in its columns that Hitler 's control is complete , that his authority is unquestioned . The majority of the German people are sufficiently rational beings to determine for themselves the kind of government and administrators they desire and to throw off the yoke if they are dissatisfied . Let them alone be the judges of their own destiny ! Swarthmore , Pa. , November 16 DAVID LUKENS PRICE To THE EDITORS OF THE NATION : The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ - 000 people at the hands of a German political regime . I ask for an organ that will portray the wrongs done to 60,000,000 people by the entire world , a people on whom the present regime has been forced by the sheer desperateness of their economic and political situation , and who identify themselves with this regime only so far as it represents a Vaterland to them . The majority of them have no more responsibility for the political atrocities of the present regime than I have for President Roosevelt 's signing of the navy bill last summer , but I was made to feel that , as an American citizen , I was partially responsible for it , . and I shouldered the partial blame for this American atrocity with a deep sense of the injustice of identifying the human , cultural aspects of our living , that transcend all boundaries of nationalism and form such a major part of our lives , with the superficial , political expedients that are so easily misunderstood and so false as an expression of my own will in the matter . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the " forgotten man " of modern Germany , a man who needs our sympathies rather than our boycotts , a man who is not at all sure about his support of all the policies of this new regime , a man who is not to be bullied by the indiscriminate attacks of disgruntled correspondents against Germany , against his Vaterland , which means home and honor and sacrifice to him . Actually our hue and cry about " Teuton fury , " if I may quote a phi ase from your editorial column , has all come from a belief in Germany , a conviction that she deserves something better than the demagogy that has her by the throat . Our early protests against the ascendance of a regime have become transformed by repeated attacks and hazy distinctions into calumniations of a whole people , and we are witnessing again that phenomenon of hysteria and selective emphasis of facts by the press which breeds all the distrust that the last great world catastrophe should have entombed with its sorrows . Cambridge , Mass. , October 31 HILLis KAISER To @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Nation is so violently anti-Hitler only because of the large number of its Jewish readers . I do not recall The Nation being quite so hostile to Mussolini , and certainly you have had nothing but praise for the Soviets . As far as the Jews are concerned , it seems to me that they are only interested if the race that is wronged is their own . There was no talk of an Italian boycott when Mussolini eradicated all opposition and persecuted the minorities . There is no united Jewish voice raised to better the conditions of the Negroes in our South , who are treated no better than it is claimed the Jews are treated under Hitler . The present regime in Germany is but the outcome of the Versailles treaty and the post-war efforts of France to humiliate and subjugate Germany . Hitlerism is the voice of the German people rising as a protest against the injustice done to their Fatherland . If in this burst of nationalism wrongs are committed , can any nation come with unsoiled hands to accuse them ? Countries like England may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in their colonies ? I hope that the near future will bring about a moderation of much of the uncalled-for criticism and allow Germany a chance to work out her salvation as Italy was allowed to work out hers . Baldwin , N. Y. , October 11 ARTHUR G. WEDEKIND To THE EDITORS OF THE NATION : From time to time I have read letters published by you containing harrowing details of experiences of Jews in Germany under the Hitler regime . A recent trip to the land of the Nazis , with an investigation of conditions while there , confirms my previously conceived idea that the several letters published by you were decidedly overdrawn , or at least not sufficiently illustrative of conditions generally obtaining to warrant their acceptance without reservations . My personal observations and experiences for a month ending August 24 , 1933 , during which time I traveled through northern Germany , visiting Hanover , Hildesheim , Braunschweig , Kassel , and Bremen , lead me to assert that your correspondents have grossly exaggerated the facts . Jewish stores , which I entered and observed from time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ visible signs of discrimination . That the recent boycott and the anti-Jewish tactics of the government have adversely affected Jewish business is without question a fact . Furthermore , a somewhat submerged but nevertheless effective anti-Jewishpropaganda now prevalent is no doubt continuing to undermine the position of the Jew both in commercial and professional pursuits . It is most certainly deserving of mention , however , that many Germans deplore the boycott and the anti-Jewish crusade as an unnecessary and unwarranted method of correcting abuses of a commercial and public nature . The influence of this element , I feel , is already beginning- to temper the character of anti-Jewish activity . Indianapolis , September 19 HERMAN W. KOTHE To THE EDITORS OF THE NATION : I wish to call the attention of The Nation and its readers to the following fact : there is a propaganda campaign going on in this country which is poisoning the public 's mind against Germany . There are a few significant angles to this campaign which are not noted in our newspapers or periodicals ( even in The Nation ) . They are : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Germans as " barbarians , " et cetera , now and before the World War . 2 . There is not a line printed in defense of the German government and its tactics , although the government is overwhelmingly supported by one of the most intelligent races on earth and is rapidly gaining friends in other countries . 3 . We are told of strict censorship in Germany , yet have no lack of " authentic " terrorist stories . 4 . Some of the things credited to Hitler are practically impossible and &ten; absurd . For instance , in his public proclamation opening the Nazi party congress he is quoted as saying , " We have hypnotized the masses into the fanatical belief that they are the savior of the Fatherland . " 5 . In the next war Germany will probably fight with Japan , hence against the United States . 6 . Although it is extremely hard to believe that the anti-German campaign may be a hoax in large part , we must recall that during the World War even the most cautious were fooled by an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I am as set as anyone against racial intolerance and other crimes attributed to Hitler . or do I profess to know anything to disprove the charges made against the Nazi government . But I do not like the idea of a quickly created , almost unanimous public sentiment , based on emotion , directed against another nation . Santa Monica , Cal. , September 30 BERNARD WEISSMAN                     