@@255702

The Masque of Kings ( by Maxwell Anderson ; Theatre Guild , producer ) . Crown Prince Rudolph of Austria-Hungary , a rakish young man with liberal tendencies , was found dead in the hunting lodge at Mayerling on Jan. 30 , 1889 . With him , also dead , lay the Baroness Mary Vetsera . He was 31 , she 18 . The scandal shook the Austro-Hungarian Empire to its foundations . And although Emperor Franz Joseph hushed up every detail of the tragedy so thoroughly that the motivation for the deaths remains mysterious to this day , the Mayerling affair has been pawed at by sensation mongers for two generations . In The Masque of Kings the dead prince and his mistress have for the first time fallen into literary hands capable of giving their story nobler treatment . <P> Playwright Anderson , who took the historical liberty of sending a girl friend to Washington at Valley Forge , has his own dramatic explanation of Rudolph 's and Mary 's deaths . He thinks that Franz Joseph infuriated Rudolph by ordering his separation from Mary when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He guesses that Rudolph was approached by Hungarian separatists at this critical time and accepted a proposal that he split off Vienna from Budapest and rule at least one half of the Kingdom decently . When his revolt starts and the guns begin to crack , however , Rudolph realizes that all governments are alike , that rulers must kill to rule and that every state is run by an inner ring for profit . On top of this sudden conversion to political atheism , Rudolph loses faith in Mary and there is nothing left but despair . When the sun comes up there are two corpses in Mayerling , some 35 elsewhere in Vienna and adequate official explanations for everything . <P> To Oldster Pauline Frederick as Empress Elizabeth and Oldster Dudley Digges as Franz Joseph went full critical praise and a welcome back to the stage from the films . Henry Hull and Margo , the lovers at Mayerling , split honors with Playwright Anderson for an historical episode bursting with strength and bravery , so true that it should have happened even if it did not . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Franz Lehar ; Shuberts , producers ) . " Mr. J. J. Shubert , during his recent tour abroad , had observed the tradition of paying homage to the Waltz King by visiting Lehar at his home in Vienna . He had witnessed performances of five of his recent works in as many different capitals . The rare musical gift Frederika is merely the forerunner of a cycle . " So reads a program note in this collaboration between Composer Lehar and the Producers Shubert , which was received by Manhattan first-nighters with self-control bordering on ennui . <P> Franz Lehar is not only a Hungarian ; he is a Rotarian . The best of this gifted sexagenarian 's melodies-lyrically proclaim his Magyar background . The Lehar melodic line at its best is marvelously cunning , fresh , deceptive . It climbs like a lark to clear heights , then swoops down and off in a breathtaking , unexpected course .                     