@@486534

THE United States was one of the last of the great Powers to stamp out the institution of slavery . C And it is natural that most Americans should believe - that slavery came to an end for all time and for all peoples with Lincoln 's famous Emancipation Proclamation of 1863 . Recent revelations in various parts of the world show , however , that slavery still exists , either in direct or indirect form , in many countries . It is estimated that there are at least 3,000,000 slaves in the world today . Several years ago a commission of the League of Nations reported that slave-trading or similar acts was carried on in nineteen political areas , such as Abyssinia , Algeria , China , Egypt , Eritrea , the Sahara , and the Sudan . It declared that the slave trade was practiced openly in several Mohammedan states in Asia and in particular in the Arabian Peninsula . The Hashimite government receives dues or taxes upon slaves sold in the Market ; and Negroes from the African continent are imported and sold as slaves in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ young girls from the Orient who originally came to the kingdom upon a pilgrimage to Mecca . In 1924 one of the native . kings of India , His Highness the Maharajah of Nepal , made a speech stating that there were nearly 52,000 slaves and 16,000 slave owners in his kingdom . He declared that a traffic was in existence which broke up families and caused suffering . In this speech he announced his intention of abolishing the institution outright . He kept his word . Until recently , at least , slavery was one of the most important institutions in the feudal kingdom of Abyssinia , one of the few " independent " spots in Africa . Here the slave trade and slave raiding have also flourished . A newspaper quotes one visitor to Abyssinia as having seen a " convoy of 10,000 slaves marching toward the great slave market of Jimma ; and in the course of a single day 's march along the trail he counted the dead and dying bodies of more than fifty captives who had dropped by the roadside . " As a result @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Abyssinia has taken steps to remedy the situation . In 1923 and 1924 he passed edicts forbidding the trade in slaves and declaring that slaves could obtain their freedom seven years after the death of their master . But the institution has been so long established among various tribes in the country that the task of suppressing both slavery and the slave traffic is about is difficult as the enforcement of the Eighteenth Amendment in the United States . That the slave traffic still exists in hideous form in many parts of the Near East has recently been demonstrated in a series of twenty articles in the Paris Matin . Slavery also exists in the western parts of China , and according to a statement of the Archbishop of Canterbury in the House of Lords , it is even possible to buy slaves in the cities of eastern China . His statement is supported by a report of a child-labor commission appointed by the Executive Council of the Foreign Settlements of Shanghai , which states that young girls in Shanghai are bought and sold for employment as domestic servants , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from South America news occasionally trickles out to the effect that slave raiding is common among certain tribes . In 1912 an international sensation was caused by the revelation of conditions of slavery upon Putumayo rubber plantations in Peru belonging to certain foreign interests . And only a few years ago a statement was made at a conference at Montevideo that certain tribes living in the remote parts of ' Ecuador , Peru , and Bolivia still carry on the slave trade , " killing the protectors of families and then carrying the women off to sell to white people who own large plantations in these interior regions . This slave trade is encouraged by the whites , who offer large rewards . " For the most part , slavery in outright form exists only in these border regions of the world , so far removed from the centers of Western civilization that it is difficult if not impossible to obtain full particulars in regard to the institution . There are , however , a number of practices , hovering between complete freedom of contract and abject slavery , which constitute @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ practices are peonage and compulsory , or indentured , labor . Under the system of peonage which exists in countries in Latin America and elsewhere , the debtor agrees to work for the creditor until his labor is considered equivalent to the debt which he owes . It often happens that the creditor schemes to increase the indebtedness of the debtor so that the latter remains bound for an indefinite period . It is charged that despite legislation to the contrary peonage still exists in the Philippines . Contract labor is even more common than peonige . Although the importation of contract labor is forbidden in the United States , the system is common throughout Africa and other parts of the world where European industrial enterprise is carried on upon a large scale and where the labor supply is recruited from primitive peoples . Thus the estates of Malaysia rely to a large degree upon imported or contract labor . The sugar plantations of Cuba and of Santo Domingo are worked , as far as manual laborers are concerned , largely by black men , imported from Haiti and Jamaica . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Chinese coolies in the Dutch East Indies and in Singapore . On inaccessible parts of the island of Sumatra will be found a large number of panglongs , or small wood-cutting establishments which make planks , firewood , or charcoal . The owners of these establishments have secured their labor among Chinese at Singapore , and according to reports these laborers have lived in a " veritable reign of terror . " Working conditions on these panglongs have been bad ; in some cases the working day has been as long as fourteen or sixteen hours . The panglong owners have recruited their workers from houses of ill fame in Singapore , known as kedehnasi , where Chinese out of work are boarded and lodged . These coolies have paid for their board when they found work , " that is , when they are sold to an employer . The employers , in fact , considered that they bought their workers . . . and the coolie lodging-house keepers were known as man-dealers . " These " man-dealers " received a sum from the employer , and sometimes an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to pay the " man-dealer " for supplying the coolie with board and lodging . The coolie was then sent off to the panglong heavily in debt . And to keep him in debt ' the panglong owner would force him to buy clothing , mosquito net , and other articles at high prices . The- Dutch government has endeavored to bring an end to these conditions and an improvement has already been made . The system of indentured labor is probably as effectively organized in Africa as in any other continent . The gold mines of Johannesburg , the diamond mines of Kimberley , the copper mines of the Belgian Congo , various types of European plantations throughout the continent as a whole  --  including Mr. Firestone 's rubber plantations in Liberia  --  all require a larger labor supply than can be secured in the immediate vicinity . The Chamber of Mines of South Africa maintains two recruiting organizations  --  the Witwatersrand Native Labor Association , which recruits labor in Portuguese East Africa with the consent of the Portuguese government , and the Native Recruiting Corporation , which recruits labor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the mines of the Belgian Congo is recruited by a number of labor bureaus , or bourses de travail . An English concern , Robert Williams and Company , assists in providing laborers for the copper mines at Elizabethville . These laborers it recruits , with the permission of the British government , from Northern Rhodesia . The government of Liberia maintains a labor bureau . Various efforts to establish ' bureaus in other parts of Africa have also been made . I have personally investigated on the spot the workings of four of these vast recruiting agencies , and it may be of interest to describe the process whereby native labor is actually secured . I shall take as the first illustration the Native Recruiting Corporation of South Africa . This corporation , which is owned by the Chamber of Mines , is responsible for keeping the Johannesburg mines stocked with a given supply of labor . The corporation has divided part of the Union of South Africa into districts , each in charge of a European labor agent . Usually this agent is also a trader who keeps a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ object of the agent to induce natives to sign a contract to leave their homes and work in the Johannesburg mines . The natives who are the object of his solicitations are not " civilized . " Most of them are illiterate and speak only a native language . They are garbed in the most elemental clothing , usually a blanket . They live a polygamous existence in native kraals or huts , and their chief property is cattle and wives . The native population is wholly different from the working classes of the East Side of New York or of Passaic , New Jersey . It is a population accustomed to a pastoral and patriarchal existence . Left to themselves the natives of Africa would not leave their homes , where their wants are simple and easily supplied , to journey several hundred miles to work in an underground mine at arduous and strange labor for ten hours a day . Therefore if the mines of South Africa are to be operated at full capacity the managers must use strenuous efforts to induce natives to become wage-earners . They do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon the indenture system . The Native Recruiting Corporation pays the labor agent $10 for each " boy " recruited . The labor agent is usually assisted by a native " runner " who receives a small fee for each recruit . The labor agent attempts to induce " boys " to sign contracts usually running for a term of six months . Having signed such a contract a native comes before a government official who questions him to determine whether he really understands the nature of the contract . Each " boy " is then given a medical examination , and if he passes it , he is given rations and blankets and herded on to a labor train bound for Johannesburg . In practically every case these " boys " leave their families behind . At Johannesburg the natives are debarked at a labor depot , where they are thoroughly fumigated and examined . Their fingerprints are taken and they then are marched off to the mine that has sent in a labor requisition . Once at the mines , the " boys " spend their idle time in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are frequently allowed to go into the city they must always carry a pass , and it is a criminal offense to desert . If they attempt to escape they can usually be tracked down by means of fingerprint identification , by the pass system , and by an efficient police system . The cost of this system of recruiting , which sometimes runs as high as $40 a man , is prorated among the employers . In theory each native is at liberty to sign a contract for the mines or to remain at home . Nevertheless , despite legislation to the contrary , the charge is frequently made that labor agents bring various means of pressure upon the natives to induce them to sign up . Agents may make loans of money to natives ; when the native finds it impossible to pay back the loan he is virtually forced to sign a labor contract . Moreover , the various European governments have imposed upon the native population taxes which as a rule can be paid only in cash . Although some natives are able to grow and sell @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ natives in many African territories can obtain money to pay their taxes only by entering European employment . In South Africa the dependence of the native upon European industry is intensified because the European has monopolized 90 per cent of the land . A somewhat similar labor system has prevailed in the Belgian Congo . In the Katanga provinces are found some of the richest copper mines of the world  --  mines owned by the famous Union Miniere . These mines rely for man power upon labor bureaus modeled after those in South Africa . Fifty recruiters from the bourse de travail of Katanga scour vast areas of the Congo looking for workers . The natives of the Congo are more primitive than the natives of South Africa , and to entice them into employment the labor recruiter hands out to them such articles as a jersey sweater or shorts . There is no legislation in the Belgian Congo which obliges a native to work for a private employer . But until recently at least the government has been so anxious to aid private employers that it has instructed government administrators @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , to give assistance to the recruiters from the bourse de travail . Government officials have frequently gone into villages with these recruiters and asked the local chief to turn over a certain number of men . The word of the chief is law as far as a native is concerned , and as the position and advancement of the chief depend upon the grace of the administrator , the chief invariably provides the men . It is fiction to say that they go " voluntarily . " According to recent reports , this system of government intervention in recruiting still exists in the Portuguese colonies ; while the export of labor from Angola to the islands of Saint Thomas and Principe has been resumed. * Although European enterprises in many parts of Africa and other undeveloped areas have thus felt obliged to rely upon indentured labor , many employers have come to look upon the system with disfavor . The expense of recruited and indentured labor is much greater than the expense of wholly voluntary labor . Indentured labor , held at work by the fear of imprisonment , is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ native has been tricked into employment . Finally , the mortality among recruited and indentured labor has been high . Enlightened employers in the backward regions now take every precaution to feed and house their natives properly . But when these natives are snatched out of primitive conditions and suddenly transplanted , often against their will and without their families , into an artificial European industrial center , they succumb easily- to disease . Despite every precaution of the employer , they become susceptible to epidemics and especially to tuberculosis . Although the normal death-rate in a European community is 15 per 1,000 or less , the native death-rate in many industrial centers in Africa is often 80 to 200 per 1,000 . The death-rate has been even higher in railway construction camps . When the native becomes gradually adjusted to industrial employment , the rate declines . Thus in the South African mines the death-rate is only about 9 per 1,000 ? a remarkably low figure . Enlightened employers and governments now state that some restrictions upon excessive labor recruiting must be imposed if the native population is not to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be economically developed to its fullest capacity . The government of the Belgian Congo has put this belief into effect by issuing orders that not more than 10 per cent of the adult men of a village should be taken away at a time to European labor centers . A year or so ago the Hilton Young Commission reported in regard to British East Africa that the number of natives leaving their homes should be limited " so that the number of adult males absent at any time is not so great as to endanger the proper development of native social life and political institutions . " A number of governments in Africa have deliberately discouraged the development of large-scale European plantations in favor of a native-farm system . Under the latter system the native works his own land and lives with his own family . He produces food for his family and crops for export purposes . Under the native-farm system the Gold Coast has become one of the richest producers of cocoa in the world , while Uganda has become an important cotton center . For humanitarian and farsighted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the question of slavery and forced labor . In September , 1926 , the League drew up a slavery convention which provides for the suppression of the slave trade and for the complete abolition of slavery " as soon as possible . " The convention recognizes that forced labor may have grave consequences and therefore provides that forced labor for private purposes should be ended " as soon as possible . " The United States has now ratified this convention . Despite the vagueness of the League convention several governments in the border regions have taken steps under League stimulus to put an end to slavery . During the past few years the International Labor Organization , which is an international body of governments , employers , and employees , has undertaken to study the whole question of forced labor in much more detail than was possible for the League . For this purpose it appointed a committee of experts , which included Professor Chamberlain of Columbia University . In 1929 this committee published a report which shows in what countries of the world forced labor still exists ; and it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ immediately come to an end . In June , 1929 , the whole question of native labor was placed on the agenda of the annual International Labor Conference at Geneva . This body discussed a detailed questionnaire and decided that the question of forced labor should be placed on the agenda of the next conference . This conference was held in June , 1930 , at Geneva . As a result of its efforts a convention was drawn up and signed which provides for the suppression of forced labor within the shortest possible period . Forced labor may , however , . be used during a transitional period for public purposes and as an exceptional measure . Five years after the coming into force of this convention the governing body of the International Labor Office will consider the possibility of the suppression of forced labor in all its forms immediately . Forced labor for the benefit of private employers must , according to this convention , come to an end at once . The discussion of the question of forced labor at the meetings of the International Labor Organization has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ while it issued a decree this August concerning forced labor , has declined to ratify the convention . The hostility of certain groups and certain nations toward this international effort to abolish compulsion shows that much ground must yet be covered before the goal of human liberty is reached .                     