@@468771

WHEN Mr. Herbert Hoover looks at the nation he sees not one hundred million individuals , but twenty-three million families . The unit of American life is the family and the home . It is the economic unit as well as the moral and spiritual unit . But it is more than this . It is the beginning of self-government . It is the throne of our highest ideals . It is the source of the spiritual energy of our people . For the perfecting of this unit . . we must lend every energy of the government . In justice to our President it should be mentioned that this encomium was uttered in one of the speeches of his presidential campaign and , as such , may he taken as an expression of American idealism rather than as a statement of sober , present facts . Like most current pronouncements upon home life , it seems to embody a confusion of two different ideas . There is , on the one hand , the family as a group of individual human beings who respond to one another @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no ties other than those of mutual affection . The acts of each member are determined not by any considerations of custom or propriety , but by his personal feeling toward the other members and by their specific behavior toward him . This may be called the natural , or biological family . Under this conception each familial group is different in character from every other . Upon the other hand , the family may be thought of as a unit of social organization , stable and uniform throughout society , and consisting of a set of relationships amongparents and children . The behavior of the members toward one another , in this view , is governed not by the give and take of personalities , but by what is conventionally expected of individuals in their domestic roles . This is the institutional , or sociological conception . Mr. Hoover was probably thinking of the family in the biological sense , as a natural group of personalities under the leadership of intelligent and kindly parents ; but his manner of speaking confused these two notions , assuming that the fruits of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . While the formal or institutional aspect of family life has remained unaltered for many generations , its biological character has , in recent decades . changed almost beyond recognition . In the old days life was centered in and about the home ; to-day it has moved to the factory , the store , and the office . We have come to think not in terms of families but of organized masses of people who sustain the life of the " great society " in which their individualities are submerged . In the days when the individual lived mainly in the family and local community his life came into contact at every point with the same group of personalities . Now he spends his time in many places and among a bewildering variety of groups . As a friend of mine who resides in New York City once put it , life is fatiguing because " one is torn between too many different patterns . " Formerly husbands and wives were not merely sex mates , but partners in many other interests as well . The manifold task of caring @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of many topics . To-day social and civic agencies , in taking over most of these parental responsibilities , have deprived the parents of an important bond of mutual understanding . In the " higher life " of the family there is now little opportunity for the sharing of experience between husband and wife . Professional groups , lecture courses , literary and religious societies , Chambers of Commerce , civic organizations , and clubs have absorbed their time and energies . Modern husbands have also lost the opportunity to know and value their wives as personalities in the simpler daily affairs of the household . In the field of hospitality married partners of yesterday had another sphere in which they could appreciate one another 's true resources . But neighborly calls are today almost obsolete , while the gathering of guests within the home is being replaced by the practice of entertaining at hotels , theaters , and other places of amusement . In every sphere of participation between husband and wife , life is becoming more intellectually and spiritually barren . Sympathies which might have been deep and fruitful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ finds satisfied through the other are those of financial income and of sex . The influences which are estranging wives and husbands are also producing a gulf between successive generations . Parents and children can not know one another as intimately as in former days . My early memory of my father , who was a country doctor , is particularly vivid , because it was my privilege to share his companionship in so many aspects of life . I recall sitting beside him as he drove at breakneck speed to save a child who had partaken of fly poison or of paris green . I can remember him stopping his horse to explain to friends and relatives the details of some patient 's condition . Because his office formed a part of our own home , I saw many tangled humanmiseries ; but I saw them as they were unravelled beneath his skilled and comforting touch . I still picture him standing half-dressed before the kitchen stove , preparing breakfast in order to spare my mother . And there were the numerous vagabonds to whom he gave shelter and employment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lives . On a Saturday he loved to put us all to work in the cellar and work with us , producing order and even beauty out of chaos . Within the quiet of the family pew I would imbibe , without the need of words , his feeling towards the unseen mysteries of life . These are but a few of the many phases of my father 's character which I came to know , to admire , and perhaps to emulate . For our family was still a portion of the old community pattern ; our lives were lived as the full expression of one personality toward another . In the intellectual sphere as well as the practical , opportunities for children to become acquainted with their fathers and . mothers are nowadays transitory . It is no longer encumbent upon the elders to point out the wonders of nature when this is done more effectively through scouting organizations and the child 's encyclopedia . Why , we think , should a parent with only a faltering musical education sit laboriously at the piano when a flood of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by turning on the player-piano , the victrola , or the radio ? Art and science , like other pursuits , have become organized by distant corporations and are delivered to us through machinery . But we have sacrificed the opportunity of responding to the artist directly as a fellow-being or of knowing him as a human personality . Hence , while the child passively receives all the sensations of beauty , he must inevitably lose the spirit of its quest , The average city youth to-day must indeed find life trying . Every organization with which he associates has its own peculiar standards . In each situation , such as athletic and recreational activities , economic employment , school work , Sunday-school , and the movies he must make adjustments which frequently work at cross-purposes with the ideals of his other groups . There is no one to help him to organize these conflicting elements into a single workable pattern for his own life . In such confusion there is little wonder that he becomes listless , that he tends to grow up with no definite point of view at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ drifts into some form of egoistic and precocious dissipation . If , through our segmentalized manner of living , the child is deprived of the steadying influence of the parent , it is no less certain that the parent is losing the child . Should I wish really to know my boy or girl ( and this will be increasingly true as they grow older ) , I must go out into the community to gain my know-edge . I must study my child 's school record . I must learn about his physical condition from the clinic . I must go to the playground supervisor or to the Y. M. C. A. in order to discover his athletic and social adjustments . His employer , should he have one , must be interviewed . And finally , I must see how he is getting on at the Churchschool and in his art or his music class . When all these reports have been collected and , granting that the information is accurate , I now have before me only the fragments of my child . What he is , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , I have had no way of knowing . He has ceased to be , for me , an intimately experienced personality , but has become a ease study . I am no longer a parent , but a social worker . Nor can his teachers and supervisors help me , for each of them knows the child from one particular angle only . Since I have lost that center of contact from which I myself might have influenced him , his future lies no longer in my own hands , but at the mercy of the great society . Just as the bond between husband and wife is tending to become one merely of sex love , so the contact between parents and children is narrowing down to an intense but purely emotional affection . The break-up of home life does not , as some think , liberate the young from the tyranny and repression of an older generation . For what really enslaves the young is not the customs of the past , but too narrow a love . Such an affection demands of the child a conformity to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ desire for self-expression and the dread of renouncing those whom he loves . The saving grace of the situation , the safety valves afforded by a variety of shared points of view and interests are no longer at hand . Such an attachment makes demands upon personalities without understanding them ; and love without understanding does not enrich life , but stultifies it . Young people of to-day are prone to rationalize the difficulty by the theory that the modern youth have suddenly climbed to greater heights and have achieved far deeper insights than the generation immediately preceding . Parents , on the other hand , are shocked and frightened by changes in the moral standards and attitudes of the young . In our present painful misunderstanding we might clear the air for a new start by realizing that these recriminations are beside the point . The root of the trouble lies , in my opinion , in our acceptance of a civilization which chains individuals in a common submission to machines and organizations . Engrossed as they are in the pursuits of vast impersonal associations and business groups , parents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lacking the opportunity to evolve a new and broader philosophy of living , they can only cling whimsically to the standards of the past . Meanwhile the children , whom they love but do not comprehend , are groping blindly and unaided toward some fresh ideal of life . Can this longing be fulfilled before it is stifled ? Can these young people find a new individuality and restore a meaning to family life ? Upon this issue rests the hope of a sympathetic understanding between the parents and children of the future . It is a striking fact that , in spite of the decline of the old life from which our familial customs have emerged , these expectations themselves have continued and are still potent . The father in the earlier period was a ruler whose word could not be challenged . We still insist that he shall be the supreme authority over the household , though there is now very little about which he can intelligently be authoritative . Although educational and moral functions have been taken largely away from the home , we persist in holding parents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and useful citizens . The acceptance of the sanctity and procreative function of marriage grew up naturally , under the old conditions , as a part of the security of the home . To-day , though home life is being threatened through causes other than moral , we cling to the old family morality as though it were still our one great hope . Oblivious to profound social changes , we are existing in the past so far as our domestic institutions are concerned . IL is at this point that social scientists are attacking the problem . They are proposing that we invent a new set of family customs and institutions which will be more in accord with modern needs . Society as a whole , they say , is right ; at least its trend and direction are beyond human control . It is superior to individuals , though like the latter it is perpetually evolving to a new and higher type . Our only problem , therefore , is that of adjusting its different phases so that they shall progress in a uniform and harmonious manner . Since @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a new type of domestic institution . Although this solution sounds plausible , I am convinced that it is both gratuitous in its logic and futile in its application . It assumes that there are super-organic laws which control human affairs , and that whatever course we take in society is inevitable and , therefore , right . It is also the creed of those who find our present civilization so pleasant or so profitable that they must close their eyes to its defects . The belief that the biological theory of evolution can be applied to society has been thoroughly discredited in recent years . It was founded upon dubious organic analogies , a priori definitions of perfection , and a philosophical misunderstanding of the nature of laws . And after all , what makes the present state of the family deplorable is not the fact that the parts of society are failing to work harmoniously together but the fact that such a situation represents the thwarting and unhappiness of individuals . Human beings . then , rather than impersonal institutions , should be our starting point . But the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ examine the various substitutes for the traditional family which the architects of our social structure arc proposing . Let us begin with the marriage relation . The marriage of young people ? as a procreative , household enterprise ? is being delayed by the increasing specialization of work , the prolongation of vocational training , the competitive and rising standards of living , and the desire of women for business or professional careers . It is now delayed far beyond the arrival of physiological maturity . It , therefore , becomes necessary to forego parenthood , at least for a considerable time , and to conceive of marriage purely as a relationship for comradeship and sexual satisfaction . Hence , there are arising more liberal views of sexual morality . The institutions of trial marriage and the companionate ( the " marriage for two " ) are being welcomed both in theory and practice . Strangely enough this new conception of marriage , which has arisen as a neecssity , has come to be acclaimed as a virtue . Its advocateg have represented it as a revolt against the narrow morality @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ propagation at the expense of individual happiness . So far , the justification is sound ; but is this the entire story ? I am inclined to think that the renunciation of parenthood has , for the most part , been forced upon us by the conditions under which we live rather than selected by freedom of choice . When we remove from the home nearly all the activities in which husbands and wives can participate on behalf of their children , the rearing of offspring , even when it is not financially precluded , becomes a tiresome and irrelevant process . Having rendered parenthood difficult and meaningless , our next logical step is to abolish it . A man and woman who have been thus divested of the prospects of household and children are spoken of euphemistically as " the new family . " But waiving the desirability of having children , will the proposed changes prove an effective basis for the average marriage of the future ? This is doubtful . The reason is not that the customs of the past were any more wise or moral than our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reach the heart of the problem . The restlessness felt by so many married couples is due not so much to the choice of the wrong partner or to the disturbing presence of children as to the break-up and dissemination of their interests throughout the greater community . Under the proposed forms of wedlock there will be no more opportunity than previously for husbands and wives to know and appreciate one another ; hence , the trial marriage can in the end prove nothing . As for the companionate , while it may succeed among a few intellectuals who have some major interest independent of the rest of the world , it can in general accomplish no more than the traditional marriage . Nov that both husband and wife are seeking careers away from eachother and their home , now that they have stripped off the burdens of children and household encumbrances , what is left for them to be companionable about ? Some social genius of the future may work out a scheme for true selfrealization in wedlock . But surely the current proposals for the revamping of family institutions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ architects of these proposed social changes are of course advocating the childless marriage only for persons whose economic and vocational circumstances render such a course the happiest solution . There remains for the mass of people the problem of the new relationship between parents and children . And here the suggestion is offered that extra-familial institutions should be still further developed to lake over the old functions of the home , while the parent of the future should play the role of a liaison officer between the home and the community . I will quote from a recent book on Cultural Change , written by a well-known sociologist : We must frankly face the fact that recreation outside the home has come to stay . This suggests that parents learn to participate in community affairs in order to select wholesome leisure-time activities for their children . If they are actively interested in the establishment , supervision , and maintenance of public playgrounds , censorship of movies , inspection , and regulation of dance halls , and in supporting child protective legislation , then new attitudes and mores of civic participation will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ understand with reference to family needs such movements as Boy and Girl Scouts , Campfire Groups , wider use of school equipment , and school self-government , as well as the enforcement of compulsory attendance and health laws , other new attitudes will be developed . But how , we ask , are all these agencies to be related to the need of children for a fundamentally integrated life ? To what new set of wholesome personal relationships between parents and children will they lead ? The writer has assured .11111. ? .. us that other new attitudes will develop . But what attitudes ? Will there arise a broad and guiding philosophy of child training , or merely further stereotypes for breaking up the life of the child into segments ? Under this program parents , far from being restored to a genuine usefulness in the family , are , it seems to me , rendered still more ineffectual . They can not associate with their families directly ; they can reach them only vicariously through organizations . They may select and equip the playground ; but they have no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a scouting or campfire group ; but they are likely to learn little concerning what such associations mean to their boys and girls or what bearing , if any , they have upon the home . Parents may protect the young by censorship of movies , inspection of amusements , and child welfare legislation ; but the effect of this regulation , or the kind of life for which the children are being protected , lies beyond their knowledge or control . There are phases of education which can not be delegated successfully to the school , or even to the co-operation of parents and teachers . The knowledge taught in the class-room is , of course , useful ; but does the child not need the wisdom and background also of the parent ? And who , if not the parent , can help him to reflect upon the knowledge he receives in school and relate it organically to his own life ? Surely not co-operative organizations . The Parent Teachers Association has become , in many localities , another sociability group for drawing parents away from their home , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ apply to moral and religious training . Character is acquired not merely by sitting on a bench and listening to ethical precepts , but through the actual frictions arising in face-to-face situations , as in family life , in which children learn to work out their difficulties through a developing sense of justice tinged with affection and loyalty . Even in the field of health there is a need which only such a group as the natural , biological family can supply . Modern puhlic-health laws and clinics are effective , and we have at hand skilled specialists for the treatment of almost every organ of the child 's body . But what of mental health ? We must consider that subtle tension which shows itself not in any particular organ but in the delicate emotional balance and adjustment of the entire personality . Much of our present toll of nervous and mental disease can probably be laid to the fact that the child , like the adult , is " torn between too many patterns , " and that so few opportunities for quiet and stabilizing contacts between personalities have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arisen , through a mistaken impression of psychoanalysis , that most , if not all , parents are vicious , that scarcely any are fit to raise children , and that parental love is likely to lead to psychoneurotic conflicts . Even granting ( which I do not ) that there could be found a body of better informed and more self-controlled guardians to whom the children could be entrusted , this theory is hopelessly one-sided . Defective mental hygiene arises not from parental love and attention for psy-chiatrists and social workers agree that these are needed ? but from the unstable and exacting character of that affection when it is entirely divorced from other interests . There must be a give and take between child and parent , which though based securely upon the love of the one for the other , is enriched by a variety of mutual experiences , interests , and points of view . For this foundation of health there is no substitute , though our clinics and our specialists be multiplied a hundredfold . III Community substitutes for family life , though invested with true @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ failing in their ultimate purpose . But MUST WE SCRAP THE FAMILY ? more than this , they bring into the picture new and hazardous consequences of their own . I received the other day a circular letter , stamped with the signature of an eminent American scholar , which opens with the following plaint from a working-class mother : I would like to play with the children more than I do but I 'm too tired even when I have the time . . . . And my man is so tired when he comes home from work that he just lies down and rests and never plays with the children . Following this comes an appeal for aid for an organization which aims to correct this condition . The descriptive folder begins with these words : In Pioneer Youth clubs , one interest calls up another . Making airplanes and ships took two clubs on industrial trips . Questions on a hike led a group to the museum . A fire in the neighborhood resulted in an investigation of tenements and fire laws . Wanted ? a club library @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and selecting books . . . . Three members of a young people 's group . . . conducted a forum on The Unorganized Worker . Such activities under wise leaders absorb the interests of Pioneer Youth boys and girls in a score of neighborhood clubs . New clubs could be formed at once if ' money Were available . Such is the remedy offered for an industrial situation which separates the lives of parents from those of their children . The leaders of the Pioneer Youth of America arc serving no doubt a useful purpose . Given adequate funds , they may provide opportunities for many children who otherwise would grow up in boredom and neglect . But after all , does their solution follow logically from the nature of the evil it seeks to cure ? If the parent is too tired to pay any attention to his children , would it not be better to correct this condition first , rather than to condone it by substituting for the parent a playmate hired by the community ? If the father and mother are too preoccupied with other things @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be wise to inquire whether those things are worthy of the sacrifice ? And what is to become of these children of the Pioneer Youth Movement when their hours of play are over ? In the absence of any other class who will keep the machines of industry running , they must some day step down from their high adventures into the spiritless drudgery which has engulfed their parents . The children of these children will then be taken . They , in turn , will be rescued from the homes which are still empty , entertained for a short time , and then abandoned to the same doom which awaits their maturer years . The youth is always the pioneer , but his excursions never gain for him and his race the possession of promised lands , but only glimpses from which he must return forever to the same painful road whence he departed . Community recreations have indeed created a new world , but they have left the old world standing . We find joyous dreams in youth , but in maturity the dull and bitter reality . If @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Scouts ' Manual he will find there some six hundred pages describing a realm into which over half a million American boys have entered . Here is a remarkable composite of all that youth holds dear : honors , knightly exploits , chivalry , passwords , subtle woodcraft , and an intimacy with plants , birds , and animals of every description . I , for one , would rather live my whole life in such a world than in our present scheme . But I can not . And every boy , alas , must some day leave it . And when that time comes he will find that it has all too little to do with the issues with which he must cope in a twentieth-century America . The leaders of such movements will say that , while the interests of youth are naturally different from those of maturity , the ideals and philosophy embodied in those pursuits will be carried over and will work toward the improvement of society . This outcome is possible in certain cases , but it seems to me , on the whole , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by spending our youth outside it , particularly when the juvenile world is , by implication , an indictment of the entire adult order and a refuge from its imperfections . The powerful drives of maturity , the urge for sex life , for social status , and for economic security must be realized through the civilization in which we are to live as adults . As they grow older , therefore , our children must exchange their earlier ideals for the code of modern men and women . The tragic conflict between youth and adulthood is occurring also on a vast scale in European countries . Particularly in Germany throngs of adolescents are renouncing their bondage to a materialistic civilization and are withdrawing from the world to live their youthful dream of beauty , natural simplicity , and brotherhood . This amazing rift which cuts across the stream of life is deeply significant ; for it points to the repudiation of a world order by those whose eyes are not yet too dull to see its implications . But what will happen as these youths grow older ? Unless prepared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between the generations , the Youth Movement can never make its contribution to the maturer world . Its radiant enthusiasm must fall beneath the civilization which its followers inherit . I do not mean to disparage these attempts to supply a wholesome content for the leisure days of childhood . The activities fostered through the Boy and Girl Scouts and the Pioneer Youth Movement are of distinct value . They replace for children much that an age of machinery and commerce have crowded out of human living . To their originators must be given credit for the vision of this need . But these leaders have failed to attack the evil at its source . Not realizing that our social and economic system is directly responsible for the neglect of childhood , they have played into the hands of its advocates by offering to bolster up its weaknesses . Acceptingthe breakdown of the family as an unalterable fact , they have tried to invent a means of carrying on , so far as children are concerned , without disturbing our faith in our sacred institutions . And in so doing they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of modern living . For through their efforts the life of the individual is separated not only lengthwise into diverging streams of interest , but crosswise into periods which are unrelated , The child is a stranger not only to his parent , but even to himself . Under such a system there can be no continuity , no striving toward some constant goal , but only shifting interests which , as they vanish , leave doubt and lack of purpose in their place . But the disorganization of the individual is not yet complete . Under the conditions of modern industry old age presents another crisis ; and many are advocating that the greater community shall again step in . In the old , selfcontained family men and women could pursue their employment throughout life with a speed proportioned to their strength . In their old age they had their place within the family circle . To the common life of the family they contributed their lives , and in the family they found their lasting happiness and reward . But nowadays as soon as energy begins to lag , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be cast off to make room for younger blood . Once more he must face a new and uncertain future , but this time without the means or hope of meeting it . He must drift , alone , uncertain of a livelihood , without respect , and crushed by the sense of being wholly useless to himself or to others . Overlooking fundamental causes , we leap to the breach with new institutions . We agitate for doles for the unemployed , " homes " for the aged , mothers ' allowances , and old age pensions . By such travesties upon the human spirit we fortify the system which has robbed us of our worth as individuals and broken us upon the wheel we call our civilization . Iv The new patterns of the sociologist , far from solving our dilemma , are , therefore , involving us only the more deeply . They are showing new dimensions along which life can be broken and scattered . Such efforts must finally yield to the realization that the essence of family life lies not in its form but in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ work as in play , in physical care as in education and morals , there remains a vital function which only such a face-to-face relation as the biological family can fulfill . No artifice of the social scientist , no new marriage contract or community agency can replace this relationship as a medium for the development and integration of human personality . Fresh expectancies of conduct may be defined , new organizations may spring up to take over old familial duties ; but these devices only dissipate our energies the further and realign us among new factions and patterns . It is only through one another as complete personalities , and through our common labors , sorrows , and triumphs that we can attain to genuine self-expression . Only communion with whole individuals can make the individual whole . We are coming inescapably to realize that the family , which has been eulogized as the fountain of our spiritual energy , has from the beginning of history been none other than this natural , face-to-face group . It is not a form of marriage , nor an obligation for few children @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nothing to do with it ; nor is it a centralizing agency for community organizations . It is not a societal form nor an institution . All these notions and contrivances arc without its domain ; they have no more vital relation to the family than has a description of digestion to the process which actually goes on in our stomachs . The only reality which is ultimately worth considering is that of human beings who associate together ; and the life of this family is the life which actualfathers , mothers , and . children live in one another 's company . Unless there are opportunities for individuals to grow and to realize their potentialities through free contact with one another , the most highly perfected pattern of the sociologist will be only an empty formula . The theory of the social scientist that we must develop new mores and new forms of organization to keep the family abreast of our other modern developments , therefore , entirely misses the point . You can not cure institutions by institutions . Forms grow out of , and are related to content @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , if parents and children were living their lives together in new ways , then a movement for modernizing our institutional habits would be in place . The content of family life , however , is not changing ; it is disappearing . When people shall have ceased to live and to participate in the freedom of face-to-face association , when they shall have scattered their interests into diverse organizations throughout the great society , we can not say that the family has altered ; we can only say that it has gone : No salvaging of conjugal and filial customs , no skill exerted in promoting co-operation between the parents and the community will bring it back . All the ingenuity and resources of the Government will be of little avail . I am not one of those reactionaries who find the solution of all problems in a regression to the golden past . No era ever repeats , or can repeat another . In our own past , moreover , we have struggled through many forms of crudeness , drudgery , superstition , and disease to which we should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we have become too efficient . We have invented cunning machines to do our work for us ; but the machines have in large part become our masters rather than our servants . Most of us work harder than ever to keep up with the increasing pace of life ; and those who do have leisure to enjoy are finding that life is empty of many interests which were our former heritage . We have harnessed great sources of physical power ; but the creative spirit of men and women is chained beneath the machines . We have set up vast corporate organizations and associations for every conceivable public function ; but the life which these institutions were developed to foster is crushed and scattered beneath their weight . Competition between groups , with all its hurry and excitement , has crowded out the quieter , stabler contacts of family and community living . We have erected a stupendous civilization ; but we have not learned how to use it . While it is not necessary , in order to change one 's direction , to turn completely backward , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , biological family which we are so ruthlessly destroying . For this much is certain : If the family , as Mr. Hoover believes , is the unit of our national life , if it is really the throne of our highest ideals , then the rest of our civilization must be fundamentally upon the wrong tack . There is no use in trying to delude ourselves with substitutes . It will do no good to harmonize domestic institutions or to eliminate cultural lag when the living reality has disappeared . We can not restore the kernel of the nut by conjuring with the shell . Instead of exorcising the failure of the family to keep pace with the rest of society , we might more logically consider the spurious acceleration of inventors , organizers , and promoters . Rather than speed up our domestic arrangements , we might choose the alternative of slowing down our salesmen . For there are human relationships which are still too precious to be sacrificed , even to the god of prosperity or the law of cultural change . And these are values , not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The issue , therefore , can be settled only within the broader problem of the great society . When we have learned to live in that society as individuals , the family will come into its own .                     