@@487369

TO the countless millions of words , oral and written , that have been spilled over the King , Mrs. Simpson , and the abdication , what can now be added ? Ours has become the most self-conscious age in history . Its dramatic scenes , its public and private tragedies , are enacted in front of a microphone and a camera . H. L. Mencken has called the love and abdication of Edward the biggest news story since the Resurrection , and the significant thing is that everyone knows this is true . It is not only the rulers , pundits , society leaders , and middle classes of the world that have been following the amazing sequence of events packed into a week . Even the lowliest have followed the story of the man who gave up a throne for love , and have identified themselves with the actors in this high drama . The theme that quickens all pulses is of course the dilemma of love . It is not merely that the story of Edward and Mrs. Simpson combines , in a hitherto unparalleled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . At the core of our interest is what the story has in common with the great Greek tragedies  --  the theme of personal desire running counter to the inexorable demands of the social structure . And the effect we get here , as in the Greek tragedies , is the purging effect of pity and terror . All our lives we have seen such personal conflicts around us . Every day we have watched in newsprint the heart-break of the millions who ask for advice to the lovelorn , or who unwillingly furnish the staple of newspaper stories . But when a monarch is caught in the same fate , when the stakes are a throne and an empire , we find ourselves confronted with the problem as though it were the newest and freshest thing in the world . And quite naturally , even apart from Edward 's moving radio address , our sympathy goes to him  --  to the man who always rebelled against the stuffy trappings of monarchy , who captured the imagination of his people , and who withal was desperately unhappy and neurotic until he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thing is clear , and that is that the masses of men and women in the world feel with Edward and with Mrs. Simpson rather than with the Mrs. Grundys of church and Cabinet who not so much allowed him to choose as thrust a choice upon him . And sad as everyone professes to be about Edward 's abdication , there is  --  so sentimental is the world even in a machine age  --  a general satisfaction that it was not love that abdicated . But this has been more than a love story . It has been a political drama of wide and deep implication . We are happy to present elsewhere in this issue the comments of two seasoned political observers , Harold Laski and John Gunther , who are acquainted with the actors in the drama and who know England . Their judgments differ in important respects , and ours differs somewhat from both of theirs . The constitutional issue has to our mind been given unnecessary emphasis . Once raised , of course , it became of enormous importance . But need it ever have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the English tradition , it is still clear that the fate of Cabinet government was not at stake until it was pushed into the picture by Mr. Baldwin . A Cabinet and a Prime Minister who wished to avoid making a fracas of the whole business could have waited until a marriage was possible and then introduced an act to change the succession . A press with the Mrs. Simpson taboo removed could eventually have prepared the popular mind for a sensible solution of the whole affair . One can not avoid the suspicion that at the center of the whole controversy has stood Mr. Baldwin , playing politics with a Tory mastery of the English mind . Just as in the fall of 1935 , feeling his political fortunes ebbing , he maneuvered a general election right after the Jubilee and at the strategic moment when the British people , after taking a general peace ballot , were reluctant to change a government that had given its pledge against rearmament ; just as last winter , after the I-kareLaval fiasco , he repaired his damaged prestige by using the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Queen Mary and the sanctity of British family life ; so with a Cabinet again shaken by the vacillations of British foreign and internal policy , he has used Edward 's personal dilemma to show himself again the champion of British morality and above all of the tradition of Cabinet government . How he translated the first into terms of the second can be read between the lines of his truly masterly speech in the House of Commons on the day of the abdication . Note the earnestness with which Mr. Baldwin repeatedly assures his Parliament that it was not he but the King who at each point except at the very beginning broached the problem of Mrs. Simpson . But on the question of who it was that introduced the idea of a morganatic marriage he is beautifully indefinite . " The suggestion had been made to me , " he says . But by whom ? This is a startling- omission in a supposedly candid statement . If the suggestion had been made by the King , Mr. Baldwin would have been eager to say so . No , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which he could base the issue of Cabinet responsibility . And once that was intruded into the picture , Mr. Baldwin was clearly and inevitably the victor . Mr. Gunther ends his article with a witty and skeptical query as to what the Marxians can make of Mrs. Simpson . Like any complex historical event , the story of Edward 's yielding of the throne has ramifications that go beyond any single school of thought . But to connect Edward 's December 19 , 1936 - love and abdication with the whole position of the English governing class is by no means fantastic . In fact , it is the only analysis that cuts through the tangle of perplexities that trouble Mr. Gunther . The reason we have attached no special importance to the reputed pro-Germanism of Edward and Mrs. Simpson and the group around them is that the whole ruling class in England is riddled with pro-Germanism . What the episode clearly shows is the weakness and indecisiveness of the governing groups in England , the alliance of Church of England hypocrisy with the political ends of the Tories , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ moment in the European chaos when a vigorous and decisive government can alone insure British survival . Mr. Baldwin has now for at least the third time been able to give his waning party a new lease on life , and each time he has leaned on the traditions of the monarchy and the hold it has on the people . But as Mr. Laski points out , it is the monarchy itself as an institution that has suffered the severest blow . For many of the British people this is the first time the trappings of the monarchy have been torn away . A symbol is always weakened by exposure . One wonders how much longer this one can be used to enable the Baldwins of Britain and their allies in the hierarchy of church and finance to conceal their incapacity to govern except in their own interest . Kidnapping a Dictator As we go to press an unconfirmed report from Shanghai announces the execution of Chiang Kai-shek . The consequences of this act will be discussed next week . C HANG HSUEH-LIANG 'S coup d'etat and the kidnapping of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who have been following Far Eastern affairs closely in recent months . For some time it has been evident that China was preparing to challenge Japan . The most influential sections of Chinese public opinion  --  the students , intellectuals , and business interests  --  have been bitterly anti-Japanese throughout the past year , and the only question was whether Chiang Kai-shek or some other militarist would assume leadership of the movement . Since his capitulation to the Kwangsi clique in September , Chiang has taken a somewhat stronger stand against Japan . He was influential in rejecting the ultimatum presented to Nanking after the killing of six Japanese in the late summer and had cooperated in the defense of Suiyuan . Nevertheless , the recent arrest of the leaders of the national liberation movement in Shanghai indicated that Chiang was still playing a middle-of-the-road game , and that he had no intention of openly attacking Japan except as a last resort . He had repeatedly spurned the Communists ' invitation to a united front against Japan and had recently declared that he would resume his perennial anti-red campaign . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hsueh-liang for alleged red sympathies . Chang Hsueh-liang is far from being a Communist . 721 He is one of the wealthiest men in China , having inherited tens of millions from his father , the notorious Chang Tso-lin . But he has fallen in with the Communist program in so far as it places primary emphasis on the eradication of the Japanese . Chang is not likely to forgets that it was the Japanese who deprived him of his position as overlord of Manchuria . Possibly he is astute enough to see that history has a place for the man who assumes leadership of the great mass movement which is demanding the liberation of China from Japanese domination . And he may be wise enough to know that such a goal can only be achieved with the backing of a united China ? including the Communists , with their vast armies in the northwest close to the Japanese area . If the " Young Marshal " succeeds in uniting the country under his leadership , the Japanese will be placed in an intolerable position . The military clique is already @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ As a result , two of the most important of the recent Japanese demands have been dropped . Japanese troops will not now be sent to the interior " to fight communism , " and the plan for a five-province buffer state in North China will be temporarily shelved . The recent victory of the local Suiyuan troops over the Japanese-supported Mongols from Chahar doubtless contributed to this decision . Success of the Chang revolt would leave Japan with a choice between an ignominious retreat , accompanied by a complete loss of face , and open hostilities . The events of the past few weeks have suggested that Japan wishes above all else to avoid war with China . Although the superior equipment of the Japanese should assure an ultimate triumph , such a struggle would strain the resources of the islands to the limit . And Japan has its eye on bigger game than China . The alliance between Chang Hsueh-liang and the Communists is a direct result of the Third International 's " united-front " tactics . It is an attempt to restore the status of 1926 , when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ modern , independent China . The fact that the Communist Party has taken leadership in the anti-Japanese movement gives that party a prestige which may later be of tremendous importance in determining the trend of social change in China . For the moment , however , there can be no thought of revolution . China will have its hands full checking Japanese imperialism . Ordinarily there would be little danger of a Sino-Japanese conflict developing into a world war . The nature of the present controversy , however , gives cause for anxiety . Japan has already blamed the Soviet Union for the part played by the Chinese Communists in Chang 's coup d'etat . Although this has been denied , Russia can not but be seriously concerned in the outcome . Further Japanese penetration into Inner Mongolia and North China would constitute a direct threat to the Soviet defenses . Sooner or later a clash between the two countries is inevitable ; in which event Germany is committed to the support of Japan . Thus the future of Europe as well as that of Asia may be decided by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ T HE financial pages of the newspapers have made much cheerier reading in recent weeks than any other section . From the standpoint of the stockholder , November was the most satisfactory month on record . During this brief thirty-day period American corporations declared dividends aggregating $883,000,000 , which exceeded the best previous month by practically 50 per cent . An additional $300,000,000 in dividends was announced during the first ten days of December , bringing the total since the end of October to approximately $1,200,000,000 . This amount is equal to about 3 per cent of the national income of the United States as it was in 1932 and 1933 and to at least 2 per cent of the present income . In addition to receiving nearly a billion and a quarter in cold cash , stockholders had the satisfaction of knowing that the value of their holdings increased by more than a billion and a half during November . And if they were philanthropically inclined , they doubtless derived additional satisfaction from the thought that the workers of the country had shared in the melon to the extent of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wages and bonuses . Although the flood of extra dividends can be explained largely by the desire on the part of directors to avoid the higher ranges of the recently enacted tax on corporation surpluses , there can be no doubt that business is good . The Federal Reserve Board 's index of business activity is well over the 1923-25 average and at its highest point since the boom years . Holiday retail sales are estimated to be running 15 per cent higher than last year and only about 10 per cent under 1929 . Employment and pay rolls have shown steady improvement . Despite the drought and elimination of AAA payments , the 1936 farm income will doubtless surpass that of any recent year . Commodity prices have risen even more steadily than the stock market in recent weeks , and wheat is at the highest point in years . In the industrial field the index of steel-ingot production has reached 79 per cent of capacity , and November 's output is believed to have been the largest for any November in the history of the iron and steel industry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ European difficulties and the spread of the " sitdown " strikes have troubled the stock market recently , no one really expects a serious relapse at this time . A much greater danger is the possibility of a runaway inflation . In its earlier stages inflation can scarcely be distinguished from general business revival . The 1936 business boom has been an inflationary boom which has not as yet got beyond control . The test , of course , lies in the purchasing power of the dollar . During the 1928 and 1929 stock-market boom there was no general increase in prices . On the contrary , commodity prices showed a slight tendency to decline . A certain increase in prices and the cost of living was inevitable in the recovery period . But with wheat at $1.35 a bushel in ChiThe NATION cago and copper selling at 11 cents a pound , there are indications that price increases are already going farther than is quite healthy . Perhaps the most disquieting element in an inflation is the fact that speculators , stockholders , and entrepreneurs obtain an ever-increasing share of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the continuous increase in commodity prices suggest that this process is already under way . It is true that wages have also been boosted , but wages are by no means keeping pace with dividends , and it is doubtful whether the wage-earner will receive as large a proportion of the 1936 national income as he did either in the depression years or in 1929 . That the Administration is aware of the dangers inherent in the situation is evident from the apprehension which has been shown over the continued increase in the excess reserves of the member banks of the Federal Reserve system . ' While a seasonal decline in these reserves is expected between now and the beginning of next year , they are certain to rise again unless a further cut is made in reserve requirements . Ultimately , two billion dollars of excess reserves means twenty billion in new purchasing power if the present expansion in business and financial activity continues . This would result in feverish business activity , but it would also mean prices far higher than those of 1929 . Instead of recovery @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ perilous boom , supported by the new purchasing power created by the devaluation of the dollar , and swollen by our huge imports of gold and silver . The excess reserves might be drastically reduced if the Reserve Banks would sell their holdings of government bonds , but such action is unlikely because it would seriously impair the government 's borrowing power . A further increase in reserve requirements is also possible , but there can be no assurance that the state banks will remain in the system if the terms become too onerous . The chances are that any action that the Reserve Board takes will be insufficient to prevent a further inflationary rise in prices . Such a development would virtually make it impossible to stabilize economic activity at a high level . It would involve a further redistribution of income from the wage-earning and salaried classes to the already wealthy owners of the means of production . At first this would result in a tremendous expansion in the capital-goods industries , but eventually the country would face the old question  --  where are the masses going to obtain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would have to decide between a cessation of spending with a contraction of credit which would precipitate another depression , and increased spending with a consequent runaway inflation . Fortunately , this tragic dilemma can still be avoided by diverting the tide of unearned income into the channel where it is certain to be used to bolster consumer buying power . This may be partly achieved by an increase in the income tax on individuals in the high and moderately high brackets and the use of the funds thus obtained to create genuine social security for the unemployed , the aged , the sick , and other victims of the tragic insecurity of our times .                     