@@491868

THE fifty-five days between December 15 , 1936 , and February 8 , 1937 , will long be remembered as a tragic period in the history of American aviation . In that time six scheduled liners of the world 's best air-transport system met with disaster , thirty-seven lives were lost and the man in the street looked up into the skies and began to wonder , for the first time in twenty years , whether we had really conquered the air . In this man , in his acceptance of air travel as a means of public transport , lies the future of commercial aviation . And in his wonder there is great justification , for the chief results of this series of calamities have been , as far as he is concerned , sensationalism , misinformation and cold , technical facts which he could not understand . This article will take four representative air crashes which have occurred during the last two years . explain what happened , why it happened , and then tell what has been done , or is being done , to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ finished you can form your own conclusion as to whether American aviation is " on course " or lost in a storm . REPORT OF ACCIDENT : On August 3 , 1935 , at about 12:55 A.M. , approximately thirty miles east of Albuquerque , New Mexico , an airplane of United States registry , piloted by a licensed airman , while being operated on scheduled flight , carrying passengers and United States mail , was forced to land , with resultant destruction of the aircraft , but no serious injuries to the passengers or crew . After refueling , this trip had taken off from Albuquerque at 12:31 A.M. The pilot climbed to an altitude of 9300 feet , changed the propeller settings from low to high pitch and switched from the emergency tank of 87-octane fuel , used while taking off , to the left main tank of 80-octane fuel , used for cruising . Shortly after this , while at an altitude of 9500 feet , the left engine stopped , and , immediately after , the right engine . The pilot instantly changed back to the emergency @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attempted to get the engines started again by pumping the throttles and using the wobble pump . This was continued until the plane had lost so much altitude that an emergency landing could not be avoided . The pilot then dropped two flares and , by the aid of a third flare , dropped by a plane which had come to his assistance , effected an emergency landing . The country in which this landing was effected is covered with a dense growth of scrub-pine trees growing to heights of fifteen to twenty feet . The ground is rolling . There were several open pastures in the vicinity and the plane came to rest in one of these , after having cut a swath through the surrounding trees . The plane which rendered such effective assistance in this emergency had refueled at Albuquerque and had departed some time previously . This plane experienced the same difficulty when changing from 87 to 80 octane fuel , but the crew had managed to get the engines started again on the 87-octane fuel . After satisfying themselves , through experiment , that something was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the following flight had taken off , or was about to take off , with the same fuel , they radioed the information and turned at once toward Albuquerque to render assistance if necessary . They sighted the following flight , just after it had dropped its flares and was slightly above the treetops in effecting an emergency landing . They immediately dropped one of their flares to keep the ground lighted until the plane came to rest , and then flew overhead until signaled from the ground that everything was all right . CAUSE OF ACCIDENT : The failure of the engines was found to be due to the presence of a large amount of water in the 80-octane fuel with which the plane had been serviced at Albuquerque . After extensive tests , it was found that water in the fuel pit , flooded by an unusual amount of rain on the day before , had siphoned through an air vent into the underground storage tanks . REMEDIAL STEPS : Immediate action was taken by all air lines . Where necessary , tanks were changed in location or design @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effected at the Pittsburgh air-. port , another forced landing was caused by the same condition . There were no injuries to crew or passengers . Since that time there has been no trouble . COMMENT : Here are the only accidents occurring during the time of which this article treats which can be definitely assigned to mechanical failure of either the airplane or its maintenance . In neither case was the fault structural  --  that is , caused by the structural failure of the airplane or its engines . In this same period our scheduled air lines have flown more than 119,000,000 miles . Conclusion : that the airplane we have built , the engines which fly it and the ground system which maintains it are dependable . And now let 's see how we use what we have built . REPORT OF ACCIDENT : On December 27 , 1936 , at about 7:36 P.M. , in Newhall Pass , approximately eighteen miles northwest of Burbank , California , an airplane of United States registry , piloted by a licensed airman , while being operated on scheduled flight , carrying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fatal injuries to all on board and complete destruction of the aircraft . This trip left Oakland at 5:10 P.M. Regular schedule called for arrival at Union Air Terminal , Burbank , California , at 7:30 . Generally stormy conditions prevailed , with low-flying clouds and intermittent rain squalls . Due to weather conditions , the pilot , during the flight , asked that the schedule be set forward seven minutes , making clue time of plane at Union Air Terminal , 7:37 . It is probable that the pilot maintained ground contact  --  that is , plotted the airplane 's course by recognizable features of the terrain beneath him  --  through Saugus , California , and entered Newhall Pass , just south of this point , intending to complete flight by contact flying . At 7:36 pilot asked Union Air Terminal control tower for localizer beam  --  the short-range radio beacon used to guide planes into the immediate area of the field . Control tower asked for plane 's position . Pilot answered , " Wait a minute . " This was the last contact with the plane , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for localizer beam . Ceiling at Union Air Terminal at this time was 3000 feet ; at Bakersfield , seventy miles north , 3500 feet . Mountains surrounding Newhall Pass rise to approximately 3100 feet , thus placing their ridges above probable ceiling at that point . Another plane , following the same route , landed a few minutes after the missing ship was due . The fuselage of the airplane was found late the next day in a brush-tangled ravine in the Pass . Wreckage of the wings found some distance away on slope of Oak Mountain . CAUSE OF ACCIDENT : Pilot , flying by ground contact from an area of higher ceiling  --  Bakersfield  --  into one of lower ceiling  --  Burbankprobably entered Newhall Pass and then decided it would be better to make a climbing turn out of the Pass , return to Saugus , locate himself on the radio range and make an instrument approach to Union Air Terminal . While making this turn , probably just above the ceiling limit , the airplane collided with a high point in the Pass . Unusually strong downdrs.fts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . REMEDIAL STEes : Immediate change made in flight routine for approaching Union Air Terminal . Minimum altitude for over-mountain approach increased by 2000 feet . Burbank must have minimum ceiling of 2500 feet . Lacking this , incoming aircraft must return to nearest available airport  --  Saugus or Bakersfield . Several air lines are already installing , or contemplating installation , of either barographs or cockpit cameras . The barograph is an altimeter which makes a graphic record of the altitude at which an airplane flies during every minute of its scheduled flight . Line officials will then have a complete record of the varying altitudes at which the pilot flies the airplane during each trip . The cockpit camera , another recent development , is placed in the rear of the cockpit and takes a picture a minute of the head and shoulders of the pilot and co-pilot and the entire instrument board . Bath of these devices represent efforts upon the part of air-line officials more completely to control the navigation of the airplane while it is off the ground and in the pilot 's hands . COMMENT @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accident to an error in judgment on the part of the pilot , with weather as a contributory factor . The pilot involved had some 5000 hours of flying time  --  which means that he had spent almost an entire year of his life in the air . He was known as a dependable and conservative flyer . He knew the route well . There has been no evidence of failure on the part of the airplane or the ground aids available . Both the Department of Commerce and air-line flight procedure prescribe a definite flight routine for approaching Burbank under conditions which existed at that time . The pilot should have crossed Saugus radio-beam station at 5000 feet , flown for three minutes at that altitude  --  thus crossing the 3000-foot ridges at Newhall Pass  --  and then " let down " slowly into the lowlands beyond . In this case the pilot evidently thought he could continue through the Pass under the ceiling . When he was in the Pass and saw that the weather ahead was too thick , he decided to return to Saugus and make an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but it was too late . It is unpleasant to assign the blame in a case like this . Our scientists and engineers have produced , in the modern air liner , a mechanical marvel ; its incredible speeds can , in an emergency , cause disaster quicker than the human mind can devise ways to avoid it . Reasoned judgment has its limitations when you are hurtling through the night at three miles a minute . The air lines realize this ; their hope is to avoid these emergencies . Toward this end they have laid out a strict pattern of behavior for their pilots to follow under certain conditions . The barograph and the cockpit camera are devices to facilitate the enforcement of these regulations . So much for the plans to " police " pilots and make them more altitude-conscious . But do n't for a moment forget that the job an air-line pilot has to handle today is the most exacting ever entrusted to any man . He must , while in the air , plot the course of his airplane by the use of maps , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ condition of the airplane , engines and fuel supply , maintain contact with the ground and other airplanes through his two-way radio , fly the beam with his radio range receiver , obtain clearances from control towers when approaching terminal areas and , in additiou. , in bad weather , or when actually entering landing areas , fly the airplane himself . The co-pilot at his side has only the duties of an apprentice  --  he may fly the airplane between terminal areas , assist with navigation and help maintain radio contacts , but the responsibility is always in the hands of the pilot . He must check everything his assistant does , for he is the one who has to answer in emergencies . Knowing this , it is not difficult to understand that , in certain unusual combinations of circumstances , the pilot of the modern air liner has a job which tests , if it does not exceed , the limit of his capabilities . When an emergency presents too many factors for the pilot to handle at one time , it is said he has reached his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accident . 106 ( Continued from Page 103 ) by instruments is a contributory cause of the accident . COMMENT : Here we have , however , another condition  --  one which the air lines are correcting as fast . as they can . At one time during this flight the pilot realized that he had drifted of his course while flying on instruments . This was when he was letting down , mistakenly preparing his Pittsburgh approach . Reluctant . to return to instruments at this time , he fell back on contact flying , with disastrous results . This problem of training its pilots in blind flying has been troubling the air lines for several years . Most air-transport pilots come from the Army , Navy or Marine services , or accredited eommereial schools where they are taught the rudiments of blind flying  --  but knowing the art so thoroughly that you can depend upon it , day after day , under all sorts of conditions , whether you are hopelessly twisted around or on course , requires more than a mere knowledge of the fundamentals . You then @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ instruments in front of you , the map on your knee and the headphones over your ears  --  with the same confidence and accuracy that you fly by ground contact . This takes training and flight under actual , or perfectly simulated , conditions . To an air line with hundreds of pilots and schedules to maintain , blind-flying training in the field was a costly and laborious task indeed . They were making progress , but slowly . Now the Link trainer has come forward with the answer . The Link trainer is a small fuselage , built around a complete and accurate reproduction of a pilot 's cockpit . The fuselage has tail surfaces , rudder and a pair of stubby wings , and the whole affair is mounted on two pairs of enormous bellows , which move up and down , and simulate the actual move-men is of airplane flight . Over the cockpit is a hood . Put your pilot in the cockpit , close down the hood , and there you have one-half of the Link training unit . The other half is at a desk @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ large sheet of paper . A dot on the center of the paper marks the airport the pilot is trying to make . From the dots radiate four lines , dividing the area around the airport into four quadrants . These lines indicate the four legs of a radio range station , just as they are found on a map . Placed on this paper is an instrument which moves on three small wheels and trails an inked pen . This carriage shows the actual flight of the training unit , the electrical impulses which move the carriage being governed solely by the action of the pilot in the enclosed cockpit . If he , handling the controls in the cockpit , makes a turn from north to east , then the carriage makes that turn . If he makes a circle five miles in diameter over the country below him , the carriage duplicates that circle to scale on the paper on the desk . Behind this desk is the operator of the unit . Beside him the operator has apparatus which simulates radio range aignals in the earphones in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the student . Thus he can duplicate conversations carried on between a plane in flight and the airport control tower . The operator can in no way control the movements of the plane , once the student is in the cockpit and the hood down . That 's up to the pilot . The trainer , by the way , has even more sensitive controls than an actual airplane in'flight . It has to be flown entirely by the usual flight instruments in the cockpit  --  will stall , fall into a spin , drag one wing and gain or lose altitude , unless properly handled . Let 's take a relevant case . The student is given a regular flight map of the Pittsburgh area . " Here you are , " says the operator . " You 're some place within sixty miles of the Pittsburgh-Allegheny airport . Visibility is half a mile . Ceiling 1800 feet , or below the ridge tops . It 's raining . The air is rough . There are icing conditions . We 're starting you out at 3800 feet altitude . Your @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ your radio beams and you can switch your frequency and talk to the airport control tower if you want to . You 've got . every modern instrument you have in your regular transport plane , and you 'll find that they 'll react to your control just as they do in the air . You may he north , south , east or west of the airport  --  that 's for you to find out . You 've been taught the formula for orienting yourself while flying blind . You have forty minutes ' gas supply . Now let 's see you find your way home . " The student , with his map , climbs into the cockpit .. The hood is shut .. He 's alone there in the dark now , with the phones on his head and the instrument needles quivering under their lights . The motor starts and , as the pilot takes the controls , the bellows begin to work . The altimeter indicates 800 feet . A voice comes through the phones : All right , now . Climb to your 3800 feet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the student eases back the wheel , his eye on the turn-and-bank indicator to keep the ship level . On the desk the carriage begins to move slowly across the paper . The altimeter begins to jerk up bit by bit . At . 3800 feet the voice cuts in again : " 0 . K. There 's your altitude . Now take her in , and do n't pick any daisies on the way . " The next half hour is likely to be a bad one for the student unless he knows his instrument flying . Experienced pilots , unsure of their blind flying technique , have been taken out from under that hood crying with rage and nervousness , With the instruments blinking before them , the beam signals pounding in their ears and the enigmatic map on their knee , they sit there while the gas-gauge indicator drops toward empty and fight the fear of desperation . All the while , the inexorable carriage on the desk slowly traces the path of their incompetence , while the operator wipes damp palms on his trousers and struggles with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , just one , small hint to the wandering pilot . But he does n't , for he knows he is saving this man 's life in some future similar emergency , and perhaps saving the lives of the people behind him . For this is the pilot who will finally give up and let down to take a look at the ground . Too often it is his last look , for that 1800-foot ceiling is below the tops of the ridges . When a student who has been properly trained steps into that cockpit , on the other hand , the behavior of the merciless little carriage is beautiful to watch . This pilot does n't know where he is when he starts , but he soon finds out . Following the orientation formula , he plots a course which carries him through the quadrant in which he is flying until ho cuts across an on-course signal . This means that he is interseeting one of those four spokeswhich radiate from the radio range station at the field . Which one , is the question . Confidently , expertly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quadrant beyond , makes a 180 degree turn , flies hack into the on-course signal and , unerring , turns down along that path toward the airport . When directly over the field , he runs into the coneof silence  --  an area directly over the radio range station , in which the beam signals fade and die completely , and then he 's ready to let down and make his landing . Sounds simple . It is  --  if you know what to do and know that you know it . Practically all air lines are now re-smiting their pilots to graduate from a course on the Link trainer . REPORT OF ACCIDENT : On December 10 , 1O:36 , at about 0 e.st. , at Milford , Pennsylvania , approximately xis miles south of Port Jervis , New York , an airplane of United States registry , piloted by a licensed airman , while being operated on scheduled flight. , carrying passenger 's and United States mail , was forced to land , with resultant destruction of the aircraft , but no serious injuries to the passengers or crew @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , at 4 1 P.M. and was cleared from Charleston , South Carolina , for Camden , New Jersey . The weather called for instrument flying , and alternate landing points were given as Newark , New Jersey , and Boston , Massachusetts , Bad weather was reported between Charleston and Washington . The pilot took the ship up into the storm , flying at 5000 feet on the radio range courses , believing that . better weather would be encountered north of Washington . After passing Baltimore , Maryland , on course , the flight ran into state which rendered reception of radio range signals impossible . The pilot flew on to Camden by dead reckoning  --  that is , by using his compass and air speed to compute his distance from last-known. point of departure  --  with the expectation that , as he approached the immediate vicinity of Camden , he could receive the radio range signals at that point , even through the static . When , at a point he believed to be in the vicinity of Camden , he found himself still unable to tune in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a course for Newark , premised on being reasonably close to Camden at that time . Unknown to the pilot , stronger winds than he had expected had been drifting him off course from a point north of Baltimore . While slowly losing altitude during an intended approach to the vicinity of Newark , a wing of the airplane struck a small tree , at . an altitude of 1400 feet . The altitude of Newark is 10 feet . Flashing a signal to the stewardess to have the passengers adjust their safety belts , he stalled the ship into ' a landing , cutting through the trees for an eighth of a mile or more . Both wings were crumpled back and the motors torn loose , but the cabin was not badly damaged . The pilot cut the switch just before landing , thus avoiding danger of fire . The passengers were rescued shortly after midnight . CAUSE OF ACCIDENT : Fqure of radio range reception . Antinshielded-antenna system failed tit operate through precipitation static . Weather . Weather predictions , based on U. S. Weather Bureau and air-line @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ route of flight . Error of supervisory personnel . Ship , should not have been dispatched frottal an area of bad weather into an area of questionable weather . Rem liDIAL STEPS : More rigid ground dispatching system . More accurate weather reporting by services involved . Shielded-antenna system . Use of direction-tinder unit on plane to enable pilot to locate position in event beam system becomes inopera live . Co:ow:ars : Let 's consider what has been done first . These planes are now effecting the installation of a new radio unit which is a combination ore shielded-loop antenna and a direction finder . The loop is a small , doughnut-shaped antenna hanging below the nose of the ship . Around the wire which forms the antenna there is fitted a metal tubing . This tubing effectively shields the antenna from static caused by any form of precipitation . By a strange coincidence there was another airplane in this same general area at the time this accident happened . This ship was equipped with a shielded-loop antenna . Here 's part of the pilot 's report : " On the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were particularly bad and dependable reception was nearly impossible when using the regular receiver with unshielded antenna . At times range signals could be heard , but generally they could not , due to heavy static . When the 17-A receiver , with the shielded-loop antenna , was tuned in , however , perfect reception was obtained , with no trace of static , even on distant stations . " So much for the shielded-loop antenna . This doughnut-shaped unit , hanging below the nose , is directly connected to the cockpit and from there the pilot can turn it by means of a small crank . This crank is on the side of a small dial and an arrow on the dial moves as the loop below it turns . This combination is the direction finder . Its operation is simple . Switching his receiver over to this loop , the pilot turns the crank until the signal of the radio range station dies , or , in radio terminology , becomes a " null . " In this position the loop 's hole is facing toward the range station @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the station . Then all the pilot has to do is fly in the direction in which the arrow points . Not only can the pilot using th is deriee locate the position of any given radio station , but he can also locate himself in space . This is called triangulation and has been used by sea craft for years . Tuning in on two stations , the positions of which are , of course , spotted on his map , he can then locate himself by triangulation . His position is the point where the two lines cross . Let us look at an instance in which this direction finder and its loop were actually used . Quots ing further from the report already mentioned : " Somewhere between Martin 's Creek , Pennsylvania , and Harrisburg , Pennsylvania , hearings were taken on Martin 's Creek and Newark , and it was found that we had drifted north of our course to a considerable extent , due to a strong southerly wind which was not anticipated in our flight plan . Subsequently it was necessary to make a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The bearings obtained with the loop gave us our approximate position accurately and effectively . " With this evidence before us , it is logical to assume that the plane which crashed at Milford , Pennsylvania , would have been able , had it carried a shielded loop and direction finder , to reorient itself despite the drifting effect of the southerly wind and would have made its terminal safely . And so , taking a trick from the mariner , the air industry has made another stride toward safety . This loop , the shielded antenna , the localizes beam already in use at some fields , the flight barograph and de-icing equipment are all products of systematized research and development work carried on by the air lines themselves . Recent Bureau of Air Commerce regulations mike the installation of these direction finders mandatory by January 1 , 1935 . Use of a shielded-antenna system is mandatory after November 1,1937 . Now for the two other factors which were contributory causes to this accident  --  dispatching or ground supervision and the inaccuracy of weather reports . The field dispatcher @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ air-transport systems . He was generally a young man , and often one with little practical flight experience , for his job was considered the bottom rung of a ladder which led the fortunate to actual flying or executive positions . In consequence , he found himself clearing ships into conditions he did not himself understand . Add to this the fact that he was often exposed to the importunities of impatient passengers , and sometimes even the pilots themselves , and you have a situation with dangerous implications . In the last few years , however , the field dispatcher has come into his own . The air lines have learned through experience that a good man on the ground is just as important as a good man in the air , and , in consequence , it is becoming the practice to appoint veteran pilots to the all-important jobs of dispatchers at terminal points . Furthermore , these men are being set apart by themselves  --  out of sight and hearing of the passengers and the rest of the operating personnel . Sitting alone with their weather charts , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ actual flying experience , they make their decisions and pass the word down . The flight is cleared . The flight is canceled . The flight is ordered to return to its last cheek point . Theirs is a lonely voice , but what they say goes . The old saw about nobody being able to do anything about the weather no longer holds true for the air-transport industry . American aviation has beaten weather at its own game ; a plane in flight between two terminal points is today probably as little endangered by weather conditions as any other form of transportation . When the next and final step  --  the perfection of a bent-beam system to get the airplane from the air down on to the airport  --  is completed , the old hazard of " ceiling zero , visibility zero " will be nothing more than a description of routine flying conditions . In the meantime , however , alternate clear landing areas must be available when a plane is dispatched into questionable weather condit ions , With modern instruments , weather flights and the development of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plans should be reasonably accurate . Unfortunately , they are often woefully inaccurate , as is seen by the difficulties of the two planes considered in the last report . This is true because we have two agencies , each doing only a part of the whole job . The United States Weather Bureau , a division of the Department of Agriculture , passes its weather analysis on to the Department of Commerce for distribution as flight information to the air lines . The bureau does the best job possible under the circumstances , hut , unfortunately , it is still geared to crop reports and the daily newspapers . Lack of funds and organization precludes the possibility of accurate and detailed reports necessary for air movements . The air lines realize this and they have set up their own weather services , which give information more applicable to their special needs . Unfortunately , no private organization can eucceas fully undertake so tremendous a task , The result is , sometimes , " a strong southerly wind which was not antiet. pated in our flight plan . " Some day @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unified con trol  --  undoubtedly governmental . it will take money  --  possibly an annulil expenditure equal to that poured out upon the abortive Quoddy Dam or the unfinished Florida ship canal  --  hut when it is spent , we will not have to fear those strong southerly winds . This is a matter which is up to the citizen and his congressman . And there you have the case histories of four airplane crashes . Such analyse , could be duplicated , with but few es . ceptions , for every air accident in recent years . All the printed furor about " mystery crashes " can generally be brushed aside as so much sensational writing . The Department of Commerce and the air-line investigators almost invariably ascertain the causes of al , tragedies . Their findings , however , are usually the results of weeks and months of painstaking work , and by the time the reports are released , the accident itself is , in the mind of the man in the street , bu t a memory labeled " air crash , cause unknown . " You @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Let 's summarize them ; 1 . Near Albuquerque , New Mexico . No fatalities . Accident caused by failure al ground fuel servicing facilities . 2 . Newhall Pass , California . Fatalitit , to all on board . Accident caused by failure of pilot to follow flight routine in approaching Burbank under unfavorable weather conditions . 3 . Fairchance , Pennsylvania . Fats ) injuries to twelve of fourteen persons o'g board . Accident caused by reluctance cY pilot to return to instrument flying when he crossed a beam , lot down through the clouds , and found he was not in his estimated position . 4 . Milford , Pennsylvania . No fatalities . Accident caused by inability of pilot to orient himself when beam receiver failed due to static  --  with dispatching error as contributory cause . You know , also , the steps which have been taken , or are being taken , to avoid accidents similar to these in the future : ? 1 . Revision of ground refueling systems . 2 . Dov elopmen of in6trilmentation to make pilots more altitude-consciona , particularly when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ter ? nal areas , stipulating Inaba ceilings for over-nounapproaches. 3 . Development of ground courses in instrument flying , to give pilots theneressary confidence End ifnacgility this form of 4 . Installation of newly developed devices to defeat effects of static on the airpthinenedse  --  r , aeldeipommeen  --  tivurf ; radsallt direction finders to enable the pilot to orient himself in the air when the usted ground aids become useless . duo to radio failure or Imes-peeved weather conditions . There you have both the bill of complaint and th bill of divorcement . It now up to you to decide a 