@@487817

CRUCIAL moments seem always to be recurring in the American labor movement , but in Oregon and Washington a genuine crisis is imminent  --  one which may bring down on the head of trade unionism the most drastic anti-labor legislation proposed in America for half a century . On the ballot in these two Far Western states is a pair of initiative measures drafted to annihilate the labor movement . Labor unions in the region would be reduced to empty shells . Strikes and boycotts would be rendered illegal . Unions would not be permitted to collect funds for political or economic action . Even the conservative Portland Oregonian calls the initiative a vengeful scheme to restrict working people 's rights as American citizens . The Oregon bill , to be considered by citizens of the state on November 8 , is the more all-inclusive and severe of the two , and thus the more important to analyze . Section 1 outlaws any strike  --  or labor dispute not between an employer and a majority of all his employees . This would completely demolish the craft-union structure of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's largest- department store has 2,500 employees , about 100 of whom are truck-drivers . The truck-drivers could not strike unless they persuaded 1,151 of the store 's other employees to strike with them . The same rule would apply to janitors , waitresses , bookkeepers , and other particular crafts . But what about the C. I. 0. , encompassing whole industries ? Another part of the same section takes care of that . Itdeclares jurisdictional disputes to be a crime and provides that " the refusal of an employer to deal with either party to any such jurisdictional controversy shall not operate to make the dispute a labor dispute within the meaning of this act . " Thus 99 per cent of the workers in a concern might belong to a bona fide union , but the employer could recognize a company union comprising the remaining 1 per cent and thus cause a jurisdictional conflict which would outlaw any attempt on the part of the 99 per cent to strike or take other militant action . The bill is not content merely to forbid strikes . It also forbids @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ boycotting are made criminal offenses except where labor disputes exist within the meaning of the act . Obviously , no labor dispute within the meaning of the act will ever exist . This provision of the bill is so sweeping that anti-Nazis would be in legal jeopardy for boycotting stores selling merchandise from Germany . Peace advocates could not boycott Japanese silk . Section 3 of the measure would make it unlawful for labor unions to collect funds larger than those needed for " legitimate requirements . " And there is not the least assurance that strikes or political campaigns would be regarded as " legitimate requirements . " As the Portland Oregonian points out : " The unions raised funds to oppose the bill . Proponent groups raised funds to promote it . The bill would prevent labor from raising such funds in the future , while leaving the opposing groups free to do so . " The measure , furthermore , gives any one member October 29 , 1938 of a union the right to tie up all the union 's funds in litigation . " Stool pigeon 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The state 's anti-injunction act would to all intents and purposes be repealed by a clause providing for injunctions in labor difficulties . Another dause makes it a crime punishable by a year in jail or a $500 fine to discourage anyone , by direct or indirect means , from going to work for an employer who wants to hire him . This would subject to criminal action a union member who voted to expel a fellow-unionist for strike-breaking . And finally , in apparent solicitude for the harassed farmer , the bill twice expressly forbids interference with the buying , selling , or handling of agricultural products , but in each instance takes care also to specify " all other products . " The Washington initiative is similar to that of Oregon . The anti-strike provisions are not quite so sweeping , but several supplementary clauses nearly make up the difference : the employer is the sole arbiter of who shall be eligible to participate in strike votes , and no union can call a strike within thirty days after it presents its demands . Needless to say neither @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ announcement and application of a wage cut . Signatures to these initiatives were obtained during a campaign designed to spread the belief that the A. F. of L. consisted only of " goons " and racketeers and the C. I. 0 . only of aliens and Communists . The bills represent a new crest in enmity toward American trade unionism . A huge slush fund raised by shipping interests , department stores , lumber companies , and industrial associations is being spent to convince the people that the initiative originated with irate and persecuted farmers . Cowboy ballads and rural songs are interspersed on the radio with appeals for help that allegedly come straight from the soil . Listed as the measure 's official sponsors are four so-called farm organizations : Associated Farmers , Oregon Farm Bureau , Eastern Oregon Wheat League , and Hood River Growers ' Club . Actually these groups have little or no membership ; Associated Farmers is a strictly vigilante outfit that stems from California . In fact , the largest organization of farmers in the state , the Oregon State Grange , is unequivocally opposed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Oregon Grange and a member of the National Grange Executive Committee , has branded the bill a scheme to wipe out liberalism in the Pacific Northwest . In consequence the most vicious sort of abuse has been heaped on Gill by the backers of the measure . Not long ago the biennial Grange election took place . The Associated Farmers ' clique ran a slate of candidates . An amazing thing happened : all over Oregon all sorts of reactionary elements suddenly developed a vital interest in the internal affairs of a fraternal organization.445 Between potshots at the Jews and apologies for Hitler , the Corvallis Gazette-Times , the most vociferous newspaper proponent of the measure , vilified Gill and the other Grange leaders . The anti-New Deal Oregon Journal featured news of the subordinate granges carried by the Associated Farmers gang . A wide variety of political sharpshooters hung around Grange halls trying to influence the election . Nearly 10,000 farmers voted . Gill and his ticket piled up a two-to-one victory . The vigilantes had their answer . ' Over the radio and in newspaper advertisements the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fervently pray that the initiative will pass . One automobile dealer who paid for such broadcasts admitted carelessly , " It is no secret that business men of Oregon are actively supporting the bill and providing most of the money for the campaign . " Last week the Grange circulated questionnaires listing fourteen major issues before the people , one of which was " curtailing labor unions . " Hundreds of dirt farmers answered the questionnaire and specified the issues in which they were most concerned . Bonneville Dam power came first , followed by marketing cooperatives and old-age pensions . Curtailing labor unions finished a poor eleventh , just above county roads . Singularly enough , the very individuals who now shed crocodile tears for labor-bedeviled farmers are the people who for years have ' kept the farmers from realizing their aspirations in regard to power , pensions , and cooperatives . The California ballot , too , contains a proposal aimed at the unions . Although not so drastic as the Oregon and Washington measures , it is bad enough . All sorts of restrictions would be placed on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sue unions for damages on the slightest provocation . The passage of an anti-picketing ordinance at the recent Los Angeles municipal election is an ominous sign that the bill may be adopted . Liberals in the state , however , find some comfort in the fact that it is not as extreme as the Oregon bill . Also , the free-speech limitations in the California measure may be found to be violations of the state and federal constitutions . It is certain that all three Pacific Coast initiatives contradict both the Wagner Act and the Norris-LaGuardia Act , if not the Constitution of the United States itself . A sad circumstance is that the trade unions are not entirely without blame for the conditions giving rise to the anti-labor initiatives now before the voters of the Pacific Coast states . William Green might not have to bewail the Oregon bill now if a year ago he-had warned Dave Beck against the use of the prize fighters and plug-uglies of the Teamsters ' Union " goon squad . " Louis Stark of the New York Times has called the bills a natural @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The A. F. of L. boycott of C. I. 0 . lumber mills has been a disgrace to labor . Even the reactionary Oregon Voter has described it as an act of " A. F. of L. ruthlessness to force men to give up the union of their choice . " But the C. I. 0 . has not shown great wisdom in choosing aliens for its two key positions in the Northwest : Harry Bridges of the longshoremen and Harold Pritchett of the lumberjacks . The prejudice against , aliens may not be a healthy one , but it exists and must be given consideration . The able but egotistical Pritchett has not helped matters by holding political meetings and telling people how to vote . Most Americans prefer to receive their political advice from citizens of the United States . These facts have given the Associated Farmers and their big-business backers an opportunity to exaggerate out of all proportion the " goon " and alien influence inthe labor unions . Yet in spite of everything it is my guess now that the initiatives will be defeated in Oregon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The people have become awakened to the real sponsorship of the bills ; the " outraged farmer " veneer is wearing thin . And the Washington Commonwealth Federation and the A. F. of L. have done a good job in persuading the Democratic Party in Washington to go on record against the scheme to destroy the unions . Senator Lewis Schwellenbach , the man in the Northwest closest to President Roosevelt , is expected to speak over the radio soon . This will help tremendously , since it will indicate to the electorate that the President is hostile to the bills  --  and Roosevelt 's popularity along the Pacific seaboard is as great as ever . 