@@469014

EUROPE 'S most important broadcasting corporation , being British and governmental to hoot , can not do business without heraldry . Its coat of arms has a little lion and a large legend : Nation shall speak Peace unto Nation Cavillers may discover in the word peace an interpolated afterthought , but the rest of the sentiment is sound . Nation-to-nation is in the backbone of radio , for better for worse , for broadcasters and listeners . All the world is here , thinks the set-owner at home with his dial . The broadcaster dare not cough lest the world hear that , too . World reach and internationalism seem so implicit that many rise up automatically to call it all blessed . One invention , at least , on the side of world peace . The idealist ? not to say evangelical ? tone of the British motto is echoed by the Americans , but the truth is that radio is broadcasting more war than peace . As among nations , broadcasting has developed a nationalist attitude out of all proportion to its international reach . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in every country . They meet it with pained denials . The pain is slightly dulled by misgivings , for they are not ignorant of the many frontiers where radio tension is acute . During the past few years high-powertransmitters have sprung up along European frontiers , facing one another as border fortresses used to do . Along the boundaries of Silesia four rival stations now stand within forty miles of one another . It is hardly likely that these locations are the evidence of a pacifistic policy . When Germany set up the Muhlacker station on the Alsace border and France countered with the powerful Strasbourg transmitter , a sigh of relief went up in international radio circles because the French refrained from broadcasting the " Marseillaise " during their station 's inaugural ceremonies last Armistice Day . Several storms have blown up in the British parliament over propaganda , broadcast in English , from a Moscow station . Frequently the opening of some country 's newest station is the signal for the transmitters of other countries to go wildly off their allotted bands and interfere . The Pope 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In the western hemisphere there is anything but peaceful freedom of exchange of programs with either Europe or South America . Brazil last summer was the scene of a revolution in which radio was a main weapon . When the rebels won ( the day after President Hoover decided against them ) rebroadcasts of the interesting event were about as welcome to stations in the United States as if Nicaragua had offered a program on American occupation . R. is an open secret among our broadcasting authorities that " the President does not want Europe to do much talking to us . " European governmental broadcasters have been just as receptive to American pronouncements . And quite suddenly has come a significant development . Nations , speaking precious little peace unto nations , have not been idle . In Europe during the past year they have begun a race in radio equipment that is carrying the world level of transmitting power to unheard of heights , three times the American limit ? an increase of range in radio affairs as startling as if gun calibers were doubled in the naval @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ governments have just discovered it , " remarks a European broadcaster . Is it possible that a race for loud speakers can be as serious as a race for armament ? Governments in our day are becoming more and more particular about words . Propaganda is a recognized sin , deadlier than the old seven . Governments , that after a century of journalism have hardly learned to tolerate freedom of comment in a foreign press , are aghast over a single phrase in a foreign broadcast . Bismarck in 1870 did no more to the Ems Telegram than our newspaper correspondents do daily with their " cablese , " but it proved an adequate casus belli . An inquiry into international broadcasting , made in the chief American and European headquarters , elicits three points in the defense of the broadcasters . First , they say international transmission is hampered by technical difficulties . Next they point to " the large number of international rebroadcasts we do make , " and the list contains quite impressive programs . Finally , they say their listeners do not care for foreign programs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the line of explanation in each country . Broadcasters are matter of fact . They begin with what they have rather than what they wish , and unless their position can be understood criticism gets nowhere with them . The technical problem comes first , however irksome that may he to those who can not see what world peace has to do with such technical details as gold movements , price levels , raw materials , and international communication companies . Broadcast engineers are primarily concerned with the business of communication , not peace propaganda . Their task is to build up or amplify the human voice so that , overcoming disturbances ( static ) , it will carry to distances where it can be caught and amplified again so as to be heard . For an ordinary low-power station they amplify this voice fifty billion times ; and they like to calculate that if the world population were gathered together to give tongue in unison , the combined voice power would total but one-thirtieth of that of the small transmitter . They do not like to talk about the Heaviside @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to a hundred and fifty miles up , off which short waves bounce to be picked up in distant lands . This roof is supposed to be the cause of that misbehavior termed " fading . " Because of it engineers say they can not schedule with certainty the reception of overseas transmissions . The simplest problem of international broadcasting is time ; a concert sent from New York at one o'clock Thursday on a spring night is heard in San Francisco on Wednesday night , in Poland on Thursday afternoon , in New Zealand on Friday , and in the Argentine in the autumn ? all within one second . The average listener , who wants it " all in a box with no monkey business but a button to turn " has no idea of the elaborate system of land lines , high-power transmitters , costly receiving stations that bring him a foreign rebroadcast . The hookup may require half a dozen government or private telephone links abroad , many of which have had to be reconstructed for broadcasting purposes . All this is costly . If the broadcasting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it naturally tries to establish a preferential position . If it has supplied capital abroad for the necessary equipment , it naturally asks exclusive rights . Exclusive agreements , though advertised as great steps forward in international exchanges , have shown a singular tendency to turn into stone walls between nations . The spectacle of the Foreign Minister of Germany compelled to go outside his own country in order to find the technical facilities for an invited broadcast illustrates a difficulty created for internationalism by these exclusive agreements . The Heaviside Layer is by no means the only technical barrier . The inquirer is struck by the lack of co-operation between radio engineers . Their primary allegiance is elsewhere . Last spring 's broadcast of the president of the new Spanish republic , being the first from Spain to the United States , raised a host of technical problems . Madrid regarded the American invitation as a contribution to international understanding , in marked contrast to the chilliness of the great European broadcasting authorities . But the engineering co-operation became a battle between the broadcasting interests of three nations and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ minute before the president spoke . If the Spaniards feel that our only interest in them is a commercial one , the circumstances of this broadcast for international good will probably did little to change their opinion . The argument of technical difficulties is coupled with the broadcasters ' belief in the superior quality of the home program . Asking at a New York broadcasting headquarters " why so little Europe ? " you are told " Americans are so accustomed to good programs that they will not stand for the inferior quality of European broadcasts . " Europeans cling to antiquated transmitters and " wo n't co-operate technically : they stick to long waves ; we want short waves . " The radio engineers give the impression that the longs are a sort of backwoods area while the shorts are the realm of the future . If you travel on to London and ask broadcasters there why they have so few American or Continental rebroadcasts , you are told that the standard of British broadcasting is so far ahead that " we doubt our people do much listening now to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we 've had some " ; and " why should we erect short-wave directional antenna ' to reach America , merely to have our programs pirated by stations there ? " Carrying the inquiry to Paris , broadcasters assure you that French offerings are now of such fineness and variety that " we get a volume of mail from foreign listeners , especially British . " In Berlin German broadcasters insist that " to interest our listeners in foreign things we have to send out our own traveling microphone to create worthwhile programs beyond our borders . " It 's a bit staggering to find broadcasters in every country singing the same tune , but all in complete dissonance . This in the very temple of internationalism , where the priesthood should have exact knowledge of what is on the air in foreign lands . After three thousand miles of travel you come to the conclusion that they can not all be right . You discover heretics in every station who listen frequently abroad and who smile slightly at the official reasons . When broadcasters speak of " quality " they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ transmission but rather to the low program standards of the benighted alien . The broadcasting authorities , confused by the conflicting opinions of engineers , musicians , and orators , have scarcely arrived at a standard of any kind for home programs , let alone a standard for checking up on the " quality " of productions originating thousands of miles away . Yet the quality excuse everywhere deprives listeners of their chance at foreign programs . Radio and broadcasting are polyglot inventions . To trace them you go back through De Forest ( American ) , Marconi ( Italian ) , Fleming ( British ) , Poulson ( Danish ) , Branly ( French ) , Hertz ( German ) , and right on ? still mentioning only the contributions deemed vital in their day ? to Duddell , Popoff , Blondel , Slaby , Fessenden , Rutherford , Tesla , Trowbridge , Onesti , Bell , Edison , Lodge , Steinheil , Rhumkorff , Morse , Wheatstone , Maxwell ? a world tour . By an irony , not uncharacteristic of the purely scientific realm , this international parentage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a celebration of broadcasting 's tenth anniversary in which , after a nod to Marconi , principal credit was confined to the research laboratories of the large American electrical companies . A British history of wireless contains mostly English names and the Marconi Co. , Ltd . A French encyclopedia emphatically ascribes all the blessings of " le broadcasting " to a savant , modeste autant gu'illustre , un Francais , do nt le nom brille d'une gloire mondiale . German books hark back as firmly to Hertz . Broadcasts on the genesis ofbroadcasting , if heard internationally , might be upsetting , much as American tourists are disturbed to find in three or four European countries bronze monuments to the inventor of the telegraph and telephone , all bearing foreign names . As if any American schoolboy could not name the Americans who invented those things , forgetting perhaps that Bell was born and trained in Scotland and Morse first designed his instrument on the ship home after a long stay in Europe . Protest at radio program monotony is constant . America has some six hundred stations , puts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the world , has the best there is and a great deal of the worst , is the originator of most of the new forms of the art . And yet ? and yet ? " is the result simply an organized monotony ? " Listeners complain of the same stunt or dance , the same tomtom or croon , on every wavelength . The variety of competitive production tends to a curious sameness , especially when the entertainment is taken over by a " sponsor " who must have a sure fire hit to risk his money on . He gives the public " what it wants " but the demand for programs from Europe and the rest of the world does not cease . Europe 's two hundred stations , taken together , offer greater variety . With a good set you can make fascinating journeys by radio , though you find the air surprisingly crowded and ripped with government stations ' code messages to fleets and colonies . You can pick up the music box signal of Budapest , the nightingale note used by Italian stations , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Strasbourg , the " Give akt " of Baltic stations , the " Hier sing " of German , the Dublin " Radio Ath Cliath e seo " and the " A-ah-hota see-a-ta " of Madrid . You have opera , religious services , radio playlets , and a good deal of debate . Stations offer to make you a linguist , and you can overhear English , French and German being taught in unintelligible tongues . Or you can switch to the cabarets of twenty lands , sounding much alike . And yet ? in this European playground and international university notable lacks soon appear . Talks on current politics are few and thin ; many stations ban them outright . The pungent comment of a William Hard is not for Europe . No illuminating controversial forums exist such as are broadcast by our organizations like the Foreign Policy Association . News communiques tend to be bare , arid , and suggestive of official points of view or semi-official news agencies . The suspicion dawns that the national monotony complained of in America bothers Europe as well . Rebroadcasts of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . No one knows the proportion of listeners with sets capable of fishing for their own foreign programs where they please in Europe , but it is probably small . Europe 's broadcasters take pride in catering to the small receiver and in " not promoting the sale of costly sets " ? a circumstance which increases the control of the broadcaster . The mass of listeners do not hear any programs except those of their nearest home stations . Like the American public , they are restricted for their international radio to home station rebroadcasts . The truth is that European broadcasters are afraid . At the start government laid hands on the radio to control it , as in the past they took charge of telegraphs and telephones , and frequently of railways , all " elements of the national defense . " Some countries still forbid broadcasting altogether . Most of the fears are domesticrather than international . Not a few authorities fear what happened in Madrid last December , when revolutionists seized the capital 's wireless at least long enough to proclaim the republic ? to such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last spring when the Spanish revolution succeeded . Not only were Mediterranean dictatorships opposed to broadcasting from Madrid , but in South America a panic of radio fears arose . That first exuberant broadcast of President Zamora to the United States was relayed aLso to the Argentine at the instance of a Buenos Aires newspaper . In Madrid you could hear , relayed back , the cheers of the appreciative throngs in Buenos Aires . The Argentine government immediately suppressed the offending newspaper , and there were no more broadcasts there . Later on Brazilian newspapers did something that would have terrified such proponents of controlled broadcasting as the United States and English authorities . They interviewed President Zamora , with all Spain and Brazil listening in , asking uncensored questions and receiving extemporaneous answers . This occurred about the time that the new Spanish government was making constant use of the radio to hold the republic together . During a day when many cities of Spain were overcast with smoke from burning convents , you could see , in one provincial capital , people packed a hundred deep outside every @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ end they went peacefully home , burning nothing , calmed by the winged words from Madrid . Of the thing 's power , governments know enough to fear deeply . Recently in Brazil the revolution made its way by radio , thus breaking down a newspaper boycott . President Washington Luis , in his efforts to censor radio , sent the police to all radio shops to get the names of purchasers of sets ; the police then went to the homes and took away the tubes ! When the revolution succeeded ( to the discomfiture of another Washington government beside Luis 's ) the vengeful listeners smashed and burned the shops of radio dealers who had betrayed them . In Venezuela the dictator-president Gomez , in order to combat rebel transmissions from over the border , forbade the ownership of sets to any but his supporters . General Uriburu , who seized the Argentine government last autumn , found himself nearly overthrown by the radioed speeches of the late Irigoyen cabinet members , sent from neighboring Uruguay . Uruguay closed the broadcasting only after diplomatic exchanges that included threats of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ develop , when the Spanish revolutionists pressed their new government to use broadcasting to tell the world , and Italy in particular , what Spain thought of dictatorships . Such use would have brought about exactly the situation that rose between Italy and France two years ago . Then a determined Italian exile ( who now lies buried in an Italian prison ) managed to rig up in a house back of Nice a small transmitter , with which he nightly talked to northern Italy . Until Paris , harried by Rome , tracked down and dismantled the station , those chats caused most of the trouble in the diplomatic exchanges of the two governments . These are examples of the radio in the hands of revolution ; its power is not less when it speaks as a government transmitter . The new high-power stations ranged along frontiers in Europe are seen by many as pure monuments to fear : lofty antennae marshalled face to face as if to dispute a border , in different languages . Wherever the late peace shifted boundaries and minority problems are difficult , there is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , much of the German , the Czechoslovakian , Hungarian , and others are scenes of what are frequently reported as radio wars . The clutter of bilingual stations in the German-Polish-Czech corner often broadcast words which are packed home again in diplomatic pouches . France is to enlarge the station near Nice ; is that caused by , or causing , Italian plans for a station near Genoa ? Rumania , protesting against a Soviet station close to Bessarabia , threatens a counter transmitter whose duty will be frankly to jam the Russian . Berlin for some time made weekly protest against wave interference , as well as propaganda , from Russia . The speechmaking in English , from Moscow , which provoked belligerent protest in the British parliament , was taken less seriously after it appeared that only the costliest , most aristocratic British receivers could pick up Moscow . Though Russia is most frequently charged with being the source of uneasiness , the striking fact is that all Europe has suddenly shifted to high-power broadcasting armament . While the United States still contends that 50 kilowatts is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one of 120 kilowatts , Prague 120 , Vienna likewise . Poland 's new station , supposed to be 120 , has just started up at 156 . Berlin and Paris are going up ; and so are the Russians . Europe watches dourly . The Russians , as part of the Five-Year Plan , are thinking of spending $45,000,000 for a station of 500 kilowatts and short-wave transmitters to reach anywhere . No wonder the League of Nations is to have a station ( whenever the fight is ended as to whether British or American with French capital shall predominate in the building ) , which station shall be left to the Swiss " in the case of a general war . " Another difficulty appears , which in the long run may be hard to handle . it is simply the inherent nature of radio asserting itself ! Broadcasting will out . Eight years ' experience dictates higher power , especially to serve small remote sets . Low power , centrally located , left each country with some very dense border populations with no national radio . These areas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ specifications , i.e. high power . This incites to equally high power just over the border , lest home programs there should be lacking in strength . The new stations " are not so much acts of war . They are acts of national pride . They should in future furnish more international cultural programs than ever before . " Governments concerned are not unconscious of the possibilities of an ether offensive . Government stations have been known to jump five kilocycles off their assigned wave length in time to jam the inauguration of another country 's latest radio 4 , pride.9 , Russia 's right to high power is unquestioned by European engineers . It is a vast country ; it conducts radio education on a scale demanded by vast illiteracy . Russia , moreover , was not invited to the conference in Washington , where world wave lengths were allocated . Nobody can blame her for crashing in where she can . Technically and culturally her broadcasting plans are unassailable . But it would belie Kremlin intelligence to suppose the plans unrelated to Russia 's interest in world revolution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have asked why it is that the life-saving ring of radio marine signal stations around England ( on which ships rely to steer ) happens to operate on a wave length neatly distorting Moscow out of intelligibility . Will nations circle themselves with stations trained to go red with rage against any waves from Russia ? Or would it be a more statesmanlike method to extend the law requiring set owners to take out a license to listen , and force them to add a license to think , revocable at police pleasure ? Meanwhile Europe 's keeper of the radio peace , the Geneva Broadcasting Office ( Union Internationale de Radio-diffusion ) , with admirable discretion tackles wave lengths , the interferences of the new high powers , the coming necessity for fewer stations . It finds technical rather than political menace in the new situation . For the spillover area ( where a station 's signals no longer are heard but do carry interference ) is vastly greater with the new giants . Recently its engineers worked hard and amicably over a baffling interference between new German and English @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ listeners meanwhile was not calm ; it was " Get the bloody fatherland off our airs . " Finally there 's another element being heard from : the amateur . Hitherto he has constituted in every country much the most international element in broadcasting . But he , too , helped turn what might have been the most peaceful of occasions ? the opening of the Vatican station by the Pope ? into a bellicose affair . Deliberate interference was so widespread that the papal message was ordered repeated for a dozen countries , while Moscow was indicted as the marauder by a righteous world . But it seems the interferences were various . Paris listeners , for example , found the Vatican wave jammed first by some distant northeastern station , second by a French station , and third by a French amateur ( repeating the Morse b with good power ) ? all of which cleared out as soon as the papal words ceased . Authorities whose idea is rigid control , rather than the fostering of free broadcasting and tolerant reception , have their work cut out for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Because they have the same language , the English-speaking peoples might have been expected to be the friendliest pioneers in international exchanges . Notable things have been done in rebroadcasting official or ceremonial programs . In addition , the National Broadcasting Company has to its credit annual speeches by its president on the imminence of international service , while the other great American chain , Columbia , has maintained for over a year an original and varied series of programs from London , now extended to the continent as well . The friendly relations of both with the British Broadcasting Corporation have not visibly broadened the latter 's programs . With no desire to dismiss lightly either results or efforts , the truth is that foreign programs constitute hardly one per cent of American or British offerings . But listeners have gone beyond samples and desire a real slice out of the overseas air-life . They have as much right to daily acquaintance with foreign broadcasts as they have to foreign dispatches in the daily press . Unexpected differences occur between the American commercial chains and the British government monopoly . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nightly broadcast of Big Ben 's boom , but wrath , perhaps justifiable , when the boom was rebroadcast as part of an American clock manufacturer 's " hour . " An American chain , experimenting , was so pleased with the clearness of reception from London that it sarrificed its announced program to give listeners a taste . Writing to thank the British , they were surprised to find their cultural enterprise dubbed piracy . A tangle grew out of a clear agreement for radiating in America a public speech by the Prince of Wales . The technical set-up required was a triumph of international engineering . Then Britain decided the occasion was unsuited for other than domestic hearing and it was cancelled amicably . But before news of the cancellation reached the engineers the speech was made , and all America survived it . Authorities were dismayed . Radio 's inherent appetite had appeared , as it will again . Who shall say what shall he " aired " and what not ? Films of the Prince speaking could wander through the world 's picture houses , and his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the radio is still a field of fears . What is ceremonial , what commercial , what " pure " ? The radio world has evolved no clear lines on this at all . The President of the United States saw fit to broadcast his labor opinions as part of the celebration of the activities of an American food concern during that concern 's " hour . " These activities included manufacturing abroad . The offer of that pronouncement as an attraction deserving a place in European programs ? well , the reactions of foreign governmental broadcasters , not to mention foreign food makers , can be left to the imagination . Such haphazard offers ( given the thin stream of overseas exchanges ) contribute less to international good relations and more to false habits of mind among broadcasters . " Britain pretends to regard all American broadcasting as commercial ; somebody will be making money out of any program exchanged with it ; holier than thou ' is the attitude . America , on the other hand , pretends to see all European programs as government propaganda , or else @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ retort . " The way of the international broadcaster is hard . Announcing H. G. Wells for a talk to America on science , Columbia 's representative in London remarked courteously that an introduction was superfluous since the novel reader who had not perused at least one Wells book could only be found in a museum of mummies . The remark was taken up in Parliament and made occasion for complaint against the British broadcasters for lending their facilities , although the talk had not been broadcast in Britain . Not long ago the British authorities refused to allow Bernard Shaw the use of microphone facilities to transfer a public speech to radio stations abroad . In the name of art , one country 's listeners may request the microphone for the eminent subject of another country , whose government monopoly may refuse , in the name of domestic tranquillity . Plainly , tolerance is the only way out . To give broadcasting its head is both sense and inevitable . Radio in the hands of the dictator and the bureaucrat may become a means of oppression and a source of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and constant interchange of thought between one country and another . Free trade in radio broadcasting may well prove a source of international understanding and good will . But the trend is not in that direction . Threats and fears , hostile radio barriers and controversies promise little for human kind . " Science , " which made for peace , devised the horrors , the gas , and liquid fires of the last war . The throttlingof radio may bring about a result quite as hideous . 