@@493864

The Next Four Years for Labor Articles have already appeared in the series of which this is a part , by Representative Maury Maverick , Secretary Henry Wallace , Former Under-Secretary Rexford G. Tugwell and Morris L. Cooke . The other contributors will be Thomas Reed Powell , Dr. ilithur E. Morgan , Bruce Bliven and George Soule. ? THE EDITORS . D URING the past four years organized labor has gained in strength and influence . Especially during the past twelve months has its prestige been rapidly extended both in the economic and political fields . As the result of experience acquired under Section 7 of the National Industrial Recovery Act of 1933 , as well as under the National Recovery Administration itself during the years 1933-35 , it became apparent that the workers in our great mass-production industries must be mobilized into industrial unions . Unless this was done , it was feared that the organized labor movement in America was destined to become a negligible factor in our economic , social and political life . Only about two million workers were represented by craft unions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In sharp contrast , about thirty million wage and salary workers in our basic manufacturing and mining enterprises were available for and sorely needed the benefits of unionization . It was in the light of these deplorable conditions that measures were inaugurated by the Committee for Industrial Organization during the past year to bring to these neglected workers the privileges of industrial freedom and the advantages of collective action . This movement has met with gratifying success . Approximately one hundred thousand steel workers have already been formally enrolled . Remarkable gains have also been made in the unionization of automobile , radio , rubber , electrical-manufacturing and other groups of employees of mass-production industries . ? While this campaign goes forward , as it undoubtedly will , with constantly accelerated force , the organized labor movement will greatly increase in power and prestige . Consequently , it envisions the next four years as a period which will afford an opportunity for increased constructive service to all groups of workers , men or women , skilled or unskilled , in overalls or white collars . The main emphasis of the CIO @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ come will , therefore , be placed upon organizationAComplete unionization of the mass-production industries is our primary objective ) In the industrial field , organization of the workers and the establishment of genuine collective bar gaining or cooperation between them and management on the basis of equality in economic strength are the first , essential conditions to real industrial performance . In its plan for the future , organized labor , therefore , assumes that employees and management will work together for the attainment of maximum industrial productivity . It recognizes that a life of reasonable leisure and plenty for all can not be hoped for through a continuance of the restrictive methods and monopolistic practices as to prices , production and wages that were characteristic of the inefficient system of finance-capitalism of former years . As a consequence , it proposes to use its strength to establish an industrial procedure of constantly increasing productive efficiency and constantly lower costs , prices and profits per unit of output , attended by a corresponding expansion in wages and salaries payments , or , in other words , a growth in mass-purchasing power @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , mines , factories and farms . To use an academic term that is rapidly becoming popularized , organized labor may , therefore , be said to be constructively striving for a " planned economy " under the auspices of the federal government . On the other hand , it should be added that it does not contemplate the creation of a large federal or state bureaucracy . The " planned economy " which is essential to the interests of labor , as well as other economic groups , is one based upon the fundamental , democratic idea of human well-being and culture . Its procedure will be determined by the fundamental principles and safeguards of industrial democracy . Starting from the basic guarantee ? labor 's right to organize and bargain collectively through freely chosen representatives ? it would lay down as a minimum basis of procedure certain other essential principles of industrial democracy as a condition to the operation of industry , such as : L A living wage for an unskilled laborer sufficient to maintain himself and family according to established budgetary standards on a level of reasonable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whether wage earners , salary workers or professional technicians ? to be compensated for their skill , responsibility , training and productivity by proper differentials. 2 . Shorter hours of work beginning with the six-hour day and the thirty-hour week . 3 . Prohibition of child labor . 4 . Women doing substantially the same work as men to receive the same compensation as men . These are the underlying principles of the movement for establishing industrial democracy in mining and manufacturing . Together with other guarantees they are supplementary to the general principle that December 23 , 1936 THE NEW workers should constantly share , in terms of higher rates of compensation and more leisure , in the productive gains of industry . Why are we striving to realize these objectives of industrial democracy through economic planning under federal auspices price and profit controls ? Because organized labor has discovered , along with other groups of our people , that the majority of our industrialists and financiers can not and will not govern industry in an enlightened and far-seeing way for the interest of wage and salary workers and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fifteen years is a conclusive record of the incompetency of this group : 1 . During the years 1923-29 , marvelous productive gains were improperly diverted to the small , privileged groups in control of finance and industry . Wage and salary workers were deprived of a fair participation in output and their families ruthlessly doomed to inadequate living standards . 2 . During the years 1930-32 , the masses of our people were abandoned to unemployment and indescribable suffering . Home , farm and security values were deflated to the brink of national chaos . 3 . During the period 1933-36 , as soon as the New Deal brought about a revival of profits in 1934 , industrial and financial leaders dropped all semblance of cooperation , and actively turned against it , consumed by the desire to restore themselves to power and to revive the discredited conditions of finance-capitalism of the year 1923-29 . Since the devastating defeat which these reactionary groups suffered at the polls last November , representatives of outstanding industrial groups claim to be able to see a new light and have been advocating an " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ labor knows , however , that all efforts in this direction will be fruitless until our basic industries are freed from the Bourbon financial dictatorship which now controls their policies . It is more than ever convinced that industry and finance must be subjected to a high degree of public regulation . This conclusion has come to labor leadership not only through its knowledge of the dominance of the directorates and officials of our basic industries by a sinister financial oligarchy , but also through actual experience with the industrial conditions which exist under our system of financecapitalism . Until recent years labor leadership believed that if industrial workers were guaranteed the right to organize and bargain collectively through freely chosen representatives , all other objectives could be accomplished through labor 's own initiative and effort . As the result of the experience of the United Mine Workers prior to and during the depression , however , it was learned that without orderly planning and the establishment of production , price and profit controls in coal and other overdeveloped and overcapacitated natural-resources industries , the right to organize would be ineffective @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to win for its membership proper wage and hour standards or a fair participation in output . Through subsequent experience under the National Recovers ' Administration , organized labor discovered that the realization of its fundamental program depended upon national regulation and establishment of price , production and profit controls , not only in our natural-resources industries but also in our basic manufacturing industries . At the height of prosperity in 1929 , the Brookings Institution , for instance , found that our industrial system was operating at only 81 percent of capacity . That labor leadership realizes that such constructive planning is necessary to its future success is obvious from its past record , its present program and its future objectives , as exemplified by the Watson , Davis-Kelly and Guffev coal bills , the Ellenbogen textile bill , the Wood steel-control bill , the original NIRA and the new CDs'Iahones- bill . the Wagner-Connery labor-relations act and the Black thirty-hour-week bill . As to constructive legislation to be submitted to the forthcoming session of the Congress , no specific measures or general program have as yet been formulated . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bill , which passed the House and failed to come to a vote in the Senate during the closing days of the last Congress . It is definitely planned to submit a new bill after the new Congress convenes , more extensive and far-reaching , if possible , than the one which failed of enactment last summer . My personal opinion is that labor 's general program for supplementing political democracy with sound measures of industrial democracy should be embodied in a new bill based upon the authority of the federal government to license corporations engaged in interstate commerce , the principles and standards of industrial democracy to be made a condition of the issuance of such licenses . The United Mine Workers originally proposed licensing as a method of federal regulation . It was the procedure used in the Watson coal bill of 1927 , and the Davis-Kelly bill of 1931-32 . Federal licensing was also adopted in the first draft of the NIRA of 1933 , but was later superseded by the device of voluntary codes of fair competition . It seems to me also , however , that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to designate such new general legislation as a " National Industrial Recovery Act . " Because of the stimulating effect of New Deal policies , the country is rapidly approaching economic recovery in the conventional or traditional sense of the word . What we are now primarily interested in , therefore , is constructive economic reform . It is , - of course , understood that such proposed legislation , or other pending bills having to do with labor standards and conditions , have , as the result of recent decisions , inferentially at least fallen under the ban of the Supreme Court . iIoreover , it is evident that a federal license for corporations engaged in interstate commerce could not alone be utilized to establish for industrial procedure principles and standards that the Supreme Court has already declared were beyond the power of Congress to impose upon industry . In other words , it is apparent that before we can be assured that our national economic system can be required to function in accordance with our democratic institutions , some adequate constitutional amendment must be adopted , or some legislative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to regulate the jurisdiction of inferior federal courts , or the appellate jurisdiction and procedure of the Supreme Court . In this connection , it is my own conviction that both methods of constitutional reform should be utilized concurrently . In the first place , there should be added to legislative measures designed to establish labor standards and public control , provisions denying jurisdiction on grounds of unconstitutionality to the lower federal courts , and prohibiting appeals on the same grounds to the Supreme Court . The use of this legislative method by Congress would prevent the Supreme Court from nullifying constructive legislation for economic and labor reforms on grounds of unconstitutionality . There is a fundamental democratic principle involved , however , in the present controversy as to the Supreme Court that can not and should not be thus more or less permanently avoided through the use of the powers of Congress to prescribe the procedure of the federal courts . In other words , we can not contemplate the continuance of a condition under our Constitution whereby the will of the peo pie expressed through their duly elected represen. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of nine Justices appointed for life . When directly faced , this situation means that we are ruled by a judicial oligarchy and are not a democratic , self-governing republic . In addition to legislative action by Congress eliminating the appellate jurisdiction of the Supreme Court , therefore , a clear-cut and comprehensive constitutional amendment depriving the Supreme Court of power to question the constitutionality of any act of the Congress , should be passed by the House and Senate and submitted to the people for ratification through conventions in the several states . This fundamental question could be thus effectively settled by the people in accordance with the provisions for amendment contained in the Constitution itself . The advantage and , to my mind , the necessity of the twofold method of concurrent action ? legislation by Congress restricting Court procedure and the formal submission of a constitutional amendment to the people ? are that quick legislation by Congress would lift the ban of the Supreme Court upon labor , agricultural and industrial constructive reforms which would be critically needed during the more extended period of time required for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the adverse and impossible attitude of the Supreme Court , it is an emergency situation which confronts us today , and one which necessitates immediate legislative relief , as well as the long-time action required to obtain a constitutional amendment . 