@@255502

ILL WIND - James Hilton - Morrow ( $2.50 ) . <P> Though not a popular theory nowadays , it is still held by some that , in Orator Edmund Burke 's words : " A common soldier , a child , a girl at the door of an inn , have changed the face of fortune , and almost of Nature . " That is the thesis of Author Hilton 's circumstantial Ill Wind : without ever obtruding himself or appearing to state a case , he makes it brilliantly clear how far a single action can fling its consequences . <P> Charles Gathergood , British Agent in the Malaysian island of Cuava , in trying to do his duty caused the death of an English planter and ' his own trial and disgrace . As a far-off but linked result Soviet Deputy Tribourov was shot by a woman in Geneva . Missing links : an intelligent but unattractive English spinster , who had followed the Gathergood case in the papers with indignant sympathy , was vacationing in Switzerland , spied a lonely-seeming Britisher she was sure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ she proffered herself ; he left her and Switzerland in haste . On the train he met an attractive young Rumanian , Nicholas Palescu , with a crazy invention for sale . The Britisher 's firm later bought the rights to the invention , gave Palescu the money to go to the . U. S. , become social secretary to world-famed Hollywood Star Sylvia Seydel . Nick became a star too ; sickened of it , ran away to South America , was killed in an earthquake far in the interior . Leon Mirsky , Russian refugee turned journalist , sent to Maramba to write up the earthquake , recognized Nick 's dead body as live news . In his fever to get to a telegraph office , send the news , he started off through the jungle by himself , got hopelessly lost . Explorer Max Oetzler was sent to find him , discovered him reverted to savagery , insane , living with a native woman . He had to write what he found to Mirsky 's only relative , a sister employed as a chambermaid in a Geneva hotel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fall in love with child-like Soviet Deputy Tribourov , though she hated Bolsheviks worse than poison , had even spent the night with him . When the letter came , her revulsion of feeling was so great she went to the League of Nations Conference Hall , shot Tribourov , then killed herself . In England Henry Elliott , one of Britain 's biggest experts on foreign affairs , on his 60th birthday was campaigning for a necessary but unimportant seat in Parliament ; the news sent him scooting to London , ready to fly to Geneva . Luckily Tribourov recovered ; Elliott could go on with his campaign . A colleague mentioned Gather-good s name at the club that evening ; both soundly agreed that " even a first-rate civil service has to hare its occasional scapegoats-Pontius Pilate , for instance . " adjourned upstairs for a glass of Napoleon brandy .                     