@@493724

The Great Fascist Plot DESPITE the incredulity with which the metro-politan press has greeted General Smedley D. Butler 's revelation of the Wall Street plot to induce him to lead a Fascist army of veterans on Washington and take over the government on behalf of a couple of stock brokers , we know of no good reason why it should not be true . General Butler has a dramatic temperament and a sense of publicity , but he does not habitually tell lies . There is no evidence that he is so far from sane as to have systematic delusions . His story is corroborated by a reporter who interviewed the prime movers in the affair . The fact that it was denied by the alleged conspirators carries little weight ; they would certainly deny it , as long as it did not come off . And the fact that such an attempt would be silly does not make it incredible . There is no more incompetent , ignorant or reckless group of persons in the United IS THE NEW States , or probably in the world , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plumbing the depths of their panic and their folly . And anyone who has listened in recent months to the private conversations of the rank and file of bankers , brokers , or even many business men , can testify that there exists among a considerable number of them a temper that would easily engender attempts to upset American democracy if necessary to protect wealth and privilege . Indeed , active and conscious Fascist movements are by no means rare . If all this be true , why should we not regard the plot more seriously ? The money supposed to be ready would not , of course , have sufficed to pay an army of 500,000 men . But more might have been made available if the movement had ' got a start . The details of the coup d'etat as revealed by General Butler sound childish indeed ? forcing the President to dismiss his present Cabinet and appoint the chief conspirator Secretary of State , and then deposing Mr. Roosevelt if he would not go along , so that this dictator might succeed him ? all this sounds like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fill the minds of many persons , and it is probable that the plans included not merely such crude maneuvers but others more germane to ordinary publicity and politics . No , the futility of the affair lies not so much in detailed miscalculations of its sponsors as in its whole setting and direction . If we are to have a dangerous Fascist movement in this country it will have quite a different origin and leadership . The first thing to remember about Fascism is that it springs originally , not from resistance to change on the part of the privileged , but from an insistent demand for change on the part of the masses . The people must have undergone a period of confusion and suffering , and they must have become convinced that neither traditional government nor the ruling economic powers can or will help them . A second term for Hoover would have been the ideal setting for American Fascism . A drift of Roosevelt to the right in response to the pressure of the economy leagues and the reactionary industrialists and bankers could produce the setting now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crushing debt burden , present the people with a spectacle of legislative confusion and incompetence , convince them that the existing executive has no sufficiently drastic plans for improvement and is under the thumb of sinister private interests , and you have the fields of popular sentiment plowed and harrowed for the Fascist seed . The second point to remember is closely allied with the first . Since the conditions that are appropriate to Fascism are those giving rise to truly revolutionary sentiment among the masses , the successful Fascist leader is a man of the people , a dedared opponent of the bankers and the ruling economic powers generally . Mussolini was originally a syndicalist labor leader ; Hitler was an outcast house painter . In the beginning , a Fascist party is // not so much the opponent as the rival of the older revolutionary and labor movements such as Communism , Socialism or trade unionism . It promises the masses something that sounds vaguely similar to the goals of such movements . It weans away their less well informed and more mercurial elements . Do not forget that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their rise toward power much emphasis was placed on the Socialist half of the agitation . For this reason alone , anyone remotely connected with Wall Street would be an impossible burden on a Fascist movement at the beginning . If you are looking for an American dictator look for a Huey Long , not for a stock broker . When a Fascist movement gets a start , it differentiates itself from the proponents of true social revolution by the vagueness and conflicting tenets of its creed , and by the unscrupulousness of its appeal . Everything else is sacrificed to the effort to gain power . It satisfies the demand of the young for " action " by promising them a place in the world , arming them , giving them a ritual and a sort of perverted glory , and setting them violently upon , anyone who dares to oppose the movement . While promising workers socialism and the unemployed jobs , it appeals to the distressed small business man by assuring him freedom from the competition of the large , and enlists agricultural interests by envisioning a return @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . At the same time it conciliates the big industrialists and bankers by inveighing against the dangers of Marxism . The fact that its promises are mutually inconsistent makes no difference ; this is not detected by the untutored and is glossed over in the face of criticism by a general attack on reason , logic and science . The whole conglomerate mess is fused , for political purposes , by an emotional mysticism centered about the supposed mission of the race or nation , and hatred of scapegoats such as Jews or foreigners . Above everything , an exaltation of the leader , to whom unquestioning loyalty is exacted , satisfies a natural desire to dump one 's perplexities on a messiah . After such a movement begins to gain real strength , it is likely to be taken over by large capitalist interests , but hardly until then . They recognize it as a dangerous enemy , but one that can be converted into a useful ally against organized labor and true social revolution . Here enters another factor . If the big interests are not genuinely fright . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they are not so likely to support a movement of this unconventional and unreliable character . Thus the strength of the labor movement itself , and the intensity of its challenge to the existing system , is a factor in the success of Fascism . To prevent Fascism , a genuine labor movement must not only be strong , but strong enough to dominate the situation . It can not with impunity seriously threaten revolution for long without achieving it . A Fascist movement , in turn , is not likely to be successful in the end without substantial and widespread backing from moneyed interests . Without such backing , its hectic course can be reversed ; it is likely to die down as quickly as it rises , since its intellectual and institutional foundations are not solid . ( Nazism was actually waning before Hitler became Chancellor . ) With plenty of money , however , it can pay its armed cohorts , buy its uniforms , stage its demonstrations and use all the unscrupulous technique of modern propaganda . And at the crucial moment it can seize the government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the scenes . We are , so far , protected against Fascism in the United States by the fact that the national administration is doing something about the depression , however ineffectively , and that large numbers of people have confidence in it . We are protected by the fact that Congress has acted and not just debated . We are protected by the fact that the larger aggregations of capital are not seriously alarmed about immediate revolution . It may also be true that such a movement would have harder sledding in this country than in Italy and Germany because of our longer tradition of democracy and the lack here of the national inferiority complex which bedeviled both of them after the War . But if actual conditions become and remain bad enough , a revolutionary crisis will eventually arise . Then the only thing that can save us is an intelligent ability to distinguish the true revolution from the false , a well informed movement of workers and their allies , strong and resolute enough to prevail . 