@@469303

tropics have been a bugaboo since long before the days of Copernicus , when nobody was thought to be able to live in them at all . In those days the world was considered much smaller than it is to-day , and much nearer the sun . The burning tropics were comparable to the frozen north , as regions where human life could not exist . But in the fifteenth century Prince Henry the Navigator upset that idea , by sending ships farther and farther south , till they came to a place where the sun stood vertically overhead at noon , without disastrous effects on the crews . Since that day our ideas about the tropics have had their ups and downs . To-day we look . on the equatorial regions as areas where dark-skinned natives can get along quite well , but where the white man has his difficulties . Except perhaps in such spots as the Panama Canal Zone , where millions have been spent in making over the country and where employes are picked men , carefully supervised , the white man has not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as he does the temperate regions . After almost five centuries of effort , he is still afraid of the effect of the tropics on his health ; for example , British residents in India consider it an absolute necessity to send their children to school in England , largely because of the unhealthful effects of the climate , mentally , morally , and physically . And it is generally agreed that pioneer workcannot be carried on in the equatorial regions without the help of the natives . I must admit at once that the tropics are much too diversified to be spoken of with one collective word . There are highland and lowland tropics , deserts , jungles , and mountains , hot tropics and relatively cool ones , tradewind belts , seashore regions , islands , and vast inland stretches that are sometimes accessible by rivers and sometimes not . Each has its particular health problems . In this article I shall confine my discussion to those regions in which white men have still been unable to establish themselves without going to seed or losing their health ? which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that my own experiences and observations took place in the Amazon Basin and on such rivers as the Rio Negro , which is considered one of the most unhealthy rivers in a region which is commonly considered the most unhealthy large region on earth . After three years of residence and travel in other and more pleasant parts of the south-tropical zone , I entered the Amazon Basin on my last expedition with my full quota of ideas on what the tropical climate does to a man 's health and energy . I left the Basin almost a year later , pretty well run down , and thoroughly torn up by malaria and other forms of tropical disease . In the meantime I had seen a great many white men who eloquently gave testimony to the correctness of our current ideas . In the language of my lecture manager who wrote a circular about me , I saw white men rotting like the vegetation ? though I also saw others who staunchly refused to rot . Most of my observations showed that the white men along the many thousands of miles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lot , taken by and large . But I also came away with one large question in my mind and with sufficient evidence to make the question seem reasonable . " Are the tropics unhealthy , or are white men in the tropics unhealthy because of the foolish way they try to live there " If the tropical climate and environment are unhealthy for white men , then certain conditions must be present to make them so . Glancing through the discussions of climatologists , geographers , and medical men found in my own very small library , I find mention of enough of these conditions to serve for the present discussion . Ellsworth Huntington talks at some length about the debilitating effect of a warm , moist , and monotonous climate , and is concerned about native women who expose themselves and thereby ruin the moral fiber of white men . C. T. Loram , writing about Africa , talks about " the debilitating influence of a tropical and sub-tropical climate , the prevalence of insect-transmitted bacterial diseases , and the depredations of stock-consuming wild beasts " that " make @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ natives . " Robert De Courcy Ward lists the physiological effects of the tropics as follows : increased respiration ; decreased pulse action ; profuse perspiration ; lessened activity of stomach and intestines , and tendency to digestive disorders ; an ill defined condition of debility ; increased activity of the liver ; surexcitation of the kidneys . Also he goes on to say that an anaemiccondition in the moist tropics is widespread . Using myself as a test case , I can testify to the correctness of most of the effects enumerated by Professor Ward . I know I came out of the Amazon Basin somewhat anaemic , though I ascribed that condition to the malaria bugs in my blood stream that took a great delight in destroying red corpuscles . Looking over the rest of Ward 's dreadful symptoms , I suspect that I could add a few of my own to them . But my own experiences with bad health are of small consequence for the purpose of this discussion . I was an inexperienced newcomer to the jungle rivers who had not yet learned how to take @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when he did fall ill , was a victim of the bad living conditions found among the region 's inhabitants , every bit as much as of the climate . What does count is the fact that I saw a good many men in the region who had lived there for many years , who had been born there , and who were obviously not healthy . They seemed completely to bear out all the things I had learned about the tropics before I went to the Amazon Basin . But other things beside climate and environment may be inimical to health . Let us look for a minute at the conditions which make for good health in our own country . An old German doctor once told me his opinion on the subject , summing up the fundamental necessities for health as being only two : " Viel Lachen and ein guter Stuhlgang . " Much laughter and good elimination , Although I am no medical man , I am arrogantly inclined to agree with him . And I venture to go farther and enumerate four fundamental things that should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a normal human being from a man who has " gone to seed in the tropics . " I list them in the order in which it is convenient to discuss them , which does not denote any precedence in possible importance . First we have the matter of proper psychological adjustment , of which the ability to laugh is almost invariably a symptom . It is a vague , indefinable quality that might be called adaptability , but that invariably goes hand in hand with a sense of responsibility and a man 's desire to do his share of the work of his world . The precise relation between psychological adjustment and physical health has not yet been determined , but most physicians and all psychiatrists seem to agree that such a relation exists . The next fundamental need for health , preached by every instructor in grammar school hygiene , is exercise , found either in physical labor or in active play . If my reader agrees with me so far I think he will also agree with me in the claim that no matter how beautifully a man @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ does physically , he can not remain in good health unless he feeds himself with the properly balanced diet . Finally we come to a fundamental health need that applies more to masses of men than to individuals , and that grows in importance as the masses grow in volume . It might be expressed in the simple word sanitation , which is meant here to include medical care and instruction as well . I doubt if any doctor would disagree with me when I offer the opinion that any community in the United States with proper sanitation and medical supervision , where the inhabitants were individually protected against illness by proper psychological adjustment , proper exercise , and proper diet , could hardly help being pretty healthy , granting good human stock and livable climatic conditions . If we were magicians , we could then easily test ourcase against the tropics by moving this whole Utopian community a few thousand miles farther south , taking care that absolutely nothing is changed except climate and environment . If the health and the energy of the inhabitants then began to run down @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new thing that had been introduced into their lives , the hot moist climate . We can not perform this feat of magic . But I hope to make it clear that the nearest thing to moving such a community to the tropics has been achieved many times already , with distinct indications that we have been taking far too many things for granted about the effect of hot climate on the white man . II I wonder if any investigation has ever been made of why so many white men go to the tropics in the first place . Granting the obvious fact that our own civilization has been expanding and pushing outward for centuries , and that there has been distinct need for white men in almost all parts of the world , I am here concerned with individual reasons . Faced either by necessity or by a strong desire , a man leaves his home . The question is , why does that particular man go south rather than , for instance , to Saskatchewan ? Might it not be because he has heard beforehand that in Canada @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ climate , with rigorous winter cold , while he has always heard that in the tropics he can live without much work or discomfort ? Scientists back him up in this peculiar opinion . In his book Climate , Ward quotes an old expression of a wide . spread point of view as follows : " A nature too rich , too prodigal of her gifts , does not compel man to snatch from her his daily bread by his daily toil . A regular climate , the absence of a dormant season , render forethought of little use to him . Nothing invites him to that struggle of intelligence against nature which raises the forces of man to so high a pitch , but which would seem here to be hopeless . Thus he never dreams of resisting this all powerful physical nature ; he is conquered by her ; he submits to the yoke , and becomes again the animal man , forgetful of his high moral destination . " The idea is wrong in substance and vicious in effect . There is not a climatic region in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ efforts to adapt himself . If he fails to make those efforts we can hardly blame the climate for the fact that after a few years he is no longer much of a man . And if our scientific ideas are calculated to lure the weakest and most poorly adjusted among us into a region , it seems hasty to blame the region for their eventual decay . There are a good many of us who would gladly forget our high moral destinations if we could live in peace and comfort without doing any work , but when a man moves himself and his family and belongings thousands of miles just so that he may escape a little work and what he considers the discomforts of winter , the chances are that he never had a very high moral destination to begin with . He went to seed long before he went south , and the fact of his moving is a symptom rather than a cause . He is headed for disaster no matter where he is . And as we lack what the scientists call a control , we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his new climatic environment . We must also rule out his children as evidence . With all the fuss we make to-day about the importance of early environment on psychology , we must admit that the children of thesemen did not have parents who were able to give them a proper start and a proper attitude toward themselves and their lives . The men who went to the tropics for the purpose of engaging in man-sized jobs are easily spotted , since they are almost invariably more healthy and more alert than the others . A little more than a year ago I descended the Brazilian Rio Negro from Venezuela to the city of Manaos . I found the health conditions appalling . The white population was generally listless , whining , and addicted to patent medicines . The Venezuelans had warned me that the Brazilian Rio Negro was an unhealthy stretch of water . The condition and the complaints of the Brazilians , not to mention my own sad state , bore this out . On this trip , however , I formed the highest respect for the Salesian fathers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years before in order to carry their gospel to the Indians and establish hospitals and schools on the river . These men had often suffered from tropical ailments , but in many years of residence in one of the most unhealthy spots of the Amazon Basin they had never developed that apathy and listlessness which mark the man who has gone to seed . From sun-up till sundown they labored both physically and mentally , erecting their own buildings , teaching in their schools , preaching in their churches , and curing the sick in the hospitals . They retained that curiosity about their world which marks the alert man . Purely for amusement they kept meteorological records and studied and reported ethnological facts . These men had been ill ; many of us become ill at times even in more favored climates . But they had not let their illnesses ruin their spirits . From the fact that they were still able to labor , that they delighted in laboring , that they were still able to laugh , they distinguished themselves from other white men on the river . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and effect from a mere juxtaposition or synchronization of facts . Let it be enough here . to state that these missionaries had not moved from Europe to the South American tropics in order to escape work . They had moved there to find it . They knew very well before they left Europe that they were going to pit themselves against a bad stretch of country . Moving down the river , we come to the city of Manaos . This city to-day is not considered particularly unhealthy . It is spotlessly clean and its inhabitants lead what we in New York would consider normal lives in spite of the fact that they live in what we consider an abnormally unhealthy climate . Being in a city , they can not give in to the temptation to live without work . They live by office work and recreation just as we do . Bananas do not drop into their open mouths . Bananas and all other foods have to be bought in the stores and the markets . This means that a man has to work whether he likes it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ working he has to move out of town and squat on some river bank . The mere fact that Manaos is a modern city with no great plantations around it ( the jungle comes right up to the city limits ) acts as a selective factor that tends to weed out the men who would heed the false lure of an effortless life . What is the result ? There is a small colony of Englishmen who moved to Manaos some twenty years ago in a desire to make themselves rich on the rubber boom . The rubber boom collapsed and left the Englishmen stranded high and dry so far as any easy wealth is concerned . But theycarry on their business , working hard , living in normal pleasant homes , getting their share of recreation , and laughing at any idea that the tropics themselves are unhealthy . They have their bouts with malaria , which to them seem hardly more serious than our own bouts with the common cold . They pick up a touch of hookworm now and again and knock it out much more rapidly than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ flu . They maintain a city club and a country club . Every Sunday they move in a body to the country club to play tennis and then go swimming in a pool of their own construction . I can testify that there is nothing effeminate about their games of tennis , nothing whatever to show the effects of that increased respiration , decreased pulse action , and ill-defined condition of debility ascribed to the climate . They spurn cork helmets and indulge in one of the most strenuous outdoor games known to man without even shirts on their backs , getting a tremendous laugh out of the fears and the solemn preachings of those of us who consider their climate unhealthy and their sun dangerous . These are men who are obviously endowed with something like normal psychological adjustment . All through the Amazon Basin one finds individuals and groups of men who would rather work than escape from working . They are invariably more healthy than their fellows , On the lower Beni River , very near the area that has the record for high mortality among white men @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cachuela Esperanza , which distinguishes itself from all its neighbors by being clean , neat , healthy , and as active as any factory town I have ever seen in the United States . It is dominated by Senor Nicolas Suarez , who established himself on the river in 1883 and is still going strong , a grand old war horse well along in the eighties , full of vigor , health , and new ideas . He too distinguished himself from his fellows by moving to the jungle regions in order to do things rather than to escape from doing them . Numerous similar examples could be quoted here if space permitted . There was old man Stone , for instance , the American who pulled the town of Itacoatiara up by its bootstraps during the sixty-odd years that he lived there after having been disappointed in the Californian , Australian , and Peruvian gold rushes ; he was in his nineties when he died . There is the Englishman , Mr. Massey , who is bodily lifting the city of Iquitos out of the depression dumps to-day . There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Rio Negro territory late in the eighteenth century , who through his own efforts and enthusiasm made the Rio Negro a better place for the white man than it ever was before or since . One is tempted to wonder what men like these could do in the Amazon Basin if they had good material to work with , if they were surrounded by the kind of pioneer stock that moves to the Peace River Valley rather than by the kind that picks the tropics for a nice lazy life or is brought up by parents who had the idea of a nice lazy life . One suspects that a lot of the tropical debility and the surexcitation of the kidneys would begin to disappear . III Turning to the question of physical exercise and physical labor , we find a curious state of disagreement among the scientists . On the one hand they tell us that exercise is essential to health and on the other hand they tell us that it must be indulged in very carefully in the tropics , because there it is apt to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was warned so often about the danger of " overdoing , " both by word of mouth and the printed page , that I could not have carried on my work if I had followed all this sage advice . On every hand white men are urged not to exert themselves unduly in the tropics , to take things easy and never to miss the afternoon siesta . In other words , men are urged to indulge in that very physical inactivity which would be a great danger to health even in more favorable climates . While I was working on this article , I discussed its subject at the Explorers ' Club of New York . Five tropical veterans were in the group with which I took up the matter and all five of them agreed that a man not only can work in the tropics , but he had better keep himself pretty active if he wants to stay healthy there . Some of them reported that all the octogenarians they had ever met in the tropics had been men who all their lives had shown an arrogant contempt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ man must take it easy in a hot climate . I discussed the point with Mr. Desmond Holdridge of the Brooklyn Museum , who has spent a good deal more time in the Amazonian tropics than I have , and who made me jealous when I traveled with him there by his boundless energy and vitality . As might have been expected , he gave a snort of disdain at the very thought that the white man ca n't work in the tropics . Holdridge could work there ; so could his companion , Emerson Smith , and so could I. But we were temporary visitors . Holdridge pointed out that the white ranchers on Marajo Island , at the mouth of the Amazon River , are strapping , big , active people , as fine examples of good mental and physical health as one could find anywhere . Why should they be so different from white men elsewhere on the Amazon ? Perhaps the difference lies in the fact that the Marajo men are ranchers , while most of the others , with the exception of those who live in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the planters ' and traders ' work is done by native peons , and what little they do is done in sheltered offices or shops . Indulging in the kind of business that can he carried on largely by supervised native labor , they find it unnecessary to work and are , therefore , firm believers in the idea that a white man can not labor in that climate . But the men on Marajo Island are cattlemen who can not keep track of their possessions by walking a few steps in the morning , poking about a bit , and pointing majestically with their sticks to work that has to be done . If a cattleman wants to keep track of his herds roaming over endless plains he has to spend most of his time in the saddle and to lead an active outdoor life no matter what the climate and no matter what the weather . Marajo Island should be carefully studied by all those scientists who are convinced that the tropics are unhealthy unless they are transformed through the expenditure of millions of dollars as was the Panama @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not newcomers . They are descendants of the colonizers who established themselves there some three centuries ago . With their lands they inherited the idea that it is not necessary for native races to make every physical effort for them . Might not that have some bearing on their superior health ? By and large it is perfectly true that white men in those regions need darkskinned laborers . But whether that need arises out of physical or psychological conditions is a question that has yet to be answered . If a man moves to the Equator with a fixed idea that he will die if he tries to work and that he must let the natives do his labor forhim , and if he finds plenty of natives whom he can hire cheaply to do his labor , the chances are that he will spend the rest of his life without ever having an opportunity to change his opinions . His son will have the same opinions drilled into him very early in life and will inherit the same native labor supply that his father found before him . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ man can not work in that region , and the fact that he has to keep dosing himself with patent medicines all his life will prove to him that the tropics are essentially unhealthy . Earlier in this article I quoted C. T. Loram on the impossibility of doing pioneer farming in certain parts of Africa without the aid of the native . Mr. Loram goes on to say , ' Besides , he ihe native is there . Why not use him ? " Might not that be the nigger in the woodpile ? There are hundreds of whites in the Panama Canal Zone to-day who would be justly offended at any implication that they do not work . Their lives are often as active as those of people living in New York . Their experience and that of employes of the United Fruit Company are slowly breaking down the belief that white men can not work in the tropics . Another experiment , far greater in scale , and promising to be far more conclusive in the evidence that it will some day offer , is the white-Australian policy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ colored labor . The Australian aboriginals are too few in number and too poor as labor material to count very heavily as a laboring class . For years a number of white men on the sugar plantations of tropical Queensland have indulged in the luxury of doing their own physical labor and have not only not broken down in health but seem actually to have benefited to the extent of being stronger and more alert than other settlers in similar regions . The use of native labor has effects on the white man more insidious than the simple one of keeping him from doing any work . The moral effect of having everything done for him by somebody else is recognized to be of doubtful value ; this is undoubtedly one of the reasons why Englishmen in India send their children to England fairly early in life . The condition also breeds a great deal of race prejudice which is probably detrimental in many ways . In New York and London and on our Western plains a man is allowed to be himself and to do and live about as he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a white man and maintain the superiority of the white race , largely by a careful refusal to do any work . In the Amazon Basin the Indians do most of the labor while the white men keep shop , do office work , and shun the sun and fresh air . One apparent result is that an unhealthy Indian is just as much of a rarity in the Amazon Basin as a healthy white man . IV Regarding the third of the fundamental necessities for health enumerated earlier , I can speak only for the part of the Amazon Basin that I visited . But here the testimony was eloquent . In December , 1931 , I ascended the Orinoco River . I passed above the Maipure rapids and came to a stretch of country in which the collapse of the rubber boom has put a stop to practically all commercial traffic with the outer world . Most of the white men who were in this region ten years ago have left it by this time . The few remaining ones are practically self-supporting and can produce virtually nothing that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . What goods still can be imported are so limited in quantity that foodstuffs are ruled out . These whites produce their own food by farming , hunting , and fishing . They grumble about their isolation , but put a certain amount of gusto into their grumbling . They seem comparatively healthy , do a great deal of laughing and joking , and are on the whole much more lively than any similar group I found anywhere else on the jungle rivers and away from the cities . Negotiating the Yavita-Pimichin portage to the Rio Negro and the Amazon Basin , I descended the Negro and eventually crossed the Brazilian border . Here my transport troubles were over because here I could do away with native dugouts and Indian crews , and travel on the launches and steamers that make regular trips on the liver between Manaos and the VenezueloBrazilian frontier . I had expected the Brazilians to consider themselves much better off than their Venezuelan neighbors to the north . Instead of that I found that my new friends did more complaining than the others , and that they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the unhealthfulness of the Rio Negro . About this time I caught malaria and began to develop a terrific craving for fresh foods , which were unobtainable . There was plenty to eat on the river but it almost invariably consisted of beans , rice , dried fish , and dried meat , with only a rare turtle or fresh thicken thrown in as an insufficient and tantalizing bit of relief . Here the white men did not have to plant or hunt things in order to keep from starving . The general social scheme was as follows : The whites were business men who staked the Indians to run into the jungle and gather rubber , balata , palm fibers , and Brazil nuts . The presence of commercial transport allowed these products to be shipped to Manaos in return for such foodstuffs as could withstand the lack of ice without being as expensive as canned goods . The result was obviously malnutrition . It may seem rash for a non-medical man to make so definite a statement , but I find myself borne out by the observations of Dr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In 1924 and 1925 Dr. Rice led an expedition to the Rio Branco which devoted much of its energies to a medical survey of that region . Of the settlers on this river ( which is an affluent of the Rio Negro ) he wrote , " The deleterious effects of the present ill-balanced , malnutritious dietary are very apparent in the general adynamic condition of the majority of individuals presenting themselves for medical examination , advice , and treatment . " In other words , the people have Iost their energy through eating the wrong things . They suffer from something like the ill-defined condition of debility ascribed by Ward to the tropics in general . But a man who does not feed himself correctly is apt to become adynamic no matter where he is . Going back to the few examples I have listed above of white men who refrained from going to seed in the tropics , I might here add the following observations . The Salesian fathers on the Rio Negro and the Benedictines on the Rio Branco plant and eat fresh vegetables . The Englishmen in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ testify that it was always a treat for me to be invited to take a meal in the home of an English . man during the four periods that spent in that city . In eastern Bolivia , near the mouth of the Beni river , the Bolivians and the Swiss who make Cachuela Esperanza and Riberalta such delightful places are able to obtain a steady supply of fresh vegetables , grown by Japanese colonizers who do not refrain from work for the sake of maintaining some kind of racial supremacy . The healthy cattle ranchers on Marajo Island , I am informed , live on a well balanced diet of vegetables , meat , milk , and cheese . To a man who travels in the Amazon Basin it becomes apparent that the same race prejudice that keeps white men from doing any work also tends to keep them from eating any vitamins . The Indians till the soil and grow vegetables . The mark of the white man as a civilized being is his commerce ; the more he disdains local products in his own daily life , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ outside , the more civilized he is ? and the more enervated he becomes . From the rubber days , too , the Basin has inherited a great deal of enforced malnutrition . The Amazon rubber business is virtually dead to-day , but a few short years ago , when it thrived , the rule was very often enforced that no latex gatherer was allowed to plant a garden . The workers were forced to buy all their supplies , including food , from the parent companies . The food was almost invariably of the dried variety , with perhaps a few cans of salmon or sardines thrown in . V Sanitation and medical supervision vary greatly in the tropics . In the parts of the Amazon Basin which I visited they were on the whole somewhat primitive . Listing the exceptions first , I might mention that Cachuela Esperanza has a splendid hospital and fine sanitary regulations , under the charge of a Swiss doctor . Manaos is the cleanest city I have ever seen , not even barring Berlin . The Catholic missions on the Rio Branco and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to sanitation . These are exactly the places where people live approximately as they do in the United States and where people show no obvious indications of bad health . Elsewhere conditions are pretty bad . On the Rio Negro I had malaria and was out of quinine . When I tried to buy quinine ( except at the Salesian hospitals ) I invariably found it badly adulterated and so old and hard that it would have done me little good even if it had been quinine . I found men suffering from daily fevers and chills who did not even know that quinine cures malaria . Most of the inhabitants , moreover , were still firmly convinced that drinking water causes malaria and had not the slightest conception of how the disease is transmitted by mosquitoes . Those who had malaria and knew of the virtues of quinine begged the stuff from me but were satisfied with one or two capsules , which they expected to perform the miracle of curing them immediately . The Salesians informed me that one of their great difficulties was that if they gave a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he generally threw it away as worthless after the first few pills or capsules had failed to cure him . Superimposed on this ignorance was a profound belief in every kind of nerve tonic and sugar pill , a belief that is not entirely lacking in our own enlightened civilization . The doctors found in the Amazon Basin are only too often not of the highest type . Fine professional men like Dr. Alfredo da Mata of Manaos are the exception rather than the rule . My own two experiences with Amazonian doctors did not fill me with confidence . The first one examined me for malaria with an X-Ray machine and informed me that I did not have malaria ? when I was actually very close to the blackwater feverstage . The second one examined a ringworm and very profoundly diagnosed it as syphilis . After that I did my own doctoring . The matter of liquor for medicinal purposes is almost too well known to need discussion here . We all know about the Englishman in the tropics who places so great a faith in the daily sun-downer and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ climate . He is not alone . A great many of the European and American old-timers consistently maintain that a man can not stay healthy in the tropics without plenty of alcohol to make the blood circulate a bit faster . It is this peculiar kind of hygiene , forcing a man to circulate his blood with stimulants rather than exercise , that makes me question whether the tropics are onetenth as unhealthy as the wisdom of the old-timers there . Art old friend of mine , who spent some twenty years as a medical man in the Congo , recently told me that there the white mortality was appalling only as long as the traders lived according to the health rules known to every " oldtimer . " They worked as little as possible , and then only till two in the afternoon , because white men must not overdo in that climate . After that they got drunk because men needed stimulants in the enervating temperature . VI The physiological effects of any given climate should be most marked among the people who have lived longest in the climate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of living best suited to the climate , and whose general health conditions might , therefore , be assumed not to include the effects of any serious errors in this technic . This , in South America , means the Indians . Ward states that the tropical climate produces a tendency toward anaemia . The same thing was recently told me by a medical man whose position gives him great responsibility in guarding the health of many hundreds of white men in the tropics . He put it into fancier words . He said that the tropics have a tendency to reduce the hxmoglobin content of a man 's blood . The implication is that some mysterious quality in the climate , over and above the malaria bug , tends to make a man anaemic . If this is true , the Indians of the South American tropics should be the most anaemic people there . But I have yet to hear of a single investigator who has ever concerned himself with determining the hzemoglobin content of the blood of wild Indians . Carrying the argument farther , if the tropical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and making a man lazy , then the Indians should be the laziest people in South America , having been exposed to that climate the longest . Ellsworth Huntington makes a strong case against the tropical climate , and in support of it he makes the following astonishing statement : " It is literally true in South America , for instance , that the more an Indian is paid the less he will work . " He goes on to explain that the Indian is concerned only with the immediate needs of the day and has so little forethought that if he can earn enough money in one day to keep him going the rest of the week , he will work only one day a week . Huntington 's statement came as a surprise to me , since I read it after I had spent three years in engineering and construction work in the Atacama Desert of Chile . Here I had found that my best workers had invariably been full-bltxxled Indians from a fewlost villages on the Chile-Bolivian border . These men had responded very well to all offers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ doubling their efforts . That rules out at least a few mountain Indians from the generalization . But since Huntington was discussing tropical climate , it seems fair to assume that when he talked about South America in the statement given above he meant the tropical lowlands of South America . Even here it seems to me he is unfair to the Indian . He is obviously talking about Indians working for white men , under conditions imposed by the white men , conditions under which the white man himself has not yet found it too easy to remain healthy and energetic . Moreover , the Indian is working for money , which is the white men 's standard of values and not his own . He is working for a people in whose society he can never climb very high because race prejudice bars the way . He is working for a people who took away his lands and then added insult to injury by demanding that he do their labor for them . If we find him not too good a workman , might it not be every bit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rather than on the dreadful climate ? If we turn to the wilder Indians of the Amazon Basin , or at least to those semi-civilized ones who do not live in such close contact with the white man 's world that they are reduced to a state of peonage , we are apt to find an entirely different story . But here I have to give warning that the Amazonian Indian can not be sweepingly referred to with one word . There are some four hundred different tribes in the Amazon and Orinoco Basins . Their cultures vary from that of the extremely primitive Makus on the Waupes River to that of the highly advanced Indians of Carib stock in the southern part of Venezuelan Guiana . Some of them are fine strapping energetic fellows . Others , like the Makus , are pot-bellied , savage runts , fit only to be the slaves of neighboring tribes . My own experience has been with Christianized agricultural Indians on the upper Rio Negro . I used some of these as canoe men on my last expedition and found that they were invariably @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . They worked harder , were less inclined to give in to the constant nagging of clouds of insects , and could at all times he depended upon to keep up the morale of the expedition with their jokes and their hearty laughter . I spent two days in the Indian village of Mama . It distinguished itself from white settlements in the vicinity by being well built , well kept , and immaculately clean . The inhabitants were exceedingly friendly and charming , though few of them were to be seen during the day , when most of the men were out working in the gardens and fields , while the women were down by the river washing clothes . At night they flocked to the guest house to listen over my radio to music from Schenectady . Much to my surprise these extremely musical people preferred grand opera to anything else I could give them . Robert Marshall , in his Arctic Village , tells of a similar surprise , when he found that the Koyukuk Eskimos preferred classical phonograph records , while the white men liked jazz or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ air of health , contentment , friendliness , and hard work that once intrigued me so greatly in small villages in Iceland . It was more primitive than any Icelandic settlement , but that is not a sign that it is stagnating . It is a sign that it is cut off from the rest of the world through the lack of transport facilities and through such physicalbarriers as rapids and rivers . This very primitiveness forced the Indians of Maroa to work all the harder . Converted to Christianity and something resembling a civilized life by the Jesuit fathers of several centuries ago , they consider themselves civilized beings rather than savages . When they want to obtain such civilized appurtenances as soap and matches they have to pay tremendous prices , which means tenfold labor . Other things which they need and which are not brought from the outer world , have to be manufactured with great effort . In New York we can buy a cooking pot in a ten-cent store . The Indian woman has to do a lot of work to make one . This may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but it also means that she can not afford to let the tropical climate rob her of her ability to work . The only man who was having a nice easy time of it in Maroa was the one white resident of the village . He was an Italian who was drawing a salary from the Venezuelan government for acting as civil administrator , a job that involved the tremendous labor of keeping vital statistics in a village of some three hundred inhabitants and of seeing to it that the other citizens kept the guest house clean and in good repair for the use of such occasional visitors as myself . How many times have explorers returned from the field with a conviction that the " savages " were healthier , saner , and more hospitable people than their immediate white neighbors ? It happens again and again . Might not the reason be that the savages know more than the white men do about how to keep in good health in their particular regions ? Under no conditions could I pose as an authority on South American Indians . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ friend , Desmond Holdridge , he confirmed my own observations . He has done a good deal of traveling in some of the jungle and plains regions of South America that have never been visited by any other white men . He tells me that all of his friends among the agricultural Indians are fine healthy specimens with a great sense of humor . Only those jungle Indians who do not practice agriculture are sickly and surly . This is not surprising . As a rule the jungle contains little food for man , and anybody who wants to fill himself there must be forced to stuff all kinds of peculiar and unnourishing things into his belly . It is in the jungles that one finds Indians who are dwarfed in stature , with enormously distended stomachs , not on the plains or on the river bank clearings where decent fresh food can be planted , and is planted by those people who are not hampered by race prejudice or any notions about the impossibility of working in such a climate . In the days when the north was considered unhealthy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were protected against cold by abnormally thick layers of fat , and against their meat diet by large intestinal capacities and active peripheral circulation . These ideas were published in Ward 's Climate in 1918 and were taught at Columbia University in 1931 . I have never heard of any Eskimo who was ever dissected for actual proof , but Stefansson has at least proved that a white explorer can get along splendidly in the north if he has sense enough to learn things from the natives . Without in the least changing the climate , Stefansson made the Arctic a thousand times healthier for white men than it had ever been before . In view of this , one is led to wonder if some day some tropical Stefansson will not come along and sweep away nine-tenths of the dangers of the tropical climate through the simple expedient of giving " the natives " credit for a few grains of sense .                     