@@431144

 | Plea for Tolerance Condensed from Christian Herald Henry Morton Robinson Paris , 1870 . A Prussian army IJ is besieging the French capital . In the Sorbonne , Gaston de Paris lectures brilliantly on The Song of Roland . For centuries the world has believed that the origins of this noble epic were French ; but the researches of Gaston de Paris have led him to another , inexorable , conclusion . Above the thunder of enemy artillery his closing words ring clear : " My colleagues , permit me again to remind you that the origins of this immortal poem are Germanic , not French . Let no transient hatred impair our appreciation of a neighbor race . In this hour of impending defeat let us proclaim to the world that truth knows no national boundaries . " Gaston de Paris 's attitude has always seemed to me a perfect example of tolerance - the virtue by which liberated minds make conquest of bigotry and hatred . For tolerance is more than a mere amenity ; and this story indicates something of the courage and fairness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Properly conceived , it is the positive and cordial effort to understand another 's beliefs , practices Old habits without necessarily shar , or accepting them . Tolerance mil- itantly protects the rights of an opponent . Voltaire 's famous aphorism , " I disapprove of what you say , but I will defend to the death your right to say it , " is for all ages the perfect utterance of the tolerant ideal . Tolerance does not mean moral laxity . If we are apathetic in our principles we are not being tolerant ; we are merely suffering from spiritual sloth . " Much that passes for tolerance , " says John Morley , " is only a pretentious form of being without settled opinions of your own . " But we become intolerant when we attempt to force our neighbor to conform to our opinions . Unenlightened people are notoriously confident that they have a monopoly on all truth ; if you need proof , feel the weight of their knuckles . But truth is broader than any individual conception of it , stronger than any fist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ emotions we have outgrown with the passage of years . We shall probably outgrow many more . Renan 's remark that our opinions becomefixed at the point where we stop thinking should be sufficient warning against too stubborn insistence that we are infallibly right . Viewed in this way , tolerance be-  | comes the bulwark of social and individual liberty , and the chief element in any cultural advance that a society may expect to make . We need but glance at Italy and Germany to realize how precious the virtue of tolerance has become to us , and how desperately we must struggle to keep it alive . Our free press , our privileges of free assembly and religious worship , our very form of democratic government , are supported by dikes of tolerance , laboriously built , and held by the individual . For when we fail to practice tolerance in our individual lives , we jeopardize the structure for all . Insidiously , intolerance grows in its place . This does not happen suddenly , but by imperceptible degrees : a privilege is shorn away , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is enacted . If we passively connive in this process , neglecting to protest unless our own rights and opinions are attacked , we shall discover some day that despotism has crept up on us - that we are about to be swallowed one and all by the monster we have helped create . Signs are not wanting today that intolerance is thus growing in our midst . On all sides we hear murmurings of political persecution , threats to freedom of speech , portents of oppression . Recently a bill was introduced into the New York Assembly to prevent members of the Communist Party from holding public office . The bill passed both Houses ; not until Governor Lehman vetoed it could the advocates of tolerance breathe freely . What a fatal error such a law would have been ! Where does our Constitution say that a minority party shall be excluded from office ? Next year it may be our party that is attacked and ex -- cluded ; no one is safe when the heavy wheels of intolerance start grinding . Democracy is the principle of tolerance extended into the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ destroying them . And these minorities in turn perform a valuable function by acting as a brake upon the party in power . This is a major premise of our government . Take away tolerance and our democracy will not survive . In whispers that grow louder today we detect beginnings of a religious and racial persecution that should be coldly nipped , else we may someday witness in this country an outbreak of the anti-Semitic atrocities now so common in Europe . If the liberties of even one small sect are abrogated , we shall have taken a step backward to that medieval period of Inquisition and heresyhounding when , as the historian Muzzey says , " Honest doubt was dealt with as impious rebellion , speculative restlessness as satanic suggestion . " The crying need for tolerance is seen in a hundred departments of our society today . Labor unions in asserting their new powers have too @#  | often shown an overbearing intolerance . Recently- , when the harassed railroads asked their employes to take a voluntary pay cut , one union official replied , " To hell @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whiskers from yesterday 's shave . " The most ardent sympathizers of labor will agree that this is not exactly the basis on which to begin tolerant negotiations . On the other hand , there are those among our capitalists who assuredly are not showing a truly tolerant attitude toward their employes . Too many of us mistakenly assume that a unanimity , of thought and action is desirable ; in reality , the thing that has made us great among nations is our wide variety of races and differing shades of public opinion . These races and opinions have fertilized our national stock , shown us that the good life can have many translations , and that the Word needs many interpreters . Let me offer you , as a plea for tolerance , Cardinal Newman 's description of the ideal university : " A place in which the intellect may ' safely range and speculate , sure to find its equal in some antagonist activity , and its judge in the tribunal of truth . A place where inquiry is pushed forward , and discoveries verified and perfected , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the collision of mind with mind . " This is the educational way to tolerance , and there is no other . There is a grave danger , of course , lest we admire tolerance merely in the abstract . We may see that it is needed in government , international affairs , and in business , and overlook the fact that it is needed equally in our own home . It is not enough that we be theoretically tolerant toward another nation if we are narrow toward the man in the next office . All the apostrophes addressed to Tolerance are of no avail if we miss the fact that it is a state of mind - or more accurately , a state of heart - and that it must be personal . Of all the commandments , " Love thy neighbor " is the least enforceable , the most voluntary . But to break it brings penalties that are not less severe because they are selfinflicted.                     