@@142346

In Providence , the proud old Journal ( circulation , 44,000 ) and its evening running mate , the Bulletin ( circulation , 98-663 ) , are two rear-guard Republican sheets in a Democratic State . Major owners of the two papers are the dignified , prosperous Metcalf brothers , textile tycoons long listed among the big potentates of small Rhode Island . Last week , the Metcalfs suddenly found themselves standing by to repel journalistic boarders . <P> Rowdy Democrats from dingy Pawtucket , five miles away , seemed to be approaching on two quarters , armed to the teeth . The Pawtucket Star , a weekly established to bait the Journal , was to become a daily tabloid , change its title to Rhode Island Star . Back of the Star was Pawtucket 's Democratic Mayor Thomas P. McCoy . Back of him was Walter E. O'Hara , managing director of Pawtucket 's Narragansett race track . Announcing the change , the Star defied the Journal-Bulletin owners as " money barons and sweatshop operators . " And , as if this disturbance in the Journal 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up right in the Journals front yard . It was announced that he had acquired the feeble Providence News-Tribune ( evening ) which had been nursed along by Democratic Senator Peter G. Gerry as a political sounding-board to 25,000 pairs of readers ' ears . Out went dignified , high-collared Editor Joaquim B. Calvo . Up went Ralph E. Bailey from his job as head of the News-Tribune State House staff to be managing editor . With the News-Tribune , Mr. O'Hara acquired an Associated Press franchise , a chance to go directly to Providence 's 252,981 potential newspaper readers with more popular politics than that of his well-entrenched rivals . <P> Also , Publisher O'Hara had a chance to pay off some rankling old scores , for back of this realignment of Providence papers lay a long and bitter feud . Last March , a Pawtucket city official threw a Journal camera into the flooded Blackstone River . For reasons of their own , Pawtucket politicians had insisted on building the new City Hall on a low-lying lot , and they did not want their location photographed with water creeping @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Journal for $1,000,000 for libel because it intimated that he was working in collusion with Pawtucket officials to sell that city a bargain-bought textile mill to use as a power plant . Shortly afterward , Democratic State Representatives scowled at the Journal by passing a measure calling for the investigation of its tax payments to the City of Providence , supposedly because it had been under-assessed . In October , another camera was destroyed . This time it belonged to the Star , and the Journal 's Editor Sevellon Brown was accused of breaking it . When a judge released Mr. Brown , the Star let loose a journalistic catcall at the decision , was promptly held in contempt of court by the incensed jurist.                     