@@469470

NOBODY wanted Jimmy , but he was born anyhow . " This caption appears , not on propaganda issued by the American Birth Control League , but on a flier recently distributed by the Cincinnati Committee on Maternal Health . The story told by Dr. Elizabeth Campbell , Chairman of the Medical Committee , is a graphic one . At the time Jimmy was born his father had been out of work for seventeen months , and the parents with five children were subsisting on a five dollars a week relief allowance . His mother , sick with worry before be came , did not want Jimmy . The community did not want him , as the city was already spending $350,000 on relief . Jimmy himself , had he had any say , could hardly have wanted to be born , for his short life meant only misery to him . His home was so cold that in four months ' time he died of pneumonia . His brief and painful life had cost the community a total of $130.02 for hospital , nursing , and medical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for his burial . Was it fair to Jimmy to be born at this time ? And was it fair to the community , which was already taking care of 21,380 families , that he should have been born ? Half of the women , Dr. Campbell says , who have applied during the past year to the Maternal Health Clinic of Cincinnati for contraceptive advice had unemployed husbands and all of them , for some good reason , feared thebirth of another child . Dr. Campbell 's arguments are frank and to the point . " Every child , " she says , " has a right to be wanted . Hunger and fear can not create a wholesome life for a baby . During this crisis the birth of those babies whose coining is a cause of dread , should be postponed until a better time , since the community can not keep in health and decency the children that arc here . " The situation in Cincinnati is no different from that in other cities . Proof is to be found in an economic health survey recently made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Public Health Service , covering 8000 urban families in the lower-income groups living in ten different localities . Investigation showed that in 1932 there were 48 per cent more births in families without any employed workers than in families with one or more full-time workers . Families that were actually receiving relief had a birth rate 54 per cent higher than those not on relief . The study further showed that families who were poor in 1929 and continued in that condition in 1932 had the highest birth rate of all , while those who dropped below the $1200 a year level during the depression had a considerably higher birth rate than those with an income of from $1200 to $2000 a year . Summing up their conclusions , Messrs . Perrott and Sydenstricker , the authors of the study , say : " Low social status , unemployment , and low income in 1932 went hand in hand with a high illness rate and increased malnutrition among children . It was in these same groups of families that a high birth rate prevailed . Whatever the broad implications of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ birth rate during the depression prevailed in families which could least afford , from any point of view , to assume this added responsibility . " It might be supposed that there is a causal relation between men 's idleness and their procreative activities , if the study did not show that the couples who were prolific in 1932 were prolific in 1929 . The explanation of the differential birth rate in these 8000 families would seem to be that the man who shows no judgment about the number of children he sires is likely to be the man who loses his job in a crisis , perhaps because he lacks judgment all along the line . In this connection it is interesting to hear from Professor James H. S. Bossard of the Wharton School of Commerce and Finance , University of Pennsylvania , that in 1932 , when the depression was perhaps at its crest , the highest marriage rates in Philadelphia prevailed in the areas of greatest unemployment . The findings cited above are paralleled by another Milbank Fund study , recently made under the direction of the famous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This survey concerned contraceptive practices among 4945 hospitalized urban women of all classes , living in thirteen different States . The results showed , as was to be expected , that a much higher percentage of well-to-do and rich women were practicing birth control than poor white and colored women . But the study also showed , contrary to expectations , that the women of the well-to-do and rich classes who took no preventive measures were as fertile as the women ofthe poorer classes , colored women included . In other words , the failure on the part of the poorer classes to practice birth control appears alone to be responsible for their too rapid propagation . Dr. Pearl had for many years questioned the social value of birth control . But his findings now lead him to the emphatic conclusion that " the national policy of prohibiting the free dissemination of accurate scientific information about birth control methods is adding definitely and measurably to the difficulty of the problems of poverty and unemployment with which our children and grandchildren will have to deal . " Dr. Pearl might have gone @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has added definitely and measurably to the enormous relief load which burdens the country to-day . It is as ironic as it is tragic that parents who can not take care of the children they already have should have no choice but to bring more into the world . In one year 's time ? between October , 1932 and October , 1933 according to the Federal Unemployment Relief Census taken last October , there were as many as 233,822 children born to families who were receiving public relief . These families , 3,134 , - 678 in number , also had 1,589,480 children from one to five years of age or , all told , 1,823,302 children under six years of age . Unfortunately we do not know exactly how many of the oneto-five-year-olds were born after 1929 . But there can be no doubt that the majority of them were depression babies . Their entry into the world increased the strain on public health and hospital facilities as well as on the agencies that provide clothing . Their presence in over-large families has brought , as the Milbank study @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relief expenditures per child have been far from adequate . The future will probably show that the children have borne the brunt of the depression . Of the 12,500,000 persons who were found in the October Census to be receiving relief , 42 per cent were under 16 years of age . This is a disproportionate number , since the 1930 Census showed that children of this age comprised only 26 per cent of the population . It is a tragic fact that over a third of the children subsisting on relief were under six years of age , or in their most formative period . The ill health and hardships so often suffered by members of overlarge families are argument enough for birth control . As Margaret Sanger has said , " There can be no justification for violating the right of every married woman to decide when and how often she shall undertake the physical and far-reaching responsibilities of motherhood . " The argument that large families among the indigent are an additional burden on the taxpayer is hardly a generous one . Yet it may have its effect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unmoved by humane considerations . Unfortunately there is no way of estimating the cost of relief for the million or more babies born during the depression to families that were living on public funds in October , 1933 . The sum total of relief expenditures , however , is sufficiently appalling . For the year 1933 all forms of public relief reached approximately 4800 , - 000,000 . For the same year combined public and private expenditures are estimated by the Monthly Bulletin on Social Statistics , published by the Children 's Bureau , to have been three times as great in 120 cities as they were in 1929 . Professor James H. S. Bossard considers this a conservative estimate . In his forthcoming book Social Change and Social Problems he presents figures to prove that relief expenditures in the country at large have increased by a geometric ratio and that they were 16 times as great in 1933 as in 1929 . The Children 's Bureau figures also show that as the depression has progressed , the proportion of public , as against private , expenditures has increased from 74 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The moral of these figures is that the comfortable and well-to-do can no longer remain indifferent to the fate of the indigent . We have reached the point that England reached in 1919 . Families and individuals in want are admitted to be a charge on government , and it is not likely that even a reactionary administration , should one come into power , would dare to discontinue public relief so long as there is unemployment on a large scale . Given present-day conditions in industry and increasing technological unemployment , there appears slight possibility that the relief problem will disappear . Mr. William Hodson , Commissioner of the Department of Public Welfare of New York City , predicts that " it will be many years before we pull ourselves out and have families , now on relief , restored to independence and selfsupport . " II No one who believes in democracy would suggest that married couples who are supported by public funds should be forced to practice contraception . Mgr . John A. Ryan of the Catholic University of America says with passion , " That is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a right to put on the poorer classes the burden of lessening their families . " But Father Ryan is bandying words . Surely he is enough of a realist to recognize that poor people . far from looking on family limitation as a burden , are crying out for some charm by which they can avoid too frequent pregnancies . The testimony offered by Dr. Campbell and other medical directors of clinics , leaves no room for doubt on that score . Father Ryan is right in saying that " the causes of economic maladjust ? ment go much deeper than birth control . " The stamping out of poverty depends upon a more equitable distribution of the nation 's wealth than we have to-day . But pending that millennium ? which after a year of the New Deal is no closer ? shall we go on blindly " adding to the problems of unemployment and poverty , " in Dr. Pearl 's words ? A composite picture of 212 families of the so-called charity class in Huntington , West Virginia , was presented by Dr. James S. Klumpp last @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the proposed Federal law to amend the provisions of the penal code regarding contraceptive material . The families averaged 4.7 children , with 1 dead child , and 1.4 abortions per family . Pregnancies occurred on the average every 14 months . In 88 of the families the supporting member had been without work for more than two years , while in the other 124 the breadwinner had averaged 2 days ' work weekly since the beginning of Federal relief -- hardly sufficient to support a family of four children . The thousands of people who write to Mrs. Margaret Sanger and to the American Birth Control League every year have sorry tales to tell . A girl of twenty-one , who already has five children and whose husband has been out of work for a year and a half , is expecting another child . Another woman whose husband is idle averages two abortions a year " which are gradually ruining her health . " Another says " she will commit suicide if she has any more children , and if there is no other way out she will leave her husband @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ broken homes sociologists seem to have neglected the correlation between unwanted children and desertions by one spouse or the other . III With the individual need so great and the relief problem so acute , it might be expected that birth control would have become during the past few years a recognized phase of public health work . It has hardly reached that point , although several milestones have been passed . The clinic established under the aegis of the Cincinnati Academy of Medicine set a precedent as the first to be sponsored by an organized medical group , apart from the scattered hospital clinics that confine their contraceptive service to patients . Throughout the country the total number of clinics has increased from 28 in December , 1929 , to 145 at the time of writing this article , and more are being organized daily by local groups and state branches of the American Birth Control League . These clinics , or mothers ' centers as they are often called , are all staffed by physicians , and are playing a very useful role , although a number are now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A number of years ago Los Angeles County established a precedent by opening twelve mothers ' centers where contraceptive advice was given . These centers have unfortunately been reduced to a part-time basis , but the Welfare Department of the County sensibly provides that the mother of every family on relief shall receive birth control instruction either in a private or a county clinic at public expense . More recently the city of Grand Rapids , Michigan , has provided the same kind of service for its relief cases . The Kent County Relief Clinic , now located in Butterworth Hospital , Grand Rapids , has served 1500 women in the past year , numbers of whom had been on the relief rolls or had received prenatal or obstetric care from the city . The entire State of Michigan is to-day taking a progressive and eminently sane attitude toward the problem of birth control . The State Conference of Social . Work at its last conference voted to co-operate actively with the Maternal Health League of Michigan , formerly the Michigan Birth Control League . There arc now 12 clinics scattered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ families whose average wage runs from $2.21 to $10 a week . In New York City the picture is not so encouraging . The most interesting development during the past few years has been the establishment of mothers ' centers in twelve different settlement houses . Here the overburdened women of the immediate neighborhood are advised as to approved methods of family limitation . One of the large settlement houses that has maintained such a center for more than two years reports that " mothers who were formerly worried and fearful of recurring pregnancies , are now enjoying their children and their homes . " In this particular locality the women are largely of foreign extraction and of eighth-grade level in education . Yet more than a few of them are learning to plan their families as intelligently as do women of the more fortunate classes . A Porto Rican woman , whose chauffeur husband was out of work for a year and a half but who is now employed , returned to the center recently for a medical examination . She and her husband felt they could afford another child @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ good condition to have one . If there were clinics of this kind within easy reach of all classes in New York City , and if indigent women knew of their existence , a long step forward would have been taken . As matters stand , there are not enough clinics scattered over the city , and the existing centers can not hang out a sign or advertise in any way . The good word must be carried to the poor by the social workers and visiting nurses who to a certain extent take the place in the large cities of the family practitioner . The general run of social-service organizations in New York City are still timid about recommending birth control . Yet the depression has made realists of many well-meaning workers who formerly believed that the same Providence which sent little children into the world would see that they are taken care of . With their funds nowhere equal to the demands upon them and their sympathies stretched to the breaking point , numbers of social workers have overcome their scruples , or their fear of criticism from contributors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clinics . In most instances this is done on the worker 's own initiative , not as a settled policy of the organization . One of the largest family welfare organizations says that they never suggest resort to birth control , although they will supply the names and addresses of clinics if asked . The director of another reports primly that " we have no settled conviction about the inadvisability of pregnancies in indigent families " and that they consider birth control " a medical matter . " The majority , however , with the exception of the Catholic charities , take a middle-ground position . They are careful not to let their right hand know what their left hand is doing . Only two large family welfare organizations in New York , the Jewish Social Service and the Association for Improving the Condition of the Poor , instruct their field workers to send women to contraceptive clinics wherever the need seems real . The AICP , which has been pursuing such a policy since before the depression , sends graduate nurses into the field who arc competent to judge family @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that conflicts with religious convictions . Their wise policy should serve as an object lesson to overly cautious organizations . So far as the city authorities are concerned in New York , birth control does not exist . The Department of Health , which in every other field is active in safeguarding the health of mothers and children , has studiously turned its back on the need for contraceptive advice , as has the Department of Hospitals . Yet there is perhaps no city in the country where the relief situation is so acute . Last year as many as 19,623 women were confined at the expense of the City in free maternity beds , at an average cost of $45 a patient , and between October , 1932 and October , 1933 there were 9,827 children born to families on public relief . In the 22 States that have no clinics at all , and in practically all rural districts , the situation is infinitely worse than in New York City . In localities where new clinics have been opened , they have had to fight an uphill battle . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the medical profession is unco-operative , welfare organizations feel that they must act cautiously in the matter of birth control in order not to Jose financial support or damage their standing . In a certain Eastern city a joint report was made not long ago by 20 organizations that have for 16 yearsbeen trying to rehabilitate a problem family . The mother is slightly abnormal , six of the children are defective , all of them arc crippled as the result of rickets , and the oldest boy is tubercular . Thousands of dollars have been spent on this family , and the report ended with the helpless statement that " some more adequate method would have to be found for meeting such situations . " The obvious first remedy , birth control , was nowhere mentioned . It is a little hard to forgive such timidity . Social service workers should be the leaders , not the followers , in a community , as they have shown themselves to be in Michigan . It must be admitted that the results so far obtained by the birth control clinics are only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which is one hundred per cent effective , and methods prescribed by the clinics call for intelligence and care on the woman 's part . There are numbers of women , as the social workers say , who will make no consistent effort to help themselves , and who want something as easy as a charm . Funds for research in the development of some method that will be as simple as a household remedy are badly needed , as Dr. Robert Latou Dickinson , Secretary of the National Committee on Maternal Health , has pointed out . The current approved methods , however , have positive value . Professor Norman Himes , writing in a recent issue of the New England Journal of Medicine , says , " In the modern clinics a follow-up in several thousand cases for two years or more shows the methods recommended to be effective , when properly used , in 90-95 per cent of the cases . " Marie E. Kopp , Ph.D. , after studying 10,000 case histories at the New York Birth Control Clinical Research Bureau , says , " The women @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ slight educational opportunities . Despite these facts they are able to use the methods prescribed by the clinic successfully . These methods are shown statistically to be more successful by a wide margin than those used before coming to the clinic . In summary , though present methods may not be ideal , they are good enough to go on with , since they show a large percentage of success even when used by people of the under-privileged class . " IV While the medical profession as a body hangs back , the advance guard , including such men as the late Di . J. Whitridge Williams of Johns Hopkins University ; Dr. Robert Latou Dickinson , New York ; Dr. C. E. A. Winslow , Professor of Public Health , Yale University Medical School ; Di . Milton C. Winternitz , Dean of the latter school ; Dr. Fred J. Taussig of Washington University , St. Louis ; Dr. Alexander M. Campbell , Grand Rapids , Michigan , and Dr. Foster Kennedy , leading New York neurologist , have endorsed the principle of birth control . It is generally recognized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is dangerous to women suffering from certain diseases , ( b ) that spacing of children is essential to every mother 's health and conducive to the child 's , ( c ) that marital continence is not to be advised , and ( d ) that approved contraceptive methods neither injure health nor cause sterility . The depression has had its effect on the thinking element in the profession . An increasing number of medical schools are giving contraceptive instruction , texts on the subject now have a wide distribution in medical libraries and schools , and lectures are solicited by county societies and insome cases by medical students . A number of important medical groups , including the New York and the Cincinnati Academies of Medicine , the American Gynecological Association , the American Neurological Association , the Connecticut and Michigan State Medical Societies , and the Section on Obstetrics and Gynecology of the American Medical Association have taken definite action . The vote of the Michigan State Society in September , 1933 , shows that in this State at least the profession is aware of the public-health implications @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the " response to the questionnaires to the medical profession indicated a favorable attitude held by a large majority . " The committee found further that " by careful use of contraceptive procedures the health of certain individuals afflicted with disease can be maintained at a higher level , and also by the proper spacing of children and limitation of their numbers a higher health level can be maintained by society in general . " It is the younger men , Dr. Dickinson says , " who are developing the courage of their convictions and frankly advising their patients or allowing their names to be quoted in a way that did not happen even five years ago . " These are the bright spots . Many of the older members of the profession are still curiously indifferent if not antagonistic . It is not at all unusual for a doctor to say to a woman patient , " Tell your husband to be good . " A woman who has had phlebitis since her last child was born is told by her doctor that another pregnancy within a year would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adopt total abstinence . " A woman of twenty-eight , with seven children , says that she is " thin , anxmic , and always feels mean . " " My maternity specialist has said several times I should have no more children , but he never mentions any specific preventive . " A man living in a Southern city , whose wife has just had a Csarian operation , says that " she was advised not to have any more children but was not given any contraceptive information due to our State laws . She was told that should she become pregnant to report at once . " ( Presumably for a therapeutic abortion . ) " I am asking how to secure the information , " he concluded , " as I can sec no object in locking the door after the horse is stolen . " It is hard to understand how a doctor with any conscience , any regard for his Hippocratic oath which obliges him to protect li fe in every way possible , can send a patient home without contraceptive instruction when he knows that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's continued obscurantist attitude toward birth control is to blame for a great many criminal as well as therapeutic abortions . Dr. Fred J. Taussig , who prepared a special report on " Abortion in Relation to Maternal Mortality " for the White House Conference in 1930 , estimates that at least 811,000 abortions occur annually in this country , and that the large majority are among married women . More recently , in reviewing the New York Academy of Medicine 's impressive study of 2041 cases of maternal mortality , Dr. Taussig gives it as his opinion that " 429 or 1/6 of the deaths due to induced abortions , therapeutic abortions , chronic nephritis , cardiac disease , tuberculosis , Cxsarian section , and fibroid tumors , could have been prevented by the use of contraceptive measures . " If these 429 mothers had had birth-control advice they might still be alive to take care of their families . The hospitals themselves must take the blame for a certain number ofdeaths from abortion . Women suffering from the diseases mentioned by Dr. Taussig are still discharged in some instances @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that therapeutic abortions have to be performed later . The ideal method would be for a hospital to have entries on case histories of all women patients suffering from such diseases as heart and kidney complaints , to show what contraceptive advice had been given . This is done by one large New York hospital , where in addition every therapeutic abortion is investigated to determine whether such advice was given . Instruction in contraception should be routine hospital procedure , as it is in the Woman 's Hospital of Pasadena , California . Before a patient is discharged from this hospital after childbirth , she is told how she may time the coming of her next child . Doctors who refuse to advise their patients point in self-defense to the restrictions of the law . The Federal law , it is true , makes it illegal for them to secure contraceptive supplies or literature through the mails . But they must know that this law has never been invoked against a private practitioner save one who was hardly in good standing , or against a hospital . There are a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , advertisement , distribution , etc. of contraceptive materials ; but the latest legal opinion is that " in any State except ( possibly ) Mississippi , physicians may lawfully prescribe ( orally ) and probably druggists may lawfully dispense , upon prescription , the material which they can not receive through the mails under the words of the Federal statutes . " Connecticut alone forbids the use of contraceptives . The State laws as they stand have the effect of confusing the medical mind , while the Federal obscenity law makes a bootlegger of the doctor who considers it his duty to secure contraceptive supplies for his patients . A bill drafted by Mrs. Margaret Sanger and designed to amend the Federal law so as to admit to the mails " contraceptive information or devices intended for the use of private practitioners , hospitals , or licensed clinics , " has been introduced in Congress , and was reported out by the Senate Judiciary Committee on April 23rd of this year . Impressive hearings have been held before the House Judiciary Committee , and there is reason to hope that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the humane aspect of the problem . While the laws have a bad psychological effect on the doctors , it is a mistake to assume that the laws and the laws alone are responsible for the profession 's failure to do the scientific thing . V The active and determined opposition of the Roman Catholic Church to all proposals to amend the laws affecting the dissemination of birth-control information is an even greater stumbling-block than the inertia of the profession . Yet the Church , forced by circumstances , is to-day shifting its position . In this country it has fought the oncoming tide of birth control for very practical reasons . But its authority is not great enough to impose the burden of large families on its communicants . Face to face with the depression , the realistic leaders of the Church , one gathers , have been looking for a way of retreat that would not mean loss of face . Some of them seem to think they have found it in the researches on the " safe period " published during recent years by two scientists working independently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dr. Herman Knaus of Austria . The idea of the " safe period , " promulgated by the Dutch doctor Capellmann in the 19th century , has been common folklore for a great many years . But Capellmann had no scientific basis for his theory , while Knaus has . Their theories arc set forth for Catholic readers in two books , The Rhythm of Sterility and Fertility in Women , by Leo J. Latz , M.D. , and The Sterile Period in Family Life , by the Very Reverend Valere J. Coucke and James J. Walsh , M.D. The first of these books is published with ecclesiastical sanction and the second with the imprimatur of Patrick Cardinal Hayes , Archbishop of New York . Still another publication , in pamphlet form , called Legitimate Birth Control , According to Nature 's Law , in Harmony with Catholic Morality , by the Reverend John A. O'Brien , Chaplain of Catholic Students , University of Illinois , with an introduction by Bishop John Francis Noll of Indiana , has recently been published . Apart from the instructions it prints for the guidance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Church 's present-clay attitude toward birth control . The author attempts to refute the common criticism that the " stand of the Catholic Church against birth control is harsh , oppressive , and reactionary , " by showing that the Church condemns only artificial forms of family limitation . He points to the paragraph of Pope Pius XI 's Encyclical on " Christian Marriage , " issued on December 31 , 1931 , which reads : " Nor must married people be considered to act against the order of nature , if they make use of their rights according to sound and natural reason , even though no new Life can thence arise on account of circumstances of time or the existence of some defect . " Father O'Brien realistically grants that the problem of family limitation is " an intensely real and personal one today . " " It becomes impossible , " he says , " to strike a pose of unreality , assuming that all is well . . . . There is unemployment , lack of sufficient means to provide food and clothing for the children already @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the mother 's vitality and strength from a recent childbirth . " The author seems to have taken more than a few of his arguments from the book of the birth-control advocates . He refers to " the many benefits that physicians and psychiatrists picture as flowing from the conjugal relationship in the way of emotional tranquillity , mental serenity , and the zest to achieve . " He frankly admits that " the practice of birth control within the Church is much more widespread than most of us are willing to admit . " And finally he assures his Catholic readers that " there is no obligation on any couple to beget any number of children , much less to give birth to the largest possible number . " Ecclesiastical sanction for such books as this would seem to suggest that the fight had been won and that the Church had accepted birth control . This conclusion might be drawn if the " natural , rational , and ethical " method recommended were as truly scientific as claimed , or if it could be practiced successfully by the average @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is difficult of interpretation even for a layman who is familiar with medical matters . The medical authorities , furthermore , are not yet convinced that the method is infallible , for there is a good deal of evidence against it . And as Dr. Eric M. Matsner , Medical Director of the American Birth Control League , says , " The method is doomed to failure when applied to the type of woman most frequently seen at contraceptive clinics , the type who can not depend upon the co-operation of her husband . " The Roman Catholics blame the birth-control advocates for the flood of commercial contraceptives which are on sale in corner drugstores , gasoline stations , and cigar stores , peddled from door to door , and advertised in thinly veiled terms in the most respectable magazines . It is quite true that the honest propaganda of the birth controllers has served to create a market for many products of dubious merit . But it is also true that these products have the field almost to themselves because of the passive if not antagonistic attitude of the medical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or willing to give advice the peddlers and advertisers will profit . Quack remedies are no new thing in this country . The only way for the medical profession to combat them is to put its seal of approval on proper remedies as it does on standard drugs . Legislative action , such as is contemplated in the Tugwell bill , is badly needed to stamp out grossly misleading advertisements . Manufacturers of chemical preparations appeal to women readers with such seductive captions as " Calendar Fear , " " Can a Married Woman Ever Feel Safe ? " " Young Wives Are Often Secretly Terrified , " etc . Few of the products advertised , when used alone , are safe contraceptives ; a number of them are badly compounded , and at least one product that has been widely advertised in the past few years , has elements of danger when used as a contraceptive . The extent of the use of such products may be judged from the fact that two well-known companies spent $171,150 and $308,436 respectively in 1932 , at ordinary space rates , in national @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , has to my knowledge touched on the subject of birth control in its editorial columns . So the only information which their readers get is from the misleading suggestions in the advertisements and the pamphlets which are mailed on request . The country has become birth-control-conscious . Economic conditions make family limitation in both the white-collar and the working class imperative . There can , therefore , be no turning back . It is only a question whether the setting up of clinics shall be left to lay organizations with limited facilities , and the wholesale distribution of doubtful products be further tolerated , or whether the medical profession will awaken to its clear duty . Mrs. Margaret Sanger and the American Birth Control League are ready and willing to turn over their selfimposed task to the profession , for they realize that only through wide medical practice and extensive research will better and simpler technics be evolved for the future . The profession is at present in an anomalous position . Dr. J. Prentice Wilson , President of the Washington , D. C. , Medical Association , points out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Association , Dr. Barton Cooke Hirst , chairman of the section on Obstetrics , Gynecology , and Abdominal Surgery , listed birth control as one of the four major problems in gynecology . At the same meeting a resolution asking that a committee be appointed to study the subject was defeated . Thus the A.M.A. placed itself on record as refusing to study one of the four major problems affecting the women of America . " A similar resolution was voted down in June of this year by the House of Delegates , despite the fact that it was favorably reported by the Committee on Public Health and Hygiene , as well as by the Council of the Section on Obstetrics and Gynecology . At the same convention a commercial exhibitor was allowed to feature a misleading film on the " safe period , " which took no account of the doubts which scientists have expressed concerning it . Such action on the part of the A.M.A. is hardly calculated to inspire confidence in its devotion to scientific ideals . The women of the United States arc waiting for the medical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country have in the past ten years taken care of probably notmore than 160,000women , while the number advised by private practitioners would hardly bring this figure up to half a million . It is quite possible that the majority of married people are using some more or less crude form of birth control . But only a small minority are instructed in reliable methods . It is absurd that the legislators should wait for the doctors and the doctors should wait for the legislators to correct the situation . A movement is now on foot , started by Dr. Prentiss Willson , President of the District of Columbia Medical Society , to organize a National Medical Committee on State and Federal Contraceptive Legislation . It is to he hoped that the influential men on this committee will be able to break the deadlock that has so far been the fate of all contraceptive legislation . There is no reason why the Roman Catholic Church should attempt to dictate either to the legislators or the A.M.A. Father Coughlin admitted , in testifying against the proposed Federal legislation before the House Judiciary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ population today profess no affiliated religion . " " I recognize the fact , " he went on , " that those people are favoring practical birth control . If that is their morals . I have no criticism to offer ; that is their business . " But Father Coughlin had a criticism to offer or he would not have been testifying against the proposed bill . Amendment of the Federal law so as to admit contraceptive materials to the mails will hardly force " practical birth control " on the communicants of the Roman Catholic Church . Its priests will still be at liberty to lead their flocks as best they can . Because the Church is uncertain of its authority over its own members , it is attempting to dictate on a very vital subject to the majority of Americans , who are not its communicants . There could be no better proof that it is seeking to invade the domain that belongs to the State . The only other opponents of a change in the laws are such Protestant fundamentalists as Canon William Sheafe Chase , who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prostitution , and those population theorists who are alarmed by the falling birth rate . But these latter gentlemen have not proved that we should be any the worse off for having a stationary population . Over a century ago Mal thus tried to alarm the world with his theory that human beings were increasing by a geometric ratio while the means of existence were increasing only by an arithmetic ratio To-day Mgr . John A. Ryan and others argue that this country and the world at large need more and not fewer consumers . They ignore the fact that we also need fewer and not more workers . Far more impressive ? and alarming ? are the Milbank Fund findings showing that the highest birth rate prevailed in 1932 ( and doubtless still does ) " in families which could least afford , from any point of view , to assume this added responsibility . " It would be hard to deny that the drain on women 's health , the broken marriages , the toll of abortions , the hardships suffered by overlarge families subsisting on relief , are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                   