@@143441

For anyone with a sincere desire to keep out of the limelight , the advisability of making a solo flight from the U. S. to Europe is open to question . Whether , having made the first non-stop solo flight from the U. S. to Europe in 1927 , Charles Augustus Lindbergh thereby justified the U. S. press in considering that his private life was public property is open to question also . Last week , the sad and puzzling problem of the No. 1 U. S. hero 's relation to the No. 1 U. S. institution of hero-worship was raised once more when , completely unheralded and completely uncommunicative , Mr. and Mrs. Charles Augustus Lindbergh returned from England , where they have lived since 1935 , to visit the U. S. <P> A rumor that Col. Lindbergh intended to come home started a few weeks ago in St. Louis . Major Albert Bond Lambert , one of the backers of the 1927 flight , announced that he had received a letter in which the Colonel said he hoped to be in St. Louis " very soon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , who acted as Colonel Lindbergh 's " go-between " with the press during the Hauptmann trial and later broke the news of the Lindbergh decision to live abroad , has been the newspaper world 's best authority on all Lindbergh activities . Transferred to his paper 's Washington branch , Reporter Lyman had heard nothing about the impending visit and the rumor presently died . Last week , when the U. S. Liner President Harding docked in New York , city editors were under the impression that the only conceivably newsworthy figures on board were the members of a Chechoslovakian Trade-Treaty Commission . Consequently , there were on hand only the run-of-the-mill ship-news reporters , a Fox Movietone Newsreel cameraman , and a Wide World photographer named Kenneth Lucas , assigned to pick up a package and get a shot of the Czechs . Photographer Lucas was on the deck trying to find the Commission when he spied a familiar figure rushing down the third-class gangplank . Recognizing Mrs. Lindbergh , he pursued her onto the dock , contrived to get a few blurred shots before the Colonel and his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , got into a car and drove away ( see cut ) . <P> The fact that the President Harding docked on a Sunday morning gave newspapers time enough to discover at least how one of the world 's most famed individuals had kept the news of his whereabouts a secret for a week . In Weald , Kent , where the Lindberghs ' children , Jon and Land , remained last week , villagers are trained to secrecy about the Lindberghs . They booked passage as Mr. and Mrs. Gregory . Embarking at Southampton , Colonel Lindbergh wore dark glasses , remained unrecognized . For the first 24 hours of the voyage , he and his wife stayed in their cabins . To a steward , sent to invite them to sit at Captain James E. Roberts ' table , the Colonel said : " You undoubtedly recognize me . I am Colonel Lindbergh and I do not want any publicity at all . "                     