@@487428

The Shape of Things AFTER A MONTH OF WAR THE RED ARMY 'S drive against Finland appears to have been stalled in a snowdrift . We must , no doubt , discount some of the Finnish claims and , still more , the unofficial reports of Soviet disasters which reach us via Stockholm and Copenhagen . But making all allowances for exaggeration , it seems clear that the Russians have made no real impression on the Mannerheirn Line , while their thrusts from the north and east toward the head of the Gulf of Bothnia have been checked . In both sectors they committed the error of outrunning their communications , thus rendering themselves vulnerable to flank attacks by the Finns . Meanwhile heavy snows blocked the meager transport routes available , and the Finns ' policy of destroying all shelter as their army retreated left the Russian troops exposed to the subzero weather with supplies running low . The advance across the " waist " of Finland , which for a time looked as if it might achieve its objective , appears to have been turned into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ south the Finns claim to have pushed on to Russian soil and may attempt to strike at the Murmansk railroad , which is the life-line of the Soviet forces . However , a Finnish drive in this direction would be subject to the same perils of weakened communications which the Russians have suffered , and the Finnish command , understanding the art of cooperating with " General Winter , " will no doubt proceed warily . Checked on the ground , the Rus-sians are increasingly active in the air and have raided many Finnish cities in the past few days . Perhaps their objectives are solely military , but , as always , the bombs once dropped fail to show a nice discrimination , and the civilian casualty list is mounting . THE POPE , IN HIS CHRISTMAS MESSAGE , AND the President , in his letter announcing the appointment of Myron C. Taylor as ambassador without portfolio to the Vatican , both paid a seasonal homage to peace in the abstract . Unfortunately , the facts of the European situation hardly warrant optimism about the ' possibility of giving their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Pope as essential for " a just and honorable peace " were a guaranty of independence to all nations , general disarmament , the creation or reshaping of international bodies ' to assure faithful observance of international undertakings , the fulfilment of " the true needs " of nations and ethnic minorities , the abandonment of hatreds for " moral justice . " It is easy enough to indorse these five points , but if words mean anything , their application would only be possible were Hitler to surrender his conquests and give guaranties against further aggression . That is the snag on which all the peace efforts since September have stuck , and there is no present sign of its removal . The only basis on which the Allies and Germany could , possibly make peace now is a common opposition to Russia , and there are indications in the Pope 's message that if this kind of united front could be arranged he might forgo his conditions for ideal settlement . Mussolini appears to be aiming in the same direction , and the Vatican must always take account @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ participation in any venture of this kind . A peace which would ber in effect , a Hitlerian triumph would lead directly toward a division of Europe between red and brown totalitarianism . PRESIDENT ROOSEVELT 'S PROMISE TO SEND army soup kitchens into Ohio if necessary to prevent starvation brought a characteristically ill-tempered reply from Governor Bricker , Who charged the President with toadying to the C. I. 0 . and the Workers ' Alliance . Bricker also charged the Administration with having discriminated against Ohio as a Republican state in making WPA appropriations . To this Colonel Harrington has responded by showing that failure of the local authorities to contribute their share of the funds as provided by-law is responsible for the fact that only 140,000 out of the 156,000 authorized WPA jobs have been filled . Although the situation in Cleveland has been cleared up by a $1,200,000 bond issue , the plight of those dependent on relief in other parts of the state is more critical than ever . Statistics presented to Mr. Roosevelt showed that inmates of Ohio 's jails and , penitentiaries receive from three to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unemployed . Back in 1929 it was perhaps understandable that the unemployed should be shunted to the bread line and soup kitchen for the necessities of life . But it is 722 a sad commentary on American politics that after ten years of experience with mass unemployment a great state is unable to provide food for its destitute . SECRETARY ICKES HAS PLEASANTLY ADDED another odd fragment to the nation 's favorite political jigsaw puzzle  --  the problem of whether Mr. Roosevelt will or will not seek a third term . It may well be that the proposal of the Secretary of the Interior for a conference of liberals in 1940 has nothing to do with the President 's candidacy or non-candidacy . But it inevitably gives rise to two theories . One is that Ickes is seeking to corral liberal support from both parties for Mr. Roosevelt . The other , canceling the first , is that Ickes knows Roosevelt will not run again and is fearful that both parties may nominate conservatives . The Secretary of the Interior , a Mugwump from way back , was candid enough to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when the Bull Moose threw an election to the Democrats , " you ca n't get anywhere with a third-party movement in this country . " He spoke of " a sacrifice hit " by the liberals . It is hard to believe that Mr. Roosevelt sees himself in the 1912 role of his cousin . The Ickes proposal seems to indicate that Roosevelt will not run again , or at least at the moment thinks he will not run again . More dangerous in our opinion than the nomination of conservatives by both parties would be the nomination of a phony liberal , by the Democrats . A gentleman from Indiana comes to mind . - COMMODITY PRICES ARE ONCE AGAIN ON the march . Since the beginning of December quotations for a number of domestic farm- products and imported raw materials have risen sharply . The war is not entirely to blame for this movement . The striking advance in wheat , the spot price of which reached 109 cents on December 21 as compared with 68Y2 cents on August 31 , seems mainly due to the unprecedented drought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is estimated at 30 per cent below the average for the last ten years , and it is considered likely that next year 's wheat harvest for the whole country will be insufficient for domestic consumption , making possible a reduction in the carry-over . The outlook for wheat farmers outside the drought-stricken district is thus more promising , but the situation of those in the Dust Bowl would be desperate were it not for federal parity , soil-conservation , and crop-insurance payments . Another mitigating factor is that some farmers hold part of last year 's crop in the government-loan scheme and owing to the rise in prices will be able to redeem it profitably . The advance in cotton has also opened the door to a reduction in government-loan holdings . In this instance there seems to have been a genuine improvement in both domestic and foreign The NATION demand , with the latter stimulated by successive reductions in the export subsidy , which is likely to be withdrawn altogether shortly . So far finished goods have not reflected the rise in raw materials , but as the TNEC @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will make it difficult to prevent the kind of general mark-up which the Administration has sought to discourage in the interests of stable recovery . THE NEW GERMAN-RUMANIAN ECONOMIC pact represents one of the Reich 's few diplomatic victories since the beginning of the war . Yielding to incessant Nazi pressure , Rumania has agreed to supply Germany with 130,000 tons of oil monthly , an increase of 32,000 tons over the amount actually shipped in October . It has alsci agreed to accept an exchange rate of 49 lei to the mark in place of the 40-lei rate which formerly prevailed . This will enable the Reich to purchase goods 22 per cent more cheaply than previously , but will impose a corresponding price disadvantage on German exports to Rumania . The new exchange rate does not constitute an unqualified Nazi triumph since Germany originally asked for a rate of 72 lei to the mark and accepted the new rate only after weeks of bickering . The significance of the 130,000-ton oil quota is dependent on Germany 's ability to improve transport facilities With the Danube closed , or nearly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ doing well if it actually obtains half its monthly allotment Germany 's special relations with Russia and Hungary seem to preclude , for the moment , political gains at Bucharest which would offset the advantage gained by the Allies in the establishment of the Tatarescu government . Rumania is interested primarily in protection against Russian , Hungarian , and Bulgarian territorial claims . Germany is hardly in a position to offer any such guaranties . CHINA 'S GROWING MILITARY STRENGTH HAS been demonstrated by the unexpected success of its midwinter offensives on four widely separated fronts . In the far south , Kwangsi troops under Pai Chung-hsi are reported to have cut off the town of Nanning , recently captured by the Japanese , and to have occupied several strategic points on its outskirts . In Central China , Chiang Kai-shek 's regulars have pushed close to Nanchang , and guerrillas are reported to have entered the suburbs . Farther north , the Chinese have fought their way into the city of Kaifeng , provincial capital of Honan , and captured Lowang , a railway station between Kaifeng and , Lanfeng @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 100 miles south of Shanghai . Although the Chinese have yet to recapture and hold an important city , their offensive strength has never appeared in such December 30 , 1939 a favorable light as within the last few weeks , while Japan has never exhibited less capacity for a sustained offensive . On the international front the Japanese military have once more effectively obstructed the efforts of the Tokyo government to conciliate Great Britain and the United States by delaying indefinitely the government 's announced plans for opening the Yangtze and Pearl rivers to foreign shipping . The demonstrated incapacity of the Japanese government to live up to its promises in this instance , as in so many others in the past , should do much to allay the appeasement sentiment in Washington . 723 " Attack ! Crush the artillery opponent ! Destroy the long-prepared fortifications ! " At least that 's what Y. Ogniev , writing on " The Power of Voroshilov 's Salvos , " reports via Mr. Gedye . Such formulas remind us of the Milt Gross ' version of a Horatio Alger story , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an ironing board conveniently located at the edge of a pier , while the flaxen-haired daughter of the banker shrieks for help as she goes down for the third time . " First , " cries out the stalwart hero as he irons away furiously , " first must be nittly prassed de wall-worn coat ! " AFTER THE BRITISH BLUE BOOK CAME THE German White Book , and now we have the French Yellow Book . It can be said with historical accuracy that not one of the Blue , White , Yellow , Red , Orange , and other books published by the various governments during the last war survived the critical examination of scholars . All turned out to have been falsified in one way or another , and the present crop must also be read with care . The most interesting item in the cabled summaries of the Yellow Book is the story of how Hacha was bullied and virtually doped into signing away Czechoslovakia 's freedom . Another illuminating revelation is the statement that as early as December , 1938 , the Allied governments were warned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it negligence , ' distaste for a Soviet alliance , or Moscow 's terms that were responsible for the failure to heed this warning and arrive at an accord with the U. S. S. R. ? Probably all three . The warning came again on May 6 when the French representative asked a person close to Hitler how Germany could possibly make an agreement with the fatherland of communism . " You yourself ought to know , " was the cold but realistic answer , " that the most Catholic King did not hesitate in bygone times to make an alliance with the Turks . " TIMING , ANY GOOD BOLSHEVIK WILL TELL you , is the essence of strategy . It is in the light of this dictum that Stalin 's sixtieth birthday must be judged . The fact is that the Soviet press was in a bad way , what with the Red Army staging a Blitzkrieg ohne Blitz , world opinion getting extremely nasty over the " liberation " of the Finns , and Russians in street cars beginning to murmur doubts about the popularity of " the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , to cover up the Retreat to Moscow , has been reduced to some Bunyanesque tales of Soviet gunnery , which according to G. E. R. Gedye is a powerful solution of marksmanship and ' ourteenth Street soapbox . When a Russian artillery commander gives ' ' Orders to fire , there 's nothing prosaic about ' it . " to battle ! " he cries . " At the provocateurs of war ! In the name of the Fatherland ! Fire ! " Or Finland and Panama TN THIS business of safeguarding our neutrality , our ' endeavors to provide general rules are continually meeting shipwreck on the sharp rocks of particular events . The new Neutrality Act , passed after long and anguished debate , was designed to resolve our conflicting emotions in regard to the war between Nazi Germany and the Allies ; that is to say , it was an effort to help the latter as much as possible while simultaneously minimizing the danger of getting into the war ourselves . But hardly was the act in operation when the attack of Russia on Finland produced a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the time the Neutrality Act was before Congress . If on the outbreak of the Russo-Finnish war , both belligerents had been made subject to its provisions , the effect would have been far more harmful to Finland than to Russia . This would have seemed outrageous to most Americans , whose sympathies were heavily engaged for the victim of Soviet aggression . Hence there was hardly a murmur of protest when the Administration , taking advantage of the technical fact that no war had been declared , just as it has done in the case of the Japanese invasion of China , issued no proclamation under the Neutrality Act but bent all its energies toward rendering physical assistance to Finland . An Import-Export Bank credit has been arranged ; a direct loan making possible the purchase of munitions is being discussed ; the navy has waived its priority on delivery of new bombers . At the same time steps have been taken to place a " moral " embargo on shipments to Russia of armaments , molybdenum , and aviation gasoline . We are far from criticizing these steps , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a direction quite contrary to the Neutrality Act . At present the Allies are not at war with Russia , but they are sending Finland what aid they can , and if the war spreads to Scandinavia they may well decide on open intervention , merging the two wars now in progress in Europe into one . We should then have to drop financial aid to the Finns , insisting on cash and carry , or find ourselves in a very illogical tangle .                     