@@144624

Publicity-hating , 56-year-old John Crichton-Stuart , fourth Marquess of Bute , was quietly sunning himself last week in Morocco . In smoky Cardiff , Wales , an anxious City Council was worried over the rich noble lord 's latest business deal . Announcement had just been made that Lord Bute-a collector of castles , the largest individual coal royalty owner in Britain , descendant of the 14th-Century Scottish King Robert III , possessor of 14 titles-was disposing of half of Cardiff 's real estate to an unidentified London syndicate . Reported to involve from $100,000,000 down to $25,000,000 it was believed to be the most complex real-estate deal ever to take place in Britain . <P> Although keeping four Scottish homes , Lord Bute and ancestors have long concentrated their financial interests in Welsh coal mines , which now pay about $545,000 a year and for which the Government will give $10,000,000 when they are nationalized . To handle the coal , the Crichton-Stuarts built most of Cardiff 's enormous docks . But even more lucrative of late have been the family 's vast Cardiff real-estate holdings , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Docks and real estate were both included in the sale-20,000 houses , the Cardiff Shipping Exchange , 1,000 stores , 250 pubs , cinema houses , wide suburban areas . Also included in the sale was Cardiff Castle , in which Lord Bute once entertained 10,000 guests and to which tourists pay one shilling entrance fee . Lord Bute , who with characteristic self-effacement went to War as Private Crichton-Stuart , also owns London and Edinburgh town houses , Kames Castle and Mount Stuart , Rothesay , on the Isle of Bute , the luxurious Moorish-style El Minzah Palace Hotel of Tangier , the Castle of Guadacorte , about ten miles north of Gibraltar in Rightist Spain . <P> Handling the deal for Lord Bute in London was his 28-year-old second son , Lord Robert Crichton-Stuart . Arriving in Manhattan this week . Lord Robert vehemently denied his father intended to invest his money in America .                     