@@143731

Tokyo was treated last week to some-thing as exciting as though Paris had learned during the World War that Sarah Bernhardt , Cecile Sorel or Mistinguett had eloped to Germany with a French admirer of Kaiser Wilhelm . A topflight Japanese stage &; screen star is Miss Yoshiki Okada , billed soon to appear in a leading Tokyo theatre . For a time she was the Viscountess Takeuchi , recently was said to have taken as her lover a Japanese Communist writer , Ryokichi Sugimoto . Last week this pair were reported out sleighing on the snow-covered island of Sakhalin , half Japanese , half Soviet . Suddenly the Japanese sleigh driver found himself being nudged in the ribs by Comrade Sugimoto with a pistol . The driver halted , watched , terrified and helpless , while the actress and her Red put on skis , started down a steep slope in the direction of the Soviet frontier and disappeared in gathering darkness . Japanese frontier patrols , summoned by the driver , found no trace of the ski-elopers , said they had apparently made for a Soviet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ started their slide . <P> Next day friends of Miss Okada mourned her as a traitress to Japan , morally dead . The Japanese Government ordered its consul at Alexandrovsk , Russian Sakhalin , to " demand full information . " But over their beer in Tokyo hard-to-convince U. S. journalists , suspicious of a publicity hoax , agreed that so far as they knew the lover of Miss Okada had been not Sugimoto but a mildly radical Japanese theatrical producer , Yoshimasa Yoshida . Sure enough , part of their suspicion was confirmed . Japanese dispatches from Sakhalin declared that the lover in the case was indeed Yoshida but still insisted that he and Miss Okada had eloped to the Reds . Final confirmation came when Soviet officials at Alexandrovsk announced they had clapped Actress Okada and Producer Yoshida into a small jail near the frontier . In Tokyo detectives grilled stage colleagues of the pair , learned they had participated at the Soviet Embassy in amateur theatricals.                     