@@469163

NOT long ago the belief was still prevalent that all men had and always had had the same kind of soul . Then someone discovered that the sandals of Alexander differed from those of Caesar and from the boots of Napoleon . This discovery amazed him and his time . Since then , history , or what goes by that name , has never ceased to grow and to flourish . Our forefathers thought they understood the past because they interpreted the heroes of former days by applying to them the psychology and logic of their own epochs . Our own contemporaries believe they have fathomed the past when they have succeeded in defining accurately the spiritual , intellectual , physical , and material differences which distinguished our times from those gone by . The contrast between these two methods is a glaring one , and springs from a radical change in point of view . Up to about 1750 men regarded the human spirit as immortal and forever identical with itself ; after that date they began to believe that time was the essential factor in human @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ human soul . Evolution and all our modern ideas on social progress are based on this faith in the action of time ? a faith which has become so deeply rooted in us , which has so hypnotized us , that we are incapable of any escaping from the sphere of its influence . Up to about 1750-1800 , men were not particularly sensitive to the realityof the past . They were inclined to feel that the past had been all very well in its way but was no further concern of theirs . We of to-day imagine the past completely opposed to our present ideals , but we feel an acute need to know it and to understand it . This is what is called our modern historical mind . There may be something puerile about it ; it is conceivable that three hundred years hence men will find it absurd ; even now we may recognize the artlessness of thus working ourselves into a fever over people and things that are dead merely because they are dead . All this may be true ; yet it can not prevent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ times . Together with the cinema , with jazz , pacifism , bolshevism , and Einstein , it is one of ' the irresistible pleasures of to-day . It is not , to be sure , always an intelligent pleasure , but it may become one . The difficulty is that too many people refuse to take history as a pleasure and insist on making it a kind of religion . To them it has ceased to be what it was to the Middle Ages and the Renaissance ? an amusing and instructive recital of the most characteristic actions of the imperishable human spirit ? and has become the scientific description of all the changes that have befallen human nature , the human body , human customs . They insist upon making a science of it . Whenever historians foregather they call their meetings scientific meetings ; and AN INVITATION TO AMERICAN HISTORIANS 21 rightly so , since that helps them to succeed . Whereas Mr. Babbitt would not put himself to the inconvenience of going to listen to a lecture on " Pleasure in Ancient Greece , " he will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " The Price of Olives and Figs in Athens during the Fifth Century before Christ . " For that is " scientific . " These scientific pretensions of history are , to be honest , deceptive . History is incapable of the accuracy of mathematics ? the latter deals with clearly defined propositions , while the former is always striving to define its scope without ever succeeding . History can not , like physics , chemistry , and medicine , verify its statements in the light of experience . No experimentation is possible in history all laboratory work is precluded . History passes for a science because historians dream of being scholars and think they resemble entomologists , who describe with mathematical precision the bodies of dried hugs or defunct cockroaches . Jibtorians imagine that since their field is the past and the past is a deal thing , they can treat it as a geologist treats a stone . Unfortunately , the past is not dead . What we call the past is , in substance , merely a portion of what we call the present ; there is no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are for us as dead and gone as " ancient historical events . " From the moment of President Doumer 's assassination , his death ? an event of the present though it was ? became as remote and mysterious to every Frenchman as the death of Casar . On the other hand , certain historical events are still much alive because of their results . We can not see those events except through the consequences which separate us from them , but the latter , developing continuously , reveal the original facts in an ever-changing light . The conquest of Gaul by the Romans is not a dead thing ? it is still discussed and fought about every year in the French Parliament when they decide what place Latin is to take in the schools . The past has a curious and profound vitality ; sometimes it seems to grow torpid , sometimes it revives and recovers its reality . Who ever gave a thought ten years ago to Tutank-amen and his religious reforms ? People were hardly aware of his name . Thanks to the discoveries of Carnavon , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ women 's clubs in the United States , all the learned societies of the world , were eager to make his acquaintance . But now he is disappearing from sight again . Ur is taking his place . The excavations of Mesopotamia are obliterating the discoveries of Egypt . Despite the claims of certain historians , it is not true that new documents are added to old ones in history , as one stone is added to another to form a wall . A new document , or one newly discovered , changes the value , the sense , and the importance of old documents . Sometimes it kills them , sometimes it restores them to life ; it never leaves them untouched . Hence it is impossible to believe that as long as human beings live on earth they will ever let their past be really stable and fixed . It seems impossible that there should ever he any conclusive answer to the questions of history , any solid base upon which the historian may establish a scientific certainty . True history , honest history ( I am not speaking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be a science . It may be a game or it may be an art ? the art of understanding human life . There is no true history except in so far as it is capable of attaching itself to the present . By so doing it may succeed in increasing men 's knowledge of their lives , in widening their perceptions of their activity . It may render the present more spacious and more luminous , which is the highest dignity it can attain . To attain that dignity , it must prove itself intelligent , subtle , and courageous . The good historian is anxious to understand and to perceive all the facts and all the characters he discusses without permitting himself to be influenced by political prejudice or the accepted commonplaces . He should write nothing under the sway of material or social preconceptions , which would lead him to a partisan attitude . Those are after all the essential disciplines of the historian . A good historian is very much like a good broker . He should be passionately interested in all that he handles , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ handles it . Such an attitude , in fact , is seldom found among historians ; either they do not care at all for past and dead things or they have a point that they want to make . In both cases they are biased because they take the past too lightly or because they have it too much at heart . He should discuss only that which is real to him , only that which has impressed his own intelligence and his own sensibilities . It is not an easy task . The entire world contains too few good historians . Of all modern nations , the United States has the shortest history ; to counterbalance this , that history has three great qualities : 1 . It is coherent . It belongs wholly to the present . We can perceive it in its entirety . 2 . It is better supplied with documents than any other history . It would seem that the American colonists , immediately upon debarkation , even before they started to preach sermons or to kill Indians or to eat wild turkeys , began writing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rare symbolic value . The transformation which a country like France underwent so slowly , from theearliest times to the twentieth century of the Christian era , in America occupied only three centuries . Compared with the history of the United States , the history of Europe seems to be a slow-motion cinema , the rhythm of whose events is but faintly discernible ; while the history of America appears as a striking , brilliant epitome of the history of the world ? the conquest of the earth by the white race , and the settlement of the continents by Indo-European genius . Thus the United States offers the historian splendid material and a lucrative soil as well . Of all modern nations , America seems to have the keenest taste for history . At any rate , it is the nation which pays its historians best , as authors , publishers , and literary agents will testify . But this is not mere caprice . America has excellent reasons for such an attitude . First of all , she has need of a history . Other countries might , if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ national unity has other buttresses . In France , for example , the language which is spoken throughout her territory and which belongs to the country develops and protects national sentiment . In Poland the constant danger threatening her frontiers forces her citizens to make common cause , even though they bate one another . In Germany the literary and artistic traditions , so old and so brilliant , suffice to give the German people a consciousness of their unity and dignity . The American nation speaks the same language as the British Empire , which is " English . " America is protected against any immediate danger . Her writers and artists , numerous and talented though they be , can not profess to constitute a national school . Apart from material interests and social discipline , the one great force which upholds the national unity of the United States is history . AN INVITATION TO AMERICAN HISTORIANS 23 The American people feel this , and their taste for history is constantly in evidence . They love it and pursue it in all its forms . Indeed , the most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ special attraction for them , bringing them most clearly , perhaps , the sense of their continuity and of their hard-won cohesion . There is considerable truth in the pleasantry of the Englishman who , questioned as to his impressions of America , replied , " What surprised me most of all was the number of ancestors every American owns and the care with which he preserves them . " It is remarkable to note that in almost every great library in the Eastern States there is a room specially dedicated to genealogy . It is curious to find that in The Boston Transcript every week there is a page devoted to genealogy . The Transcript is a newspaper as thoughtful , as serious-minded as the London Times or Le Temps of Paris . Yet The Times , which now and then publishes documented correspondence on bugs , has no genealogical page . And Le Temps , which plumes itself on neglecting neither literature nor history nor diplomacy , seems to avoid genealogy as a thing apparently distasteful to French democracy . In France , indeed , genealogy is suspected of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pedestal of democracy . Congress is proud of passing immigration laws which are based on a certain theory of national genealogy , and whose object is to preserve for the Americans of the future a plentiful stock of Anglo-Saxon ancestors . Thanks to genealogy , therefore , history has become a part of the American administrative machine . And everyone bows respectfully before it , so dearly does America love her history . This love of hers is not blind , however . Among the innumerable historical works with which the American market is glutted there are two varieties which are particularly pleasing to the citizens of the United States . A good American likes to know everything he can about his ancestors and enjoys receiving information about the world in general , but he does not wish to be burdened with details . Not long ago a foreigner visited one of the most modern schools in New York . The star pupil was presented to him , and he was invited to question the boy ? a keen , attractive youngster . On being asked what period he was studying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The visitor then put to him a number of questions on Louis XIV , but the child answered promptly and with dignity , " I do n't bother about kings . " History was his field , but he would have none of its small and dusty details . The only heroes a young American knows are those of his own country and , possibly , Jesus , Buddha , and Einstein . He never wearies of hearing about them or of reading their lives . It would seem that while a Frenchman can not live happily without reading a sentimental or licentious novel at least once a month ; while an Englishman requires detective novels at frequent intervals for the preservation of his well-being , an American 's health demands generous doses of biography . This vogue for biography has recently invaded Europe , but without the same spontaneity . Even the most famous biographers of the Old Continent , a Maurois , a Ludwig , have achieved a more dazzling and lucrative success in the New World than in their own countries . The United States was not their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of all biographers . It is , besides , the paradise of universal histories and of great historical theories . The French people are skeptical . They distrust an author who professes to teach them too much . They are constantly on the lookout for contradictions in a serious hook , and if they find one they no longer trust the author . The American people are ready to accept any statement signed by a famous name . They are determined to admit unresistingly anything presented to them as a fact even if that fact contains contradictory elements . They are attracted by general theories which are bold and over-simplified , and they prefer above all others short histories of great periods . European criticism sees in this a proof of indolence . I do not agree . My judgment is rather that , life in the United States having been brutal but over-simplified since 1616 , it is quite natural for the American reader to enjoy reading a history which is simple and stirring . He prefers history to fiction because history is real . Between 1600 and 1932 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ continent , America learned to love realism and to distrust dreams , literature , and imagination . The superiority of non-fiction over the novel has manifested itself still more clearly since the economic depression . A man who is watching his own fortune melt away , and is in danger of losing self-confidence as well , finds it extremely soothing to read an account of the trials suffered by great men of old and by all our predecessors . A novel may afford him a moment 's distraction , laughter , or a few hours of tears , but it will leave him , on the whole , indifferent enough . History is grave and weighty ; it gives the reader a sense of his own importance . In a country permeated by the idea that a man can learn anything he likes provided he labors at it , it is natural that he should honor history , the great educator of statesmen and peoples , as the greatest of all teachers ? a teacher of wisdom , of astuteness , of the social and moral sciences . Post-war conditions have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States . This was thegreat period of " Americanization , " the period during which the American people sought to check the rising tide of immigration and to give to every American citizen the clear consciousness of his " Americanism . " Under these conditions ? with a government , a people , and a Congress as the outspoken patrons of history , making use of it and rewarding it generously ? American historians have every incentive to good work . They can sell their books by thousands and mold national sentiment , which asks only to be permitted to follow their lead . Let us see what they have done . They have done their best , but it must be admitted that the task was not easy . The historian 's calling is a difficult one to practice in the year 193g . Few of them are a real Hercules , but all of them sooner or later must make the decision that faced Hercules ? the choice between " vice and virtue , " between the esteem of his fellow-historians and popular favor . There is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ history the general public enjoys reading . The first consists of notes with practically no text , the second of text with no notes . The first would , if it could , be simply a bare document ; the other aims at being an engaging narrative . America being the country of documents , of statistics , and vast archives , one may imagine the temptation besetting the serious historian . In an epoch which regards itself as scientific , which wishes to be scientific , the young historian , fresh from the university , is tempted to the prompt production of solid , massive volumes filled with fine , ponderous facts which he has drawn from documents ? preferably from official documents . This is the method employed by many AN INVITATION TO AMERICAN HISTORIANS 25 honest academic spirits in their efforts to write the history of our times . Scientific history maintains that it is accurate , leaning as it does , by choice , upon written official documents ; it is further prepared to maintain that these documents are too dry and tedious to have been corrupted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sight of . Besides , anyone who has been close to a public administration since the War knows that no official document can be accurate . Public administration in all great countries is a poetic fiction . The methods of representative government and of parliamentary control have made lying imperative in all official documents . It would be impossible to govern or to administer the country otherwise . It is true that reports and official statistics are refined lies , combining subtlety with dignity and precision . But lies they are . And is it not touching to realize that the majority of our serious historical works and our academic texts are based on these selfsame official lies of the nineteenth century , of the tenth century , and of the third millenary B. C. ! The general public , without analyzing its feeling , turns from these books instinctively , respecting them , to be sure , but aware that they have no contact with life or reality . Hence , there is no need to discuss them here .. Let us , therefore , discuss living history -- -the kind which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must be noted that America has always had an important group of distinguished historians , intent on the writing of readable books and on preserving contact with the public . Thanks to their ability , and to the astuteness of the publishers who know their public , they have succeeded in hitting upon various methods of gaining both the favor of readers and the esteem of their colleagues . Let us try to describe the three best methods . First of all , there are the " Outlines . " This is a very simple method which , however , requires two great qualities rather difficult to find in combination ? a serene ignorance of historical facts and a profound aversion to ideas . We shall return to this later . Then comes the realistic history , which is more subtle because it demands imagination and a knowledge of public opinion . Finally , there is the economic interpretation of history , which involves a rather delicate procedure but produces magnificent results if one knows how to use it , since it impresses , equally and simultaneously , banker , boy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the realm of " Outlines " is Mr. H. G. Wells . His Outline of history is an incomparable masterpiece , being the most harmonious of them all and the most successful in exploiting the methods and technic of this art . The great danger in writing an Outline is to be familiar with a part of the ground to he covered . As there must be another part with which one is unfamiliar , there will be a painful contrast which will destroy the harmony and unity of the book and may even provoke the reader 's mistrust ? which would be a danger , if not for the author at least for the publisher . Mr. Wells , who has the good fortune to be equally ignorant of all the fields of prehistory , proto-history , and history , has skilfully avoided this danger . His Outline , moreover , in refraining from the presentation of a single new or original idea , has succeeded in providing the reader with that most charming of all pastimes ? the pleasure of finding , in the book an excellent mirror of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his mental confusion , and of his vague beliefs . The great skill of Mr. Wells and his colleagues consists in presenting as indubitable scientific facts hypotheses ordinarily regarded as hazy and deleted material AN INVITATION TO AMERICAN HISTORIANS C-7 A reaction was bound to set in . It came in the great " debunking " school , one of the most profitable literary enterprises of the past ten years , one of the only enterprises to withstand the economic crisis or to succeed in making money by it . The term " debunk " is new , but the method is at least fifty years old . S. G. Fisher used it in the nineteenth century , and in the eighteenth it was employed by English historians at the expense of Washington , Franklin , Adorns , and Jefferson . In order to write a good debunking book one must first be acquainted with the frame of mind of the public ? one must know , that is , what virtues and what qualities it finds most irritating at the moment . It is the old story of Aristides . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the vote of the Athenian people , Aristides himself went to the public square where the balloting was to take place . A rustic who did not know him asked him to help him with his ballot . Aristides took care not to refuse , but he was staggered when the good man told him he was anxious to have Aristides exiled . " But what has he ever done to you , " Aristides asked the peasant , " that you should wish to see him so cruelly dealt with ? " " Nothing , " replied the other . " But all these virtues that people are forever talking about strike me as ostentation and end by annoying me . " Once the unpopular virtues are discovered , a hero must be found who was a symbol of them , of whose makeup they formed a characteristic and integral part . Finally , he must be revealed as stupid , ridiculous , infantile , and preposterous . It is a simple matter . It is never difficult to unearth from a great man 's life the fact that he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ point in his career he was interested in a girl , or that he did n't knowenough to blow his nose , or that he was boorish to a servant who had broken a dish . A good piece of debunking is always scrupulously based on actual anecdotes . It alters details very little ; it is content to alter the rhythm which gives a man 's life a certain dignity or an air of grandeur . That is why the debunking system seems scientific . Like science , it is founded on facts and , like science , it refuses to take cognizance of anything which does not fall directly under its own objective scrutiny . The more highly a great man has been praised the easier it is to write a good book belittling his memory . As a matter of fact , any politician , any statesman , artist , general , or preacher can be debunked in this fashion . The only difficulty lies in getting the proportion of the mixture right . Many debunkers exaggerate . They lose sight of the fact that such a hook @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a quarter of hatred , a quarter of sarcasm , and that at least a quarter of sympathy and admiration should always be used . Perpetual detraction is monotonous , dull , and does not convince the reader . That is why Mr. VVoodward 's Washington is so mediocre a history . Mr. Phillips Russell , on the other hand , has been successful in his formula . His books are brief , amusing , and gracefully friendly to the heroes whom he debunks . He bears them , on the whole , no ill will . When debunking is sour and insistent , it becomes indeed a kind of bolshevism . It criticizes not only a man but an era . It assumes a censorious attitude toward the entire past . Consequently , the American public does not much like it . But debunking mingled with gaiety they find attractive , for it seems an adroit way of being sophisticated , and sells well . The best hunting-ground for debunkers has always been the history of New England . The Puritans thought so well of themselves , and said so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ simple matter to show the contrast between the idea they held of themselves and that which others held of them . The extremely interesting books of Mr. James Truslow Adams on the New England of the eighteenth century seem the best examples of this debunking of New England . His recent work , The Epic of America , proves , moreover , that his talents are better suited to debunking than to the epic . He undoubtedly began that book with excellent intentions ; be even made an effort to be enthusiastic . Unfortunately the refrain which repeats itself over and over again in The Epic of America is one of dissatisfaction . Adams shows in this book how America failed to be what she might have been . The book , at the same time an outline and a moderate debunking piece of work , has little of interest to offer the historian , who is already thoroughly familiar with its facts . Nor can it long hold the attention of the philosopher , to whom no new ideas are suggested . Yet , because of its great success it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ depression it has been selling in the thousands for months . Here is evidence that the American people yearn to know what they ought to think of themselves and of their political ideals . Like the child who wished to be whipped in winter because it warmed him , so does the American nation seem to enjoy being flogged in times of depression . Mr. Adams flogs his country very well . He does it with dignity and a most kindly regretfulness . The country delights in it . Mr. Adams is undoubtedly the American historian of the day , but he does not belong to the outstanding American historical school of the day . Europeans complain that they are tired of hearing about American idealism . Diplomats , statesmen , and professors are forever talking of American idealism and of the great spiritual forces which have swept her along the course of her history . There is hardly a speech delivered in Europe on the United States which fails to make some mention of American idealism . Some criticize it , others extol it to the skies . The journals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ refer to it with bitterness ; but the liberals of the Old World have lived by its precepts and traditions for over a hundred and fifty years . To have the importance of American idealism denied , to have it denied by an American comes as a shock to many Europeans ; but no one in America seems much ruffled by it . It is a theory which Professor Charles Beard has been able to uphold without injury to himself . On the contrary . His efforts to trace the United States Constitution back to an economic coalition and to show in the Constitutional Convention which drew it up a mere conflict of material interests have won approbation in America . The two volumes in which he sums up the entire evolution of the country from an economic point of view have become classics . The Puritans must be shuddering in their graves . For the rest , his theory is highly plausible . No one can gainsay it . The Americans , compelled to struggle against nature and against the Indians , obliged to settle a new continent , could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the point to be taken into consideration is whether their national spirit was dominated by the outside world , or whether it was able to choose the direction in which it developed . Is it logical to attribute a country 's every significant act to its climate , its food , and its material necessities ? Is it not more probable that America , like all the nations of the earth , was AN INVITATION TO AMERICAN HISTORIANS 0 times forced to yield to the pressure of the outside world and at others was able to follow its intellectual and sentimental ambitions ? After all , the life of any nation appears to be a twofold effort to adapt itself to a certain physical sphere and to satisfy certain psychological tendencies . Any history which fails to take into account this twofold movement , analogous to the ebb and flow of the tides , is one-sided . The weak spot in the economic interpretation of history is that it regards the material elements as the sole essentials , and refuses to see how considerable is the place held by human psychology @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It makes an interesting hypothesis , but it is an oversimplified and naive explanation of the life of peoples . There is something barbarous about it , though it has been amply developed among certain Germanic races . As applied to American history , it has impressiveness but it remains alien . Its rigidity and monotony are ill suited to the spontaneity and diversity characteristic of the United States , full as it is of sudden vast movements , of enthusiasms and disgusts . It furnishes a plausible explanation of certain phenomena , but it disregards all the most interesting and human facts . It might constitute a history of things American , but it is not a history of the American people . And it fails to convince . A theory born on American soil and suggested by the very current of American history would be likely to be more satisfying and interesting than any hypothesis born on foreign soil and originally adapted to foreign conditions . Yet almost all the theories that have been applied to American history have been formed abroad and are inflexible . For example , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seems to be writing under the influence of English radicalism . The works of Lecky , in particular , have made a profound impression on the historians of the United States . An excellent mind , a good writer like Vernon Farrington ( whom , though recently dead , I include in this group and who was , by the way , an Englishman , though he always lived in America ) was incapable of thinking for himself , and lived subservient to that doctrine ; as witness his three volumes on American thought , which constitute at one and the same time a vivid , brilliant survey of American thought from 1616 and a monument of British incomprehension . To him all Americans , great and small , were merely examples of English radical thought , and they illustrated all the methods employed by a young country to lift itself toward the light of democracy , toward social justice , and toward the intelligent redistribution of wealth . This simple hypothesis ( not , it must be owned , a very logical one ) provided him with a design , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but making them narrower and less intelligent . To study Franklin from that point of view might be excusable , though Franklin was first of all an ardent reformer ; but to approach Buckminster , Jonathan Edwards , and the other Puritans from that angle is to act like that pedagogue in Toppffer 's book who made his pupils study chemistry in the Adventures of Telemachus . With all his intellectual honesty and his other qualities , Vernon Farrington suggests the schoolmaster teaching ethics to children . He was a worthy successor of Weems , though Weems was better acquainted with the national temperament and knew better how to adapt himself to it , for he had more imagination and poetry . They were both ecclesiastics ? Weems belonged to the Church of England , and Farrington to the Church of English Radicalism . The clarity and brilliance of English radical thought have fascinated a great many Americans , and few young scholars have been fortunate enough to escape its seductive power . That is why to a foreigner Frederic Jackson Turner seems to have been the great American historian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ man , born in the Middle West , with honest blue eyes which made no attempt to see very far but which saw very clearly and were never clouded by any prejudice or vague theory ? such was Turner ; and his great joy was to understand things at first hand and not through the accounts of others . He neither feared nor hated Europe , but he loved America . To him that love was no system but a fact , a fact so real that he drew inspiration from it first , and only later a theory which will undoubtedly remain the most original and satisfying view of American development . Turner saw in the ever-moving frontier , which has been the goal and the boundary of all American national activity for two centuries , the most important and original factor in the life of the United States . He succeeded in proving that it was the frontier which preserved for the United States its original point of view in politics and political economy . He proved that thanks to the frontier the American nation was enabled to keep @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ long as there was land to be subdued . Having finally reached the Pacific , the United States must , according to Turner , stabilize itself and undoubtedly become a conservative nation like those of Europe , with the same complicated problems . His hypothesis , which he illustrated by innumerable examples and facts , floods American history with American clarity . He borrowed no method nor principle from without . Everything came to him from America , though hewas never dominated by narrow nationalist prejudices . But America had interested him so profoundly , he had tried so hard to understand her , to perceive her , and to explain her , that in the process he reached a plane of moral nobility and intellectual clarity higher than that on which his contemporaries take their stand . His recent death helps us to a better view of his greatness . He did , to be sure , leave a notable volume of work behind , but it is less notable than the influence he once exercised . Unfortunately he has left few disciples , and it is a great but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time an essay or a book by Carl Becker who , of all contemporary American historians , seems by his detachment , his wisdom , and his profound understanding of his country , to be Turner 's most faithful follower . Becker writes little , however , and , though he is a highly esteemed professor , he is training few disciples . So a European wonders : America has been questioning her historians for years , and they evade her . She wants to know what she is , and they show her all the stupidities she has perpetrated ; she wants her destiny explained , and they define it for her in alien terms . If American historians are not prepared to take an American point of view , who will ? Seen from Europe , America is remote and unreal ; the history of the United States a kind of dream . The American historians would have done their part if they could have made the reality of their people 's history felt at home and abroad . The task is not an easy one it is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and artistic enthusiasm in it . Scientific faith is not enough . That leads to the belief that a strictly documentary point of view must he adopted in the service of history , while the exact opposite is true : what American hisAN INVITATION TO AMERICAN HISTORIANS 31 torians need to make their history understandable and perceivable is great psychological insight and a well-developed artistic sense . The world is going through a historical crisis . But the peoples of Europe , with their ancient national traditions , can afford to wait thirty or forty years for new historians to arise who will give them readable histories ; meantime they can always reread the histories written before 1900 . America , however , prey to a tremendous economic upheaval and laboring under the shock of events which make imperative an exact sense of her mission and her national aims , needs first-rate instruction in history at once . She can not find it . She hurls herself upon Outlines , but these are mere evening courses for the benefit of very unsophisticated sophists . She befuddles herself with debunking biographies , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ destroying the great men of the past she clears a space for those of the future ; but they are not yet in sight , and the debunking process seems a sad waste of time , of talent , of irony , and of true national greatness . As for those impressive and soothing theories which seek to account for the whole of American life by reference to economic factors , they are no more satisfying than the others ; they please a group of professors and business men bent on erudition , but the nation will never accept them as an adequate explanation or even as a very intelligent hypothesis . When a people is groping to find its way , when it bids defiance to servile politicians , blind economists , selfish industrialists , then the time has come when historians may play a great role . If they have clearly understood , if they can accurately define the dreams , the desires , the purposes , and the triumphs of their country they will promptly become leaders and will win followers . They will be admired . They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ .                     