@@468754

IF YOU have lived beside a fellow grown paunchy with wealth , and have endured the countless irritations and pinpricks which come from being patronized or having your liberties constantly trespassed upon , you will not find it difficult to understand the feeling which is growing in Canada against the United States . Travel anywhere in the Dominion and , unless you are recognized for an American , you will hear frankly spoken criticism of the lopsidedness of international relations . The belief is abroad in Canada that the United States has lost the faculty for reckoning on a fifty-fifty basis ; that when favors are asked and secured by the United States , contempt for Canadian feelings will be proffered as thanks . Unfortunately there is a mountain of evidence to support the belief . Chicago wants water for her drainage canal . Lake Michigan 's banks are opened and a huge daily volume is led away , without thought for the lowering of navigation levels throughout the Saint Lawrence as a result of the diversion , though the item is of transcendent importance to Canada . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her nose . America asks extension of the three-mile limit to permit greater facility in the enforcement of prohibition . Canada grants the extension ? and vessels of Canadian registry are shelled on the high seas . The Canadian Government , by request , extends administrative and legislative assistance to enforcement of the Eighteenth Amendment . In reply United States patrolmen stalk their prey on Canadian soil and shoot to kill . American traders ' wares dominate the shelves of every Canadian shop and home , while American legislators pile brick on brick along the tariff wall raised against Canadian products . Amity and concord are sung at banquets and the christenings of international bridges ? and Yankee politicians urge the restriction of Canadian immigration . Canadian commoners are engaged in passing a law to illegalize the export of alcoholic beverages to the United States , American legislators in Washington are engaged in banning the importation of Canadian maple products to please the farmers of New Hampshire and Vermont . Add to such major items as these the petty annoyances suffered by Canadians at the hands of immigration officers , customs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ traffic cops with the manners of longshoremen , and only one result can be looked for : a complete exasperation , among Canadians , at the thoughtlessness and intolerance of the United States toward its northern neighbor . Alcoholic history has run a devious gamut in this dying decade . Even before the Eighteenth Amendment came to drive men to the drinking of fusel oil and methylated spirits , Canada had tinkered with prohibition and was discarding it for a system of control that had the saving grace of being open and aboveboard , even though it failed to please the professional moralists . At one period of this experimental epoch the Province of Quebec was wet , and the adjoining bailiwick , Ontario , was dry . Lawmakers in the dry-lands , naturally enough , declared the transportation of liquors into their province illegal . Punitive patrols were sent out . Rude fellows under slouch hats threatened wayfarers from the corners of their mouths as they ransacked band-baggage for bottles hidden in the folds of travelers ' pajamas . Citizens were haled before the justices and fined . But no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a law banning the export of liquor into arid Ontario , for the excellent reason that such a request would have brought a polite reply from the Prime Minister of Quebec suggesting that the enforcement of Ontario 's domestic statutes was none of his concern , and this would have been an end of the matter . It is only natural , therefore , that Canadian eyes opened wide in wonder when the Prime Minister himself introduced a measure in the House of Commons which bans liquor exportation from Canada into the United States . For ten years the Dominion Government had placed at the disposal of the neighboring administration every possible facility to prevent rum-running , without actually depleting its own excise treasury or restricting the legitimate business of Canadian distillers and brewers . Why then , Canadians asked , in the face of the fact that American enforcement officers have failed to avail themselves of the facilities already granted , are we to deplete our own national finances and curb legitimate Canadian enterprise ? The answer is found in the reasons given in Parliament by the Prime Minister himself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Honorable Mackenzie King : The dangers of possible delicate and difficult situations arising between the United States and Great Britain over rum-running on the Atlantic are as nothing compared to the delicate situation that at any moment may arise on our international frontier if this thing is permitted to continue . So perilous do I believe the situation to be that I would no longer assume responsibility in the matter of External Affairs in this regard if I were not sure that I had the support of this Parliament in any policy which I believe to be necessary to prevent a condition which might prove perilous to this country any day . Serious Canadian thought , in fine , realizes that constant repetitions of the I 'm Alone incident can have only one ultimate result , the bringing of Canadian patience to the breaking point . Political leaders in the Dominion , being privy to national thought , have recognized that recurrences of the Shawnee affair , the continued seizure of motor boats and speed craft in Canadians waters and petty disturbances such as the Laframboise incident on the Detroit-Windsor frontier @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ camel 's back of good-will . Canada , therefore , under the light touch of Washington 's " friendly pressure , " has clarified the Dominion 's position in regard to America 's prohibition laws . The gesture is a declaration of Canada 's neighborly spirit , in that it refuses to Canadian citizens the privilege of taking commercial advantage of America 's domestic position . At the same time it is an appeal to the American people to repay neighborly acts by schooling their officers not to sink Canadian ships on the high seas , or to invade Canadian territory for the purpose of shooting down Canadian citizens . It is interesting to note that the measure passed the Canadian House of Commons by the overwhelmingly one-sided vote of 173 to 11 , despite the fact that practically every front-bencher who participated in the debate deplored the spirit of intolerance towards Canada on the part of the United States and confessed utter weariness with the one-sidedness of international accord , III A series of questions was presented to the Canadian Government recently in Parliament by Colonel S. C. Robinson , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the international border in the region of Detroit , which digs to the roots of Canadian irritation and disgust . In his questionnaire the colonel asks : 1 . How many Canadian vessels have been seized by American prohibition agents in 1922-1929 inclusive ? 2 . How many seizures turned ant to be illegal ? S. How many Canadian lives were lost from indiscriminate shooting ? 4 . How many cases of seized vessels are pending ? 5 . How many Canadian vessels have been destroyed by gunfire of American enforcement officers ? O. How many times has Canada protested to the United States ? 7. how many times has the United States apologized ? 8 . What progress has been made with unsettled cases ? 9 . What steps , if any , has the Government taken to put a stop to shooting and murdering by American enforcement officers of Canadian citizens ? H. How many Canadians were murdered by American prohibition agents in 1929 ? 11 . How many Canadians were wounded in 1929 ? 12 . How many Canadians were imprisoned in 1929 ? As a border resident @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of prohibition enforcement which obtains in the Detroit region . As he is a prominent citizen of the Border Cities and a member of the Canadian Parliament , his opinion must be adjudged that of a responsible man . His attitude to prohibition , as he sees it in the community where he makes his home , is that it is a farce . He finds the deportment of officers engaged in the enforcement of the Volstead Act disgraceful . He finds that international relations between the two countries are becoming a laughing-stockas the result of the continued depredations of American officers on the one hand and the intolerance of American laws and restrictions on the other . It was on the Detroit-Windsor border that the Laframboise incident occurred . Muskrat Laframboise owns an automobile , which he plies for hire , and on the night of February third he was engaged by gentlemen in the rum trade to tow a liquor-laden speedboat , mounted on runners , across the ice on the Canadian side of the river , as far as open water . There his job would end . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the water , and steer for the American shore opposite . In the vicinity of Fighting Island , however , after minor accidents en route , trouble developed . Laframboise made his escape in an automobile ( on the Canadian side of the river ) , but was pursued . Called on to halt by two men who appeared in the roadway before his car , the driver stepped on the throttle . The two men stood aside but , as Laframboise drove past , opened fire on him , wounding him in the head . At no time had Laframboise passed off Canadian soil . The attack was made in Canada on a Canadian citizen engaged in pursuits entirely lawful in the Dominion . Patrolman Gordon Southard of the U. S. Liquor Patrol was dismissed for his part in the affair , indicating the concurrence of the United States in the sworn statements of Laframboise and eyewitnesses that the shooting was done by American officers . That is the sort of thing which has transpired along the Detroit-Windsor frontier during the past few years . Not only American hijackers , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ armed to shoot and shooting to kill . Robinson , who lives in the midst of this guerilla warfare of rum-runners , United States sleuths , and hijackers , brands the attitude of American officers as one of complete ignorance of Canadian rights . Peaceful citizens keep off the roads at night , rather than be held at the gun 's point or fired on when they refuse to halt . The ping of bullets as the liquor outposts go into action is heard along the lanes and in the fields down by the river . Over-zealous officers have fired on Canadian citizens on Canadian ground . Canadian citizens have been killed . Yet enforcement remains a divine jest , for the trucks and boats of the favored seem to pass without let or hindrance . Between two and five in the afternoon , one day this winter , seventy-five trucks and motor cars left the export docks at Anaherstburg on the Canadian side and crossed the ice to the American shore without interference , their crossing photographed from the air by a member of the staff of the Detroit News @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ me that the United States , with its army of enforcement officers , could not stop that traffic . When young Laframboise was shot the American officers did not take after the boatloads of liquor going across , but chased the chap in the car . I would say there is only a very shallow attempt being made to enforce the law , particularly along the Detroit River and the shores of Lake Erie . One might fill a book with these incidents ? such as the seizure of the motor boat 210-P in Canadian waters along the Saint Clair River , which brought about an apology from the American Government for the superzeal of its officers . After examining the blunder-list one wonders if the American Government makes any effort to school its men in the rudiments of international law , and whether no one but blacklegs and thugs can be found to accept the emoluments of a United States Government job . " Apparently no one can tell the extent to which this farce has gone , " Colonel Robinson told me in a two-hour talk in his office @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ here realizes that unless common sense is brought into the picture on the American side of the line , as well as here , the continued strain on Canadian decency will become almost impossible to bear . Look at this ! " He showed me a copy of a speech which he had delivered in Parliament during the passage of the Liquor Export Bill . Let me quote two paragraphs of that speech which serve to show the American attitude toward this northern neighbor and the neighbor 's family : A man was a lifesaver at one of the bathing beaches at Windsor . A friend of his from Sandwich desired to cash a check in a Detroit bank and this lifesaver just took out his rowboat and rowed his friend across the river . As he was about to let him off the immigration officers arrested him and they put him in jail . Prominent men from the Golf Club at Sandwich , the Mayor of Windsor and other leading citizens gave the man a splendid character and asked that he be released , but the United States authorities would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ going to investigate . These investigations take from one to five months , and the man had to stay in jail . Another man went to Arkansas to visit his uncle and made up his mind to live there . He married a Scotch girl , and they had one child . Some fellow who wanted his job laid a complaint before the immigration authorities and this man , his wife and child were arrested and put in jail . He had been born in England , by the way , but came to Canada when he was three years old . After three or four days they were let out of jail but were kept under guard for several months . He was not allowed to wurk or to communicate with his family . They were shipped to New Orleans to be sent to England , where they did not know anybody . Ultimately they were shipped to New York where the immigration authorities were persuaded to deport them to Canada . I contend that if Canadians were to treat Americans in that manner the people of the United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that we had committed an unfriendly act . But these are only two samples of what is going on all the time . Let us consider for another moment the words of the Honorable Doctor Manion , former Cabinet Minister , delivered in the House of Commons on March twenty-fourth , as indicating a further reason for Canadian annoyance : When we were in like circumstances in the early months of the war , when we had prohibition on our side of the line and they had not , I do not remember that they helped us very much in keeping the alcohol out of our country . Recalling this fact , Canadians feel that United States policy is based on the doctrine of " heads I win , tails you lose " ; that the old-fashioned doctrine of a quid for a quo , which ought to prevail along this unfortified border , has been mislaid . Canadian records bulge with the eases of citizens who , like the lifesaver of Windsor , have languished in American jails . Canadian distillers and brewers find their legitimate enterprises curbed to aid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rescue when Canada was trying its own Noble Experiment . Canadian people will foot the bill in taxes for a neighborly gesture of aid given to a nation which in turn sinks Canadian ships , shoots Canadian citizens , and sets honest men to rotting in prisons while a horde of officials investigate their right of entry to the United States . Is it any wonder that Canadians think the time has come for a change and for recognition of the fact that good manners is the first requisite of neighborliness ? IV The case of the schooner I 'm Alone offers another example of the genius of American officers for disregarding other people 's laws . The schooner I 'm Alone was a rum-runner of Canadian registry which , on venturing close to the coast , was called upon to halt by an American Coast Guard patrol . The schooner 's commander preferred to return to sea , turned tail and ran , the patrol cutter in pursuit . The pursuit continued over two and a half days . At length the I 'm Alone was bombarded and sunk two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ order to avoid any suggestion of hot-headed opinion in the matter , I will quote here the words of Mr. C. H. Cahan , King 's Counsel anda Member of the Canadian Parliament , as indicative of normal Canadian opinion . Remember that the speaker is one of the Dominion 's outstanding lawyers , a man who has grown up with the country and has been identified with Canadian public life for many years . He says : The evidence seems clear that this pursuit of two days continued to a point on the high seas two hundred and fifteen miles from the coast and , in my opinion , the Coast Guard vessel , the Dexter , I think , which came upon the scene later , never sank a British ship two hundred and fifteen miles from the coast unless by wireless she had received direct instructions from the political authorities of the United States to commit that which , if authorized by the executive political authority of that country , was an act of war or , if not authorized by that political authority but done on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of deliberate piracy . Act of war or act of piracy , it matters little which . Canada is not marching about her borders urging those on the other side to come and knock a chip off her shoulder . Canadians merely seek a return of that right to liberty which Was the root reason for the founding of the United States . But what happened ? Did the United States offer immediate amends to Canada for the scuttling of a ship of Canadian registry ? Did Washington apologize ? No . Washington proposed an arbitration ; and as this is written , the matter drags through the interminable delays of such litigation , the latest suggestion being that although the I 'm Alone was of Canadian registry and flew the Canadian ensign at her mast , her actual ownership was American , a suggestion which so far lacks proof . Even though it were truth you will find it difficult to convince a Canadian that it is lawful for armed American vessels to fire on ships flying the Canadian flag on the high seas . For what did the Coast @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's owners ? This is not an isolated case . There was the affair of the Canadian motor ship Shawnee , for example , fired on by an American enforcement patrol beyond the limit of United States waters , because her master did not choose to halt for questioning and inspection . Washington apologized in this case , perhaps because of the public indignation in Canada over the I 'm Alone case . Canada , I presume , should be grateful that the Shawnee , too , was not sent to Davy Jones . V There is , of course , something comic in any good-humored contemplation of Canada 's Washington-sought aid in the enforcement of the Eighteenth Amendment . Prohibition is waged with gunfire on the borders of the United States ; meanwhile there seems to be little or no attention given to the use of blotting paper in the inland centers of thirst . Hence the feeling exists among Canadians that they are living next door to a man possessed of a monomania , who , therefore , is not quite responsible for his acts . Add to this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are even more distressed than are Canadians by his bad manners , and you find the reason for Canada 's willingness to extend the olive branch in the face of continued insults and depredations . She does this not because Canadians fear the wrath of the fanatics , but because reasonable people ? and Canadians are reasonable folk , perhaps because they are not so " free " as their neighbors and , therefore , are not governed so intensively ? seek to avoid petty contretemps and squabbles . Still , many Canadians admit that they live under the " friendly pressure " which is felt by nations of small population when they reside next door to larger and wealthier countries . Witness the statement made in the House of Commons by Henri Bourassa , tribune of the French Canadian people and Member of Parliament for Labelle : Supposing British Guiana asked us to pass a law similar to this , do you think for a moment we would even consider doing au ? Of course we would not . . . . Therefore if we do it , because it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the American Government to make gond their claims on us , then let us face the consequences like men . I am quite sure that the pressure which has been brought to bear in order to secure this legislation has been " friendly " ; but we may he sure that as time goes on the pressure will be perhaps a little less friendly and a little more pressing , when it is found that this legislation is inoperative . The feeling gains ground that there must be an end to these pressures and these shootings and these imprisonments , an end to questionnaires that will ask the Canadian Government how many citizens were murdered by American officers last year . No matter how reasonable a man may be , no matter how peaceful his desires , if he is to be constantly irritated and angered by insults and ill-treatments , there is bound to come a day when he will say " Enough ! " There is not a sane man in the Dominion who does not hope that that day may never come . Canada 's leaders , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the policy of neighborliness and good-will . Error in these matters lies not with Canada but with the bigotry of American die-hard drys and the insularity of the Little Americans . Now , one hears , we are to have an augmented , armed border patrol that will press its breast against the unarmed boundary of revered memory , as a proof to the Bible Belt that enforcement is on the way . This despite the admission by the authorities at Washington that not more than three per cent of the liquor consumed in the United States owns Canada as its point of origin . Simultaneously the ports of entry into the United States are to be diminished in number , and the rule that a Canadian might cross where he willed , providing he steered for the nearest port of entry , is to be scrapped . Restriction , you will observe , increases , no matter where one looks . Whether Washington , simultaneously , will create restricted zones in which shootings can be held I do not know . Schemes less preposterous have been incorporated in international @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be given a reciprocal treaty which will han the export to Canada of commodities the use of which , though legal in the U. S. A. , is illegal in Canada . The traffic , however , is southbound , not northwards , so that the treaty becomes merely another potential gesture , of considerable service to Step-uncle Sam but of little practical use to Canada . DTI Leaving prohibition for the moment , let us consider the immigration barriers which Representative Johnson , Chairman of the House Committee on Immigration , proposes to raise against Canadian subjects . For the past century and more , while these twin races have grown to nationhood side by side , free ingress to the United States has been permitted to any Canadian of good health and sound character . A similar policy has been maintained towards American citizens by Canada . But now this natural flow of population is to be allowed in only one direction . Canadians are to join Latvia and Japan on the quota list . It is beyond human belief that the greatest commercial body politic known to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strive to estrange the best client on its national books , by telling him that his sons and daughters are not wanted on American soil . Not only is Canada America 's largest customer for direct imports ; her terrain is also dotted with the plants and factories of American-owned companies which have domiciled their subsidiaries in Canada to manufacture for the Canadian market . Practically every automobile in the Dominion is an American car , riveted together in the Canadian assembly plants of Ford , General Motors , or Chrysler . The household machines with which the Canadian housewife launders , scrubs , and refrigerates may come from factories that are Canadian in location , but the profits cross the line to New York , Pittsburgh , and Chicago . The cereal products on Canada 's breakfast tables were invented in Battle Creek . The lotions and bath salts on the druggists ' shelves are American in conception , though they may have been born under a Canadian roof . Canadian reading matter comes from American publishers . Scarcely a European film finds its way into the theaters of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Canadian leisure are all , or almost all , direct imports from the United States , and it is to American proprietors that the dividends accrue . Yet while Canada spends its dollars for the purchase of American goods , Canadians are told by American lawmakers that their sons must stop coining to the United States to live . Simultaneously , while Canada eats , drinks , wears , and carries the products of American manufacturers wherever Canadians live , Yankee tariff barriers yearly mount higher and higher against the products of Canadian mills . Even though an appeal to whatever tatters remain of our international ethics must fail , it is impossible to conceive that the suggestion that , ultimately , the American pocketbook will suffer can fall on deaf ears . Estrange the Canadian , tell him that neither he nor his goods are wanted , and he will turn his eyes to Europe and to the doctrine of Empire Free Trade , and will set up a barrier against alien goods . Not forever can he be expected to favor a neighbor who is willing to take @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accord in return . That , it seems to me , must be the basis of the ultimate appeal : an appeal from Philip drunk to Philip sober . VII Consider , in closing , the case of Herbert Upjohn , a young newspaperman domiciled in Vancouver for many years . Here is a case picked from more than a hundred newspaper records of eases in which residents of the Dominion have suffered at the hands of United States officials , an example of things that happen constantly to ordinary Canadian citizens who commit accidental infractions of America 's innumerable laws and restrictions . Upjohn visited the United States on a six months ' permit . He was a British citizen , not born in Canada , but had been a resident of the Dominion for a long period . His record carried no black marks . He was a good citizen and an asset to any country where he might take up residence . But Upjohn blundered . He committed the amazing crime of overstaying the duration of his permit . What happened ? One day four armed officers entered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and carried him off to jail . The prisoner made the unfortunate remark that perhaps a little more consideration might be shown to a former war comrade , whereupon an inspector is charged with this amazing reply : So you 're one of those guys who think they won the war ? You 're gon na learn there 's a place on the map called the United States , and before you 're through with this country you 're gon na learn also that British Empire talk is as stale as a lousy cheese ! We make rules for Chinamen ? the same rule goes for a Britisher ! These brave words are those of an officer of the American Government , charged with upholding the dignity and fair name of the United States . So Upjohn was sent to the Los Angeles county jail , where he was fingerprinted , photographed , and pushed into a cage with the sweepings of the underworld brought in during a police round-up resulting from the murder of a constable the previous evening . With ten other members of this motley parade he was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ marched up and down and cross-examined the dragnet 's catch . Subsequently he was taken to a part of the prison where forty-eight other prisoners of British citizenship were being held on similar charges . The next morning he was sentenced to be deported to the country of his birth . Months followed , months which Upjohn passed in durance , pending his forcible removal from the Land of the Free and the Home of the Brave . At last he was told that his turn had come . The act of deportation was about to take place . Upjohn was told that he would be off to China in the morning . And why China , you may ask , as Upjohn asked . China , because the accident of birth brought Herbert Upjohn into the world of British parents on a China station . So to China he must go . His protests were unavailing . Handcuffed to sixty Chinese , most of whom had been smuggled into the United States by American Chinese-runners , Upjohn was shipped to Shanghai . Permission to communicate with friends in Vancouver , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must go back to the country of his birth , so to China Upjohn went , being left to make his way home to Canada as best he could . Is there no end to folly ? 