@@468763

NOT MORE than two months ago the aviation business in the United States was in the grip of another crisis . Crises have not been rare in the brief years wherein the flying machine has struggled to make an industry of itself . But this one seemed the worst of all . The leading manufacturers and operators of aircraft were thoroughly despondent . Bankruptcy was overtaking the little fellows , and even the big combines could not look on the prospects for earnings in 1030 save with a wan eye . Extreme over-expansion of factories and payrolls in 1929 , extreme inflation of the industry 's business ambitions , and the sudden discovery that American " air-mindedness " had been a golden illusion were the causes of the collapse and the despair . The general retreat of national commerce following upon the market disturbances of October contributed , of course , to the unhappiness of the situation . As the summer comes in , however , something that is recognizable as optimism begins to spread through aviation . The survivors of the low-moments estimate , with a new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be sold to the public this year as last ? and that drastic economies may make the net profits a little larger . They have given up the delightful fancy that Americans can be converted to the airplane overnight by the simple pressure of the industry 's desire . They have become aware that good , honest salesmanship ? with a touch of inspired brilliance here and there ? must replace urgent dreams if the airplane is to become a general vehicle of transport . They begin to talk now of the long pull , and even to chart with businesslike curves the normal acceptance of the flying machine by the public ; and they are making their predictions for 1935 instead of for 1931 . The airplane business , as a matter of fact , is rather good . It is better than it was last year at this time . There is nothing exciting about it ; but it may be observed that the leaders in the industry have about given up the idea that it will be exciting . Instead , they have begun to think in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ acceptance by the public of this new method of getting about the country . However , if we are really to advance in the effort to find where aviation is now , we must look a little into the foundations upon which the industry is built . It was in 1927 that the new industry really began . Nearly a quarter of a century had passed since the two Americans , Orville and Wilbur Wright , had proved that the ancient hope of human flight was not an idle dream . In those twenty-five years little had happened that was to be of lasting significance in the development of the airplane except the engineering impetus which came with the World War . The rest had been a story of false starts , lack of conviction , and lack of faith : ample proof that during the vain years of yearning to travel with the birds man had formulated no definite idea as to what he wanted to do with the ability to fly should he ever WHERE IS achieve it . Until the War came along the airplane never rose above @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to country fairs . The World War challenged airmen to prove whether their contraption could serve any really useful purpose . The genius and money of all the nations was turned upon the job of answering this question . Designers , plane builders , and governments labored frantically to improve airplanes . Pilots were trained by thousands ? many of them to die violently , but the survivors to emerge with a prodigious faith in the machine they had learned to control . And the airplane itself came out of the conflict almost as well designed , mechanically and theoretically , as it is to-day . But the reward for the airplane 's final excellent performance in the war of the nations was that it was branded as an instrument of war . For a long time after peace had come it continued to bear this brand . The flying machine was no longer an attraction even at fairs and shows , which were devoted to more peaceful pleasures , There was no room for an instrument of war in a world that was sick of fighting . Lean years followed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States Navy showed that the Atlantic could be crossed by heavier-than-air flying ma -- chines ? and the people were bored with one more reminder of military efficiency . A/cock and Brown made the first nonstop flight from America to Europe ? and a world that was weary of heroism yawned . The United States Army flew planes round the world ? and the event is not remembered at all to-day , although it has never been duplicated by any airplane . Eight disheartening years passed for the war flyers who came out of the conflict alive and full of hope that their mastery of the air , learned in danger , would have a definite value in peace . Gradually the war stigma wore off . The government launched the experiment of air mail , and the public used it half-heartedly . Still , however , the people who must use airplanes if they were to be built at a profit had no real interest in them . Then ? presto ! ? Charlcs A. Lindbergh took-off from Roosevelt Field and thirty-three and one half hours later was in Paris . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the foundation had been laid for a new industry . If all the people who were talking about airplanes could be persuaded to get into them the manufacture of the new vehicle ought to be profitable . The phrase " air-mindedness " was coined , airplane factories were opened , aviation stocks were offered by the million , and press agents began issuing statements that So and So would build a thousand planes this year , and that regular airplane service across a couple of oceans was a reality in the minds of the Such and Such board of directors . Everything happened so quickly that the birth pains were not felt until two years later . It was inevitable that the haste and excitement of this new life for aviation should produce an over-inflated , chaotic , and unsound condition . II A few sound companies were already established in the business of manufacturing airplanes and engines . ( Oddly enough , the making of planes and the making of engines were almost separate industries ; there were virtually no concerns manufacturing both ? a state of affairs which led @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in merchandising , and is only now being rectified by the forming of such combines as the Curtiss-Wright Corporation . ) The pickings of these companies , between the end of the War and the beginning of the Lindbergh era , had been lean indeed , but enough to sustain life . Practically all their orders , and the funds to carry on experimental work and improvements , had come from a handful of wise men in the Army and Navy who carried out literally our governmental policy of liberal encouragement for aircraft builders . These companies immediately enlarged their plants four-and fivefold . They established modern production methods , engaged the best engineers obtainable , and set up sales organizations in the good American tradition of big business , with advertising men , service outfits , contact men , and trouble shooters . But they were not to have the field to themselves . Dozens of shrewd fellows , scenting the gold , set themselves up in the aircraft manufacturing business . With neglected barns converted into airplane factories , they went out ? armed with nothing more substantial than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stock ; and they raised their capital with practically no effort at all . It was a time of widespread speculation in common stocks , and thousands of investors who had failed to have faith in the automobile industry made up their minds that they were not going to lose two such chances in a generation . Hardly a day went past without the announcement of a new aviation company . Everybody was going to fly ? because Lindbergh had crossed an ocean ? and the future was a beckoning golden glow . Thirty or forty thousand men went on the payrolls of aviation corporations . At the beginning of 1929 estimates for the year 's production were almost impossible to obtain . Prophecies from irresponsible fly-by-nights poured in together with prophecies from reliable builders . The best estimate that the Department of Commerce could make was 10,000 airplanes of all types for the year . This was to be the total product of 232 factories engaged in the production of ships and engines . In its most expansive days , the automobile industry had never comprised more than 95 separate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were produced , 200 per cent more than in1928 ; but this figure would have been much greater if sanity had not been forced upon the new industry by a few conservative leaders who saw that no real market had been created for their novel machine . Between August , 1928 , and August , 1929 , the public absorbed $48,200,000 worth of aircraft stock offerings . This of course is not the total of financial support given to carry forward the idea of commercial flight after aviation wakened from its twenty-five year slumber . It represents the offerings of eighty-two companies , the stocks of which are either listed on the New York Stock Exchange or Curb Exchange , or are frequently quoted in over-the-counter transactions . It does not include privately controlled companies or scores of projects which seem likely to provide work for investigators for years to come . The eagerness of the investing public is further shown by the fact that in six months in 1929 the stock market value of forty-five aircraft corporations was raised seven million dollars . The industry woke up in the late @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ airplanes at the rate of 150 a week without any market in sight . It was difficult to believe that no more than six months before everything had been rosy in a seller 's market and planes could not be made fast enough to meet the demand . The year closed in gloom with all factors of the industry engaged in retrenching . Everyone became woefully aware of the emptiness of the old phrase " air-mindedness . " The public was air-minded to the extent of watching airplanes , reading about them , talking about them , and buying stock ? but not to the extent of riding in them . The industry realized that no markets had been soundly established , and that the idea of flying and actually using airplanes had never really been " sold " to the public at large . The time had come for a serious study of possible outlets for the products of the new business . III The great task which now faces aviation is that of improving its merchandising methods and developing its markets . What are these markets ? First , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ planes . While this market is limited at the present time , more arguments revolve about its future than about any other in aviation . For there are two schools of thought within the industry regarding the future of flying . One school holds the airplane to be essentially a vehicle for sport and private transportation , and expects to create virtually another automobile industry . The other school contends that commercial aviation is a new form of organized transportation comparable to the railroad industry , with the airplane the future common carrier on great systems of regularly operated airways . Of course the more farseeing realize that both fields are fertile for development . Next to the pilot-owner market and similar to it in many respects is the market represented by business organizations . There are nearly one hundred corporations in the United States at the present time which employ airplanes as tools of business in the sense that delivery trucks , typewriters , and adding machines are so used . Then there is the fixed-base operator ? the owner of the local airport . Until recently he was the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been superseded by the operator of scheduled air lines , his position is still enormously important . Fixed-base operators are now in the process of being organized into national groups by the larger manufacturers for the purpose of rendering standard airplane and engine service . The fixed-base operator is potentially a large revenue producer . He has been purchasing the greatest percentage of all the small , single-engined planes . His airport has been the chief availableshowroom for aviation ; and , more important , he has been practically the only link between the aviation industry and the air-minded public . Through the airport operators the mass of people who grew excited when Lindbergh flew the Atlantic are having their first personal experience with flight . The joy hop , the short sightseeing trip ? taken not so much to see sights , but as an experiment to determine what flying is really like ? has been a profitable source of revenue to the airport operator . The Department of Commerce estimated that some 3,527,000 persons flew during 1929 . Only 165,263 of these were air line passengers . Most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there is a limit to the educational value of what the fixed-base operator provides . For a long time it had been believed that the five-dollar joy hop was doing the selling trick for the whole industry . But a little study of the psychological reaction from the first airplane ride shows fairly conclusively that the airdrome flight of five or ten minutes ' duration does not sell aviation . The value of traveling through the air is not " sold " to the novice who flies simply for the excitement of doing something new ; it is " sold " only when he actually goes by plane to some destination , and for a purpose in which the speed of the airplane over any other vehicle is conclusively demonstrated . The next potential market is the air mail system , which could never have reached its present status without vigorous government aid . In fact , the whole aviation industry has been held on its feet for years by wise government support and patronage . Americans who point in contempt at the financial failure of European aviation say , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been making its way without government subsidy . Such a statement holds very little water . Although the form which financial aid for the aircraft industry from Washington has taken differs from that frank budgeting for air which goes on in the countries of Europe , it is only an expert in definitions who can make it appear that federal support in this country can even be called indirect . In the U. S. Air Mail the government started one of the few completely successful aircraft operations to be found in the world . When the government had demonstrated the feasibility of such an airway system it stepped out of the field and turned the work over to private contract operators ; and up to the beginning of the present year it had paid out nearly seven million dollars to the operators in differentials between the postage revenue from air mail and the contract cost for flying it . The system is the most remarkable in existence . Nearly fifty air-mail lines cover the country to-day , and in 19 ' 29 one company alone had a total of 3,600,000 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the combined air transport mileage of Russia , Italy and Great Britain , and are only three-quarters of a million miles less than the total of France , and half that of Germany . The American air-mail operators with their enormously competent achievement have taken great strides toward their goal of making their planes the common carriers of all the first-class mail of the nation . When this objective is realized and when new and lower contract rate schedules have been fixed ( a problem now being considered ) , it is probable that the government 's indirect subsidy to the air mail will be considerably reduced . But by that time it is more than likely that the government will he called upon to give further assistance to organized air-passenger transport , which has recently assumed outstanding importance in American aviation and which represents the final great aircraft market . When we compare passenger travel by air on regularly operated lines in America with that in Europe , the first fact which we notice is the greater age of the European systems . Like most otheraviation developments in the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ until after the Lindbergh flight . The start was delayed for a number of reasons . Of these the most important was that the extensive airmail program laid down by the government was sufficient to absorb for several years all available equipment and all available initiative and capital . The possible profits in sound airmail hauling were apparent . The government was liberal in the awarding of contracts . An air-mail line did not demand the purchase or maintenance of luxurious , expensive equipment . Safety factors had to be maintained only for dead loads . In fact , air-mail operators discouraged passenger carrying , preferring not to accept the additional responsibility . So in the end the prosperity which came with the development of a system for the transport of mails through the air retarded plans for the establishment of a national passenger air-transport system . Passenger carrying on regularly operated lines was started only when there were no more profitable mail routes available , and when the suddenly accelerated production of planes made it necessary to find a use for the larger types of ships . Most of this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was a compromise . To date there is no all-air transcontinental passenger system . The start was made with a new form of transportation which has been called " air-rail , " the combination of existing railroads with air lines . Air-rail travel is still the main strength of organized passenger airways to-day . All of the larger air lines have traffic agreements with railroads which traverse the territory served by their airways , so that passengers can transfer from plane to train and vice versa . Which of these markets holds the greatest promise for the industry ? One is inclined to agree with those who pin their chief hopes to organized air transport , if only because it is difficult to imagine a time when every householder of means will have his own plane as he now has his automobile . The absence of a completely safe plane , and of the " back yard " plane ? which we shall not have until someone discovers the principle of slow perpendicular descent and absolutely vertical take-off ? gives the large transport system the advantage of the argument at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advancing steadily . The youth of America is determined to learn to fly . The use of the private plane has increased despite the discouragement of accidents , despite the high initial cost of planes , the equally steep charges of upkeep , and the necessity of locating airports at great distances from the centers of population . By the end of the present fiscal year , the Department of Commerce estimates that there will be 50,000 flyers and flying students under federal license to fly planes in this country . Nearly every college now has its courses in aeronautics , its aviation club , and a student , or two owning a plane . IV One great handicap to the development of organized transport systems has been , until recently , the almost prohibitive expense of travel by plane . The average tariff on air lines until the beginning of 1930 was fourteen cents a mile . This did not compare very favorably with the average of three and a half to four cents charged by most railroads . It did not produce any substantial volume of traffic . At @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been carrying an average of three or four passengers in ten-passenger planes manned by a crew of three decided to make a definite bid for volume of traffic . There was a wholesale rate reduction . Airplane fares were cut from twenty per cent to fifty per cent . In some cases the experiment had the desired effect immediately . But many of the lines found themselves littlebetter off , as capacity loads with the existing equipment and existing expenses can not produce a profit at the tariff of five to seven and a half cents a mile . The economics of the average air-line operator , who is without an air-mail contract and who must depend on passenger business solely , has never been particularly sound . A survey made in 19l9 showed that all of the aircraft equipment of the transport companies was being used an average of only one hour and forty-five minutes a day . The rest of the time it was on the ground , being written off under the item of depreciation at the rate of 33% per cent a year . And much of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Any good railroad executive , accustomed to figuring closely on costs , would tell you that this was not the way to make air transport pay . There will always be airplane accidents , of course , just as there will always be accidents in ox carts and canoes and automobiles and trains and steamships . Kinetic energy is a difficult thing to harness and can not possibly be made fool-proof . A fool can kill himself on a bicycle moving at ten miles an hour . An airplane , going a hundred miles an hour , makes it ten times easier for him . Even so , engineering improvements must be sought to remove some of the element of risk now present in human flight . Perhaps a step in this direction is the Curtiss Tanager , which won the $100,000 Guggenheim prize for safety . Plans are already under way to incorporate several of its safety features into standard commercial designs . We must also look forward to a great development in what is known as " ground organization " for air transportation . Much as has already been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ airways , there is an immeasurable amount of labor still ahead . It is a truism that the automobile is where it is to-day because of the macadam or hard-surfaced road . The millions spent in road construction are seldom counted in estimating the cost of promoting the automobile , yet they were necessary ? and they came very slowly . In actual dollars and cents it seems quite unlikely that the airplane will ever demand such a toll . But for completely safe airplane operation , airports and emergency landing fields must be increased many fold . Nor will it be enough to have these located at intervals along the direct " sky roads " from one major airport to another . The new traffic lanes marked by beacon lights ( and in most instances following the existing routes of surface transportation ) are far too rigid . They are robbing the airplane of one of its greatest assets , its independence of fixed highways . A plane ought to be able to steer around a storm or to lose its way and still be within easy reach of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Such ground organization will undoubtedly come ? but not overnight . Again , men of science have not yet brought together radio and aviation to the fullest advantage of flying , although much of value has already been accomplished here . The day should come when radio will be the guiding hand of planes , when knowledge required for safe flight will be constantly available in the air by the turn of a tuning knob in the cabin of every ship that flies . This and other developments will come inevitably . The automatic pilot , already proven experimentally , will practically solve that other great hindrance to regular plane operation ? fog . V So much for the processes by which aviation has come this far , and for the chief problems of the immediate future . We may sum up the situation by saying that development must lie , hereafter , along three main lines : 1 . The aviation business must be given that touch of efficiency which has for its chief element a sound merchandising plan . 2 . Theairplane itself ? a satisfactory machine in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if it is to be flown generally as the automobile is driven generally . 8 . Ground organization ? which takes in everything from airport facilities to radio weather reports , light beacons , transportation between cities and fields , and repair service ? must be tremendously expanded . I have already indicated that the first of these three essentials is becoming a reality . It has been recognized ? particularly by the bankers who provided aviation 's money ? that the conversion of 120,000,000 people to the use of a new transportation medium is no simple task . With this fact established , the worst obstacle has been cleared . The government , through the Army and Navy and Marine Corps , and through the air-mail contracts , will provide for 1930 enough business to keep the principal companies on a sound basis . One of these corporations alone , for example , has $10,000,000 of government orders on its books . Export of airplanes and engines , particularly to South American countries , provides another excellent market which is being developed in most businesslike fashion . And the domestic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a machine , the airplane can not possibly be abandoned , now that it exists . In common with most things that sharply change human habits , such as the railroad train and the radio , its course will be marked by much confusion and the lack of any apparent pattern . It will penetrate human life not by a sudden , well-organized attack , but by the process of infiltration , until at last we are all using airplanes without knowing quite how we happened to accept them . Man has always feared the new thing that would move him a little faster than he was ever moved before . But he has always , in the end , conquered that fear . The problem , now , is chiefly with the engineers and the business executives of the industry . Can they , or can they not , demonstrate that the current airplane is the basis for the ultimate airplane ? Can they bring the present business organization to a sound and profitable footing ? These are questions which none but a very daring prophet would care to answer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @            