@@494032

Jewish Faith Christian Civilization IF IN the space of a year it were possible to measure the drift of Jewish fate in Europe , one might say : it has become more clear that that fate is bound up with those of all other minorities . In the great conflict visibly developing among Balkanized and atomized nationalisms repression is an important instrument of pride and power . The persecuted groups in the population ever more plainly emerge as an instrument to unite the ignorant and the brutal . They are the victims of political bankruptcy irresponsibly riding economic despair . " Show me , " a politician in Poland is reported to have said , " in the absence of any genuine political or economic program , a cheaper and easier way of unifying public opinion than by inciting it against the Jews . " The cheapness , at least , of this way is being recognized . Fifty thousand peasants demonstrating in western Galicia last August ? of whom some fifty were shot down ? carried banners inscribed : " We do n't want Jewish stands and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " And when , at the opening of the university terms this fall , Jewish students were obliged to sit on ghetto benches and therefore preferred to stand during classes , one aged professor , not a Jew , stood with them and the rector of one university in Poland resigned . The anti-Semites do not carry the people with them except sporadically , as a consequence of the most relentless and unscrupulous agitation and incitement . Their game is a losing one unless all of Europe is to go down in flames and ashes , In Rumania this game is being carried to especially dangerous lengths . Here , where a subsidized anti-Semitic press and widespread agitation make of the so-called " Jewish question " the one paramount issue in the national elections , it is clear that it is the instrument of penetration of the Nazi International . With only 375,000 Jews left in Germany , disfranchised , isolated , terrorized and broken , in a population of more than 67,000,000 , it is clear that anti-Semitism is no longer a paramount issue for home consumption . In fact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with which Germany is flooding Eastern Europe . This is clearly demonstrated in Rumania . In that rich and even prosper . ous land , where five years ago there was no such thing as a dominant or even widespread anti-Semitic press , there are now some forty such dailies and perhaps a hundred such weeklies . The motive in the anti-Semitic campaign in Austria is to have that country fall like a ripe apple into Germany 's lap . In Rumania , it is intended to win the country over to Germany 's side in the political alignments now in process of formation . Wherever , from outside Rumania , the funds for these publicationsoriginate , it is clear that a circulation of 40,000 daily will not pay for a twelve-story building in the center of Bucharest costing upwards of $400,000 . In Rumania too , the 800,000 Jews , in a population of 18,000,000 , are pawns in a diplomacy that chooses to ignore internal problems in favor of pauperizing and degrading a helpless minority in the name of " solving the Jewish problem . " Elsewhere in Europe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In Latvia , for example . where the dictatorship of Ulmanis glides on roller bearings , and there are no incidents in the street or any untoward remarks in the press , the exclusior and elimination of Jews goes on apace . The professions are closed to Jews . In a Jewish hospital in Riga of 200 beds , run with the precision and cleanli ness of a first-class institution in any large city of the world , there are 25 young doctors , 5 of there interns and 20 of them volunteers for the sake of the hospital experience inaccessible elsewhere . Of these twenty-five young doctors only two are licensed to practise in Latvia , not because they are incompetent but because , on one pretext or another , it has been made impossible for them to pass the prescribed examinations even though they have studied at foreign universities and there acquitted themselves with credit . In the field of industry , with export and import dependent upon government license and control increasingly passing into the hands of monopoly companies sanctioned by the government , exclusion of Jews @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ That does not mean that the economy of this or any other dictatorship is on a solvent basis . There were rumors in Riga last October of an impending devaluation of the lat . In Latvia , as in Lithuania , in Poland , Rumania and elsewhere , anti-Semitism becomes a patent-medicine solution of all economic problems . These developments are symptomatic of the disease ravaging a considerable part of the world today . It threatens to devour not merely minorities but every vestige of those qualities which have made life to the European livable and desirable . Because of their dispersion , because of the anti-Jewish tradition which the Church has played such a part in creating and maintaining , because , too , of the absence of a powerful state to intervene in their behalf , of the peculiar customs of large groups among them and of their convenience to all governing groups seeking a whipping boy and a scapegoat , the Jews above all minorities in the world today are victims of the world disease . But , as more and more enlightened people and groups in Europe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ claimed these victims , will not stop . Beyond their extermination , if they are to be wiped out , lies the threat of such a struggle for power , such ruthless , cruel and inhuman brutality , as even the darkest annals of the Middle Ages can not parallel . It was because liberals in Germany believed Hitlerism would touch , not them , but only the Jews , that so many were indifferent to its rise and growth . We have intimations of the nature of the corning struggle , furnished by the fighting in Spain and in China . These open sores are symptoms of one and the same disease which is threatening the very existence of some six or seven million Jews on the continent of Europe . Ask one of the agitators who would drive 3,500,000 Jews out of Poland , Where are they to go ? and he will answer that that is not his concern . You will receive the same answer concerning the 800,000 Jews in Rumania from one of the agitators in that land . THE NEW Happily the answers to these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , are not entirely left to agitators and politicians . Workers and peasants , despite scurrilous propaganda and misinformation , despite paid agitators and provoked riots , are coming to a sense of the realities in the situation . It is true that in Rumania , for example , even Mihalaehe , the peasant leader , bowed to the anti-Semitic storm by saying that the Jewish question i25 must be " solved . " But this is merely testimony to the thoroughness of the widespread network of propaganda that has been cast over the land . No political party can escape this net without losing votes , though Grigor Iunian , former Minister of Justice and leader of the radical National Peasant Party , as well as some other public men in Rumania , has vigorously attacked the hounding of minorities . Among Jews themselves , the mood even in pogromized districts is not one of the despair one might expect . Smashed windows , wrecked and looted homes and shops , men and women in hospitals , do not cause entire populations to flee and swell the tide of misery @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , aided and encouraged as they have been since the terrors of the World War years , by organized help sent through the American Joint Distribution Committee , these populations in Poland return to their posts . They subscribe to the loan societies which keep 100,000 families self-supporting . They support medical aid , child care , schools , trade training . In one town at least , Przytyk , which was pogromized last year , new industries were set up , the relations with the peasants were resumed and when , this year , the anti-Semitic agitators again sought to do their mischief the peasants themselves rose up and threw them out of the town . Similar conditions prevail in many places . Peasants will go secretly and by night , stealthily to the back doors of Jews with whom they and their people have always dealt , in order to continue their mutually advantageous dealings . The bullies who beat and smash and rob and maim are most often imported . They are sent from Posen to Galicia , from one end of Poland to another . They do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of their appearance on market days relations between Jews and peasants will continue amicable . It was told me , not without relish , by one Jew in Poland , how , by paying the bullies a few cents more per day than they were receiving from the anti-Semites , they had been bought off from their work of destruction . The 200 Jewish families in one town were warned by a Christian friend of an impending raid , and fled for two days to the woods , to return to the wreckage of their homes and shops . The Jews too are taking such steps as are in their power to meet the heavily weighted odds against them . Young people flock to trade schools . Older people turn to handwork ? to textile weaving , furniture and cabinet making , farming , dairying , other forms of productive manual work ? wherever it is available . The settlement of 250,000 Jews on farms in the Ukraine and the Crimea and their wholesale adoption of handicrafts would have demonstrated , had such a demonstration been needed , that the preponderance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ historic conditions not the result of anything inherent in the Jewish people . Meanwhile , with a courage that has much of fatalism and something of profound faith , millions of Jews in Europe stand their ground under conditions that would break the courage of any other people less inured to persecution , poverty and hardship . There is no question of ousting 3,100,000 of them , or even a respectable fraction of that number , from Poland ; or of driving out 1,000,000 front Rumania . Even if such an exodus were conceivable or possible , it would irretrievably ruin the lands from which these populations fled . The propaganda which looks toward such an exodus is recognized everywhere by sane men , Jewish and Christian alike , for the delusive political poison that it is . It is on this issue , among many others , that liberal Europe is becoming increasingly dear M its mind . On such clarity depends not so much the fate of the 6,000,000 Jews of Europe as the future of what we , substituting our hopes for our sense of present realities , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 