@@494116

A Policy for the Pacific WHILE AMERICANS have recently had no eyes except for Europe , important changes have been developing in the Far East . It is here , rather than across the Atlantic , that we are now likely to become involved . American isolationism has not for many years ruled our action in Asia as in the Occident . And at present our government is poised on the brink of a decision that few of us understand or are prepared for . It is time to devote careful attention to Far Eastern policy if war is not to come in by the back door while we are engaged in barring it at the front . Japan , after expending great resources of finance and man-power , is unable to finish the Chinese war . She can not seem to advance farther ; neither can she retreat . The military have not given up their aim of conquest , and they have so implicated the Emperor and the nation that a simple withdrawal is impossible with ? out loss of " face " ? that highest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time , the people are restive under the strain and the more liberal political and industrial forces are looking for a way out . That way , the Japanese hope , has been provided by the outbreak of war in Europe . To be sure , the collapse of the anti-Comintern alliance has deprived Japan of immediate help from Germany or Italy , and the fact that the Soviet Union is not engaged in hostilities on the western front makes inadvisable an assault upon her in the East . Nevertheless , little direct help would come from Germany anyway , while the mere fact that Britain and France are fully engaged elsewhere greatly weakens their power in Asia . They want to keep Japan out of the war and so might consent to a deal with Tokyo at the expense of nationalist China . And aggression against Siberia and Outer Mongolia is re ? moved . A partition of China between Japanese and Russian spheres of influence , on the principle of the partition of Poland , is by no means entirely out of the question . One can already discern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be working for : a puppet Chinese government in the northeastern provinces to be ruled by her , leaving West China to the Soviet Union and South China to Britain and France . This would not , of course , be a permanent settlement . From the Japanese imperialists ' point of view , it would be a way station where they could sit down and rest until a more favor ? able opportunity arose . From the Chinese point of view it would be a conquest to be undermined by every means possible , even if decades were required to overturn it . Chinese action has already been handicapped by the diminished aid from Britain and France , although new supplies from the Soviet Union have partly compen ? sated for this loss . While the Chinese government may hold the west , it has not much chance of driving the Japanese from the east by active fighting , and this chance would be diminished if the Soviet Union should come to terms with Japan . For the moment , then , the principal obstacle to Japanese plans lies in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with Japan , a necessary step if we are to establish the embargoes which are strongly supported by a strong body of opin ? ion in this country . Japan is largely dependent upon us for machine tools , petroleum products , cotton and other materials essential both for the prosecution of war and the development of peaceful commerce . The treaty ex ? pires in January . We are still protesting vigorously about Japan 's interference with our treaty rights in China ; Ambassador Grew has made an unusually sharp speech of warning . Not only does our present tendency constitute a serious economic threat , but it stiffens Brit ? ish and French resistance to a possible deal ; they are more concerned with keeping our good will than with satisfying Tokyo . We have built a giant navy and are planning greatly to enlarge it . This policy is naturally regarded as a deadly menace by the Japanese . Military quarters are retorting by pointing to the United States as the even ? tual enemy ; there is much talk of extending Japan 's influence in the Southern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and other necessary materials in the Dutch East Indies . Any attack by Germany on the Netherlands would advance such a project ; and there would be strong pressure on Washington to stop - it . There has long been a danger that economic sanc ? tions imposed on Japan by Western nations would lead to war by this route ; that danger is increased by the presence of war in Europe . What other course is open ? At first sight it would seem that the only alternative is to assent , tacitly or otherwise , to Japan 's conquests in China . By making a renewed trade agreement with her we could doubtless exact some concessions about respect for American in ? terests . Japan might indeed offer us , as she is willing to offer Britain , a junior partnership in the exploitation of the territories she controls -- a chance to finance her economic penetration and to share in its profits , if any . But we should have to abandon any interest in China 's political integrity , in the Open Door and all the rest of it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suprem ? acy of Japan , enforced by arms , in the Far East . Such a sharpening of the issue at once raises the ques ? tion what our stake in the Far East really is . What is the national interest involved ? Our existing trade and investments are not large enough even to warrant the maintenance of a big navy , to say nothing of the cost of a war . Japanese trade is worth far more to us than Chinese . The policy behind the Open Door and the Nine Power Pacific Treaty was based partly on the as ? sumption that some day Chinese trade would become important ; in the future large investments would be required . When such a great people actually bepn to be industrialized on the Western scale , it would be an unparalleled opportunity for us to pour forth capital and capital goods . That is still potentially true . If the opportunity were offered , it might rescue our harassed economy from years of depression and unemployment in the heavy industries . The New Republic naturally believes that there are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that war for economic interest should be re ? sisted to the last gasp ; nevertheless the prospect of this opportunity is still alluring to those who shape foreign policy . In addition , there is our emotional interest in China and her integrity , compounded partly of liking for the Chinese , partly of dislike for military aggression . The purely material interest might be served by a compro ? mise with Japan ; this could not . It is worth something to us , however intangible the gain may be , not to con ? nive at the disruption of Chinese autonomy , even if we are not prepared to fight for it . To move toward embargo and an enforcement of Japan 's return to the status existing before the " China incident " is to move toward war , for Japan will never lose so much face so long as she can resist . To make terms with Japan at this juncture is to grant at least part of what she desires and so to betray China . But NOVEMBER 22 , 19 39 why need we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tory will not wait ; only those with positive programs establish their aims . If we do nothing , Japan will strengthen her hold on China anyway , while the advo ? cates of economic or even of military sanctions in this country will gain adherents . The choice can not indefi ? nitely be postponed . If both horns of the dilemma are to be avoided , a positive program of some kind must be found . Such a program seems to us to lie in an application of the traditional policy of the United States to the new situa ? tion , an application that would both keep open the chance of preserving Chinese independence and give Japan an opportunity to save face . At present a pro ? gram of this kind can hardly be formulated in a treaty with Japan . But may it not be set forth in a treaty with China ? Such a treaty might be signed by the United States , Britain and France on the one hand , and by China on the other . It might contain substantially the following principles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by step , their existing special privileges in China ? treaty ports , extra ? territoriality , garrisons , etc. , provided other nations having or asserting such privileges do so at the same time . 2 . Whenever a schedule like this can be arranged , and hostilities cease , the powers will form a consortium to ex ? tend to China governmental loans for industrial develop ? ment and other necessary purposes . Such a consortium shall be open to all adhering to the treaty , with due regard to their special interests and abilities . 3 . This agreement shall be open to all other nations wishing to adhere to it . Having done this , we could simply let our relations with Japan remain as they are until Japan wished to move toward our position . We need not negotiate a new trade treaty . We need not impose embargoes ; the possibility of their imposition , however , would remain in being . Japan would be assured that if she agreed to withdraw from China , she would be doing nothing more than the other great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ face and deprive her of the justifi ? cation that she is doing now only the sort of thing they have done in the past . Japan would also know that if she accepted this arrangement she would be assured a large share in the development of Chinese industry and trade ; Chinese revenge would be relinquished . The treaty would at the same time deprive Japan of the hope that she could win the connivance of the Western powers for her program of exclusive imperialism . Her only choice , so long as she did not agree to the pro ? gram , would be to continue a costly war that she would not know how otherwise to end . At the same time , Chinese morale would be greatly strengthened . The anomalous position of the United States in the present Asiatic war has always been that if we opposed Japan we seemed to be serving other imperialist inter ? ests which , though for the moment they were less dan ? 127 gerous to China , yet were just as bad in principle . If we could first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ im ? mensely stronger position . And we should not be in so much danger of drifting into war ? a war for confused and insufficient purposes . Let us see whether we can not get some benefit out of the European conflict for our ? selves and China by inducing Britain and France to endorse a conciliatory program on which we can stand with a clear conscience . Getting Around the Law PrHE EFFORT TO TRANSFER American ships to the 1 Panamanian flag so that they can continue to trade with Great Britain and France seems to us clearly a dangerous attempt to circumvent the amended neu ? trality law . True , these ships would not be under our flag and the crews would be foreigners . Nevertheless , the vessels would still be owned in this country . The shipping lobby , one of the most powerful in Washing ? ton , would continue to be actively interested in them . If they were sunk by German submarines ? as some of them , under the law of probability , very likely would be ? the Americans would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a Norwegian or Danish vessel . It is far better for this country that American ships should be taken off the dangerous North Atlantic routes . There is plenty of work for them in other parts of the world , with too merchant vessels already sent to the bottom of the ocean since the war began . As our Washington correspondent points out on page 540 of this issue , a plan to substitute British and French for American ships in the North Atlantic was worked out long before the war began . American shipping inter ? ests are trying to break that agreement for the sake of rich profits . We hope they do not succeed . They are entitled to some compensation for the injury to their business , and such compensation should be paid . We should remember , however , that their business is heavily subsidized by the government in several ways , some of which are hidden from the public view . We could probably well afford to pay them a good rate of profit to keep their ships idle , rather than the degree @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more deserving of sympathy than the companies , for whom our officials are so solicitous , are the thousands of American seamen who find themselves on the beach because of the operations of the new law . No shipping company , so far as we know , has ever dreamed of help ? ing its men through periods of enforced idleness as the more enlightened domestic corporations now do . Taking care of the seamen who are out of work should be a first charge on the government which put them there . There are ominous overtones to the effort of the                     