@@493535

made new program for other steps to be taken for the restoration of prosperity . While Labor 's errors are fairly easy to see in retrospect , the lesson of the election is nevertheless a frightening one for those who believe that genuinely democratic government can survive under the capitalist form of society in the conditions which now surround us . In England , as in America , conservatism controls nearly all the organs for the creation of public opinion , the press , the radio , the motion picture . In two campaigns within seven years , British Labor has been defeated at least partly by falsehoods interjected at the last minute , throwing the voter into a panic . Is there any reason to believe that this process can not be contin , ued indefinitely ? If there is , I should be greatly cheered to have someone step forward and say what it is . Labor after the earthquake. ? The leaders of Labor are busily at work , reforming their shattered ranks and trying to decide upon their new strategy . The feeling against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to me altogether unlikely that they will ever again have anything to do with Ramsay MacDonald , Philip Snowden ( now Viscount Ickornshaw ) et al. , even should the Tories contemptuously toss them aside within a few months , which most people believe will happen . True , Labor is suffering from a serious shortage of leaders ; but their general feeling is that it is better to have no outstanding personality than one who is so easily tricked and led astray as Mr. MacDonald was by the ( largely spurious ) raid against the pound . The shrewdest younger men in the Labor party are now arguing for a policy of " back to Socialism . " They feel that should the country , in a few months or years , again turn to Labor for guidance , they must never again compromise with expediency and attempt to stay in office at the cost of their fundamental principles , " doing the Tories ' dirty work for them . " They are not committed against taking office again , even as a minority ; but as one of them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ once intro-'duce bills for socializing the banks , controlling industry and reforming ( or perhaps even abolishing ) the House of Lords . If the country is not ready for these measures , then let the voters turn us out of office and we shall wait until it is . " How far Labor would live up to these lofty principles if it were again subject to the overwhelming temptations of power and authority , of course remains to be seen . England in epitome. ? The smash hit of the London theatrical season , and the greatest for some years , is Mr. Noel Coward 's " Cavalcade . " And indee 'd , Mr. Coward , who some time ago ceased to be merely the brightest of the Bright Young People , has hit upon a formula which ought to be a guaranteed success in any country that is undergoing England 's present experience . You take a land which is now profoundly distressed , but not so long ago was quite happy ; and you show its inhabitants a series of flashes of the high spots in its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so that some of your audience will remember all of what you show , and all of it will remember some . Then you end with a grim view of the present and a prayer that , somehow or other , the good old days may be brought back . Mr. Coward strings his spectacle upon the thread of one family 's tribulations between 1899 and 1931 ; and with a cast of nearly five hundred people and tons and tons of mechanical equipment , he gives us a series of amazing stage pictures ? a transport leaving for the Boer War , the funeral of Queen Victoria , Santos Dumont flying over a seaside resort in an early airplane , the fatal voyage of the " Titanic , " several episodes of the Great War , and so on . His 1931 scene is a denunciation of Cocktail , Flapper , Jazz and Company , plus gangsters , radical soapboxers , inane radio announcers and other characteristic spokesmen of the present day whom he does not happen to like . At the end the two chief characters make a surprisingly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has just been recalled to memory . The more elderly members of the audience whom I happened to notice wept more or less openly . Like their counterparts all over western Europe , they yearn to get out of their plight , and feel that if , somehow , enough people would only undergo a moral reformation , all might yet be well . This is of course a delusion ; but I am glad I am not called upon to tell them so as they stand up , sniffling , and reach for their overcoats while 1VIr . Coward 's final curtain falls .                     