@@487878

A T ATLANTIC CITY that picturesque old anachronism Bishop Manning did his best to convince the general conference of his church that it had nothing more important to do than to reaffirm the " fundamentally and definitely Catholic character " of its creed and to lament a prevalent tendency to doubt the virgin birth . The conference , however , was clearly more interested in births of another sort and it voted , forty-four to thirty-eight , for the acceptance of a resolution which indorses " the efforts now being made to secure for licensed physicians , hospitals , and medical clinics , freedom to convey such information as is in accord with the highest principles of eugenics and a more wholesome family life , wherein parenthood may be undertaken with due respect for the health of mothers and the welfare of children . " The action is of first importance , and ? the discussion appears to have been more lively than one would have expected in so solemn a body . Bishop Matthews of New Jersey trotted forth the usual vague platitudes about " the great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expected of the church ; Bishop Jenkins of Nevada arose to protest in the name of the boys and girls who needed " protection . " But Bishop Huston of Washington was real-istic : " We can not find out the necessity for such action by looking through stained-glass windows . We must go into the streets and into the homes of the poor . We have had a lot of twaddle from celibate clergymen . The under-privileged should have access to information which others can so readily obtain . " To its eternal credit the conference agreed . D ASSAGE BY THE MEXICAN SENATE of a bill requiring secular Socialist education in all the schools is the latest and most drastic step in the government 's campaign against the reactionary influence of the Catholic church in Mexican affairs . Previously several of the provinces had enacted legislation restricting the number of priests within their boundaries , and several members of the clergy had been expelled for undue political activity . A number of churches have also been converted into schools or otherwise used in the interest of the public . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mole fundamental attack than any which preceded it , and may well be the result of observation of the counter-offensive assumed by the church in Spain , where a parallel situation has existed since the overthrow of the monarchy . It may also be taken as indicative of a new turn to the left in Mexican political development , which may yet recapture some of the idealism of the early days of Calles . Enforcement of the new law by President-elect Cardenas depends primarily on pressure , or lack of it , from abroad . Public sentiment in Mexico itself appears to be definitely behind the government . A LTHOUGH CHINA is unlikeirtO carry out its threat to adopt a gold standard as a defense against the Administration 's silver-buying program , its I epeated protests to the State Department have at least served to expose the hypocrisy of those who maintained that raising the price of silver would increase the purchasing power a the East . The truth , of course , is directly the opposite . Under normal conditions India and China are among the largest consumers of silver @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as possible . The buying power of a country is not determined by the exchange value of its curl ency , but by the aggregate worth of the goods and services which it sells abroad . A decline in the exchange value of its currency is a distinct though temporary advantage to exports , because it aids their competitive position . It would be impossible , moreover , for the United States to purchase the billion-odd ounces required by recent silver legislation without a serious drain on China 's silver reserves , which would have a deflationary effect on that country 's domestic economy similar to that experienced by the Western world during the dizzy ascent of the price of gold . The money doctors who have been advising the Administration have prescribed one medicine for the United States and a directly opposite remedy for China , though both were suffering from the same disease . Against these misguided quacks , China , unfortunately , has no real defense : the export tax recently imposed is unlikely to have more than a temporary effect , while resort to gold is highly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reform " of the French constitution may not be definitely fascist , as has been charged in some quarters , but they reflect a trend toward the concentration of authority in the hands of the executive which is one of the most characteristic features of the fascist state . To provide greater coordination in government policy , he asks that the powers of the Premier over the various departments , hitherto largely nominal , be materially strengthened . In addition , he suggests that the Premier be given the right , when confronted with a hostile vote in the Chamber of Deputies , to dissolve that body and call a new election  --  a device intended to reduce the notorious instability of French cabinets . It is further propoSed that the responsibility for drawing up the budget  --  long a source of exacerbation and delayL-be taken out of the hands of financial committees selected by the Chamber and intrusted directly to the Cabinet . The Deputies would be permitted to discuss revenues and expenditures , but would not be allowed to disturb the balance set up by the Minister of Finance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ elective system and in the control of the judiciary . The proposals are much more drastic than is commonly realized , and if adopted will fundamentally alter the machinery of the French government . While it may be argued that the new powers might be used as effectively by a left as by a right government , their enactment would greatly increase the danger of a reactionary coup in case the Socialists threatened to attain power by constitutional means . T HE DECISION OF THE NRA to abandon production control , together with the recent relinquishment of price-fixing , will  --  if carried into effect  --  remove two of the most indefensible features of the recovery program . Nothing could have been more fallacious or more dangerous than the assumption of overproduction upon which these measures were postulated . Limitation of output , whether in the industrial or agricultural sphere , must of necessity have led to a continuation of subnormal living standards . We fear , however , that the battle for economic sanity has not yet been completely won . The particular groups which have profited by the restriction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a struggle . Upon the outcome rests the fate of the entire New Deal . B Y REFUSING to consider an appeal from the decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals in the rehearing of the Levering and Garrigue case , the United States Supreme Court has in effect given final sanction to the Anti-Injunction Act of 1932 . The Levering and Garrigue Company was a member of the Iron League , the only remaining group of open-shop contractors in the building trades of metropolitan New York . The company was running into constant labor troubles , principally sympathetic strikes , because of the closed-shop contracts between the other building-trades employers and the International Association of Bridge , Structural , and Ornamental Iron Workers . In 1933 the employer procured an injunction restraining the union from promoting sympathetic strikes and from persuading owners , architects , and general contractors not to patronize the plaintiff . The Circuit Court reversed the lower court on the injunction decree and this reversal was upheld by the Supreme Court . A new and amended decree against members of the union wasthen procured ; the new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now the Supreme Court refuses to hear the employer 's appeal . The Supreme Court 's act does more than sustain the constitutionality of the anti-injunction law . It implies that a controversy in which a union lines up other unions as well as closed-shop employers against a non-union , open-shop employer is a labor dispute within the meaning of the act . It implies , further , that federal courts exceed their powers when they issue injunctions against sympathetic strikes , organizational drives for the closed shop , and even , perhaps , secondary boycotts . This makes the reluctance of the Department of Justice to take a strong stand on Section 7-a all the more difficult to comprehend . T HE MORRO CASTLE INQUIRY conducted by the Department of Commerce has been concluded with charges of negligence against the master of the vessel , William F. Warms , and four of his staff officers . Captain Warms is specifically charged with having delayed the sending of SOS signals , with having failed to stop the ship soon enough after it was apparent that the superstructure was afire , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The charges against the chief engineer , the assistant engineer , and the second and third officers are briefly that they saved their own skins without thought of the passengers . The five officers will betried on these charges , and are threatened with permanent loss of their licenses . It was plain , even to those persons whose information about the case was limited to newspaper accounts of the hearings , that certain of the ship 's officers did not conduct themselves with either the resourcefulness or the courage that the public has every right to expect . There was , however , another party in the case against whom no charges have yet been made . We refer to the Ward Line . The long hours and low wages which are the lot of the crews of these ships , the fact that one voyage is hardly more than ended before another is begun , the overwork of stewards who are on call for passengers at all hours of the night and day  --  all these make it not in the least surprising that in an emergency the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to date the equipment , the safety of passengers at sea depends , should fail . Charges of negligence may yet be made against the Ward Line . But the charge of making profits at the expense not only of its crews but of its passengers is a more serious charge which it should also be called upon to face . T HE CONGRESSIONAL COMMITTEE on Un-American Activities could not do better than attach John L. Spivak as a special guide through the jungle of Nazi intrigue and anti-Semitic propaganda . As a Communist sympathizer Mr. Spivak might decline to serve , especially since the committee has declared its intention of searching for un-American feathers in the left wing as well as the right . But if Mr. Spivak refuses to he a guide he should be subpoenaed as a witness . His excellent articles in the New Masses show that he has a way with Nazis . He plucks their revolvers from their pockets , and their letters from his own ; he announces the names and addresses of gentlemen known even to their intimates by numbers ; he reports @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of carefully selected initiates . Part of what he has written has also been brought out by the Congressional committee and printed in the daily press ; but this much only tends to corroborate the rest . Mr. Spivak has done an able job of old-fashioned muckraking , a combination of good reporting , good detective work , and good public service . The spread of Nazi spying and plotting , and of anti-Jewish and anti-radical propaganda , is a menace as well as a scandal . Perhaps it can not be stamped out , but at least it can be exposed and known for what it is  --  a creeping paralysis that aims to wither everything in American life that is tolerant and humane and decent . If anyone objects that the spies and the plots so far uncovered are too fantastic to be worth serious attention , let him reflect that Hitler and his fanatics now rule Germany . A FORM LETTER recently went to the 130,000 employees of General Motors outlining a new policy . " We of the General Motors , " said the president , Alfred @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recognize ' collective bargaining ' as a constructive step forward , both for the employees and the management . Regardless of any obligations that may exist , we propose not only to continue the idea but to develop it . " According to Mr. Sloan 's eloquent letter , his new model of collective bargaining is even smarter than those put out by other industrial concerns . In addition to streamlining , knee action , merit clauses , and remote control , it incorporates a new device guaranteed to remove the last trace of operating strain from workers who have had a hard day on the assembly line . " The plan , " runs the dispatch from Detroit , " was designed by the company to meet all requirements of Section 7-a of the NIRA . It has been in effect for several weeks . However , workers were first informed of it today . " Mr. Sloan 's definition of collective bargaining makes the term synonymous with employee-representation plans , that is , company unions . In no sense will the company union be empowered to negotiate wage contracts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and grievances to the management 's attention , but even here the last word in determining the validity of complaints will rest , not with a joint conference tribunal , not with an impartial arbitrator , but with the corporation 's own Department of Industrial Relations ! In short , General Motors reserves to itself the right of being plaintiff and judge in the same proceedings . T HE FORTHCOMING TRIAL in Sacramento of eighteen men and women on six counts of criminal syndicalism raises issues of profound significance to those who still believe in basic civil rights in this country . Convictions in this test case will open the path to the legal annulment , in California at least , of such fundamental American principles as the right to belong to political and economic organizations of one 's own choice , and the basic right of freedom of political belief . It will mean , moreover , that it will be unlawful to buy , sell , or possess the works of Marx , Lenin , or other radical writers , or to belong to the Communist Party or any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to engage in boycotts or in picketing . ( During arguments over demurrers the judge ruled all picketing to be unlawful . ) Behind the prosecution of this case is the oligarchy that rules California 's great interwoven empire of **31;200;TOOLONG finance . This oligarchy has definitely decided to rid itself of what it calls the " red menace , " that is , the Cannery and Agriculturual Workers ' Industrial Union , which succeeded after a series of strikes in increasingthe wages paid to field workers from twenty to thirty cents an hour . For this success the union has paid heavily . At the time of the San Francisco general strike all its headquarters in the State were closed or wrecked by the police or vigilantes , and the officials of the union were arrested , charged with violation of tilt zriminal-syndicalism laws . All the resources of the labor movement are now necessary to prevent them from being convicted and imprisoned for from six months to eighty-four years . W E PUBLISH in the correspondence columns of this issue of The Nation a letter from the New York @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in response to a complaint made by a group of employees in the Home Relief Bureau about the discharge of one of their number . Commissioner Hodson and the Home Relief employees differ markedly about the fracas which occurred on September 27 , although both of them agree that it ended in a general melee involving the protestants and the police . We should like first to inquire where the Commissioner received his information about the disturbance . Was it from the police or a more disinterested source ? More important , however , is the general principle of the use of force by the police which his letter raises . Mr. Hodson several times remarks that the police used " no more force than was necessary . " Just how much force is necessary on the part of policemen armed with billies and revolvers to quiet a group of unarmed citizens ? If a citizen strikes an officer in the face with his clenched fist , must a " general melee " result ? Has an officer the right to " meet force with force " ( force , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ finally , have the New York police a past record of restraint in the face of provocation sufficient to justify a public official of Mr. Hod-son 's ' importance officially to sanction meeting force with force ? To these last three questions , we should unequivocally answer no . TT IS generally taken for granted that business men are I grateful when the National Guard helps to break a strike . But in California sins of omission are practically unheard of , and the business community of San Francisco wants the National Guard to know just how grateful it is . We quote from the San Francisco Daily News for October 10 : Very quietly , the bigger business men of the town have been gathering up a fund to buy something for the National Guard . You may hear about it later because two points of view have developed concerning the move . The group behind it considers the contribution a tangible appreciation of the way Guard members have met the duties of citizenship . The opposition snorts that it 's a tip to the guard for strike service . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appeal for funds . It is headed " An Appreciation of Good Citizenship " and bears the names of important figures in the social and economic life of the Bay region who " are sponsoring a popular subscription the proceeds of which will be expended in a manner yet to be determined , but which will be of the greatest benefit in the development of the National Guard service . " " Good citizenship " comes high , but no one knows better than the " bigger business men " of San Francisco and their company union , the Industrial Association , how well it pays .                     