@@487826

YO SEE the Labor Party 's conference at Edinburgh in proper perspective it is essential to remember the circumstances in which it was held It was the first conference since the last general election in which the progress of the party toward power was definitely disappointing . It was the first conference , also , since the party had learned , from the Hoare-Laval conversations , what comes of an even conditional support for the National Government It met after Nurnberg had shown decisively the will to war that is the foundation of Hitler 's policy . It met while the fascist rebels in Spain , openly helped by Hitler and Mussolini , were multiplying successes against the Spanish workers , whom a policy of non-intervention , mainly due to Great Britain , had deprived of the arms to which they had a legal right . It met with the knowledge that the relentless pressure of Japanese imperialism on China had entered upon a new phase of insolent attack . Itmet , also , when the future of the League of Nations was obviously dark even to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was grave . Nothing had been done for the distressed areas . The tragedies of the means test were to be continued by the new Regulations . The greatest living authority on unemployment statistics ? Sir William Beveridge  --  had just warned the country that a new depression was approaching . An Education Act had just been placed on the statute-book which every authority in the country had combined to denounce as evasive trickery . The armaments program had meant a boom on the Stock Exchange ; but all over Great Britain , while wealth accumulated , men were decaying . Such an atmosphere called for certain obvious things . ( 1 ) A clear lead was required It was vital not merely for this country but for the whole world to know where the Labor Party stood on the vital issues of the day . ( 2 ) The maximum unity in the working-class movement was required . At this time of all times a movement so united that it could take the offensive was essential . ( 3 ) Realism was required . The mind of the conference should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ general election three or four years hence but to the immediate shadow of war and fascism which now bestrides the world . II No one can say that these requirements were met at Edinburgh . The rearmament resolution was a muddled compromise . It meant one thing to Mr. Dalton , who moved it in a speech which seemed to imply full support for the government 's program combined with contempt for its members Mr. Morrison interpreted the resolution quite differently Mr. Bevin protested against Mr Morrison 's interpretation . Both Mr. Lansbury and Lord Arnold pleaded for absolute pacifism ; the latter seemed to speak as if Lord Beaverbrook were the one sane guide on international policy in a mad world . Lord Strabolgi explained that the National Government must be allowed to rearm now since a subsequent Labor government might need arms if and when it was in office ; what this government would do with the arms before that time he did not think fit to inquire . No one , at the end , knew what the resolution meant . In a speech intended to bring clarity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would later be decided by the parliamentary party when the House of Commons met . The position on Spain was less muddled in result , though it showed weakness and hesitation . On Monday , despite bitter protests from the delegates , the block votes of the trade unions secured a big majority for non-intervention . On Wednesday the delegates heard from two Spanish comrades what non-intervention in fact meant Mr. Atlee and Mr. Greenwood were then dispatched to London to consult with Mr. Chamberlain . As a result , the conference agreed on Friday that if the non-intervention agreement was found to be either ineffective or violated , the Spanish government should be given back its right to purchase arms . It should be said that all the evidence which produced the new decision on Friday was available to the conference when it took its first decision . Three-quarters of the conference voted against the admission of the Communist Party to the ranks of Labor . The debate was farcical , and not even honestly so . It was deliberately closured by the executive , after some half-dozen speeches , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The arguments used for exclusion were pitiful . They were ( 1 ) that Communists are hypocritical in applying for application ; ( 2 ) that they are too unimportant to risk alienating other parts of the electorate ; ( 3 ) that , if admitted , they will swamp the party conferences ; ( 4 ) that they believe in dictatorship and not in democracy as the Labor Party does ; ( 5 ) that they are dominated by Moscow . A word on these arguments is desirable . On the first , Mr. Lawther reported the experience of the Miners ' Federation in an exactly opposite sense ; and many other organizations would speak  --  as they have resolved  --  in the same way . In any case , proof of the Communists ' sincerity depends upon an attempt to work with them . The second and third arguments cancel each other ; if the ComThe NATION munist Party is so unimportant , how could it dominate the party ? The fourth argument is a mere blind . The issue is deliberately framed so as to mislead . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for its own sake . He argues that the capitalist class will overthrow democracy rather than accept socialism , and that a proletarian dictatorship will prove the necessary vehicle of capitalist defeat . The fifth objection seems to me more solidly grounded . I think the Communist Party 's affiliation with the Third International is a definite stumbling-block unless the party agrees that , after admission to the Labor Party , it will accept the latter 's decisions in preference to any made at Moscow . But I should myself hope that such an agreement would end the present divisions of the international working class and lead to the creation of that world united front that is now an urgent matter . Closely related to the refusal to admit the Communists was the decision to reorganize the League of Youth . This was done to remove from the latter body certain members who , seemingly , were dissatisfied with executive policy and dared to criticize it emphatically . This was represented as disloyalty , and the officials will , accordingly , be able to produce a tame league responsive only to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seems to me a disastrous one . There is one other debate to which reference must be made  --  that on the distressed areas . Three resolutions directed attention to their special problems , and grim pictures were drawn of their citizens . The growth of malnutrition , the increase in maternal morbidity and tuberculosis were emphasized . But there was no response to the one concrete suggestion made  --  that the party should put all its weight behind the marchers from Jarrow . What moves the government is not investigation  --  we have had that almost to the point of nauseation  --  but such a depth of public feeling that they become convinced that defeat is the consequence of inaction . I can not discover in the conference resolutions one principle , one method , which will cause this government a moment 's discomfort . Only profound national agitation can be effective in Whitehall ; as I read the debate in Edinburgh , I could not but feel that this was an art the Labor Party had lost . III The leadership at Edinburgh was fumbling and incompetent . There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of purpose . There was no message to the country which would convey a sense that a change in the constitution of the government would alter the perspective of affairs . Over it all there reigned a timidity grimly like that which proved the downfall of the two Labor governments . There was , above all , a lack of realism before the great events that confront us . For surely the experience of the post-war years has made certain propositions unmistakably clear . They are : 1 . Capitalism and democracy are no longer compatible with each other . They are engaged in a death struggle . And the main factor in the defeat of democracy is a divided working class . Where this exists , capitalism is always in a position to take the offensive . Where it does so , October 31 , 1936 it is able to establish a dictatorship which can only be overthrown by revolutionary means . What is the answer of the leaders of the Labor Party to this view ? That we are not like the Germans ? That was what the Germans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the polls would be a safeguard against capitalist attack ? But , with the present temper of our leadership , what is the prospect of victory at the next election ? And even if we won , are not the constitutional problems involved so delicate and dangerous as to risk all the fruits of victory ? More , after Spain is it not clear that no reliance can be placed upon a governing class to accept the consequences of its defeat ? Is there , in fact , any way to victory except a policy which , built upon a united Labor movement , meets the capitalist challenge with a full recognition of all it may involve ? The alternative is the acceptance of the theory of the " community consciousness " upon which MacDonald acted when he was Labor Prime Minister . It is a theory which involves cooperation with , instead of a break from , capitalism . It means an emphasis upon social reform  --  where this is financially feasible  --  to the exclusion of any Socialist measures which capitalism is unprepared to accept . And from it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contradictions of capitalism mean imperialist war . This is plainly implicit in the policy of the fascist powers . It is futile to think that we can keep out of such a war . The only way to prevent it is by an alliance with those powers which have no interest in aggression and a warning to the fascist powers that any attempt on their part to change frontiers by force will be met with force on our part in concert with our allies . A British pact with France and Soviet Russia , which would be open to other powers similarly prepared to resist aggression , justifies rearmament against the menace of fascism . No other policy can justify it ; for it is clear from the Sino-Japanese struggle and the Italo-Ethiopian conflict that the National Government is not prepared to take any action which may endanger the stability of the fascist powers . 3 . To maintain the doctrine of non-intervention in Spain is indefensible . It is being violated every day by Germany , Italy , and Portugal . Its result is simply to reinforce the authority of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the overthrow of any constitutional government so long as they threaten war . The Labor Party ought to be clear that our own fate , as well as that of France , is being decided on the battlefield of Spain . The victory of General Franco will bring a world war a long step nearer . His defeat will renew the prestige of constitutional government all over the world . The only way to bring about his defeat is to allow the Spanish government its right in international law to purchase arms . The denial of that right means surrender to the most dangerous maneuver the fascist powers have yet invented . For it is to allow them to finance and organize civil war in order to extend their empire over Western civilization . This , let me add , is the only policy of collective security which has now any meaning . It is in full accord with the principles of the League . It recognizes  --  what is the fact  --  that the principles of the League have now no meaning for the fascist powers . It emphasizes that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ isolated opponent but against the most highly equipped alliance that can be arrayed against them . Once they understand this , they will hesitate ; and once they hesitate , the initiative in international policy will pass to the powers which have no interest in aggression . That will be the beginning of the end of fascism . It is therefore the duty of the Labor Party deliberately to inform the country that since fascism and peace are no longer compatible ideas , these are the principles upon which it is prepared to defend peace . And it is its duty to make it plain to the National Government that on any other principles its rearmament program will meet with unrelenting opposition from the forces of Labor . IV For anyone who realizes how vital is the time factor in the present juncture of affairs , Edinburgh is inevitably a disheartening experience . But the lesson from it is the need to redouble our efforts for unity and not to slacken them . There is plenty of evidence to show that the decisions made there are far from representing either the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ We must use the next twelve months to reshape the Labor Party into a fighting instrument of the working-class movement . But to do this , we must induce the party to adopt consciously a social philosophy which recognizes the nature of the battle in which we are engaged . Until the movement has such a philosophy it can adopt neither the strategy nor the tactics required by the situation . Its present drift arises precisely because such a social philosophy is absent . The leaders of the Labor Party think of themselves as an opposition which can inherit the mantle of office from the government in precisely the same way as the Conservatives used to inherit it from the Liberals . They forget that the classic form of representative government only worked in this country because Conservatives and Liberals alike accepted the private ownership of the means of production as the postulate upon which all their fundamental policies were built . The Labor Party rejects that postulate . Its accession to power would therefore raise problems for those who believe in capitalism different in kind from those to which we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Labor Party must adapt its technique to the faith it is supposed to hold or it must reveal itself for what it otherwise is  --  a revised form of the Liberal Party which wants larger social reforms in the periods of upward trend in the trade cycle . If it decides to be the latter , it is then clear that Socialists have no place in its membership . For socialism is a method of action as well as an ultimate goal ; and its method of action is built upon the recognition that the historic mission of the working class is to capture the state and so end the private ownership of the means of production . The whole technique of socialism as a living philosophy flows from that pivotal insight . The lesson of Edinburgh is , I suggest , that we must either convert the Labor Party to its acceptance or , through new instruments , find the way to that goal which is now alone capable of giving mankind the peace and plenty which science has made the rightful heritage of our generation . 