@@491077

IN THE effort to achieve some kind of antidote for unemployment we have plunged into what has been well termed " a hysteria of relief . " These emergency measures , whether instituted by national Administration or local community , are animated by a generous impulse , to be sure , but they do not reach the heart of the problem , nor do they set up the remedy . No effective panacea , regardless of the ill involved , has ever been accomplished through raids on the public treasury . The drain of the dole , which has subsidized idleness and drugged the will to work in Great Britain , and , to a less extent , in Germany , reflects the destructive consequences of this type of paternalism . In a larger sense , it is as devastating to the social and economic order as is nationalistic interference with the normal processes of production and distribution . Finally , both the responsibility and the cure are squarely up to the private individual or corporation . No one disputes the fact that a stabilized currency is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in sporadic and isolated instances , we have failed to bring about anything like regularization of employment , which ? is no less contributory to our human and material well-being . To a considerable extent interest , dividends , prices and managerial salaries are stabilized through the building up of reserves in prosperous periods to meet the evil hour of periodic setback , but no reserve , generally speaking , is set aside to guarantee the pay of the wage earner in periods of unavoidable idleness . Every season of depression is dogged by the Nemesis of the lay-off , It also raises the specter of fear of being let out to the man at work . In the latter case , efficiency is impaired and consuming power curbed . Guarantee the job as far as it is humanly possible to do so and you strengthen the whole buying structure , thus developing the psychological aid stabilization If to prosperity.of per factor , which , when all is said and done , is a first price , demand , production and employment could be accomplished , we would be dwelling in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ affairs is impossible , the next best thing is to arrive at a condition that minimizes the periodic labor fluctuations so deranging to morale and work . This brings us to a curious paradox . In an age of preventive measures we reduce the hazards of fire , flood and deadly disease . The irony of the productive situation is that we have not even scraped the surface , as it were , of prevention of the malady that touches every citizen in some way . When panic pinches we follow the line of least resistance and turn , in the main , to conventional relief . Save in the face of calamity through act of God , relief is apt to beget helplessness . At best  --  or rather at worst  --  it is merely a handout . Make it chronic and you come perilously near pauperization . Thanks to the deadening influence of the dole , considerably more than 1,000,000 persons in Britain are practically national charges . Thousands of young men who were in their early teens when the dole started have never done a stroke of work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of anmsthesia in the guise of relief  --  persists , they never will . There is no place for such endowed inertia in the United States . lo the case of unemployment , therefore , the best way to correct the evil is to prevent it from arising . It will obvi ? ate that well-known pound of cure which is always expensive . We can pour out Federal billions for emergency public construction , but we will not have created the antitoxin forrecessionand its destructive by-products , which , let me repeat , lies solely in regularized work . It is easy to pass the buck to that steadfast alibi , the cyclical curve , and fall back on the consola-tion that no nation is panic-proof . Hence unemployment waves . The truth of the matter is that  --  as was the case , as Ere-call it , with our friend Brutus  --  the fault is not in our stars but in ourselves . Some-where in the maze in which the jobless worker finds himself intermittently is the key to the permanent way out . A few intel-ligent employers are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for em-ployment regulariza-tion can only be derived out of bal-anced and diversified production in those 4 THE SATURDAY EVENING POST February 28,193 ! industrial laboratories of ours from which mass production and labor-saving devices have already emerged . With more people idle than we have known iu many decades , and furthermore , with state job insurance , which is only one step removed from the dole , looming on the legislative horizon , this seems an opportune time to analyze the possibilities of guaranteed employment as a private , and therefore unsubsidized proposition . Is it practical ? What has been accomplished ? Whnt can be done ? To get the answers to these questions we must probe for a moment into the causes of unemployment . The trouble with the usual appraisal of this sort is that too often only the obvious and familiar factors are disclosed . We all know that the usual reasons for the recurring cycles of depression with their inevitable labor dislocation are seasonal influences in many businesses and industries , the casual nature of some types of work and workers , waste , extravagance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inefficient production . Behind these are the other and perhaps less obvious provocations . One is what is so often referred to as the industrial revolution . In comparatively recent decades we have had two such major peaceful upheavals . The first was the change from hand-labor and job-lot production on a made-to-order basis to concentration of labor , using specialized machinery which developed the era of mass output . This has been termed " a revolution in the tangible methods of management . " As someone put it : " It required a new point of view , a discarding of the old theories upon which craftsmanship was built , a change from the small unit to the great . " This transition marked the beginning of technological unemployment . Machines have displaced not less than 2,000,000 individuals in the older industries . Custom Changes That Bring Labor Shifts T HE revolution that followed was more mental than physical . It meant a shift in method . In the words of a well-known observer , " it involved the discarding of the practice built around two arbitrary plans , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to find a ready buyer for the product ; the second to hire men when needed and to fire them when they were no longer required . " The second phase of the last-named process of evolution leads to the heart of the subject at hand . It contributed to steadier employment and also disclosed the raw material , so to speak , from which the stabilized job can be fashioned . I can best indicate it in the words of Howard Coonley , president of the Walworth Company , of Boston , one of the pioneers in regularizing employment . In referring to the two revolutions that I have just indicated , he said ; " The first revolution was based on the development of time study with its influence on human efficiency and mechanical speeds ; on machine design to develop the most efficient unit for correct and speedy production ; on cost accounting that would make a comparison possible and show where economy must be expected ; and on wage incentives to create greater earning power for the employe and lower costs for the employer . " The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Its weapons are market analysis , thorough budgeting , sound scheduling and broad-minded personnel cooperation . A generation ago any item in this category would have been considered visionary . Today each is among the most important activities of any well-organized corporation . " Because these assets , especially market analysis and long-range production scheduling , are part of the equipment of farseeing producers , progress is being made in the sterilization of what has all along been considered unavoidable idleness . To continue the causes of unemployment , you find that still another kind of displacement , not generally considered , works havoc with personnel . In the census of 1920 appeared classifications of industries and work which are entirely eliminated from the census of 1930 . Occupations like blacksmithing and wheelwrights are almost completely lost , while others have shrunk to insignificance . Basic industries have felt the encroachments of custom and style . The spinning and weaving of wool and the manufacture of woolen garments , for example , have declined under the development of the closed car and the heated home , despite the fresh demand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lost ground in the feminine wardrobe as standards have risen to the level of silk and the styles for women 's garments change . Take a different tack and sorely beset industries with depleted personnels come to the fore . Bituminous coal is feeling the competition of hydroelectric power , oil and gas ; oil the pressure of natural gas transported in 1000-mile pipe lines : lumber the inroads . of fiber and other substitutes ; and railroads the effect of bus lines and trucks in the carriage of both passengers and freight . To offset the shrinkage in outmoded or emaciated activities , you behold the rise of such activities as the automobile , rubber tires and the radio , which help to redress the labor balance . The big fact to emphasize at this point , however , is that with industry in a constant state of flux , the worker is at the mercy of change . Hence the need of stabilization to give him insurance against lay-off . Then , too , there is that ever-present menace to employment embodied in the alien who enters the country @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the border gate  --  not less than 175,000 come in each year through these channels  --  he throws a monkey wrench into the machinery of orderly job distribution . The shift of population , which imposes an increasing burden upon the work supply , must also be considered . In 1920 , the urban population was 54,304,603 , or 51.4 per cent of the whole . The rural population was 51,406,017 . According to the 1930 census , the urban population had grown to 68,955,521 , or 56.2 per cent of the whole , with the rural population at 53,819,525 . This imposes additional pressure on the entire employment scheme . There is still another source of unemployment which bears directly upon the matter of the stabilized job . It results from what might be termed our record complex . Nearly every major industrial unit has tried to outstrip the other fellow . The compass , in boom times , is set to the word " biggest . " It follows that when recession comes , the basis of comparison is all out of gear . What seems to be a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ output largely reared . on pride and ego . It is precisely like the skyscraper race in New York City . Every tallest building is matched by a taller one almost before the record structure is under roof . Permanent economic effect does not always figure in the lexicon of misplaced push and progress . A Weakness in Production Methods D ESPITE all its advertised efficiency , American production still has something to learn . When this particular shortcoming  --  that is , failure to balance or diversify output  --  is rectified , the recipe for regularized employment is found . You have a hint of one obstacle to its consummation in this statement by Alvan Macauley , president of the National . Automobile Chamber of Commerce and also president . of the Packard Motor Car Company , who said : " I believe that much unemployment is due to unwise production . The period of heavy selling comes , and the plan of the average manufacturer seems to be to rush production , to keep his factory running day and night and perhaps Sunday to meet the demand . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his employes to their own resources . There is something fundamentally unwise , wrong and unscientific in this procedure . " This kind of production naturally breeds periodic unemployment . In sharp contrast is the policy upon which one successful stabilized employment plan has been developed . Again I quote Mr. Coonley : " As for production , anyone who has studied his cost figures knows that it is far more economical to run at a steady rate even if well below capacity than at overtime a portion of the year and on part-time basis the rest . You can organize for steady production . You can minimize labor turnover . You can gain efficiency and eliminate waste . You can plan in the truest sense of the word . " It means , in a word , that . the amount of unemployment in any one business or industry is often the // measure of inefficiency in that industry . Thus it all gets down to a question of management , which , in the simplest definition , is merely the corirdination of consumer demand , raw materials , labor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ elements somewhere along the line . In the words of a seasoned observer , " American industry is consumer-minded instead of production-minded . " Herein rests the stumblingblock to labor stabilization . What most people do not realize is that even under the rosiest business skies the roster of the idle is considerable . Part of this is , of course , due to the migratory worker who labors when the spirit moves him . In periods of high-tide prosperity we have as many as 2,000,000 in the leisure class , which is the one body of labor immune against regularization . Waste in the Unemployment Cycle T HAT industry , regardless of the business cycle , is 1 not without persistent labor irregularities is shown by the report on Balancing Production and Employment Through Management Control , made by the Department of Manufacture of the Chamber of Commerce of the United States , which stated : " Failure to achieve maximum operating efficiency is responsible in some measure for the fluctuations in employment which cause periods of enforced idleness for the individual worker . This committee in its published report @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clothing worker was idle about 30 per cent of the year , that the average shoe worker spent only 65 per cent of his time at work , that the building-trades craftsman was employed approximately 63 per cent of his time , that . the textile industry had regular intervals of slack operation , and that during the past thirty years the bituminous coal miners had been idle on an average of 93 possible working days per year . " The appalling waste due to a serious unemployment cycle was summarized by the National Bureau of Economic Research . It estimated that the wage earners of the United States worked 10,000,000,000 fewer hours in 1921 ? this was after the deflation panic  --  than in 1920 and that their annual earnings decreased nearly 57,000,000,000 . The results of this unpleasantness took costly toll . It meant a decrease of one-quarter in the income of the nation 's wage earners and at least one-fifth in their purchasing power . The latest depression , which began with the stock-market crash late in 1929 , made a bigger dent in income , created more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Needless to remark , present mass-output methods of American industry are here to stay . One of the important features is the sustained well-being of the individual consumer . Continued success of large-scale production , of quick turnover , and particularly installment buying , which has become such a vital feature of our economic life , depends upon steady employment for the individual . If we are to maintain our industrial prestige we must bring about a larger degree of certainty in work than has prevailed . That the problem is not insoluble is shown by results in various directions . We can now see in terms of concrete cases just how some corporations have shown the way to stabilized employment .. There is nothing radically new in the basic idea of employment regularization . About fifteen years ago a few manufacturers started the machinery to provide job security , mainly through the elimination of waste in seasonal production . In consequence , they weathered the 1921 depression without appreciable reduction in profit or personnel . The aftermath of the 1929-30 recession , with its widespread idleness , naturally refocused attention @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ For the first time the subject is being attacked in a. big way . Out of a temporary crisis may he evolved the cure for an age-old evil . Dollar , and , Cents Basis for Effort NE heartening development is that employment 1-i regularization is no longer regarded as a sop to labor , or largely as a humane procedure in which uplif t invariably impairs practicality . Nor is the issue being met solely with the idea of taking up unemployment slack attendant upon the panic period . It is increasingly construed as a definite business proposition , yielding dollar-and-cents returns in the shape of greater dilution of overhead costs , continuity of ( Continued on Page 118 ) ( Continued from Page 115 ) eleven departures a day in each direction . from seven o'clock in the morning until five o'clock in the evening . This New York-to-Washington venture was inaugurated without the assistance of an air-mail contract , but its existence would hardly be possible were it not for the degree to which the traveling public has been educated , through mail and passenger service , to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reports carrying nearly 13,000 passengers during the first four weeks of its existence , with loads averaging 60 per cent capacity through the remaining months of the year . New mail and passenger routes , either already flying or scheduled to begin operation shortly , through the assistance of contracts under the Watres Act , are between Pueblo , Colorado , and Dallas ; between Louisville , Kentucky , and Fort Worth , Texas , via Memphis , Tennessee . Most of these additional routes are designed to link the three main transcontinental air lines more closely together so that both mail and passengers may fly over them to their destinations in the shortest possible time , through going around , instead of across , areas where flying conditions are unfavorable . All over the country , in spite of the depressed financial conditions , air-passenger travel is gradually increasing . The affiliated companies of the Aviation Corporation alone carried in 1930 more than 60,000 passengers an average distance of some 200 miles  --  enough to till au overnight train between Houston and Dallas , for example , with its quota @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States , the Pan-American Airways carried during the year some 35,000 passengers ; about half of them being flown between Florida and Cuba , the other half to Central or South America and the various small islands around the Caribbean Sea . When contract air-mail operations started at Boston on July 1 , 1926 , over Route No. 1 , the airport was not lighted , and there was in the way of equipment only one small commercial hangar and two Army hangars . Today there are five fine commercial hangars , besides four military hangars ? the original two of the Army and two more belonging to the Massachusetts National Guard . The airport has been enlarged , and is now being enlarged still further ; it is well lighted for night landings and has a fine two-story administration building . As one comes in over Boston Harbor from the air , there are often more than fifty planes , military and commercial combined , to be seen on the line . Where , in 1926 , the only scheduled arrivals and departures were those of the daily mail planes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Cape Cod , Martha 's Vineyard and Nantucket , another to Whitefield , New Hampshire , and a **32;96;TOOLONG service to Augusta , Maine . In addition to C. A. M. No. 1 , another mail service will soon link Boston and Albany . In all , from the airport that , in 1926 , saw only one scheduled departure a day , there are now approximately 250 arrivals and departures every twenty-four hours . ? With this increasing development of air transport , we can expect to see many additional improvements shortly . The Post Office Department is already working out plans , for example , for a two-story loading station that will make it common practice to stow the last sacks of mail only a moment before the plane takes off , without delaying passenger embarkation in the least . It is obviously foolish to fly mail or passengers at 100 miles an hour or more through the air , and at the same time throw away any of the saved time by unnecessary delay upon arrival or immediately before the departure of the plane . This may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , rather than in the fuselage , as at present . We will soon see , I think , as an additional safety precaution , the elimination of telephone and telegraph and electric-light wires in the vicinity of important airports . They will be carried in underground conduits . We may expect that before long the Department of Commerce will refuse a Class A rating to any airport that has not done away with its wire hazards . Flying schools are often located at airports used also by the regular transport lines . Pilots of transport planes , coming in on their regular flights , have to run the danger of being struck or crowded by student flyers up for short hops above the airport . Flying schools should be placed on fields of their own , some distance away from commercial ports . Already several of the airplane manufacturing companies have developed mail-and-passenger planes capable of far greater speed than those now in use . One such plane , capable of enticing at 150 miles an hour , was recently tested out at Washington . It , is a single-motored @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cargo capacity of nearly a ton . Such a plane will make possible a twenty-hour schedule , or even an eighteen-hour schedule , between New York and the Pacific Coast . By next spring , according to plans already announced by the head of one of the large aviation companies , six such planes will leave Newark airport every twenty-four hours for the Pacific Coast on one of the transcontinental lines alone  --  three during the day , three during the night , one departure every four hours . With the momentum that air-passenger transportation has already acquired , with the added assistance , stabilization and stimulus given it during 1930 by the application of the Watres Act provisions , I confidently expect to see very soon  --  possibly within the next two years  --  many of the principal cities of this country connected by passenger air-transport linos operating on regular schedules with departures varying from three a day to one every hour . GUARZNYEZZAVG , fl E 'S JOg ( Continu  --  ol from Peg . 5 ) operation and improved morale and efficiency in personnel . Whether through accurate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for stock , transference of labor , the stagger plan , elimination of overtime , more efficient internal management , national industrial planning , or balanced production , experience has demonstrated that these elements , probably compounded or related , can turn the regularizing trick . They are not only taking the curse off seasonal let-downs but are providing uninterrupted working schedules in a time of acute general depression . Private plans for the prevention of industrial instability fall into two main groups . One is the scheme for regularization of plant operation and employment ; the other the indemnification of employes for whom no work is available . As the Industrial Relations Section of Princeton University pointed out : " The first type of plan hits closer to the heart of the problem in seeking preventibn rather than partial effect . The second may do more than meet the workers ' immediate needs , however , in attaching to lay-off a cost which acts as a pressure on the employer or industry to regularize operation . " Just what regularization is up against is shown by this statement from a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stability of production and employment , it is necessary to find some method of balancing the fluctuations of demand brought about by the excesses of both the purchaser and the producer . The purchaser is influenced by a desire to take advantage of price fluctuations , while the manufacturer seizes what he thinks is a favorable opportunity to capitalize the wave of buying . Both tendencies bring about an inevitable recession . " Any regularization scheme that works must , therefore , break down buyers ' habits , on the one hand , and sellers ' prejudices , on the other . This means revolution . Every epoch-making change  --  and we progress only through change ? has meant a kindred reversal . We had it in the shift from sail to steam and from handmade product to machine-produced commodity . So , too , with this movement for larger economic security by way of employment balance now shaping . diutomatic Stock Purchase Because it projects the fundamentals of guaranteed employment and , moreover , because the plan stood up under the 1929-30 depression , I will lead off with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ manufacturers . At the head of the concern is Col. William C. Procter , whose philosophy of life and work runs something like this : " Employe welfare is an excellent thing so long as it does not coddle the worker . Hospitals , clinics , sanitation , and all the other aids to the right kind of working environment , have their place . They do not , however , perform the task of achieving two all-essential things . One is the economic independence of the employe .. The other is immunity from the fear of losing the job . " The Procter guaranteed-employment scheme came into being by way of the economic-independence route . It was expressed in profit sharing , but not in the conventional way . At first the employes received a dividend check for profits in proportion to their wages . This had a drawback in that it was too often regarded as part of wages and spent as such . A scheme was therefore devised to set aside a fixed proportion of wages each year to be used for the purchase of company stock . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contribute toward payment . Some unusual results have been achieved . In the Cincinnati plant a laborer who has never earned more than thirty-two dollars a week has accumulated more than 500 shares of stock , the value of which at one time reached $300,000 . A blacksmith who began to subscribe for stock in 1903 when he was making forty-two cents an hour , through thrift , purchase of additional stock and its enhancement , was worth $65,000 in 1919 . A die maker who retired last year has enough stock in his safety-deposit box to guarantee him an income of $12,000 a year . I have dwelt on this stock-purchase scheme because it is linked with the plan which guarantees every employe forty-eight weeks of work every year . No employe is eligible to this guaranty who has not availed himself of the stock-purchase offer . More than 95 per cent of the workers are under the job-guaranty umbrella . The other 5 per cent are mainly women , who are more migratory , perhaps , in employment than men . Procter &; Gamble are able to guarantee forty-eight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two questions . They are : Can you estimate your sales ? Can you store against peak demand ? The soap business , though dealing with a staple , is no different in one fundamental detail from any other industry in that fluctuations of demand mean fluctuations of production . Originally the commodity was distributed by jobbers who reduced their purchases in November , December , January , July and August , and piled up orders at other periods . The element of speculation entered into their buying and it did not always reflect actual consumption . The hills and valleys of demand , as they have been called , produced corresponding peaks and depressions in output . Though everybody uses soap the business suffers from almost as many variations as one involving a seasonal commodity . It was discovered at the Procter &; Gamble plants that between boom periods and recessions there was very little difference in the actual consumption of the product . The job , therefore , was to bring about a production that would keep the factories going at full time all the year ropnd , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , first in making an accurate forecast of sales ; second , in providing adequate warehouse facilities to store up stock to meet peak demand . Part-time and overtime work then went by the board . 99.44 Per Cent Efficient Stripped to the bone , the Procter &; Gamble plan resolves itself into this : The year 's business is estimated twelve months ahead . The estimate , in turn , is divided into forty-nine weeks of uniform production , which is the limit possible because of holidays and necessary shutdowns for repairs . Dividing production into forty-nine weeks automatically gives one week leeway in case it is necessary to take it . This insures the forty-eight weeks ' full run . As a matter of fact , the work year has invariably run to fifty weeks right along . Lees product is shipped during the first part of the year . Warehouses within the plant and some outside are ( Continued on Page 120 ) ( Continued from Page 118 ) employed to store the surplus . From April or May to the end of the year more goods are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the warehouses . The net result is that during the seven years that the plan has been in operation it , has been possible to estimate the business annually down to two-thirds of one per cent of what it actually worked out to he . Production and sales are balanced . In order to bring about this standardized result the company broadened its sales channels to include direct sales to retailers . The jobbers were not eliminated , but the performance did away with speculative purchases by jobbers . It meant more salesmen and a complete readjustment , of the selling system . The stabilization of the business justifies the increased overhead . The upshot is that there has been no displacement of regular working staffs . In the depression of 1020 , personnel at the home plant in Cincinnati  --  it was typical of what happened in all the others  --  shrank from 2848 to 1832 , which meant that 1016 were let out . In 1929 , with the forty-eight-week guaranty in operation , only 168 ? all irregulars  --  that is , temporary employes  --  lost their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was only 117 , which was mainly outside labor brought in for sporadic work . Not one of the accredited employes subject to the guaranty was laid off . An Assured Income Only workers with a yearly income of $2000 or less  --  they comprise 90 per cent of the Procter &; Cramble staff  --  are eligible under the guaranteed-employment plan . This is the type which ordinarily first feels the brunt of depression and the inevitable lay-off in any industry . The only other requirement is that the employe must have been with the company for at least six months before he is eligible . The management assumes that within this time it is possible to find out whether the worker is qualified to be a permanent employe . I asked Colonel Procter to outline the larger significance of his plan . He said : " We knew that the big factor in any man 's life is a steady job  --  a job where he can count on a weekly envelope for at least forty-eight weeks in the year . If a man could be assured of this , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ degree of assurance . It is simply common sense to remove the fear and uncertainty from a man 's life . For instance , if he wanted to own his own home , he could count upon a certain definite income . If he wanted to arrange for the education of his children , again a definite income would make that possible . He could figure into his budget necessities and even luxuries of life . A man who can do this automatically becomes a better citizen . " We hoped that this could be brought about among our employes , believing that a man who is not afraid of losing his job should be capable of doing better work . We believe our men are doing better work . They should , because the plan naturally has had the effect of attracting to our factories the type of people who want to work steadily . It has bean the means of creating a force interested in their work , who willingly give their best to their job . If this can be done by an employer , it is due @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ obligation on our part to do IL " For guaranteed employment in another staple product  --  this time the incandescent lamp  --  turn to the scheme of the General Electric Company , newest of all the plans in operation and differing in detail from the one just described . To all employes in its various lamp plants the company has guaranteed fifty weeks ' work , including a vacation with pay , for the twelve months which began January first of this year . A week 's work comprises the normal working hours a week for each division , department , factory or activity , but in no case shall it be less than thirty hours in any calendar week . Code of Factory Conduct Though the incandescent lamp is subject to steady renewal demand , the business is heir to the same kind of buying fluctuations as soap . in order to effect continuous production , a code of factory conduct has been set up . When business is increasing , the following rules prevail : " Increase the working force by adding employes as slowly as possible . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other departments . " Resort to overtime in particular departments and generally before increasing the working force . " Postpone plant renewal and maintenance work as much as possible , employing the men on regular production . " When work begins to fail off , these injunctions obtain : " Cease hiring at once . " Cut out all possible overtime and bring departments down to normal week . " Transfer people from slack to busier departments . " Stimulate the sales department to secure cooperation from customers and get business for future delivery . " Build standard apparatus for stock , based on average of last three years ' sales , adjusted to expectation of next two years . " See that stocks at all factory and district warehouses are brought up to this maximum . " Use men on maintenance and repair work , bringing the plant and equipment up to a high standard . " Cut the normal week as generally and gradually as possible , by departments , down to 50 per cent of the normal week . " Proceed with construction of increased plant facilities previously @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " If lamps constituted the sole General Electric product , the fifty weeks ' guaranty could prevail everywhere throughout the vast organization . A considerable part of the output , however , is heavy apparatus , like the turbine , which is manufactured only to order . Such business is subject to the vagaries of the business cycle , and temporary lay-offs are inevitable . To meet the hardships of this emergency a unique employes ' unemployment-insurance plan has lately become operative . From the wages of every employe who joins the plan  --  participation is optional  --  a sum equal to one per cent of his or her weekly wage is - deducted and paid into a trust fund . I might add that all types of employes , from Owen Young , chairman , and Gerard Swope , president , down , subscribe . Every dollar that an employe contributes is matched by the company with an // equal amount . It likewise guarantees 5 per cent interest upon the fund . This fund provides the substitute for wages for those laid off . After an employe has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of his average weekly or monthly earnings . In no case , however , is it more than thirty dollars a week . It is expected that this fund will have reached more than 53,000,000 within two years . Though this is in no sense a guaranteed-employment plan in the conventional sense , it does assure an income to the worker who is laid off . The unemployment-insurance fund does more than keep the wage pot boiling for the man temporarily out . To begin with , it is not conventional relief that may be construed as charity . The really commendable virtue , however , is that since it involves a levy on the pay of everybody at work , it is up to them to see that this tax ceases as soon as possible . The worker , therefore , does his job a little better , while the salesman stirs his stumps all the more energetically to get orders . In connection with this unemployment insurance plan is an incident well worth relating , because it shows the psychology of the average American worker and likewise points a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ representatives of the workers  --  the personnel represents 100,000 ? and rejected . Business happened to be booming at the time . The consensus of employe opinion was , " Why worry ? " Like many business men , they could not realize that there could possibly be any reversal of those rosy conditions . It is estimated that if the plan had been accepted in 1924 an insurance reserve of 55,000,000 would have been available to meet the present emergency . Motor Cars on Level Production Right here you may raise the point that stabilization of production and , therefore . employment through storage of reserve stock can work effectively only with staples like soap and lamps , which are comparatively small in size . The experience of the Packard Motor Car Company , with its so-called level-production plan , shows that it is workable with a bulkier product , such as the automobile . As outlined by President Maeauley , this is the way it works : " Before our production year starts we gather from every available source data as to the business outlook and our probable demand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ year 's production should be . We then divide by twelve the number of cars to be manufactured during the year , and this gives us our monthly production . " We produce no more ears when demand is heavy than when it is light , the demands for the big-selling months being met from the surplus produced in the periods when demand is less active . This necessitates large storage facilities and the tying up of a lot of capital , which brings me to another proposition that is fundamental if the employ.ment and earning power of the worker are to be stabilized . " Every manufacturer whose business will allow it should regard as a prime essential the creation of a reserve fund that will enable him to keep production on an oven keel and carry surplus stock to the periods when there is heavy demand in the market for his goods . True , it will cost him some money in interest on capital invested , but this will be far more than offset by lower production costs , by the content , ment of his employes , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ turnover in labor , which is always expensive . " A different procedure of production and employment stabilization is afforded by the International Harvester Company . Its output problem is complicated by four factors : A large variety of products ; a seasonal demand for some products , with delivery dates scattered over a period of several months each year ; dependence upon farmers as purchasers of most of ita output , and hence upon crop conditions and prices ; the necessity for providing further in advance than the domestic trade against the requirements of foreign countries , whore agricultural conditions are as uncertain as ours , and whore economic conditions are often more so . Diversified Products The general stabilization program falls into the following heads : " Forecasting agricultural and business conditions and estimating the demand for products . " Leveling production scheduled for products which are sold throughout the year . " Rotation in manufacture of products for which the demand is seasonal , so that labor and plant facilities may be steadily employed . " Stabilizing production by allocating to different plants the manufacture of articles which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ products which can be manufactured during times of general slackness . " Inducing dealers to take deliveries over long periods , thus reducing the seasonal nature of demand . " Through what is called the policy of lateral integration , which means the introduction of supplemental lines of products , each with a different period of peak demand , the International Harvester Company has reiSnforeecl regularization of employment . Originally binders , mowers and reapers constituted the chief output . Since this machinery is used during the harvesting season only , production was usually limited to a maximum of nine months , with the usual seasonal lay-offs or shutdowns . Today more than fifty different types of machines are manufactured . This makes for a twelve months ' cycle of work . Here you have one of the many examples of how diversification of product makes for uniformity of employment . The greatest enemies of employment are , of course , seasonal demand and the business cycle . Formerly they were more or less regarded as acts of God and , therefore , not to be confuted . In the terms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ employment have written a new chapter in the history of industrial relations , I can show bow these forces that persistently make for joblessness have been circumvented to a large degree . The narrative embodies a lesson for every manufacturer , regardless of the nature of his product . The Dennison Manufacturing Company , whose experience is familiar to every student of industrial conditions , is one of the pioneers in employment regularization . There are about 9000 items in its line . The range of products includes crape paper ; shipping , marketing and system tags ; paper cases and boxes ; gummed paper and gummed-paper products ; sealing wax and holiday merchandise . In ail , the firm employs some 4000 persons . When the firm attacked the problem of employment insecurity some of its THE S.RTURDAY EVENING POST main products were highly seasonal . Most of the boxes and paper eases , for example , were supplied to the jewelry trade in connection with Christmas gifts . Salesmen went out in the early summer and sold the box line for delivery in November and December . As 11 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ December , and then business fell oft sharply . The firm decided to sell the box line in January rather than June . It was revolutionary , met with resistance , but finally got by . A second step ' was to supply trades other than the jewelry with set-up boxes . In consequence , factory schedules could be made out at the beginning of the year for twelve months ' continuous operation , ten on boxes actually sold and the other two for inventory . Even more seasonal was Christmas merchandise such as seals , cards and tags , the production of which requires expensive machinery and skilled workmen . ? It was impossible to keep these men and machines busy the entire year on Yuletide novelties . Through advertising and high-powered selling , goods of the same type were sold for other holidays such as St. Patrick 'S Day , Easter , Fourth of July and Halloween . The wares have become associated with the holidays . It thus became possible to spread this type of merchandise over the entire year . In the light of present knowledge these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ involved the training of salesmen in unfamiliar fields , the building up of new merchandising policies , and a complete change in manufacturing methods . All this was necessary to find release from the thralldom of seasonal demand and to lay the foundation for regularized employment . Job Transference The Dennison formula did not stop at converting seasonal demand and work into all-year-round demand and work . It has also taken a fall out of cyclical unemployment . The plan is summed up in these words by a company spokesman : " We guard against overexpansion of facilities and buildings during peak times . We do not launch new items when business is at the top , but we wait until it begins to fall off and then use these items as a stimulus for additional business . We keep our advertising expenditure low during rush periods and increase expenditures when depression seems to be coming on . We try to keep inventories small during expansion and build them up during depressions . We centralize the control of hiring to be sure that extra people are not taken on at a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ try to train our employes to be versatile , so that they may be shifted from one job to another . " Analyze the Dennison employment program , which has been the model for others , and you see that it embodies nearly all the elements that make for employment stabilization . It includes long-range stock planning , adding stock items to supplement special items , garnering seasonal special orders early , building up out-of-season business , training operatives for supplementary jobs , and careful study of the business cycle . Too often this study of the cycle is a post-mortem rather than a process of prevention . It is worth while dwelling a moment upon the matter of job transference because it is becoming more and more a key to continuity of employment . What are called interdepartmental transfers play n part in keeping the Dennison wheels moving . In explanation , Henry S. Dennison , head of the concern , said : " We transfer operatives not needed in one line to another whore there is work on hand . In doing so , we make it a rule @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time , so that they will develop proficiency in these off-season trades . We go one step further . We plan to adjust the work of one department so as to use to advantage the unemployed members of another department . " The Handicap of a One , Man Job Transference has conic to figure so conspicuously in the labor stabilization scheme of things that I shall interpolate the procedure of the Beech-Nut Packing Company , which has reduced labor turnover and lessened production costs . The plan as explained by a company official is as follows : " The business of the company might be described as several small manufacturing plants tied together under one head . Though most of our products are not seasonal , still many of them have a period of peak sales . This is particularly true of macaroni products during the Lenten period . " With this in mind we have found it advisable to transfer workers from one department to another , even in busy times , in order to have skilled workers who may be transferred in an emergency from one department to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ operators of the gum-wrapping machines so that they may be used on the candy-wrapping machines , the mint-wrapping machines , or the gum-breaking machines . By following this plan over a period of years it is possible to train many of the workers so as to take care of peak production in one department and continue normal production in other departments  --  this without detriment to production anywhere and without the necessity of employing , training and later releasing new employes . Furthermore , this reduces the labor turnover as well as production cost . " Transference of labor , by the way , was the keynote of the scheme suggested by Sir John Cadman and his associates to relieve the British unemployment situation . They contended that there would be a deadlock so long as the idle miner remained in the coal fields and the idle docker on the empty docks . There was work for both on the farm and elsewhere , but both miner and docker happen to be slaves to tradition and refused to budge . This is why the many assisted emigration schemes have failed . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which has stifled the British incentive to work . Any kind of change that means action has almost become abhorrent to the average victim of government relief . Fortunately , the American worker is free from such inhibitions and handicaps . To return to the employment-stabilization sequence , we arrive at the plan of the Walworth Company , which manufactures steamfitters ' and plumbers ' supplies in five factories in New England . Here the formula for stabilization is largely reared on advance control of production through budgeting and forecasting . The difficulties encountered in the effort to achieve standardization may be appreciated when I say that the line comprises more than 23,000 finished items in valves and fittings . Statistical research looms large in the Walworth Eluhemo . Upon it rests the whole structure of sales , inventories , production and employment . For budgeting as well as sales purposes the country is divided into districts . An estimate of the requirements of each customer in each district is made by the sales manager . There is also study of general market conditions and tendencies , as well as analysis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of sales . To illustrate : Into all sales forecasts must . enter a consideration of gasoline consumption , because valves and fittings are used in oil-well construction . Gasoline , as everybody knows , is one of the most profitable products of crude petroleum . As soon as the demand for gasoline decreases , the price of crude rises . This stimulates oil-field operations . By knowing the statistics of current gasoline consumption , the Walworth Company has an indicator upon which to determine long-range production of its equipment . Through its system of forecasts , monthly and yearly sales deadlines and sales quotas are set up . The former represent what must be sold , and the latter , what can be sold with hard work and favorable conditions . With these revised for each quarter , the budget is worked out for production , taking into account existing inventories and the need for articles that must be added to meet the demand . By planning far in advance , the company has found it possible to control employment by increasing or decreasing hours of work before the actual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inventory is usually a burden in times of depression , let me now show what might be called the inventory creed of the Walworth Company , as expressed by its president : " In my earlier experience in industry I was greatly disturbed by the fact that there were times when my company had no orders and a heavy inventory . For months we would he called upon to produce simply that material which was short , while liquidating our excessive stock on hand . By the time this liquidation had been completed another wave of orders would crowd in and we would hire additional men , speed up our operations , and by the time the larger volume of material was ready for shipment , the wave might have reached its crest , leaving us again , months afterwards , with an excess investment in stock . " To overcome this unsound condition was the purpose of our budgeting plan . The best method that we could find was through a proper inventory control . It was very apparently essential to have a large inventory count when the wave of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before the ebb . This is the very foundation of our stabilizing program . Our inventory is the basis of production . equalization . When orders are slack , we build up inventory . When orders are heavy , we purposely allow the stock to run down . To do this intelligently required a knowledge of what items to put into inventory during a period of stock expansion . " In essence , this is our plan : If in the first quarter of a year we look for a heavy demand , we run our production schedule in excess of current requirements in order to build our inventory CentInumd an Pus . 125 ) ( Continued /ram Page 122 ) in advance of the buying wave . When the wave comes we allow the inventory to liquidate to a point where it will be low when the wave is past . With a low inventory , we can again afford to produce in excess of requirements until the eyele is once more completed . It is our own inventory , therefore , and not our production that fluctuates substantially . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ estimates of sales a year in advance by more than 5 per cent . " With a knowledge of the annual tonnage required for each plant , we can closely approximate the number of men we shall need and the number of weeks of work we can give them . Before our stabilization plan was inaugurated , the variation from the peak to the low point of employment was 67 per cent . During the past few years this has been brought within a high and low range of 7 per cent . The morale of the workers has been raised and their efficiency increased . " Year  --  Rouna Dates A variation of the stabilization scheme is revealed in the system established by the Hills Brothers Company , of New York , packers of food products , principally dates . The peculiarities of the date business derange employment , making for uneconomic gaps in personnel . The date crop matures in September . The product is packed in seventy-pound boxes and transported to the factory in Brooklyn , where it is unpacked , cleaned , sterilized and repacked in small @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ material for a whole year 's production must arrive from Mesopotamia between October and January . This was only one phase that contributed to seasonal unemployment . Eighty per cent of the demand for dates is from September to January . Formerly it was the custom to pack in a small way during the first part of the year and then concentrate upon highspeed production during the last four months . This meant that an average working force of 200 from January to August bad to be expanded to 1400 for the rest of the year . Such forced-draft output always means waste of every kind , to say nothing of hardship on the workers let out . The company discovered from its chemists that the raw material , if placed in cold storage upon arrival , kept there until taken out to be packed , and then replaced in cold storage , would keep indefinitely . Accordingly a cold-storage warehouse was erected and a two years ' supply of raw material acquired . Now began the system of That long story was published in Beadle 's Half-dime Library in 1886 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or , The Double Face of Bed Rock . My next story of the same length brought ? me seventy-five dollars and made me feel like a " bloated bondholder . " I was now well launched as a writer of what were still called dime novels . College was forgotten . But I took courses later at Yale , vicariously , through Frank and Dick Merriwell . After a brief and not too successful venture into the weekly newspaper field I squared away to the job of writing short stories and dime novels , got packing during the off season which equalized output for the whole year and at the same time provided twelve months ' employment for approximately 900 people . The company also varied its products so as to reiinforce the **28;130;TOOLONG idea . During the slack season for dates it packs shredded coconut and cans grapefruit and pimien toes . In this case a systematic program of budgetary control , chemical research and diversification of output has made for regularized employment . Rotation Lay.Offs The matter of the lay-off requires a little section all its own , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This one-time nightmare of the depression period is being shorn of its terrors . The plan adopted by one publishing company , which is both just and judicious , will illustrate what is being done in this direction . It is embodied in what is termed rotation lay-off . Under it , workers have three weeks at work at full pay and then a week off at half pay . There are many variations of the layoff scheme . You have seen how it is subsidized by employer and employe at the General Electric Company through an unemployment-insurance fund which provides the substitute for wages . At the Dennison plant the method is different . Realizing that , in spite of all provisions , some unemployment would come at intervals , a fund of $150,000 was accumulated by the firm during the boom days to meet the emergency . Any employe of more than six months ' service , temporarily laid off for lack of work , receives 60 per cent of his wage if he has no dependents , and SO per cent if he has dependents . For all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ roll . How well the Dennison stabilization plan that I described stood up during 1930 is shown by the fact that the unemployment fund was tapped for only 850,000 , or a bare 2 per cent of the annual pay roll . Another remedy for the lay-off is being developed by the Southern Pacific Railroad , which normally employs 63,000 people , with 10,000 or more in affiliated corporations . In few activities is there such fluctuation of employment as on the big railroads , due to lack of stability in traffic , and therefore in income , and climatic conditions . Through its central bureau of information as to laid-off employes , the Southern . Pacific keeps close tab on workers laid off or about to be let out . All divisions and departments are required to notify the bureau when work is to be resumed or extended . Employes are then shifted from one place ( Continued from Page 7 ) married to a former schoolmate , and presently moved away from Corinna  --  escaped out beyond the blue Dixmont hills to return no more except as a visitor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I left Corinna , however , I had found Charles Dickens . What a find he was ! What tremendous times I had with him ! He introduced me to the most fascinating crowd of persons  --  Oliver Twist , Fagin , Bill Sikes , Nancy , Dick Swiveller , Little Nell , David Copperfield , Agues and Dora , Steer-forth , Sydney Carton , and many , many more whose names do not come to another  --  free transportation is always available  --  and thus a degree of personnel regularity is maintained . It is only possible , however , through an adequate system of information . So much for regularization in individual units . There are those who believe that stabilization of employment can be effected in terms of an entire industry . The idea was projected for me by one of the most eminent of American management engineers , who said : " We can achieve regularized employment , which means a job for everyone who wants to work , through unit operation of an industry . It would be necessary to organize the industry into a trade @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This would make allocation of output based on capacity and past output possible , and obviate present procedure , where rush is the order in one season and idleness the next . " Unit operation of an entire industry would , of course , run afoul of the Sherman and Clayton acts . As a matter of fact , it would not be in restraint of trade but in restraint of unemployment . To get by the inhibitions of the law , a tribunal for preview of opera , tions could be established . It would do for industry precisely what the Interstate Commerce Commission does for transportation . " Feast or Famine Though the benefits of employment regularization are too obvious to recount , one consequence must be emphasized . Wherever I went in the investigation for this article , I found that with applicants for jobs in establishments that either guarantee or regularize work , the question of pay is , in the main , a secondary consideration . Permanency of occupation , with its relief from lay-off anxiety , outranks the wage element . What was stated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the end . The trouble all along has been that we have permitted the job business to become a ease of alternate feast and famine . In times of recession we go in for immediate relief rather than the effort to sterilize the evil . The moment you touch relief  --  the national brand in particular  --  you enter the domain of politics . The experiences that I cited show conclusively that unemployment , like some diseases , is preventable to a considerable extent . The formula is written . Its fundamentals are generally applicable . If out of the travail through which we have passed emerges a wider program for job security , the ordeal will not have been in vain . back to me so readily . And so I came to know that there were stories a hundred times more gripping and stirring than any dime novel possibly could be . Sometime , I told myself , I 'd write a great novel  --  at least one great novel  --  like those of Dickens . But I was still writing dime novels when the course of events @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had to live , particularly if he had a wife to support . When I first saw the dome of the World Building , it was a gilded dream that towered into the sky above the surrounding roofs . People went up into it at that time to get what was 