@@455605

is there any difference between listening to music directly and by radio ? I have tried to meet this question in two ways : first , personally and subjectively , as one who has devoted all his life from childhood to making music and trying to understand its true inner nature : and , secondly , objectively , impersonally , trying to find the facts as registered , not by ear , but by instruments of precision . When see listen to music directly the factors involved are complex , but they can be grouped into three classes : ( I ) the sound source ? singer , violinist , orchestra ; ( c2 ) the conveying medium , the air between the sound source and our ears ; ( 3 ) the receiving medium ? our ears , which receive the nmsic or vibrations and pass them to those centres in our brain which transform them into states of being and feeling . Now what happens when we listen to broadcast music ? Obviously ( 1 ) the sound source and ( 3 ) 1 he receiving @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conveying medium is only similar in the space between the loud speaker and our ears . Before that is reached many new factors eater . Again these factors are complex , but they can be classed in three groups : ( A ) Pick-op . This includes the varying characters and patterns of the sound waves created by the instruments or voices in an empty or full hall , or in a small or large studio , modified by the kind of reflecting or absorbent surfaces formed by the sculls , coiling , floors , and whatever persons or objects there are in the enclosed air-volume . Other variants are the type of microphone used , its degree of responsiveness to various cones of the total audible frequency range , the number of microphones , and the relation in space of all the instruments and voices to each other and to all the Microphones in operation . ( B ) Transnzisaima . This is a very complex process that presents problem ? , for which no one as yet has a complete answer . But one element ? amplification ? can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some ways the enlarging of a photograph . If we were to take a negative , and enlarge some parts slightly , other parts to twice their original size , others to four times the size , the result would be a distortion , interesting perhaps to those who enjoy the fantastic , but not a true reproduction of the original picture on a larger scale . In the transmission of music , amplification is necessary , but if the mnplilication is greater in some zones of the whole frequency range involved , certain tones or groups of tones sound relatively louder than others , the harmonies become unbalanced , certain individual notes in a melody stand out suddenly in too great relief , important harmonics or overtones are too weak or too strong , the tone-color or timbre of the instruments or voices is changed and degraded , and the whole tonal mass is thrown into a chaotic state of distortion . The result becomes a caricature , and discriminating music lovers will prefer not to hear in a degraded form music they know and love ; and tissue who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conception of its true beauty , or of the inspired message it conveys . To keel ) the picture simple I have spoken here only of the distortion brought into music by amplifiers ; this is only one of the elements that can distort in broadcasting . ( C ) Receiving equipment . For perfect reception we should need a loud speaker that would respond With equal sensitivity from about 30 to 13,000 cycles per second . All the receiving sets that do not have such a speaker can not help distorting the music . Frequency Range Adequate transmission of music must meet three requirements , it most faithfully transmit ( 1 ) the complete frequency range ; ( 2 ) the completo intensity range ; and ( 3 ) With the true auditory perspective . The fundamental principles of radio are a mystery that we may never fullyunderstand . The greater the scientist , the more clearly he realizes and the more frankly he tells its how little he knows . As we learn , we become more aware of our ignorance . But radio process can be outlined in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sound of your voice is picked up by a microphone , transformed into electrical energy , amplified , carried by wire to a transmitter , sent out into space as radio frequencies , ? or Hertzian waves , ? picked up by receiving equipment , transformed into electrical energy , amplified , sent out by the loud speaker as sound or audio-frequencies reproducing your voice . Briefly stated , this is the general process for the transmission of sound whether of speech or music . In a parallel sense , but on another plane , we know the circuit that music follows ? from inspiration , through transmission ( composer and interpreter ) and reception ( music lover ) , back to inspiration . The important question is the degree of faithfulness with which symphonic and operatic music can be delivered in our homes , and the message conveyed in its full value . At present these types of music come from the radio in incomplete and changed form . The scientific explanation can be simply stated . The character or quality of tone in music is mainly due to harmonics @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not be and are not transmitted and received by radio . The result is that such sounds as the muted trumpet or the oboe can not be transmitted and received faithfully , and therefore frequently come to us in changed or distorted form . Harmonics or overtones are most easily explained by an example : If you sing a note you probably hear only that single note , which musicians call the fundamental . Above that , however , is also sounding the octave , usually less loud . And above the octave is sounding deleted material were apportioned seine years ago by the Radio Commission in Washington . At present these channels are so narrow that the full frequency range necessary for the complete and undistorted broadcasting of good music is practically impossible . Of all the available frequencies for such forms of communication as wireless telegraphy and telephony , distress and other shipping signals , and the radio we know for the sending out of music , lectures , speeches , and so forth , only a part is allotted to the radio we use ? and this must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stations of this part of the world a channel that will not interfere with adjacent transmitters . There has been a great demand for these channels , and in order to supply this demand the channels haVe . been /nude narrow . These narrow channels do not permit the necessary frequency range of about 30 to 13,000 cycles per second , but up to only about am The first and the fundamental need is for Washington to revise its allotment of channels so that they can be broader . The second step is for transmission stations to send out music stills an equal response from about 30 to 13,000 frequencies per second . The more progressive transmission stations are eager to do tiffs . In thus enlarging the frequency range of transmission of music no barns will lie done to the broadcasting of the voice . On the contrary , brilliant voices need high harmonics for complete transmission of singing , and even speaking voices need high harmonics for sibilants . Enlarging the frequency range need not interfere with short-wave transmissions which gives Ise a wider radius of effective reception . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? not necessarily interfering with each of her . The third step is for the makers of receiving sets to design sets that can receive and give out to the listener with an equal sensitivity of response from about 30 to 13,000 cycles per second . Some of the makers of receiving sets are only waiting for Washington to enlarge the channels before they too enlarge the receiving range of their sets . These three steps will involve temporary practical difficulties . I am told that , from a commercial point of view , these difficulties are not to be disposed of lightly , but that the farsighted manufacturer will see that a satisfied and expanding radio public is his real objective and is the permanent security of his own commercial interests . From the standpoint of a musician and radio enthusiast , it seems to me that if music can be broadcast more faithfully by employing the latest scientific discoveries , and if else net result of employing these is not only raising the quality of musical sound but also increasing the number of eager and appreciative listeners from coast @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discarding and replacing of a considerable amount of present equipment , can only be regarded as a secondary consideration . In any case , radio equipment is wearing out and being replaced all the time , with the situations as it now is . There are also certain technical difficulties , for which there may be more than one solution . In offering my own suggestions as to how these problems can be dealt with , I have well in mind that there is more than one way of doing most things . The idea , I am presenting here will , I hope , invite the attention of physicists , radio engineers , and the public to the problem of what music needs , and invite consideration not only of my own proposals , but of alternative proposals which experts in various fields have made or may make . One way of widening the channels might be to zone the country and to apportion wider channels in such a way that the same channel could be used for a number of zones , so spaced out that they would not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wider channels , and intelligent organization of the whole country for radio . All this is possible . Each zone using the some wide channel could broadcast a different programme at the same time . Or sonic or all of the zones using the same channel could broadcast the Kline programmes by wiring the stations together . But this wiring system would have to be of high quality . Ordinary telephone wiring systems adequate for speech would not be suitable for music . This kind of zoning might mean that . transmission stations would have to adjust their power in order to prevent interference between those zones which would be using the same channel . Obviously , there would be , for a time , some inconvenience to the transmission stations in a general requirement to readjust their power . The ultimate result , however , would be a gain to all radio listeners , who would , by this revision or some other plan achieving the same result , be able to hear music and speech in complete and undistorted form . Intensity Range What the musician calls kindness and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by units called decibels . Good music needs , in an opera house or concert hall , an intensity range of about ED decibels . That is to say that , from the softest sounds of an orchestra or operatic ensemble to the utmost sonorities of a great titlff , there is and should be a very wide range or difference . There are physical , psychological , and musical reasons for this . Much of the emotional effect on us of music and its dynamic intensity of mood and ex- pression depend on gradual m increase Of lOntilleSS ( ereseento ) and gradual or quick reduction of loudness ( diminuendo ) . Also sudden accents on uric or more notes , or on a chord , or on a melodic outline , either on the top edge , or the lower edge , or sotnewlie , in the middle of the total mass of sound , add at certain moments to the poignancy of the music . Another factor in increasing the eloquence of some kinds of musical expression is the powerful contrast . of a great mass of loud @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ One of the greatest values of music ? its power to evoke in us moods and states of feeling and of being , ? thus depends greatly upon dynamic contrast and gradation . Of course the potential intensity range of an orchestra or operatic ensemble varies in different concert halls , opera houses , and radio studios . Some of the influencing factors are the texture of reflecting surfaces , the degree of rigidity of the structure to which Neese surface materials are attached , the size and form of the total air-volume that is vilaating , the rapidity or absorption at various frequency levels , the general reverberation period of the enclosed space , anti so forth . For example , the Centre Theatre . in Radio City gives to one conducting in it ? the impression of an almost limitless intensity range . Some other halls have so narrow a potential range that music in them Sell/1 , - 1s 1110110tOnOUS and relatively colorless . Every orchestra varies in intensity range , and oven the same orchestra varies with different conductors , for psychological reasons Which I am far from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , We are employing an intensity range of about : 30 decibels , instead of the 85 decibels that We are using in our concert playing in performing , for instance , music with the immense dynamic range of Wagner . In broadcasting , the 85 decibels have to be compressed to about 30 , and this is usually done by the engineer at the controls . The control engineer has certain instruments before him , one of which is like the volume control on your radio set . By turning it one way he gives the music the full intensity that is the result of amplification . By turning it progressively in the opposite direction he gradually attenuates or softens the sound of the music . By reducing the loud moments and by increasing the soft parts he compresses the intensity range so that there will be no overloading by loud music and so that the soft music will be easily audible and not covered by the ' noise level , ' which is the sum of all the extraneous sound produced by the transmission and receiving equipment , plus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a concert . This audience noise is often greater than might be imagined . The total sound of several thousand persons turning , the pages of the programme book , making other movements , talking or whispering , coughing , the sound of late comers finding their seats , of the opening and closing of doors , is surprisingly high . The controlling and compressing of the intensity range can also be done by the conductor , Who can /slake the soft passages louder and the loud passages softer , but this devitalizes the music . For the reception of operatic and symphonic MUSIC in the average home , a dynamic range of 85 decibels would not be necessary , lint music needs a much greater variation of loudness and softness than is at present possible . Auditory Perspective When we listen to music in the opera house or concert hall the complex mass of sonority enters our two earsfrom the front , both directly and by reflection , and from the sides and back by reflection only . Our impression is that the major part of what we hear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ truth is the reverse . The reflected sound in most theatres and halls is very rich and full , and is greater than the directly heard sound . Although we may not be conscious of it , our two ears are hearing slightly different sound-patterns because the reflections from right and left are different in time and in the intensity of all the component parts of the complex sound-mass . Unconsciously we compare these different impressions received from right and left and this comparison gives us the sense of perspective ? of a feeling of tonal spaciousness . More of this subject will be included in that part of this writing that deals with ' wired transmission . ' The microphone is a kind of electric ear . Inn broadcasting , the microphone picks up the sound which is afterward brought by a complicated process to our ears . But the microphone is a single ear attached to a single circuit or means of carrying the sound to us . To convey music with full and true auditory perspective , we should have , in my opinion , double circuits which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with two cars and which would give us the tonal spaciousness and beauty of sound that make music so satisfying M a large and well-planned auditorium . When all the results outlined in ( 1 ) Frequency Range , ( 2 ) Intensity Range , ( 3 ) Auditory Perspective , are brought about , it will be more possible to find the answers to the two great questions of how the cost of radio can best be met and what ought to be the relation of government to radio . First of all we must see clearly what we need from radio socially and technically . IF ire , / Trawl , is , non Music can be conveyed by the radio WO now have in our homes  --  sometimes called ' space radio ' ? or by wired transmission , sometimes called wired radio . ' Space radio has the disadvantages of a compressed frequency range , a compressed dynamic range , fading , and electrical disturbances and static that sometimes ruin reception . Up to this time , physicists have not found it Way to protect music that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wired transmission , or wired radio , in which the full range of frequencies and the full dynamic range can he transmitted , protects music against fading , static , and disturbances of every kind . With wired transmission , we could all hear , in our homes , in public buildings , in recreation centres , music that would sound exactly as it sounds in the concert hall . An interesting test of this method of transmission , made on April 27 , 1023 , shows that it is entirely practicable and that it gives superior results . The test , made by the Philadelphia Orchestra , was sponsored by the National Academy of Sciences and was given and arranged by the research and engineering forces of the Bell Telephone Laboratories . This is what was done . The full Philadelphia Orchestra played a symphony concert in Philadelphia . The music was picked up by specially designed microphones and transmitted over underground wires into Constitution Hall in Washington . Here , through power amplifiers controlled by special apparatus , I was able to control , in Washington , nmsie made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ audience of scientists , musicians , music critics , and music lovers . It is an amazing thing that this possi bilit y has existed now for two years and that no use has been made of it . Nor is the scope of wired transinisS1 ( 111 limited to its capacity to convey music to our homes Srith the sante quality that it would have in the concert halls . Wired transmission can so increase the intensity range that it would be possible ? ill a recreation park , for example ? to listen 10 music with a much greater intensity range than is heard in the concert hall . The dynamic contrasts and accents , the slow building up of the sonority to climaxes , the gradual decrease of tone and fading out can be so enlarged  - -  by wired transmission ? that the music acquires great , eloquence , energy , and significancc . Nor is C V.1 this the sum of the full possibilities of wired transmission . Through it , by a selective process , it is possible so to enrich certain parts of the tapestry of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ three-dimensional character of music is greatly emphasized . To illustrate certain aspects of this three-dimensional conception : At a certain moment the music may be high and low and deep . In other words , : mire sounds will be high in pitch , others low in pitch , but am-Ater mass of sound may be markedly louder or softer than the first two groups , and so give the impression of being nearer or farther than the first two groups , thus bringing the dimension of depth to the total mass of sound . In some ways this is like certain kinds of painting which have the two dimensions of a flat surface plus the third dimension of depth or relative planes of distance . In painting , this depth is sometimes the result of perspective , sometimes or almost magical subtleties of color relations , as in CZzanne . In music , depth is often achieved through highly sensitive relations of loud and soft planes of sound , as in Debussy . Depth in music can also be suggested through tone character . For example , a melodic line @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an be played or sung so as to sound soft but far away . Chalyapin is a master of this potter to achieve depth by suggestion . Ito can make his voice soft but intimate and close , like an intense whisper that is either caressing or threatening , as he does in Boris . Or he can make his voice soft and remote as he does at the end of the ' Volga Boat Song , ' giving the impression of distant and ruthlessly indifferent desolation . A similar distance of tone can be suggested also by instruments ? in the hands of highly sensitive and imaginative players . Naturally the same qualities are required in the listener . Another type of depth or tonal perspective is achieved when the sound actually comes from right and left , high and Ins er , far and near ? for example , when the violins on one side of an orchestra play an answering phrase to the cellos on the opposite side , or when a near trumpet is ansNvered softly by a distant trumpet , as in Carmen , or as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scenes , or the hunting horns are heard in the distance , becoming increasingly remote and soft . Or again , in an important passage of oboe or muted trumpet , the high sounding harmonics which give the individual character and quality of tone to these two instruments can be increased in intensity during the duration of the solo . Or if the deepest sounds of the contrabass or organ pedal have a significant melodic outline , that part of the frequency range can be so intensified that the fundamental sounds of the melody and of the harmony above it will take on greater power and sonority . Or a middle voice in the orchestral fabric , such as the French horn or the cello , can be brought out into high relief . In other words , the potentialities of music , with reference to dynamicpower and frequency , have reached new heights of plasticity and controlled power , never dreamed of in the past as possible of attainment . Great composers , like Wagner in the Nibelung .. Ring , and Bach in such music as the ' Toccata @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ powerful contrasts of this kind , but were unable to produce them by the limited means available in their lifetime . Yet , ? except for the above described demonstration in Washington and in Philadelphia , ? nothing has been done to give these new possibilities of sound to the vast music-loving public throughout the country . If a gold mine of great capacity were found , or a subterranean sea of petroleum were discovered , it would be quickly developed . But a means whereby Everyman can hear music with overwhelming beauty and eloquence in any part of our vast country , no matter how remote , is neglected and left unused in a laboratory . The - Vistas Opened Up by Wired Transmission Our standards of good orchestral tone , of the relations of individual instruments to each other , of groups or choirs of instruments to each other , of solo voices , of voices in chorus , and of all these above-mentioned voices and instruments sounding together , ? as , for example , in opera , ? have been built up by the memories and experience of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ singers , instrumentalists , instruments , acoustics , setting . The music lover of each city remembers the most satisfying performances of opera and symphony that Ile has heard in the opera house and symphony hall of his city , and these constitute for him a norm and standard ? the conception of tone that is for him ' right ' and ' natural ' and ideal . Other conceptions are for him ' wrong ' deleted material 11 n to see that those possibilities are used not capriciously but with true artistic motivation and discipline , not as an end in themselves but as a means to greater freedom and range in expression . It used to be that , in making a great crescendo , the possibility of ascending to the mountain height of sonority was limited by the coOrdination of the mind , the nervous system , the muscles of t he hands and lips of t he players , and by the power and tonal range of the instruments . Even if the composer or the listener found it possible to dream of higher mountain peaks , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The facilities of wired transmission extend these possibilities enormously . Now they are really limited only by the intake of the human ear and by the brain centres to which the ear reports and in which the sensations of sound are received and in some mysterious way changed into emotion , mood , and states of being . When in . India , I used to look at Everest and Kinchinjunga in the Himalayas , and it seemed impossible to me that man could ever climb to the highest levels of these masses . Now the airplane has flown up to them and higher still . Wired transmission is the airplane which , in t. he control of those that know how to use it , could lift millions of listeners to higher peaks of musical experience . Electrical Production of Tone We can listen to tone and music from a variety of sources ? the human voice , musical instruments , space and wired radio , recorded music either by disk or by film , and electrically produced tone . When we listen to music front our radio set @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ then carried to us by a method we call broadcasting . But it is possible to produce the tone , not by voices or instruments , but by new types of instruments which do not have bows and strings like those of the violin , or tubes of wood or metal like those of the wood-wind and brass instruments , but in which tone is produced by oscillators , which in principle vibrate like a tuning fork , or by sound waves imprinted on film , and by some other principles of which I am not yet at liberty to speak . The Theremin was one of the first of these instruments . All of the - various types of these instruments have means to control frequency , intensity , timbre , duration . Of course they are to be played by musicians , just as the violin or piano or any other instrument . If we wish to think clearly and without prejudice about these new instruments , we should compare them with the instruments of the past to see which are the more mechanical in structure , and , when play-eel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more free and have a greater range of musical expression . Examined without prejudice , all the instruments of the orchestra have important mechanical features . The violins , violas , cellos , double basses , all have bows which must be adjustable and capable of a certain tension , with strings capable of a still greater degree of precision of tension , stretched over a frame that must be light and sensitive to vibration , yet strong enough to remain rigid with the four strings under high tension , and with a bridge , front plate , post , back plate , so perfectly adjusted and in contact that the vibrations , begun by the bow setting the strings into vibratory motion , are conveyed to all parts of the instrument so as to set into vibration the surrounding air . The wood : wind and brass instruments all have bores of various calibres , either cylindrical or conical , and complicated systems of keys which open and close certain apertures or additional lengths of tubing . In brief , they have mechanisms without which they could not function except @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ instruments also have their mechanical side , but when they have been more fully developed they will have greater range in their powers of playing loud and soft , high and low , legato , staccato , glissando , and greater variety of tone-color . For example , on our present instruments it is difficult to play a really perfect legato because the breath becomes exhausted , or we must change the direction of the bow Le-cause of its limited length . There arc no limits to the legato of the electrical instrument . All our orchestral instruments are constantly becoming ' out of tune ' during performance . Many of our Wind instruments arc never in tune because of their faulty structure . The only limit to playing in tune on some types of electrical instruments is the ear of the player . Others are so constructed that they never need tuning and it is impossible to play out of tune on thenm . These are of the ' tempered scale ' type . So that in several ways the electrical instrument is not more mechanical than our present imperfect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ still in a very early stage , they are not to be fairly judged by present performance . Electrical production of tone may some day revolutionize the manner of composing music . At present there are two processes : ( 1 ) The composer indicates by black notes on white paper ( a method of musical notation which is unfortunately far too limited ) his musical ideas as expressed through rhythm , melody , harmony , counterpoint . ( 2 ) The singer , player , or conductor tries to breathe life into these notations by making them vibrate in the air as music . This double process In:1y in the future become a single process , as when an artist paints a picture . Through electrical production of tom , the composer Will be able to record directly into sound his musical ideas instead of first Writing them on paper . This will not prevent other musicians later from making new interpretations . These musicians will again record directly into sound their own ideas , Or their differing conceptions of the ideas already expressed by former composers . The Character @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ methods were brought up to date and in line with the most highly des-eloped technique and instruments now lying unused in laboratories , the range of our programmes could be broadened . By short wave there would be available to us the best programmes from all the European countries . In addition there could be programmes from Canada , Mexico , and the South American Republics , and occasionally interesting special programmes could be arranged from Africa , Japan , China , India , . Java , Bali , offering us the national music of those lands , a music different from ours , but well worth our attention and the intimate study made possible by radio . For our own United States I ! 1 , - grammes the field for selection is rich . Some of the varied possibilities are :  --  ( 1 ) Brief talks by experts on subjects that would interest all of us if clearly focused ? in the fields of science , the different arts , and the social questions that intimately concern us all in our daily life . ( it ) American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the powerful primitive jazz mainly created by our musicians of Negro origin , and , on the other hand , sensuous romantic jazz , folk songs from various parts of our country , such as cowboy songs ( there are hundreds of these and they are purelyAmerican ) , songs of the Virginia mountains , songs and dance music of the many tribes of those we so erroneously call Indians . This Indian ' music would be difficult ( although not impossible ) to pick up because it is an integral part of the religious life of our aboriginal Americans and is sacred to them . ( 3 ) Opera , both light ' and ' grand . ' ( 4 ) Symphonic music ? North , Central , and South American and European . We are in a significantly creative stage in the development of an American musical culture . Musically speaking , We have passed the central point of the depression and are on our way upward . As the country builds itself again into a new social and economic life , there is bound to be ? and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ creative forces of American life in music . The rhythm of our life is different from that of any other country . In any age and any country , it takes a certain amount of time for the expression of fundamental forces to be released . The process of expression in America is now moving beneath the surface , and through color , form , motion , and sound the ideals and forces of American life are emerging into art forms . Not only are we building up a distinctive American music , but we are also developing distinctively American ways of presenting it . We need to see to it that our methods of presenting music shall accord with our national and cultural needs . We need , for instance , to build our concert halls and opera houses in the spirit of our own era , snaking them express the rhythm of our own present civilization , rather than reflect the ideas and artistic traditions of other ages and other lands . In our larger cities our concert halls should have greater seating capacity . The cost of tickets @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American architects to meet the functional needs of ourselves here and now . The Listener 's Responsibility If the radio listener wishes to make the most of his receiving equipment and hear the better type of programmes in a way that will give him or her the best results as recreation or as personal cultural growth , or both , the radio set must be used with understanding . In tuning-in on the wave length desired there is a central point of maximum clarity and truth of reception . On either side of this point is a zone which still gives reception , but in increasingly distorted form as the tuning adjustment departs from the central point of exact tuning . The low frequencies filter out , the balance of the music is destroyed , and new and very untrue tonal relations are brought into the sound picture . I have often been in the house of friends who were listening to a good programme well transmitted , but their tuning adjustment was off centre and they did not seem to be conscious that the whole sonority composition was false and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ music at its best . Although it is common knowledge that there are clear limits to the effective functioning of radio tubes , and that they become exhausted and must be renewed , many enthusiastic radio listeners do not keep their equipment in good condition in this respect . On every receiving set is a volume control by which the total loudness of the music can be increased or decreased , and a tone control by which the intensity of high frequencies can be increased or decreased . On the better type of receiving sets there is also a third control by which the low frequencies can be increased or decreased in intensity . In other words , a certain zone of the total frequency range is first amplified , and then attenuated , and this attenuation is under control by the listener . It is very important to use the volume control and tone controls in relation to each other and also in relation to the acoustical conditions of the room where the listeners are . There are probably not two rooms in the World with exactly the same acoustical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ air-volume and form of the enclosed space , tine texture of the reflecting or absorbing surfaces , such as walls , floor , ceiling , rugs , hangings , furniture , mirrors , curtains , windows , doors , and so forth , the position of tine receiving set in relation to the form and volume of the enclosed air-mass and to the listeners . Radio is developing a consciousness of the relations possible between middle , high , and low frequencies in the minds of a vast listening public interested in music , and this one element alone is going to have important musical and cultural effects . In addition to the great differences of acoustical conditions in our rooms at home where we listen to broadcast music , We all have another varying factor in listening to and in evaluating music ? our ears . There are probably no two ears in all the world which hear alike . In other words , every ear has its own degree of sensitivity to various parts of the frequency range . This is probably why two musicians of roughly similar degrees @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opinion about concert halls and the way music sounds in them . They hear music differently because their ears , if tested , would show a different response to different types of sound and music . A musician who truly understood all the factors involved ? the nature of sound and its mathematical basis , the highly personal and individual response of his own ears , man 's vast ignorance of the psychological elements in music and our reaction to its subtle stimuli ? would never make dogmatic ex cathedra statements about any aspect of niacin , because he would be fully conscious that all his reactions : Ire personal : old subjective and true only for himself at that tint , ? because our response changes with the unceasing changes that are going on inside us earls day turd each hour . It is necessary for the music lover and broadcast listener to understand the few simple principles just stated . With these in mind he Will kilOW how to adjust the controls of his receiving set . It is to be hoped that alt sets Will have at least @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ general amplification ) ( 2 ) High frequency attenuation ( 3 ) Low frequency attenuation All three are necessary to adjust the tonal relations of music to the acoustical conditions of our individual rooms where we listen . All the above refers to the mechanical and objective . Still more important are the subjective and psychological ways that the listener has of controlling the value to himself of what he hears by radio . It is useless and a waste of time and energy for an operatic ensemble or a large orchestra to send out the greatest music and for transmission and receptions to be improved if the listener , by reason of fatigued ears and nervous system , is not in a condition to receive the message and inspiration of the music . Those who without discrimination leave the radio on all day , so that it becomes a meaningless and valueless background of noise for all their occupations , degrade this wonderful instrument of radio and themselves , so that they fail to benefit by it . On the contrary , they are harmed by it because their mind @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But those who discriminate and listen only to worth-while programmes , both of speech and of music , and lake the trouble to be quiet and in a condition to concentrate , will receive the highest pleasure and self-development and inspiration . Children and the Radio In many homes throughout the country children are steadily building up a conception of music and speech on the basis of what they hear on the radio . The majority of small children are very creative musically , especially up to the age of seven or eight . It is important not to blunt the edge of their creative tendency in music by limiting them to so frequent a form of musical intake that , all their energies are engaged in attending to what they hear constantly by radio and no time or likelihood is left for the spontaneous creation of rhythm and song that so often goes side by side with their play . Also it is important that they do not receive the impression that the adult-made music they hear from the radio is the only music of value , and so become @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ usually free and original and nearly always so flexible in rhythm and melodic outline that it can not be Written in our limited and incomplete method of musical notation . It is of national importance to encourage the creative powers in music that most children have naturally and unconsciously . I have often noticed that when young children are playing together in a group or alone they heroine deeply absorbed in the object of their play and every now and then begin to sing , perhaps unconsciously . Often what they sing has words in a language of their own , invented at the moment ; at other times it has words in the language they hear spoken by their parents . Sometimes it is simply melody without words ; at other times it is almost pure rhythm ? a kind of joyousand energetic outcry . Often the melody is purely spontaneous , not something they have heard or been taught . Sometimes the rhythm they create is associated with what they are doing . At other times the rhythm ? although strongly marked ? has no obvious connection with what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ counterpoint with their play . The main impression I have from watching and listening to little children at these times is that they are unconsciously creating rhythm , melody , and words , and that this creation seems to come from a very deep part of their being . Fading Out of Musical Creation I have noticed that at about the age of eight many children begin gradually to lose the musical creative powers that have been theirs from the age of about eighteen months . It would be very valuable to know why this happens . It might be that their being taught nursery songs composed by others , or their hearing music by gramophone or radio , has resulted in giving children the impression that the music they create themselves is of no value , and that they should try to imitate or reproduce the music they hear in some form from adults . I believe we can hope to retain creative musical power throughout life , because it is done by the Pueblo Indians of Taos , Zuni , and the nomadic Navajo Indians ; also by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pacific ; and by the natives of Ukraine and Southeast Poland . Their spontaneous creative songs are often associated with their work , such as grinding corn or sowing seed . Finding means to preserve the musical power that exists in most children is only part of a greater possibility , to understand and give the best conditions for growth for all the creative powers in ourselves and our children . There is probably a very intimate relation between our physical creative powers as expressed through sex and physical action and our glandular , mental , emotional , and psychic creative powers . They probably form one great unified organism , and the stimulation and growth of one part of our creative powers will probably react beneficially on all the others , and so lead to a rich growth of personality ' , which hr turn will lead to greater personal happiness and greater prover of service to others . If these observations have truth , then it becomes an important question of national scope as to how radio may be made to minister to the development of children 's musical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . 11 , reatf.0,1 eCli lees As the machine does inure of the work that formerly We did by hand We shall all have more leisure . HOW shall WC fill this free time With pleasure and self-development ? Some will dissipate . Others will recreate . I have a picture in my mind of great recreation centres where we might all go in our leisure hours and find opportunity for freedom and relaxation , whether in gay sport or in quiet study . These centres would be like large parks , some parts of which would have tall trees and garden , , others flat places for sports , others wat Cr for swimming and rowing and sailing . There could be theatres for drama , opera , cinema , variet6 . Restaurants to suit various tastes and needs . Muses ms and schools for adults , adolescents , children . Kindergartens and play schools for - very young children , with nurses , educators , and psymhologists who are sympathetic to children . In one part of the gardens might be a high tower from which at night colored light @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ art of color in motion and form . From this tower music of several kinds might be sent out over this part of the gardens . Sonnetimes good jazz for dancing , sometimes gay music of the type of Sousa 's marches , sometimes the highest kind of symphonic music . This music ? would be sent out at times of the clay that . , , u1c1 suit the majority . Perhaps every day two periods of j an% for dancing , both open-air and under cover ; about twee times a week t he finest symphony concerts ; at other t isles singers , violinists , pianists of the highest order . The music could be sent out by wired transmission . The orchestra mother musicians would be in a large hall , so that those who like to see as well as hear music being made could be in this hall instead of in the gardens or covered parts of the gardens . The tower would be so high , and the loudness of the music so adjusted , that thousands could hear it in the gardens , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clear and frill but not obtrusive . It could be directed to certain parts of the gardens , but he practically inaudible in others . This could all be done because there is practically no limit , in wired transmission , to the control of loudness , tone-color , and the direction in which the music is sent . Of course t these recreation centres must not be profit-making , but each type of amusement should be as inexpensivc as possible , and aim only to make cost and income equal . In other words , these recreation centres should ! try to supply its with h t he various kinds of amusement and recreation of mind and body which we all need , and which would give us all our share of the joy and poetry of life . Radio or Unirei , a1 Comallaticatioa of Thought and Feeling Pry speech , we can cause to pass from one mind to endless other minds the ideas developed in the realms of science , art , and government . Radio , if well used , could be one of the greatest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It could be an instrument for making the peoples of the earth so understand each other at a distance that they would be less likely to lose their balance of mind and allow those passions that lead to international warfare to overwhelm their reason . The human race is evolving into a broader sense of international relation , but the speed of the evolution is bitterly slow . Radio , used to its full technical and scientific capacity , and guided by wise and far-reaching vision , would be a valuable instrument for bringing the world to a new international understanding and technique . In achieving this kind of understanding , I do not , of course , suggest that the transmission of music is the sole medium . The written and spoken word will be immensely powerful in this regard . Although this is not my field , the importance of presenting new concepts of human relations over the radio is clear . And in this whole matter of building up a far-reaching international understanding , music could play a clarifying and inspiring part . Bp bringing East and West @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the flow of ideas and the expression of life in art . The truth of this increases our responsibility for giving more good music over the radio , and bringing transmission and reception up to the most recently developed methods known in the laboratories . In broadcasting , two features are important ? programme and technique . The standards for both are set , in the long run , by public taste . If the public steadily and firmly demands a higher average of quality in programmes , and transmitting and reception equipment that is op to date , both will be created . A few isolated individuals can not bring this about . It is Everyman who must ask and who will receive . 