@@487378

MERRIE ENGLAND is , as we write , in gloomy confusion . The sudden emergence of a constitutional crisis as a result of the stalemate between the King and Mr. Baldwin over the proposed royal marriage with Mrs. Simpson has left the world bewildered and fascinated . That the fate of an empire embracing one-fourth of the world 's surface and population should hang so perilously on a woman 's attraction for a man is an undreamed-of triumph for the romanticists and a vindication of the " Cleopatra 's nose " school of history . Amid the array of consequences , however , two must be singled out  --  the light that has been shed on British mass psychology , and the problems presented to the British Labor Party . The role of the press has been almost as disconcerting as was its role in the American Presidential campaign . To judge from the almost unanimous support the respectable press gave Mr. Baldwin , one would have thought that the British people would allow a narrow religious and nationalist outlook to dominate their democratic sympathies . Instead they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ numbers . There can be little doubt that if a general election were held now , the party supporting the King would win by a Roosevelt landslide . The British monarchy , in so far as it rests on the attitude of the people to the king , has been democratized  --  we might almost say Americanized  --  as thoroughly as have the tabloids and the cinema . It does credit to the political sagacity of Winston Churchill and Sir Oswald Mosley that they have been quick to back up the King and translate that backing into political advantage , the latter for his fascist party , the former for the new centrist party that he is reported on good authority to be forming . The Labor Party on the other hand is in a cruel dilemma . It confronts at once an opportunity and a danger . Never before has British labor had a chance to come out for so popular an issue as the King 's freedom of choice in his private affairs , go to the country , and be overwhelmingly returned to power . Never before has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the party and the whole nation . The strength of the British Labor Party is rooted in two traditions . One is the tradition of the democratic way of life , with all that it implies for social equality , religious tolerance , personal freedom . Without tapping these democratic springs of conduct and sources of strength , the Labor Party could never hope to win power . But as Harold Laski pointed out in an article in the London Daily Herald and another in the New York Times , without the English constitutional tradition of ultimate ministerial responsibility it could never hope to retain what power it won . The Labor Party leaders therefore have deliberately shut their eyes to several facts ? that Edward is a popular monarch , that the privilege691 he is fighting for is a democratic privilege accorded to all people , that he is a king far more sensitive to the economic plight of the unemployed and the population in the derelict areas than any other monarch is likely to be ; and have kept in mind one fact  --  that once you establish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , you have broken down the chief constitutional protection of a future Labor Cabinet ; you have established not only a constitutional but also a psychological precedent whereby a very different sort of king may some day be used by reactionary and fascist groups to overthrow the socialization program of a Labor government . Whether or not the King abdicates , it is an unenviable dilemma in which British labor is placed . Not only the question of a possible future labor government but the more immediate question of fascism is involved . The hostility with which the King 's expressions of sympathy for South Wales were received by Cabinet members shows that , from one point of view , he is far more liberal than they . Nevertheless , a paternalistic king with a reactionary group behind him pulling the strings , both successful in overthrowing the principle of Cabinet responsibility , might provide the exact formula for British fascism . The fact that the Young England Toryism of Winston Churchill and the open fascism of Oswald Mosley are the only organized groups solidly behind the King is extremely disquieting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ say that the leaders of the British Labor Party have erred in giving Mr. Baldwin their support . One can only implore them to keep their eye as much on the psychological realities of politics as on its constitutional forms . Do n't Sell Out Relief W E are dismayed by the speed and brutality . with which the Administration has begun lopping off WPA workers and the relentlessness with which Aubrey Williams , in the significant absence of Harry Hopkins , points to cold figures and insists that he can do nothing about it . On the very day when WPA artists in New York were fighting with the police in a strike against impending dismissals , President Roosevelt was uttering utopian sentiments in Buenos Aires : Men and women blessed with political freedom , willing to work and able to find work , rich enough to maintain their families and to educate their children , contented with their lot in life and on terms of friendship with their neighbors , will defend themselves to the utmost but will never consent to take up arms for a war of conquest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ willing to work and unable to find work , too poor to maintain their families and to educate their children , will defend their meager relief jobs to the utmost even against an Administration reelected in a landslide greased with promises of adequate relief . " We will provide useful work for the needy unemployed . We prefer useful work to the pauperism of the dole . " So said the President at Madison Square Garden 692 on October 31 . A little while before , Harry Hopkins in his book " Spending to Save " recounted with justifiable pride the record of the WPA ; at the same time he admitted its inadequacy . The reader had every reason to look forward to a permanent program which would not only provide the workless with a dry bed and three meals a day , but also use their talents in such a way as to raise their own and the nation 's cultural standard of living . The excuse for the lay-offs , of course , is absorption of the unemployed in private industry . But though the newspapers have blown @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dissent , private industry has somehow been able to find all the workers it needs among the unemployed not on relief . And the hollowness of the Administration 's excuse is demonstrated by the fact that the ax has fallen with special ferocity on the art projects , whose workers will be the very last to be absorbed by private industry . Eleven mayors , including Mr. LaGuardia , have cabled the President , now en route from his good-will mission to South America , to protest against the drastic cuts . Meanwhile it is an ironic commentary on the state of our civilization and on the high-sounding words of President Roosevelt that when prosperity comes in at the door , however fleetingly , an important cultural development is thrown out of the window . In cutting down the number of non-relief workers on the art projects , the political executioners are cutting out mainly the supervisors and administrators who have been responsible for the high standards to which these projects have been held . If these non-relief workers were " rich enough to maintain their families and to educate their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The fact is that the great majority of these people are so close to the edge that within a few weeks or months they will find it necessary to apply once more , as paupers , for relief . By that time , however , the project 's administration and morale will have been wrecked and relief will deteriorate into mere made work , while the much-needed cultural outposts that have been established throughout the country will have been laid waste . A Broad Base for a Labor Party I T TAKES courage in these days to believe in the success of an American farmer-labor party . Long , long ago , back in the campaign of 1936 , an almost solid labor phalanx joined forces with middle-class progressive groups , the Democratic urban machines , and the South to defeat the Republican reactionaries . It was a curious role for the militant worker . With his right hand he pressed the hand of the Democratic Party stalwart and said " Roosevelt . " With his left he clasped that of his fellow-worker and whispered " 1940 . " Despite this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in 1936 there could be no chance in 1940 . But now after November the fluttering labor-party pennons seem as far away as ever . The trade-union The NATION ranks are deeply split . The Tampa rump convention has left the most reactionary elements in the A. F. of L. saddle . As for leadership in 1940 , Olson is dead , Lewis is rapidly gaining enemies , and the La Follettes are still wrapped in their Hamlet-like indecision as to whether they are to be or pot to be for a farmer-labor party . But the unkindest cut of all is that of the American Labor Party . That , it will be remembered , was to be the New York spearpoint of a permanent national labor-party movement . " This campaign is to test our strength , " everyone said , " but just wait until after the election . " Their 300,000 votes in New York were a pretty fair confirmation of that strength . And now what has happened to the high hopes that burgeoned in November ? They are in danger of being crushed in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ let it be noted that committee rooms do not gain sanctity by being stuffed with trade-unionists rather than ordinary machine politicians . During the campaign the American Labor Party was a loose federation of various trade unions and political groups . After the election the executive committee of the American Labor Party appointed a subcommittee of seven to draft a plan of constitutional structure . While this committee was deliberating , a report appeared in the New York Times of November 30 saying that the executive committee had " adopted a resolution making ineligible for affiliation with the Labor Party any other political party or any member of any other political party . " This would clearly exclude any member of the Socialist , Communist , or Peoples ' Party unless the party organizations were first to dissolve . The New York Sun , with a somewhat different perspective , ran on December 2 a sensational story of a rift within the Labor Party , saying that the Peoples ' Party group under Louis Waldman had outmaneuvered the left and center , " and the fervent young radicals who did most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ looking in . " The next day the Times  --  but not the Sun  --  published a vigorous denial of this story . But the original Times story was never repudiated . A bit confused in this maze , The Nation patiently made inquiries among various members of the executive committee to determine what had actually happened . It emerged that no meeting of the executive committee had been held for several weeks , nor had any definite action on the question of structure ever been taken by the committee . But at the meeting at which the subcommittee on structure had been appointed , and in order to guide the subcommittee in its deliberations , the executive committee had held an informal discussion to ascertain the general opinion on the question of admitting Socialists and Communists . The general drift had been that the resolution of the Atlantic City conference of New York trade unions , which had declared against such affiliation , should be followed . This consensus was of course not binding on the subcommittee , which had still to deliberate on structure and constitution and report back @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crucial the coming decision is . What confronts the American Labor Party is the choice between a narrow trade-union party and a December 12 , 1936 broad and inclusive party built on a trade-union base but including every other element of strength . The dangers that confront American life are ultimately the dangers that European cultures have had to meet  --  lowered living standards , the smashing of trade unions and liberal organizations , the extirpation of civil liberties . To grapple with them nothing short of a popular-front organization will be adequate . In America this must take account of four principal sources of strength : the organized trade unions , the masses of unorganized workers , the farmers , the middle-class progressive groups . A plan of organization that excludes any of these must prove tragic for all of them . The Socialists have taken the lead , in the true spirit of a popular front , and have indicated their willingness to join an inclusive labor party . It is our fervent hope that the final action of the committee will be to recommend a broad , democratic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ while the New York labor situation is in many respects unique , what New York does may prove formative for the rest of the country . All this would seem to lend point to a letter written to The Nation editors by Alfred M. Bingham , editor of Common Sense , and published on page 716 . Mr. Bingham , who is well known for his advocacy of independent labor action based on the insurgent middle class , chides us for our consistent support of a farmer-labor party . He cites the tragic record of trade-union political action in Europe , and ends by an appeal for middle-class American radicalism . While we have been arguing in this editorial against a narrow trade-union party , we693 want to make a sharp distinction between Mr. Bingham 's position and our own . The core of a farmer-labor party ' or of a popular front must be workers  --  the organized workers and those capable of being organized . Without them so-called independent political action becomes either wishful thinking or potentially fascist . Without their economic strength the party would be helpless in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would become chaotic . We are aware of the number of instances in which labor reformist parties have surrendered to the cruel drift of history . What Mr. Bingham overlooks is that such is not the case today in Spain , where the workers are meeting heroically a situation of unparalleled crisis . Nor is it the case in France , where the Popular Front government , although weak in its international policy , is pushing through a program of important domestic reconstruction . The real point about Spain and France is that both steel and discipline are being injected into national policy by the combination of trade-union groups and the radical parties . What distinguishes our labor situation , however dark it is now , from the English is that the A. F. of L. has not yet written the last chapter of our labor history . The vast numbers of those still to be organized in the mass-production industries are potentially the best political material in the country . If a farmer-labor party can be built broad enough to include them , and to include as well the native @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stresses , we can look forward to the future with stout heart .                     