@@487872

THE WAR THAT IS NOT A WAR TOOK ON THE aspect of a real conflict as it became apparent that Hitler 's peace offensive had failed . German U-boats struck a body blow at British sea supremacy when they sank the heavily protected battleship Royal Oak , and , in spite of the convoy system , averaged two or three merchant ships a day . The Nazis even claim to have damaged the battle cruiser Repulse , one of the newest and most powerful units in the British navy . Although the German aerial attack on the Firth of Forth area was beaten off with heavy losses , it was the strongest yet launched against British or French territory . After a week of almos't complete inactivity on the western front , the German forces are reported to be massing for an attack on the Maginot line . Having threatened to deliver an overwhelming blow in case his peace terms were rejected , Hitler must make some sort of attack on the West . The move was undoubtedly delayed by the rains which flooded the Rhine valley and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ line into a morass . Germany 's basic strategy has been handicapped by the fact that the Allies have been able thus far to maintain air supremacy on all sectors of the front . In the face of such obstacles , a Nazi drive would seem to be a measure of Hitler 's desperation rather than of Nazi strength . THE NEUTRALITY DEBATE HAS MOVED INTO its third week with Administration forces apparently fully in control of both houses . It is expected that the final vote in the Senate on ending the arms embargo will not differ materially from the poll of sixty-five to twenty-six which defeated the Tobey amendment . Pittman 's capitulation on the ninety-day credit issue is likely to make for smoother sailing . Whether it will work against England and France is not clear since " cash " legally in-dudes ninety-day acceptances of the Bank of England and the Banque de France . A few isolationists will undoubtedly follow Hoover 's and Lindbergh 's lead by proposing a distinction between arms used for offensive and defensive purposes , but the virtual impossibility of formulating such a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seriously by practical-minded Senatars . Some modification is anticipated , however , in the section prohibiting American ships from visiting any ports belonging to belligerent powers . Whether Congress itself will specify the zones from which ships are to be barred or whether the decision will be left , as it properly should , with the State Department , remains to be seen . A compromise arrangement by which the President will be empowered to add to but not subtract from the prohibited zones is possible . On the assumption that the revised neutrality bill will soon pass the Senate without material change , speculation has begun on its chances in the lower house . Despite the fact that the House kicked over the traces in July and adopted the arms embargo against the will of the President , it is generally believed that the Administration now holds a twenty-vote margin for its repeal . The sharp gain in public sentiment for repeal , as reflected by the Gallup poll , has not passed unnoticed in Washington . LINDBERGH 'S SPEECH MAY HAVE GIVEN AID and comfort to Hitler ; as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fault . It was half-baked and puerile , an embarrassing effort considering the loud echoes it raised around the world . Its statements about Canada were worse than impractical ; they were provocative and - insulting . Lindbergh said that sooner or later the United States " must demand the freedom of this continent and its surrounding islands from the dictates of European powers , " and that Canadians have no " right to draw this hemisphere into war simply because they prefer the Crown of England to American independence . " If those words mean anything they mean that the United States should dictate the foreign policy of the entire North American continent and the islands of the Caribbean . Since Canada must rely on the United States for its de ? fense , its policy must be coordinated with ours . These are quaint ideas to come from an American and a democrat . Only according to the philosophy of fascism is the strongest member of a group of nations entitled to control the foreign relations of its neighbors . The effect on the Senate of this excursion into political @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States seize the British possessions in the Caribbean by force of arms as payment for the war debt . Neither Lindbergh 's nor Lundeen 's proposal will be seriously considered in this country or elsewhere . The British fleet need not desert the Atlantic traffic lanes to guard the West Indies from attack by the United States , and Canada need not take steps to defend its independence . But the episode suggests that there are times when innocents should not be allowed abroad . The NATION and utilities . Other industries may follow in their wake with plans for plant replacement and additions , particularly after the new-issue market recovers from the first shocks of war . American business psychology is such that the shadow of war orders may prove a more potent stimulant than the substance of government spending . NOW THAT CHAMBERLAIN HAS FOLLOWED Daladier in emphatically rejecting Hitler 's peace terms , it is clear that Germany has lost the second major battle of this peculiar war . The first was lost when England and France survived the " war of nerves , " ignored the threat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Poland 's behalf . Mr. Chamberlain 's rejection of Hitler 's peace was exceptionally forceful . He pointed out that the Fiihrer had made no suggestion " for righting the wrongs done to Czechoslovakia and Poland , " and declared that the burden of proof rested on the German government to show by acts that it intended to cease aggression and that its pledges would be kept . The statement was sufficiently unequivocal to allay any lingering doubts about the British government 's determination to see the war through to the end . But it fell short of full effectiveness in its failure to set forth Britain 's war aims in positive form . This failure has permitted the Nazis to insist that England is seeking to destroy the Reich and the German people . It also permits Hitler to say that he offered disarmament and participation in a general economic settlement , but that Chamberlain offered nothing . A definitive statement of the Allied war aims would be worth many divisions on the western front . ELIOT JANEWAY IN AN ARTICLE ON PAGE 432 reveals admirably the herd-like tendency of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The outbreak of war started a stampede for goods based on hopes and fears rather than on any reasonable assessment of the facts . As a result , business indices look extremely healthy at the moment , but there is danger of an inventory crisis unless actual consumption begins to catch up with production . We agree that this situation requires the closest attention of the Administration , which should be ready to act quickly if necessary . Nevertheless , we think Mr. Janeway may have overstated his case a little . Before the war broke out , signs of a fall recovery were not lacking . The Federal Reserve production index had been moving up for several months , reaching 102 at the end of August , as compared with 92 in April . Records of actual consumption also indicated a marked upward trend , with retail sales in such varied lines as meat , gasoline , domestic electric power , and refrigerators attaining volumes never before achieved . Mr. Janeway mentions the new investment programs of the railroads THE AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION WAS never more needed than it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in New York City may help to moderate the renewed trend toward hysteria , snooping , and reaction masked as patriotism . Though the vociferous Dies suspected " Communist fronts " in the conference , as he imagines them in every movement for the defense or broadening of democracy , the character of the men and organizations that took part is sufficient answer . Foremost among the speakers was Attorney General Frank Murphy , and the Union announced that it held the conference in his honor in recognition of the establishment of a civil-liberties unit in the Department of Justice . The Attorney General 's record at Washington , as in Michigan , shows how fully he deserves the honor , and no one will question his sincerity in pledging all his efforts to avoid the mistakes and " wrongs against liberty " that marked the Wilson Administration . Yet the newly published study of the activities of Creel 's Committee on Public Information during the last war shows that war may release forces too strong for the best-intentioned of men . The line that divides sabotage and the truly subversive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is apt to be blurred by passion . Perhaps Morris L. Ernst 's vividly phrased proposal for an " SEC of the intellect " to require all movements and publications to disclose their source of funds might forestall more drastic action with the healthy corrective of full publicity . LAST WEEK SAW CHINA MARKING UP THE most impressive list of triumphs ' it has achieved since the beginning of the war . Following up their great victory at Changsha , Chinese- forces recaptured territory north of that city which had been held by the Japanese for more than a year . In Shansi the Eighth Route Army , made up of former Communist units , repulsed a series of attacks by strong Japanese motorized units , inflicting heavy losses . Chinese planes recently obtained from the Soviet Union staged three more successful attacks on the Hankow airport . It is admitted by the Japanese that several gasoline drums near the air field were exploded . The Chinese estimated that in addition the Japanese lost close to a hundred planes . With full allowance made for exaggeration , the raids were the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ climax to their week of victories , October 21 , 1939 Chinese troops are reported to have stormed the city of Hangchow , capital of Chekiang province , only ninety miles south of Shanghai . Hangchow has been in Japanese hands since Christmas Eve , 1937 . Its capture would be an even greater feat than the saving of Changsha . CANADA IS THREATENED WITH A LITTLE war of its own in the bitter electoral campaign now being carried on in the province of Quebec . Premier Duplessis , leader of the semi-fascist Union Nationale government and author of the notorious padlock law , has made conscription the chief issue of the campaign . Some of his supporters have gone so far as to threaten secession from the Dominion in the event conscription is adopted . The Liberal opposition , led by Adelard God-bout and Dominion Minister of Justice Ernest Lapointe , have also declared their opposition to conscription , but are insisting that Quebec Liberals are more likely to have weight in Ottawa than the discredited Duplessis government . Catholic leadership , influenced by the Vatican 's stand on Poland @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his totalitarian sympathies . But the rank and and file of the priesthood are standing with the Union Nationale in opposition to the Dominion government 's war policy . The conscription issue is largely a false one in that no such step has been proposed in Ottawa . It is generally assumed that Canada can best serve the Allied cause by developing its war industries and providing raw materials . But should the time come when , fresh troops are needed , the Dominion may find its very existence endangered by a combination of neo-fascist ideology and traditional separatist feeling . NEXT YEAR THE NATION WILL BE SEVENTY-five years old . Founded just after the Civil War in an era of profound social and political changes , this journal has lived through the whole period of America 's coming of age . It has seen the growth of the great combinations in industry , the rise of a powerful labor movement , the slow emergence of progressive thought as a dominant force in politics . From the day it was founded , with E. L. Godkin as its editor , The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its fortunes or its policy to any political faction . It has always been unqualifiedly liberal . This does not mean that its opinions are today what they were in 1865 or in 1915 ; the laissez faire liberal of the last half of the last century became the supporter of protective social legislation in the early 1900 's , and today he has added to his political philosophy a belief in the inescapable need of government intervention in the control of industry and finance . The editors of The Nation are , with some trepidation , planning a special anniversary issue to be published in the 427 early weeks of 1940 . In its pages we intend to tell the story of liberalism 's rise in American life and to prospect a little into the years immediately ahead . This is not an easy assignment at a time when old-fashioned despotism is threatening the very existence of the critical intelligence . But perhaps this is a good moment to choose for taking stock of our past , of the heritage on which American liberal democracy was built , of our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ growth .                     