@@487391

DURING the past few years many American liberals have abandoned hope of building a world order which will prevent war . Appalled by the difficulty of finding a constructive way out of the existing international chaos , they now want to insulate the United States from " other people 's wars " by a policy which may be called the New Isolation . The New Isolation has at least four planks in its platform : 1 . Economic self-containment , so as to cut the economic ties between the United States and the outside world . Although few liberals advocate the complete application of this doctrine , many have supported the idea that upon the outbreak of war the United States should prohibit the export of essential raw materials to all belligerents. 2 . Conscription of capital in time of war ; taking the profits out of war . 3 . Continental self-defense. 4 . A popular referendum before any declaration of war except in the event of invasion . Despite the ardor with which the New Isolation program has been supported , it has already proved a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than the Neutrality Act of May , 1937 . This act prohibits the export of munitions in time of war but allows the unrestricted export of raw materials provided belligerents pay cash and transport such materials in non-American ships . Instead of cutting the economic ties of the United States with warring countries , the Neutrality Act , if applied , will make us an indirect ally of the power with the largest navy and financial resources ? Japan in the Orient and Britain in Europe . In its present form , therefore , it is as likely to involve us in war as were the pie-war rules of neutrality . The movement to draft capital and take the profits out of war has also proved a delusion . Despite its advocacy of anti-war-profits bills , the Nye Munitions Committee in June , 1936 , quietly published a report which admitted that it is virtually impossible to take the profits out of war . " It is obvious , " the report declared , " that the most important contribution toward victory to be made in the economic sphere is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that is needed . Yet it is extremely unlikely that this production will be forthcoming without the evils of profiteering . . . . Whenever the attempts to eliminate these evils conflict with the efforts to stimulate production , it is the former rather than the latter which must be sacrificed . " The idea of continental defense has made even less progress . For all our pacifism , our unwillingness to make any international commitments , and our supposed geographic security , the United States is spending a billion dollars a year upon its armaments . We have a navy and an air force as strong as that of any other power . Why do Congress and public opinion overwhelmingly support such expenditures ? Not because of any plot of the munitions makers , but because of a feeling of insecurity and a desire to be prepared for any eventuality . Faced with the collapse of these proposals , the New Isolationists are now turning to the idea of a referendum before a declaration of war . At first sight the idea is attractive , but American history gives no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than Congress . The only virtue of a referendum is the virtue of delay , but this delay may prove disastrous if it gives an enemy time to seize bases in Latin America and launch an attack against the Panama Canal . Confronted by such a threat , most Presidents and Congresses would ignore any constitutional injunction regarding a pre-war plebiscite and resist the aggression against Latin America , declining to admit that the armed clash which might thus result was " war . " So long as the President retains any diplomatic discretion or the right to move the fleet , it remains possible for him to create an " incident " and work up public opinion into a war fever . Similar in nature to the prohibition amendment and the anti-war pact , the proposed referendum on war would have little effect on the foreign policy of the United States , while it would encourage fascist aggression elsewhere . From the standpoint of political theory it is well to remember that the dictators of Rome appealed over the heads of the Senate to the masses , that Napoleon III @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that Hitler solemnly appeals to the referendum to confirm his most spectacular acts . American democracy is not going to be saved by tying the hands of Congress in times of emergency ; its future depends upon making Congress a more responsible and representative body . Forced to admit these failures , many of the supporters of the New Isolation now show a spirit of complete discouragement . Some of them predict that no matter what we do , the United States will inevitably be drawn into the next war . Unwilling to cooperate with other powers , and unwilling to pay the price for the New Isolation , the United States today drifts along upon a rising tide of chaos . As the sinking of the Panay indicates , the relations between the United States and Japan may at any time develop a crisis . A policy of endeavoring single-handed to protect our interests in a war zone creates the danger of war . It can not be denied that the economic interests , the political institutions , and the security of the United States will be seriously endangered by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . While most observers do not predict a general war in the immediate future , the fact remains that the powers today are spending nearly three times as much on armaments as they did in 1914 . Recently the world has been enjoying an economic recovery based partly upon these unproductive armament expenditures , financed by borrowing . Sooner or later the limit of such expenditure will be reached , particularly in the dictatorships , which will be confronted by bankruptcy . What will they do then ? Turn workers out of the munitions plants into the streets and run the risk of social revolution ? Resort to a gigantic inflation ? Or take the risks of becoming involved in a foreign adThe NATION venture ? Unless the present world trend is reversed , one need not be an alarmist to predict that during the next five years the world will experience a new war or a new depression of far greater magnitude than any we have known in the past . The United States could conceivably escape the ravages of a new depression or a new world war by socializing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of our huge agricultural surpluses and the technological advantages of our mass-production industries , which can only be fully utilized through international trade , self-containment would inevitably mean a lowered standard of living . Recent difficulties in obtaining farm legislation and imposing controls on American industry indicate the far greater difficulties that would be involved in a more drastic reorganization of our economic life through democratic processes . The attempt to achieve self-containment would probably lead in the direction of dictatorship , and a dictatorship of the right . The experience of Germany and Italy shows that self-containment , or autarchy , can probably be achieved only through fascism . As for the effect of war on our political institutions , the United States would probably submit to dictatorship if it entered another war . But there is also grave danger of its being led to sacrifice its liberties in order to keep out of war . Wars are caused as much by clashes of ideas as by clashes of economic interests . And the American people have never shown restraint in expressing their dislike of conditions abroad . There is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when Congress was debating the Neutrality Act last spring , Mayor LaGuardia , John L. Lewis , Hugh Johnson , Cardinal Mundelein , and Senator Borah were denouncing fascism in language more severe perhaps than that used by any responsible leader in France or England . America hates fascism today infinitely more than it hated the German Kaiser in 1914 . Possibly we shall continue to confine our hatred to words . But to be logical , an isolationist should favor censorship of the press , newsreels , and movies upon the outbreak of war between foreign nations , for if American opinion becomes unneutral , the task of keeping the country out of war will be extremely difficult , no matter what economic issues are involved . Those Americans who believe that we shall not need to exert the very greatest effort to preserve our traditional liberties in a world full of raging conflict , are living in a fool 's paradise . It may be argued that the United States can remain indifferent to any war until an aggressor has actually invaded the Western Hemisphere . But this argument @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Germany , Italy , and Japan  --  succeed in their present efforts to dominate neighboring territory , and if they succeed in destroying the present balance of power in Europe , the task of defending this hemisphere from invasion will prove far more difficult than if such prospective wars are nipped in the bud . Moreover , fascism is learning how to make conquests without the force of arms . Today it undoubtedly is at work in Latin America , December 25 , 1937 the world 's greatest reservoir of raw materials . The Vargas dictatorship in Brazil denies that it is fascist , but the test will come when a revolution against the dictatorship occurs . Vargas will undoubtedly pronounce it " Communist " and even appeal to the anti-Communist bloc for aid . It is not fantastic to believe that the Spanish civil war may then be transferred to Latin America . In such an event the Latin American dictatorships  --  there are only three real democracies south of the Rio Grande  --  will gravitate toward Rome and Berlin , and away from Washington , if the world 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the formula of " isolation " or " neutrality " offers no answer to the tremendous economic , political , and military problems confronting the United States . Certainly the alternative is not a preventive war ; the United States can not be expected to accept any military commitments . The question is whether it can participate in a new effort at cooperation to avert the outbreak of war , for only in such effort is there hope for the future . In my opinion , the United States can take four concrete steps at the present time , all of which may help to check the present trend toward war : 1 . Strengthen the Hull foreign-trade program . Four years ago Secretary of State Hull was almost alone among world statesmen in his desire to combat the evil of economic nationalism . Despite domestic as well as foreign opposition , he has steadfastly pursued his goal of reducing excessive trade barriers without injuring any essential industry or adversely affecting the interests of the American worker or farmer . Up to the present the State Department has concluded trade agreements @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that negotiations with Great Britain would soon begin . Those familiar with the attitude of Britain several years ago toward the Hull trade program regard this last achievement as a great triumph . While the British agreement will open new markets for the American farmer , the United States will have to lower certain duties on manufactured goods , and the interests adversely affected are becoming restive . But if public opinion strongly supports the efforts of the Secretary of State , the British trade agreement may lay the foundation for a general removal of trade barriers and for a new effort to bring Germany and Italy back to the world economy , as well as induce Japan to abandon its aggressive policies as a solution for its economic problems . 2 . Amend the Neutrality Act . In its present form the Neutrality Act makes it difficult , if not impossible , for the United States to throw its diplomatic weight against aggression . Unwilling to assist Japan , President Roosevelt has declined so far to apply the act to hostilities in the Orient . He has been legally justified @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is willing to admit that the present hostilities have created a legal state of war , the President is under no obligation to do so . Nevertheless , should Japan declare war against China , the President would be obliged to apply the act . Then both belligerents would be barred from our munitions market , but both could buy raw materials upon the711 cash-and-carry basis . In fact this would mean that China would suffer , for Japan is self-sufficient in munitions and , unlike China , has a merchant marine which can transport American raw materials . The act would operate similarly to benefit Britain and France in a European war . In its present form the Neutrality Act is unconditionally and automatically pro-Japanese and pro-British . The United States can not afford thus uncritically to underwrite the foreign policy of any power . It should use its discretion to open or close its markets in accordance with its own interests and not in accordance with the accident of geography . To avoid the dangers implicit in the present act , Congress should amend it so as to give @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of raw materials to belligerents. 3 . Cooperate in an international embargo on raw materials . It would be unwise for the United States alone to stop the shipment of any raw material to Japan . Apart from the political consequences , such a unilateral embargo might merely divert trade to other powers . But an international embargo on the export of such war materials as scrap iron , cotton , and oil , and on the importation of Japanese silk , is an entirely different matter . Britain has indicated that it will go as far as the United States in stopping war in the Orient . Surely the least we can do is to cooperate with all like-minded powers in denying to Japan the raw materials which are necessary for its military aggression , and in declining to buy Japanese silk , which provides the exchange for the purchase of raw materials . The one argument advanced against an international embargo is that Japan might retaliate by attacking Hongkong , Vladivostock , or the Philippines , and thus provoke war . Actually , the danger of such an attack @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ machinery for meeting it without resort to military force . Moreover , once an international embargo was imposed , the Western powers could refrain from taking any military action to defend their possessions in the Orient , realizing that if they applied the embargo long enough Japan would have to withdraw . The international embargo , if the Western powers have the discipline and the restraint to apply it , provides a substitute for war . In imposing such an embargo I would favor evacuation of all our troops from China and the withdrawal of our nationals to the Philippines , - thus reducing one source of friction with Japan . 4 . Seek a basis of appeasement in the Pacific . In imposing an embargo denying to Japan the raw materials of aggression , the outside world should announce its willingness to assist in finding a solution of Japan 's economic difficulties once peace is restored . The ultimate objective of our foreign policy should be a new Washington conference for the purpose of restoring China 's sovereignty  --  and this includes the surrender of the special privileges of all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ outside world . If an embargo is accompanied by a definite offer of reconstruction , the Orient , and the rest of the world as well , may yet be saved from the anarchy toward which it is now drifting .                     