@@493820

Zhe Neal REPUBLIC A Journal of Opinion LXXXV NEW YORK , WEDNESDAY , NOVEMBER 20 , 1935 NUMBER 1094 The Week CHINA took the international spotlight this week as Europe showed no major changes in surface relations and the Italian armies continued an accelerated but still largely unopposed advance Into Ethiopia . A tense situation developed at Shanghai when a Japanese Marine was shot and killed by an unidentified assailant . Troops were landed from Japanese warships and Chinese residents fled in terror from the Chapei district , fearing another " pacification , " as in 1932 . Earlier in the week the Nanking government , under pressure of severe deflation caused by the silver-purchasing policy of the United States , issued a decree calling for the surrender of all silver stocks to be unfounded by the government and the withdrawal of monetized metal in favor of a managed paper currency . Japanese commercial and governmental interests , apparently not consulted in advance , showed anger and chagrin over this sudden decree , especially when it was coupled with rumors of a large British loan to China . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a larger showof military force than seemed called for by the Shanghai incident , and renewed agitation to have North China declare its autonomy under Japanese sponsorship . Some observers think such a move in North China is imminent , and there are disquieting possibilities of friction between Japan and the Soviet Union if the plan is carried out . ErniopiA still refuses to give battle to the advancing Italian columns that this week occupied Makale in the north and Sasa Baneh in the south . As the advance continues , however , the lines of communication grow longer and thinner and the peril to the invader increases proportionately . In Rome , Mussolini had a long personal talk with Sir Eric Drummond , the British Ambassador , but apparently little was accomplished to relieve the deadlock occasioned by Britain 's unwillingness to reduce her naval forces in the Mediterranean and Mussolini 's unwillingness to withdraw more troops from Libya until the other side has moved first . In Great Britain itself nothing occurred to change the general expectation of a Conservative victory in the general election scheduled for Thursday @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effective opposition than they were able to muster earlier in the campaign . GERMANY 'S chief event of the week was Hitler 's decree disbanding the veterans ' organization , the Stalhelm , once the main support of the monarchists and more recently a kind of conservative brake on some of the extremist policies of the Nazis . Abolition of the Stalhelm was widely interpreted as leaving the Nazis in supreme control , but its actual effect was to concentrate practically the entire armed power of the state in the hands of the Reichswehr . Thus far , the Reichswehr has shown no disposition to interfere with or remove Hitler , but if the army ever decided to unseat him , his now greatly attenuated Storm Troopers would be powerless to keep him in office . Meanwhile , protests against food regulations , riots and incipient strikes gave evidence of Germany 's severe economic strain . France showed considerable internal tension as the Stavisky trials began in Paris and the police of several cities took extra precautions to prevent rioting . London witnessed the spectacle // of King George II formally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a delegation from the homeland had waited upon him with results of tile recent pro-royalist plebiscite . Following this ceremony , the Grecian ruler was a luncheon guest of King George and Queen Mary at Buckingham Palace , foreshadowing a pro-British orientation of Greece in present and future alignments in the Mediterranean . AMERICA 'S chief interest of the week lay in the making of reciprocal trade agreements with Canada , The new Canadian Premier , W. L. Mackenvie King , after an overnight visit in the White I louse as guest of President Roosevelt , interrupted his holiday trip to the south to rush back to Ottawa for a special meeting of his Cabinet ministers . On Armistice Day announcements were made simultaneously in Ottawa and Washington that a definite agreement had been reached and that detailed tariff schedules , allowing for an interchange of commodities , were being worked out by trade experts of the two countries . The making of these agreements fulfills the campaign promises of Premier King and marks a step forward in the long cherished principles of Secretary Hull , who was a participant in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ entry of Canadian fish , agricultural products and , probably , whiskey , into the United States , in return for a greater market for American machinery and manufactured products in Canada . ARMISTICE DAY was observed in generally peaceful fashion throughout the world . Germany , as usual , gave no sign of recognition that such an anniversary existed , and in Paris , largely on account of an extraordinary concentration of police , the expected riots between right and left-wing sympathizers did not materialize . Solemn observances were held in London , Washington , Ottawa and other capitals , and President Roosevelt made a speech in which he again emphasized this country 's desire for peace and pointed out the dangers of seeking commercial profit from conflicts anywhere in the world . In Rome , Armistice Day coincided with the sixty-sixth birthday of King Victor Emmanuel , but it was Mussolini who stood in the reviewing stand and received the salutes at the impressive military display . Mussolini also took occasion on Armistice Day to send simultaneous notes to all countries in the League of Nations that have agreed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of this step , asking each country if it was individually willing to take any consequences that might ensue , and carrying the veiled threat of Italian withdrawal from the League . THE State Department 's views on neutrality were set forth at length last week in a radio speech by Secretary Hull . Mr. Hull came out strongly against the present temporary law making it mandatory upon the President to declare an embargo against both belligerents at the outbreak of war . Such a program he stigmatized as " a weak one , indeed . " Ile pleaded for a " virile " policy , by which he apparently means one that would give the State Department the right to decide when and how an embargo should he imposed . Mr. Hull is correct in saying that if discretion is left with the executive branch of the government to decide our policy in the event of another Avar , our influence in international affairs will be much greater than if we are committed beforehand to a program of rigid neutrality . He does not , however , answer the argument @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country to have a mandatory neutrality program in 1914 that led us into the World War , and that the failure to adopt such a program now will greatly increase the danger of being drawn into another one . ARMY balloonists scored a notable achievement in the flight of the stratosphere balloon , " Explorer II , " jointly sponsored by the Army Air Corps and the National Geographic Society , which , at an unofficial figure of 74,000 feet , reached the highest altitude yet attained by man and collected valuable scientific data . The jury in a federal court in St. Louis brought in a verdict of not guilty in what was regarded as a major attempt by the government and independent exhibitors to obtain a conviction for monopolistic trade practices against the leading motion-picture companies . Out of the results of last week 's elections , political observers noted three main trends . The existence of a drift away from Roosevelt in the North and East was confirmed , but the extent and eventual effects of this drift remained distinctly matters for argument . Kentucky , and by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will remain in line for Roosevelt in the 1936 elections . Tammany has regained a large measure of its accustomed power in New York City and the size of the metropolitan majority it does or does not roll up next year may determine which way New York State will go in the national elections . THE curious proceedings leading up to the decision of Judge Coleman that declared the utility holding-company law unconstitutional are described in the article in this issue of The New Republic entitled " Funny Business in Baltimore . " As a result of their great victory , many of the companies are seriously considering not registering with the Securities Commission by December 1 , as the law requires . Commissioner Landis has warned them that if they do not follow this simple procedure , and the decision should he reversed by a higher court , their stockholders might suffer heavy losses on account of the penalties imposed for non-registration . We suppose , however , that if stockholders lose anything on this account , the holding-company managements will follow their usual custom of blaming the government for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ amount of confidence that the Supreme Court will share Judge Coleman 's views ? or indeed a belief that the case will not be appealed . But if Burco , Inc. , does not appeal , support will be lent to the government 's charge that it was not a sincere contestant , and that the whole legal proceeding was a put-up job to prevent the government from being a party in a straight and open contest . THE fact that negotiations have been tentatively arranged between France and Germany was admitted last week by the semi-official organ , Le Temps . An understanding with the Nazi leaders has long been the ambition of Laval and his backers among French heavy industry . It is no secret that its purpose would be to give Hitler a free hand against Soviet Russia , Fortunately , not only the French People 's Front , but also the Center under Herriot are stoutly opposed to any such step . They argue that if Hitler were to win a war against Soviet Russia , his next move would be to turn to the west and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are doubtful enough in any case , but for France to egg Hitler on to attack Russia ' would probably make certain a conflict eventually involving most of the world . ON THE subject of indecency , particularly in the case of the play " Tobacco Road , " Miss Salty Rand of all people has slipped into some clothes long enough to say a few words to the boys in the city room . Morality from Miss Rand is of course very quaint news , and so she makes a column of free publicity out of it , with critical quotations . " The language and actions of ' Tobacco Road , ' " she says , yessing Mayor Kelly who closed the play in Chicago ( where curiously enough they closed Miss Rand herself in 1933 ) , " were indecent and obscene , and Its plot is inartistic . The play sickened me when first saw it .... and has continued to sicken me every time I have seen it since . " Having spoken which , Miss Rand presumably took something to settle her stomach and returned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out of harness again . The Sally Rand act stems simply enough from the principle of striptease , which assumes that if a woman can be clever enough about not quite taking her clothes off , and make it last , there will be found enough people with Tom-the-Peeper complexes to make a profit at the box office . And it all reminds us that there are several kinds of indecency and that people who dance In glass houses should be more careful to undress their mental habits in the dark . WHEN white-collar workers strike , they meet the realities of the class struggle in short order ? just as speedily , in fa-ct , as though they were sharecroppers in the South or longshoremen in San Francisco . Take , for example , the strike of some ninety girl clerks at May 's Department Store in Brooklyn , New York . The owners of the store , with the aid of the police , have had scores of strikers and sympathizers arrested during the three weeks the strike has lasted on charges ranging from " disorderly conduct " to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all this merely because the employees are engaging in perfectly legal strike activity ? peaceful picketing ? against low wages and intolerable working conditions . Wholesale arrests of pickets may not be quite so ruthless as tear-gas and bayonet attacks , but they are just as helpful to employers in breaking up a strike . Bail for many of the May strikers has been set as high as $300 to $500 and for the two arrested on the " conspiracy " charge it was $1,000 . It is improbable that these charges will he upheld in court ? the New York penal law specifically declares that a strike is not a conspiracy ? but that offers slight consolation to the striking employees who are , meanwhile , denied the right to picket . One of the features of the May strike has been the sympathetic picketing conducted by the League of Women Shoppers , an organization formed to improve working conditions in factories and stores handling consumer goods . Many of the League 's members are prominent figures in society or actively engaged in business , law , writing , art @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to serve as an unofficial investigating body for him , but the police regard the League 's pickets in about the same light as ordinary pickets . Last week they arrested several , including a niece of the Secretary of the Treasury , Mrs. Josephine Wertheim Pornerance . THE company unions in steel , rubber and other industries are acting up in a very strange manner these days . In the plants of the American Sheet and Tin Plate Company , a division of the United States Steel Corporation , they recently decided to hold a national convention ? something virtually unheard of in company-union practice . But that was only the beginning . The convention , attended by thirty-three delegates representing 23,000 workers in every one of the company 's twelve plants , refused to allow management representatives to be present ? an action that comes perilously close to being insurrection . The delegates then proceeded to formulate demands for a 15 to 25-percent wage increase and a revision of the pension system ; an executive committee of three " national " officers was elected to fight for these demands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The company union of the Jones and Laughlin plant at Aliquippa , Pennsylvania , representing 10,000 workers , called a meeting and voted to demand a 15-percent wage increase . Similar demands followed at the D12- quesne plant of Carnegie Steel , at the Warren , Ohio , plant of Republic Steel and at the Weirton , West Virginia , Steel Company . In the rubber industry the Goodrich and Goodyear company unions are fighting for maintenance of the six-hour day . At Akron , Ohio , the Goodrich union refused recently even to consider a management proposal for an eight-hour day and issued a statement threatening " stronger action " if hours were lengthened . It will he interesting to sec what results arc obtained by t these strange doings and even stranger language of the company unions . 