@@493986

RS . BUCK sets out to tell the story of her father here as she told the story of her mother in- " The Exile . " " I put aside relentlessly Carie 's side of the story , " she writes firmly , and the resolve is significant . So is Mrs. Buck 's habit of alluding to herself in the third person as " Carie 's daughter . " Most significant of all is her statement that Carie 's daughter never " knew what to do with ' An-drew . ' He fitted into no niche as a father . Great missionary he was , intrepid soul , but there was no fatherhood in him . He had to be ... considered not as a father , but as a man . " I think a child who feels this about her father faces an almost insurmountable obstacle when she attempts the biography of the man . " His children were merely accidents that had befallen him , " Mrs. Buck writes with lingering resentment , and her story amply bears this out . Andrew 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as theirs was lived away from him . When he came home from his long preaching trips in the interior , " nothing seemed quite natural until he was gone again . " Yet , as Mrs. Buck also records , wherever he went he was loved and welcomed by the Chinese , even the children following him in the streets with happy devotion . He loved and trusted them in return , frequently championing them against his fellow missionaries and even against his superiors . He had " infinite patience with the people to whom he felt himself sent . " Once he was captured by bandits , but when they learned who he was they not only let him go , but returned his purse to him and allowed him to preach to them . Perhaps this account should have been rounded out by some word from these people to whom he felt himself drawn . Mrs. Buck is conscientiously determined to give credit where credit is due to her heroic , saintly and unloved parent , but her portrait of him is necessarily incomplete . Curiously , Andrew @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the emotional conflict he sets up in his biographer . His integrity , his courage , his singleness of purpose were on a grand scale . He was , no doubt , a trying husband and father . Zealots , religious or otherwise , frequently are , and are themselves pretty severely tried in these relationships especially when , like Andrew , they have blundered into them from a sense of duty with no very clear idea of what they entailed . Mrs. Buck , despite her resolve to put aside Carie 's side of the story and do full justice to Andrew 's , is still preoccupied with the frustrations of her mother 's life . Her identification with Carle is passionate and profound . Carie 's life was bitter and Andrew , according to Carie 's daughter , " never touched the fringe of human life , never knew its stuff , never felt its doubt or shared its pain . And so he lived , a happy soul , and never knew he died . " The springs of this happiness Carie 's daughter did not share or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pages : it is the story of the women missionaries ? not merely the missionary wives and exiles , but the strong-willed women who themselves felt and answered a call . The women who worked and sacrificed and obeyed as heroically as Andrew did , without the rewards of prestige and authority that came to their masculine associates . The women who could n't even speak in missionary meetings because of Saint Paul , or read aloud their own reports of the work they had done . Their story is an extension of Carie 's story and it is one to which Mrs. Buck could do full justice . The few pages she devotes to it in this book are superb . 