@@469630

GOVERNMENT by discussion is effective only when the institutions exist which enable its results to compel action . That is why the party system at its best is the foundation upon which a representative democracy is built . For when the issues between parties are real the clash of opinion is bound to illuminate . The need to convince involves intellectual exploration . Men seek to make a case for their policy not only to persuade themselves , but to transfer the support of others to their side . Where the administration of the State is built upon a coherent philosophy it is only by its critical analysis that its truth can be rationally weighed . This is the real case for democratic government . No dictatorship can afford to put its ultimate principles to the test of analysis , for its basic assumption is that they are beyond discussion . It is bound , therefore , by the logic of its nature to regard all criticism of essentials as treasonable by definition since it . is , inherently , an invitation to its destruction . A Russian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ output : he can not with confidence attack the basis of Marxian socialism . A German citizen may maintain the view that Europe can not afford a new war ; but he can not safely insist that the persecution of Jews is a barbaric adventure or that General Goering 's behavior over the Reichstag fire trial makes him clearly unfit to hold office in any civilized country . No Italian citizen may hope to argue in public that the corporative state is merely a mask behind which capitalism protects itself from the claims of economic democracy , though he has , of course , a wide freedom in the niceties of archx ? logical discovery or the radical emen13rathers . All Rights Reserved . dation of a classical text . A dictatorship , by its nature , hears only the opinion it wants to hear , by the convenient , and relatively simple , method of suppressing any alternative which may prove in experience to be uncomfortable . Yet it is the main lesson of the human adventure that alternative opinion can not , in the long run , be suppressed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enough time , a stark objectivity about fact which prevents its interpretation from remaining in a condition of permanent subservience to any dictatorship . Had it been otherwise , Christianity would not have survived the Pagan persecutions ; had it been otherwise also , militant Christianity would not have retreated before the persistent claims of free thought . Every great novelty in history which has expressed some wide and deep experience among men has been able , in the long run , to triumph over the most urgent effort at its destruction . Truth , doubtless , is slow and painful in its search for acceptance ; but its rejection has always , in the long run , been fatal to those who have refused to see its significance . An adequately organized democracy is at least a safeguard against this inherent weakness of dictatorship ; but it is upon the sovereign condition that it is in fact adequately organized . To be so it must not merely provide the opportunity for discussion ; it must provide the institutions through which hostility to the will of government may have the means @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , that is to say , there are for the existence of government in a democratic society , these are also reasons for the existence of an opposition . The grounds for this view are simple enough . Men live differently ; they move , by different paths , to the achievement of opposed desires . Either a government must prohibit desires alien from its own or it must admit their right to be . But in social life , to be is to seek to grow ; and the purpose of growth in all matters of social constitution is translation into the ultimate fabric of the society . The idea seeks inevitably to impose itself by reason of the experience it embodies . Men who seek to infer the meaning of their experience are driven by an inescapable impulse to win for their insight the status of a universal . Discussion in a democracy is the highroad along which they must move . But it is the price of social complexity that private insights must achieve or-ganic form if they are to attract atten-don . In political life this seems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ makes an insight origi-nally private a matter of public consequence . For what a party does in the life history of a community is to act as the broker of ideas . From the mass of claims which present themselves as valid it selects those which , in its judg-ment and , as a general rule , from the intellectual standpoint it broadly rep-resents , are most likely to win the favor of the multitude . It seeks to make them acceptable by all the arts that human ingenuity can invent . It uses them as its instruments in its efforts to persuade men that its title to supreme power is greater than that of its rivals . The technic , of course , is slow ; and it has a pathology of its own which not even its most enthusiastic advocates can reasonably deny . The high-sounding phrases of a party platform always conceal some body of economic interests it is seeking to preserve or promote . No party has ever been magnanimous enough to put its essen-tial confidence in the rational value of its claims . No party has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ No party has ever been able to avoid the danger of faction . It evokes a loyalty to which impartial truth and justice are easily made subservient . It tends quite inevitably to feel ? though less seldom to think ? that the principles in which it puts its trust , the interests it seeks to protect , are part of the unchanging order of the universe . These are grave faults ; and yet , when the last word has been said against it , the party system is the only way known to us by which , over long periods of time , changes in social constitution may be made peaceably . The conditions indeed for its success are not easily attained . The parties must dispose of philosophies which differ seriously from each other ; but they must not differ so seriously that one party would prefer to see conflict rather than accept its opponent 's access to power . Government by party is built upon the assumption that the issues raised are susceptible of illumination by public debate , and that the matters discussed will secure an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the result .. On experience , moreover , it is tolerably certain that the success of party government depends in large degree upon its simple bifurcation . There must be a party which favors slow adaptation ; there must be a rival which seeks a more drastic rate of change . Both must accept aims which have sufficient in common to enable them to be tolerant of each other . If the divergences are too wide for tolerance , as with those between the Fascists and the Socialists in Italy , or between the Communists and their rivals in Russia , party government is a useless adventure . Nor is it likely to be creative where there is a multiplicity of parties . For the experience of Western democracy has been the clear one that such multiplicity prevents clarity of purpose from emerging into policy . A group-system , like that of France , or of Germany and Italy before their Fascist revolutions , has the wholly evil result of substituting the politics of maneuver for the politics of ideas . The consequence is always an evasion of substantial issues , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decision and firmness in administration . For the group-system means coalition government ; and this has always meant on all substantial questions of principle that the government searches not for a policy which represents an organized outlook , but a strategy which maximizes its chances of survival . Each group within the coalition has to think at least as much of its individual future as of the corporate whole to which it belongs ; with the result that its loyalty is rarely so permanently engaged as to permit it the luxury of reflection upon foundations . Its mind is too constantly absorbed in the tactics of combination for a long-term view to be possible . And this psychological habit has the natural consequence of taking the mind of the public away from the issues about which its thoughts should be engaged . Its attention is directed to the petty drama of personal differences in an atmosphere without relation to major principles The conditions , therefore , under which representative democracy may function effectively are tolerably clear . The electorate must have the great ends of life in common ; those fundamentals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ way are not the fit subject-matter of rational debate . But having those great ends in common , the differences upon which debate is possible must be set for them in fairly clear alternatives . They must be able to choose the general direction and progress of the march . They must know that their rejection of one route involves the choice of the other . They must associate men with principles , and recognize that their unwillingness to be governed by one set of persons involves the acceptance of a different set of principles in the business of administration . Where all this is well understood representative democracy has the chance of major historic achievement ; but in the absence of such understanding the overthrow of the representative system is only a matter of time . This may be put in another way . So long as the differences which divide men on matters of social constitution are differences of degree , and not of kind , they may be resolved by the peaceful compromise of intellectual discussion . In this circumstance , representative democracy is the only form of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the only one which effectively attempts the weighing of experience . But the success of representative democracy depends , in its turn , upon its association with a two-party system each partner to which is measurably differentiated from the other on philosophic grounds without being so differentiated as to deny the claim of its rival to win power when the electorate so decide . In these conditions , clearly , government and opposition are the warp and woof of representative democracy ; neither can function adequately without the other . The idea of opposition with the same title to respect as the government , on the ground that it may itself at any moment become the government , is the essential feature by which democratic systems are distinguished from dictatorships . II What is the function of an opposition in such a society ? It was said by Disraeli in a classic aphorism that the function of an opposition is to oppose ; and there is a sense in which , as an expression of the historic consequence of the party-system , the remark is an exhaustive definition . Certainly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their exclusion from power with equanimity ; and they are bound , in the nature of things , to use their opportunity of conflict to expose the blunders of their rivals . But it has been rare for any party to obtain a new lease of office merely because it attacked the government . No purely negative criticism has ever won the suffrages of an electorate . The function of an opposition is criticism of the party in power in terms of an alternative program . It has to show the democracy that its accession to office would result in positive achievements , from the performance of which its rivals are debarred no less by their philosophic outlook than their blunders in administration . The post-war years in British politics provide many illustrations of this truth . The Labor Party won the election of 1929 because , in the main , the voters were persuaded that the Baldwin government did not understand the problem of peace and that the Labor Party did understand it . There were , of course , contributory causes , not the least of which was the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the handling of the General Strike by the Tory Cabinet showed its inability to understand those industrial problems which a predominantly Trade Union party might be expected to grasp . The landslide to conservatism in 1931 was born , in part , of disillusion with the feeble record of the MacDonald Cabinet and , not less , of the more positive conviction that only a party pledged to a capitalist solution could see the country safely through the crisis of that year ; while the association of Mr. MacDonald with the new administration reinforced that view by suggesting that Labor itself was far from anxious to apply the ultimate principles which it declared to be the only real remedy for British ills . The history of Great Britain since 1931 strengthens this conclusion . The opposition has consistently opposed ; and the record of the government has for most observers been enough to justify passionate hostility . But the bye-elections do not reveal anything more than a widespread disillusion with the momentary enthusiasm of 1931 . They suggest that the electorate is gravely dissatisfied with the government without having reached a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coherent way what alternative policy it would pursue . This is a reasonable attitude on the part of the electorate . For while the Labor Party has since 1931 been able to reveal , especially in international affairs , blunders of high magnitude on the part of the " National " Government , it still reveals itself as uncertain how rapidly it would travel if returned to office to its Socialist goal , or how decisively it would deal with the vital obstacles likely to be encountered on the road . Merely by being an opposition , that is , it has performed a vital negative function ; but it has not yet displayed either the integrity or the coherence which enables it positively to assume the status of an alternative administration in the next immediate years . The American position , perhaps because it is more complicated , is also more fascinating . From the accession of President Harding to the defeat of Mr. Hoover there were no essential differences between American parties . The electorate was asked to choose between persons rather than issues ; and the criticism of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ alternative . It was not until the depression of 1929 revealed a relationship between Republicanism and the vested interests which had to be broken , if the small man was to have a chance of effective response to his experience , that Mr. Roosevelt was enabled not merely to attack the record of his predecessor but also to indicate an intelligible alternative . His election was , under the conditions of economic disaster , a foregone conclusion . But even more interesting than his election has been the political atmosphere since he assumed office . Opposition to him has been surreptitiously widespread ; but of organic criticism which sought to strike at the fundamentals of his policy there has been almost none . An untrained observer who watched the American scene might almost be pardoned for assuming that the Republican Party had been stricken into final impotence . What are the causes of so remarkable a situation ? They are , of course , manifold in character . Defeat led to panic among the Republican forces , and they have not yet had time to recover from its effects . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and criticism of an organic kind in a period of crisis is always a difficult adventure . But the root of the Republican ineptitude goes deeper than these reasons . It has nothing to say that is either positive or profound , because the principles for which it stood as a party have largely lost their meaning in the new economic orientation . The President has shown courage , initiative , imagination ; no one can find these qualities in the confused murmurs of dissent of which alone the Republicans show themselves capable . They are a party in search of a soul , unable ? at least as yet ? to find issues of difference with the President which would enable them to discover a receptive audience among the electorate . The platitudes of the Coolidge era have lost all meaning ; and the easy economic conservatism they represented could acquire new vigor only by the arrival of a new prosperity . The Republicans , in a word , can only predict disaster without announcing the methods of its prevention ; and since they are themselves associated with disaster in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not even awaken confidence in themselves . It is not , of course , a healthy condition for any political society . Its consequence is a government which is not criticized in terms of principle because no demonstrable alternative is in view . What opposition there is seems to the man in the street too incoherent to deserve respect ; and when he translates it into terms of men he sees it proceed from those whose policies he rejected with disgust only a little over a year ago . The Republican Party will revive only when it has drastically reconstructed its philosophy ; and to do so there must be grave mistakes on Mr. Roosevelt 's part which enable it to recover its initiative and its self-confidence . Out of these it may redefine its principles for use in a scene to which , at present , it barely seems relevant . Unlike the British Labor Party , it has not yet been presented with these opportunities by its rival ; and it can not seriously reenter the political field with no army to do battle . No government can be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ British and American experience point , therefore , to a principle of representative government of which it is vital to seize hold . No criticism is ever likely to be seriously effective in government unless it is accompanied by two qualities . It must be a criticism conceived in terms of a general outlook which represents a wide electoral experience , and it must be a criticism which has behind it in the legislative assembly a driving force powerfulenough to compel the government to take account of its import . Each of these qualities merits some amplification . It is obvious that no government is ever good enough to deserve immunity from attack . Such an atmosphere engenders complacency about its own performance . But it is obvious also that any government can afford to neglect an attack which does not express a considered and alternative outlook which the people can grasp sympathetically . It is no use , for instance , for American socialists to attack Mr. Roosevelt on the ground that his measures are not radical enough ; for in the light of American post-war history their impact seems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , either , for American bankers to suggest that they are dangerously radical ; for the experience of the depression has persuaded the average American of the need for radical measures . Attacks on Mr. Roosevelt from Wall Street or the steel magnates , unaccompanied by any alternative program , naturally make no impact upon the public mind , not only because they emanate from the sources discredited by recent revelations , but also because their wholly negative character points to the intellectual bankruptcy of the critics . If the Republicans want to revive in America , their business is to reconstruct the philosophy of conservatism for the new environment which has emerged , and to drive home its significance in the specific terms of the President 's measures . They produce no effect , for instance , by announcing that the Securities Act hinders the issue of new capital stock , without producing specific details of issues that are withheld from the market and explaining why it could be usefully amended without any danger of a recurrence of that frenzied speculation in which even the most conservative investment houses have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wall Street has learned its lesson may be popular in Wall Street ; but as an inference from the experience of the boom it may be doubted whether it has wide repercussions in Montana or Vermont . Nor is it less important that criticism made should have effective force in the legislative assembly . A discussion that is always followed by an overwhelming government majority rarely makes a profound effect on the public mind . It is discounted beforehand by the government ; it is a process through which its measures have to pass rather than a dissection which may injure its prestige . It has little effect on the public for two reasons . The knowledge , in the first place , that whatever the argument the government is safe , already destroys most effective interest in the discussion . People do not watch a boxing match of which the result is known beforehand . Interest is created by suspense , the unexpected , the dramatic ; and the absence of these prevents the emergence of the audience which makes discussion significant . The public , further , needs to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is clearly ( hiving toward the recovery of power . No opposition can create a receptive atmosphere unless it is winning an increasing hold of public opinion . If its strength , whether in a House of Commons or a House of Representatives , is ton small to be effective in making an impact upon the government 's view , it will be treated with indifference because it is not expected to do anything . An opposition can never afford to be treated with indifference ; for when a party has lost its power of attacking significantly , as with the Liberal Party in Great Britain , it rapidly ceases to have meaning for the electorate . In politics , as in life , nothing succeeds like success . This does not indeed mean that a servers during the great American boom were persuaded to mistake Mr. Coolidge 's negativism for intelligence . So Guizot sought the juste milieu in the reign of Louis Philippe ; and confounding pursuit of principle with balance of interests , he produced that state of public indifference of which , as Lamartine said , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Governments which do nothing in order to minimize opposition destroy interest in themselves in the same way as governments which seek to do everything in order to maximize support . The business of their rivals is always to compel them to face the alternatives inherent in the nature of their effort . Even the handful of Labor members in the present House of Commons have been not unsuccessful in this purpose ; but no one can honestly say that of the opposition to Mr. Roosevelt in the United States . It has lacked coherency of any kind . It has been unable to agree even on the meaning it should attribute to his effort . So weak indeed has been its criticism that even in realms so vital as his currency policy it has been unable to extract from him any clear definition of his objectives . No doubt , at least in part , this is attributable to institutional weakness . Socialist criticism is too unrelated to congressional action to make any serious impact upon public opinion ; and the resentment of the financiers and the industrialists has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the expression of a considered alternative , to deserve serious respect . The common man sticks to Mr. Roosevelt because he vaguely sympathizes , in his indignant bewilderment , with the idea of the New Deal ; he can not be expected to desert him for an opposition which can not , either in domestic or international policy , tell him what it would do if it were in power . Here indeed is the essential weakness of the American situation . Economic emergency has put a Liberal into office at a time when both the historic parties in America represented a confused and unintelligent Conservatism . Mr. Roosevelt has the gift of personal leadership ; and temporarily , at least , he has been able to take his party with him down a path the direction of which it had hardly previously considered . The only way to attack him was to put forward , as the platform of Republicanism , an integrated conservative doctrine . It could be shown that the reconciliation of planning with a capitalist society is a very difficult adventure . But a conservative philosophy is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American history has made the struggle between parties a conflict of sections instead of a contest of ideas . When one of the parties was driven by the development of economic crisis into the adoption . however fortuitous , of an ideology , it Ieft its opponent staggered by the need for an intellectual decision . And even after almost three years of wandering in the wilderness , one can not say that it has yet begun to find its bearings . Even if the failure of Mr. Roosevelt were again to sweep it into power , the signs all suggest that its leaders would have no idea of how to utilize this power . It is an unfortunate result ; for the nature of Mr. Roosevelt 's experiment makes criticism of its foundations urgent if the mind of the electorate is to grasp his responsibilities . Yet such clarification is wholly absent . Even those who obviously dislike what the President is doing insist on their desire not to embarrass him ; as though , when you believe the captain is taking his ship on the rocks , it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ orders . The American position in fact reveals in a peculiar degree how helpless representative democracy is when the opposition has lost the sense of its primary purpose . The voters have no alternatives between which to choose . The Government is never driven to that constant self-justification which makes it consistently think out its primary objectives in its own mind . Nor is this all . The failure to develop a coherent opposition means that the conduct of the debate fails to illuminate the public . Because principles are not discussed , men are driven to acerbity in detail , or to those marginalia about persons which reduce political conflict to the status of a society-gossip column in a provincial newspaper . A great emergency ought to elevate the public mind ; but it can only do so when the opposition takes its criticism to a high level . So far at least there are no signs that this has been the case in America . likely to survive for any long period of time . That this is the case is obvious from experience , most notably , of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a lesser degree , of France before 1870 and Germany in the past hundred years . In each case , the opposition to the government lacked the means whereby its will could secure translation into the event by a direct institutional process ; and when the government had to be changed , the only way of effecting this result was by its direct destruction . Any political system , in other words , that is non-representative in character must end in revolution if it fails , simply because by being nonrepresentative it has failed to provide a peaceful mechanism for the transition to an alternative system . A dictatorship can not simply transform itself into a representative system ; the law of its being is its hostility to its critics , so that these at some point must rise against it if they are to have access to power . But in a representative system there are similar dangers when the opposition is functioning inadequately . If it can not make itself seem a necessary alternative the assumptions of the system do not work . This does not matter seriously in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reaction of governmental policy upon the national life is not profound . But in epochs like our own , where governmental policy is fundamental in its reaction , the failure of the opposition has momentous consequences . By failing to make its alternative seem rational , it either fails to win power , in which case long exclusion from office makes it in terms of Governmental failure more and more extreme ; or , alternatively , it secures office in a wave of disgust at its rival 's failure but has no clear policy to implement or no positive opinion in its support . Representative democracy can not support such a temper . Party differences must be real in an era of crisis or there will be , first , a continued failure on the part of governments to solve its problems , then indifference to the system of the regime , and , finally , its overthrow by men who argue persuasively that it is the regime itself that is at fault . Only an effective opposition , that is to say , can prevent a representative system from degenerating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . None of its governments in the past fifteen years has had the courage to deal drastically with its economic problems ; even the two Socialist governments have followed traditional paths in this regard . The result has been a growth of skepticism in Great Britain about the validity of parliamentary institutions which is already significant and might easily assume serious proportions . The issue now raised by the relationship of the major parties is a momentous one . It has become clear that to follow the traditional path is incompatible with the maintenance of Great Britain 's prewar position ; but it is also clear that to desert it , as a considerable part of the Labor Party now proposes to desert it , may well impose a strain upon the parliamentary system it is unable to bear . Each of the Labor governments , even though in a minority , had a chance by the introduction of great measures , to shift the general axes of policy to which parties have to conform ; each lacked the courage to embark on the adventure . Each , therefore , left @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ office and , accordingly , confronted the situation , in opposition , of urging remedies as a policy which , when a government , it had lacked the courage to undertake . This timidity not only produced disillusion among its own supporters ; it of the revolutions , Russia in 1917 and Germany in the post-war period do not in essence teach us a different lesson . If representative government is to survive , it must be successful ; if it is to be successful , its citizens must have the choice between parties which , while they have the great ends of life in common , yet so differ in character that they can proffer the prospect of great alternative experiments the profundity of which elicits public interest , and so creates a moral allegiance to the system which makes them possible . On such a hypothesis , the urgency of the task an opposition must perform hardly requires a detailed emphasis . The purpose of its criticism , the objective of its attack , is to prove the elasticity of the regime , its power and width of creative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ among those who live by its results . There is no more final proof that a social system is nearing its end than its failure to provide opposition of this kind . For when there is such a failure the regime is incapable of experiment ; it has then lost the power of adaptation , and , in political history , the loss of such adaptability has always been the premonition of death . One final word may be said . It is the underlying assumption of this argument that representative government is possible only where the members of the society are agreed upon the fundamentals of political life . It isworth noting that in an unequal society like that of Great Britain or America this agreement can not be long maintained in a period of economic crisis . Grave social disparities are never easily defensible in terms of reason when despair drives men to extremes ; for it is the inevitable habit of despair to examine the traditional foundations upon which they rest and proclaim their inadequacy . We have obviously entered upon one of those epochs of historical transformation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at no time since the French Revolution . It is quite uncertain whether they are strong enough to stand that test . Their survival is going to depend upon the rapidity with which they can adjust themselves to the need of profound experiment . Unless this experiment can be conducted in a temper of creative criticism , fatal errors are certain to be made ; and such criticism there will not be unless there is a strong opposition to make it . Habit without philosophy never yet surmounted an historical crisis ; and unless we can provide our system with a philosophy while there is yet time we shall lose our grounds for hope . But hope is the condition of peace ; and the breakdown of the opposition in a period such as ours is equivalent to the certainty of social disruption . If that disruption comes , Western civilization is not unlikely to enter upon a new and uglier Dark Age .                     