@@166136

This week the Duke of Gloucester breaks sod on a hill outside Kampala , capital of Buganda , principal kingdom of Uganda , for the stone buildings of Makerere College for Higher Education , first all-Negro university in East Africa . Recommended by a Royal Commission on Higher Education , the university will speak English , will teach the arts , science , agriculture , medicine , education , veterinary science and engineering to bright young blacks of Uganda , Kenya , Tanganyika and Zanzibar . <P> While in Africa , the Commission collected fine specimens of big game and some damaging facts about Britain 's ' ' trusteeship ' ' of backward peoples . Example : Government provision of primary schools is so inadequate that of the 720,000 children between the ages of five and 15 in Uganda , only one-third attend school , and of this number more than five-sixths attend mission schools . The sun may never set on Britain 's empire , but it has disgracefully few native minds to which the light of education penetrates . <P> While Hitler and Mussolini trumpet their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ steams and bubbles from India through Palestine to Africa . In East Africa more sanitation , medicine , education and agricultural improvements might reconcile villagers to their colonial status . Such a program requires trained experts . Since Negro civil servants are cheaper than white , in fact cost only one-fifth as much to hire and maintain , the $1,000,000 Makerere College is expected to be a good investment for England . <P> Commissioners were concerned , however , with the present shortage of women fit to be mates of prospective Makerere alumni . Afraid that tribal wenches may undo the effects of higher education , the Commission suggested that facilities for giving a sound secondary school education to a limited number of young females be immediately provided . When this provision has been made , students at Makerere will be advised to marry during their college careers . Reason : " To preserve their morals . "                     