@@220984

Marshalled by a retired Cossack colonel , 64 young Russian dancers invaded Manhattan last winter , set up shop with a 50-piece orchestra , crates of colorful scenery , 6,000 costumes , and forthwith proceeded to prove that the ballet still exists as a great &; glamorous art ( TIME , Jan. 1 ) . Nearly 25,000 U. S. readers , many of whom had never seen a Russian ballet , caught much of its fascination from Nijinsky , the mad dancer 's biography written by his Hungarian wife Romola , who blames her husband 's insanity on the late great Serge Diaghilev ( TIME , March 19 ) . Last week Arnold L. Haskell , Britain 's ablest dance critic , who knew both Diaghilev and Madame Nijinsky , recorded his own ballet enthusiasms. * Dancers in Colonel Vassily de Basil 's Monte Carlo Ballet Russe know Author Haskell as a bubbling , bald little man who trails them from town to town , settles many a backstage dispute , writes occasional reviews for British papers ( New Statesman , New English Weekly , Manchester Guardian ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ overcoat several inches too long . Author Haskell identifies himself as a life-long balletomaniac who studied dancing to understand its difficulties . He quarreled with Diaghilev over his last ballets and Diaghilev never forgave him . He describes Diaghilev 's weaknesses : his sexual abnormalities , his greed for sweets , his crazy superstitions , his countless inconsistencies . But in the Machiavellian persecutor which Madame Nijinsky portrays Critic Haskell takes no stock . An incompetent dancer , she schemed her way into the troupe-a fact which Mme Nijinsky admits herself . His fellow dancers always . . thought Nijinsky unbalanced . Diaghilev kept him from the world because as a sheltered , brooding introvert he did his finest work . Without Diaghilev he deteriorated as a dancer and as a choreographer . As an impresario he was a pathetic failure . When Diaghilev died Haskell , like many another balletomaniac , despaired of the ballet 's future . But the Monte Carlo Ballet Russe and the development of Choreographer Leonide Massine gave him fresh hope . The Monte Carlo Ballet , now on the verge of a five months ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ David Lichine , spectacular for his leaps , his sensuous grace ; pretty feathery Tatiana Riabouchinska , whom Colonel de Basil has insured against marriage ; dark dynamic Tamara Tamounova and Irina Baronova . The greatest of these , says Critic Haskell , is Baronova , 15 , ashy , pale-haired Russian emigre who grew up in the Balkans , studied in Paris with the Imperial ballerina , Olga Preobrajenska . Baronova 's technic is amazing . She can do 32 spins ( fouetts ) without stopping . But more , her dancing has the same subtle , unearthly quality which marked the early playing of Violinist Yehudi Menuhin . Author Haskell prides himself on his collection of ballet slippers , although as a balletomaniac he pales beside a St. Petersburg clique which paid $175 for a pair of Taglioni 's , had them cooked , prepared with a special sauce and ate them at a banquet . <P> *Balletomania-Simon &; Schuster ( $3.75 ) .                     