@@470033

DURING the depression the American people turned against the men who manage American business . Consumers and laborers , abetted by the Roosevelt Administration , organized " hostile " movements ; the people 's spokesmen directed searching criticisms at long-established economic " laws " and " principles " ; the people themselves implemented such criticism with their votes , and eagerly supported large-scale social experiment . As business men saw it , certain of the prerogatives that management had always possessed were threatened with usurpation . Last month in the first of these articles we told how management responded : how one by one the various business organizations began working to establish friendly relations with the public . As we showed , management conceived this task , at least in its preliminary phase , as the task of " selling business to the public " ? which means , in effect , " selling " a certain general philosophy . This philosophy is based on an interpretation of Adam Smith 's classical economics , and it is sufficiently extensive to guide our every public action , social , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conclusion that " American business can not be separated from America , " which means that business management can not be supposed to have interests differing basically from labor 's , the consumer 's , or the general public 's ; which , in turn , implies that the principles which guide the present management of business can not be overturned , replaced , or materially altered ( except , in special cases , by management itself ) without causing the country to cease to function as a going concern . In order to " sell " this general philosophy , we pointed out last month , each business man , corporation , or trade association undertook to act for business as a whole . In other words , business began in 1933 to function for the first time as a political unit , attempting to direct and to control public opinion just as political partisans always have done . Last month we quoted several statements of the philosophy in question , together with the supporting evidence adduced by various " salesmen for business " ? ranging from the General Motors Corporation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lesser corporations , and advertising agencies . In order to propagate their message , such interests as these have of course been perfecting and adapting the technics of public communication and persuasion , and last month we described the new and special use which business has been making of magazine and newspaper advertising , editorial publicity , and radio . Commercial films constitute a fourth such medium , and the use that has been made of them , in the movement to improve and control public relations , merits special consideration . For one thing , motion pictures are uniquely successful in reaching children ? at school or elsewhere and in affecting their thinking . For another , as one of the more important commercial film producers puts it , " It is possible to express shades of meaning in motion pictures that are far beyond the capacities of the printed word or the spoken message of radio . " Ordinarily you do not think of motion pictures as a selling medium for products or ideas . More than that : only in the past four or five years have business @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their armamentarium . In effect , commercial films to-day constitute a " new medium , " and the commercial film trade ? that is , those firms engaged in producing , distributing , and developing commercial films ? is still disorganized and immature : which is not to say that its productions are ineffective as a means of persuasion . We hope our readers will be patient if we now embark upon a somewhat detailed explanation . Such an explanation is necessary if the nature and use of this new medium , and the possible social results of its wide use , are to be made clear . II It is true that commercial films were being used commercially twenty and twenty-five years ago . A small and erratic supply of slides and silent " trailers " found its way into the theaters , and a group of about thirty of the larger industrial corporations and utilities made one-or two-reel silent " institutional " films , to be shown at conventions and expositions , and to be distributed to the " non-theatrical audience " in schools , clubs , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ circulate , but their effect is probably nil . The development of sound motion pictures in 1928 and ' 29 renewed everyone 's interest in films ; but soon the oncoming depression took its effect on the poorly financed commercial producers , and most of them failed . In 1930 and ' 31 the Hollywood producers , led by Paramount and Warner Bros. , offered not only to make advertising pictures ? which they had done before ? but also to release them in their theater chains . The prospect of a guaranteed circulation interested several of the largest industrial corporations intensely ; but the independent theater-owners , aided by the newspapers , succeeded in squelching the project almost at once . Like the rest of business , the film trade continued to dwindle until 1932 ; but in 1932 and ' 33 several fortunate events combined to reestablish it . At that time the first cheap , portable , fool-proof 16 mm. sound projector was developed ; and the producers learned how to make the so-called " talking slide film . " A talking slide film is a strip of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about one hundred frames . Each frame is held still in the screen , like an old-fashioned slide , while an electrical transcription supplies appropriately synchronized sound , either an explanatory monologue or dramatic dialogue together with sound effects . Such films for obvious reasons are more effective than slide lectures and they are cheap to produce , costing from $2000 to $4000 per film , as against $5000 to $15,000 or more per reel for a sound motion picture . Also they are cheap and easy to distribute and project . Ford , for instance , has been able to equip 6500 dealers with sound-slide-film projectors , together with libraries of the films . These mechanical improvements , together with increasing skill in the use of sound , made the medium more flexible , more reliable , and more effective . Also there is no doubt that business ' decision to sell itself , inspiring , as it did , a search for more personalized , informal technics of communication , sharply stimulated the development of commercial films . In any case , every available fact and every reputable opinion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commercial producers , and that at least the first half of 1937 was even better . The trade is so chaotic and secretive that authentic comprehensive figures can not be had ; the best-informed estimate of the total volume for 1937 is $7,500,000 ? which would be about $1,500,000 better than the total for 1936 , and $3,500,000 better than the total for 1935 . Perhaps the surest indication of the rapidly increasing acceptance of films by business men is the fact that in 1937 five national advertising agencies set up film departments , and perhaps a dozen more made the investigations necessarily preliminary to such a step . The agencies , which in large measure control the national advertising expenditure , and whose support and recognition is invaluable to a growing advertising medium , had previously ignored commercial films almost altogether . According to the Department of Commerce there were 129 commercial film producers in the United States in 1936 . Only a few of these concern us here : the majority are one-man outfits , fly-by-nights , or otherwise insubstantial firms . Perhaps 18 or 20 are of consequence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or at the most , product advertising and product promotion aimed at dealers and salesmen . Two or three of the largest companies busy themselves almost exclusively with sales and dealer films for the automobile , oil , and rubber industries ? all of which manufacture high-priced products and are thus able to afford a large outlay for films to educate jobbers , dealers , salesmen , and " the trade " at large . Recently a few producers , in and out of Hollywood , have been concentrating on " minute movies " ? more skillful versions of the old trailers , which several national distributing organizations stand ready to place in as many as 8000 second-grade theaters all over the country . Consistently since 1933 , a small group of producers has been making films intended directly or indirectly to improve business ' relations with the public . These firms not only make the films to order ; they actively promote an interest in the principles which inspire the films ; and , moreover , they occasionally seem to understand the implications of the public-relations movement more clearly thansome @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Inc. , one of the more skillful producers , sharply draws in its prospectus the subtle but significant distinction between " institutional " advertising and the new " public-relations " advertising , as follows : INSTITUTIONAL ? In the class of institutional pictures may be included the type of subject that builds and develops general commercial and customer goodwill . " " PUBLIC aittArioNs ? While it is true that the institutional type of picture may be included on a general basis as a public-relations subject , the motion picture is capable of still greater subtleties than are even necessary or desirous in the normal institutional subject . " in the realm of public relations many things nay be implied and suggested that can not even remotely he considered in other channels of approach to the public . " III The medium has its flaw : the films are difficult to distribute effectively ; well-organized , standardized channels of circulation do not exist ( excepting the theaters that have agreed to show minute movies ) . In general , films may he distributed through the sponsor 's own organization , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and expositions ; or public auditoriums all over the country may be rented for showings , which have to be advertised to the public in each locality ? an expensive method . Also it is possible to arrange ordinary theatrical bookings for soundmotion-picture shorts if they have been kept free of direct advertising : in each case the film must first be advertised to the theatrical exhibitors ; they must be " sold " on it , although they probably will be paid for showing it ( if not , they get it free ) . Most valuable to business is the so-called non-theatrical audience , and it is also the hardest to reach . It consists , roughly , of all the separate " publics , " large and small ? fraternal organizations , civic clubs , religious groups , pressure groups , and of course school children of all grades , and college students . Business is trying to sell an idea , and these organizations are the best prospects , being already relatively well-organized . And if business is to do a permanent job of selling , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ case for business , on film , before the non-theatrical audience , a great deal of ingenuity has been expended and a number of improbable channels have been adroitly opened up . We shall describe the most important before proceeding to specific public-relations films . The United States Bureau of Mines will distribute motion pictures made " in co-operation " with industrial concerns under the Bureau 's supervision . This means in practice that the Bureau will distribute any film centered in industrial processes if company names and trademarks and other advertising of that nature have been removed . Such regulations make it impossible to use the Bureau for straight advertising or even old-style institutional advertising ; but it is an advantage not to mention trade names when you are trying to sell a social philosophy . It is true that the great majority of the 4000 reels on file in the Bureau 's library were not made as public-relations subjects ; but certain of them were . The films which it accepts the Bureau sends out to regional " depositaries " to be held pending request by schools , clubs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . During the fiscal year ending June 30 , 1937 , the Bureau 's films were given 100,000 showings before 9,000,000 people . The depositaries themselves ? museums , university extension departments , and the like ? accept commercial films direct from the makers , under regulations somewhat less strict than those postulated by the Bureau of Mines . Therefore they constitute a second effective approach to the non-theatrical audience . The American Museum of Natural History in New York is perhaps the largest of these depositaries ; every year it lends its store of industrial films to churches , schools , CCC Camps , 4H Clubs , resorts , hospitals , prisons , etc. , obtaining ( 1936 ) showings before 11,554,364 people , including the membership of 1,519 schools . Every year 800 to 1000 teachers send the Museum request-schedules for 50 or 60 films , of which it is usually possible to lend only ten ? so far does the demand for this sort of material exceed the supply . Another distributive service of which business may avail itself is the " Guaranteed Distribution of Advertising Motion Pictures @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the Benefit of American Industry . " The Young Men 's Christian Association , recognizing a demand for educational and entertainment shorts , established its Motion Picture Bureau in 1911 and began to send what films there were to YMCA 's , churches , clubs , and the other non-theatrical outlets . The total attendance in 1911 was only 6000 , but ever since , the Motion Picture Bureau has been enlarging the list of non-theatrical exhibitors that regularly take its films ; and in order to provide itself with an ample supply of the most recent industrial pictures , its management has made an increasing effort to co-operate with the corporations that produce them . To-day no less than 25,000 non-theatrical exhibitors borrow prints from the YMCA . Of these , 45 per cent are classed as " educational " ? elementary schools , high schools , universities , and adult education classes ; 22 per cent are " religious " ? women 's and men 's religious societies , church extension workers , and mid-week prayer groups ; 13 per cent arc " community " ? social workers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Camp Fire Girls , civic organizations , etc. ; 11 per cent are " industrial and business " ? service and foremen 's clubs , Chambers of Commerce , conventions and stores ; 9 per cent are YMCA 's and allied groups . In 1936 such exhibitors as these showed the YMCA 's films before 12,000,000 people . In general , while some of the exhibitors merely borrow a film or two each year , a great many of them rely on the YMCA to compile a complete film program for them and supply it . The demand so exceeds the supply that , although the films are lent free , on a request basis , the YMCA is able in practice to control its circulation . Unlike the Bureau of Mines , the YMCA makes a positive effort to secure the desired audience for industrial films , and to assure such films their maximum effect ; accordingly , the large measure of control over circulation that exists is passed on to the film sponsors ; in fact , the one-hundred-odd advertisers who use the YMCA consistently have established a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Motion Picture Bureau in arranging the best possible schedules for industrial films . The Bureau mails out brochures describing its most important films ; it guarantees a circulation of 1,000,000 a year if supplied with 80 prints of a reasonably good film ; and it will arrange special circulations , showing a given film only in steel-manufacturing towns , or only in elementary schools , or only to religious groups , or only to girls , or to adult males ; finally , it will distribute printed matter at all showings , and in all cases agrees to supply advertisers with detailed attendance reports at the end of the year . The Bureau and the Industrial Film Council work together on a nonprofit basis , and the charge for the whole service is $75 per print per year , for a one-reel sound motion picture . It is the " educational " audience that business men regard as most valuable . As Lewis H. Brown , president of the Johns-Manville Corporation said at the 1937 convention of the Association of National Advertisers : We must , with moving pictures and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ generation of to-morrow an interesting story of the part that science and industry have played in creating a more abundant life for those who are fortunate to live in this great country of ours . . . , After all , it is our ownfault if three-fourths of the teachers in our schools and colleges have never been inside a factory . It is our fault if all they know about business and industry is what they read in books and Karl Marx or Henry George . There is very little to prevent anyone from sending films into the schools . In general , " visual education " in our public schools and colleges is under the control of the city , or State , or both . The control is administered by municipal departments of education , libraries , museums , or , more commonly , by State agricultural or teachers ' colleges or State departments of education . The controlling body , whatever it may be , certifies films for educational use , and in most cases stocks acceptable films , and thus itself serves as a part of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ themselves as to what constitutes an acceptable film . Some accept anything ; others , lacking time and money to make a thorough study of the available films , reject all commercial productions ; still others ? perhaps the most numerous group ? accept most commercial films , rejecting only " blatantly commercial " examples . The Ohio State Department of Education vigorously opposes advertising and " propaganda " films ; and the Director of the Bureau of Visual Instruction of the University of Wisconsin skeptically contends that " It costs many hundreds and often thousands of dollars to produce a single one-reel film and such expenditure usually is made with the expectation of an adequate return from increased sale or from shaping of people 's ideals and attitudes to accomplish definite purposes . " The fact is that amid all this confusion there exists a total absence of effective control of visual education on the national scale ; and , therefore , it is almost always possible to obtain a reasonably large school circulation for a given film . Not only do films from the Bureau of Mines and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ each year ; also , many of the commercial film producers maintain contacts with visual-education bodies on their own account , and are thus able to place their clients ' film before the youth of the land . The chief obstacle which confronts business when it attempts to circulate films through our educational system is the general paucity of projectors , and particularly of sound projectors . In 1936 , according to a survey conducted by the American Council on Education , the elementary and secondary schools and school districts of the nation owned only about 10,000 projectors , of which only about 800 were sound ( these figures of course do not take account of rented or borrowed projectors in the schools or of projectors owned by colleges and universities ) . However , there has probably been a rapid increase in the number of sound projectors since these figures were compiled ; and it is not improbable that the educational authorities will be encouraged and helped , more and more in the future , to place sound-motion-picture equipment in the schools . IV We have indicated the chief methods @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consider some of the specific productions intended directly or indirectly to " sell " business . A great many of these films have been made by Audio Productions , Inc. , whose corporate connections fit it to serve business well in this matter . The American Telephone Telegraph Co. controls the Western Electric Co. ; the Western Electric Co. owns Electrical Research Products , Inc . ( ERPI ) , licenser of motion picture equipment ; ERPI owns Audio Productions , and , " through licensees , " manages the Modern Talking Picture Service . Modern serves as distributor for Audio . Its service is built round the 27 ERPI licensees all over the country who stock ERPI 's full line ? I6 and 35 mm. projectors , screens , and microphones ; and in addition , round the 38 ERPI licensees stocking 16 mm. equipment only . These licensees constitute the " basing points " of Modern 's service . Well known in their own localities , where it is their business not only to rent or sell ERPI equipment , but also to manage local film showings at conventions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of public organizations . Thus , through Modern , Audio can offer its clients non-theatrical showings , or showings in public auditoriums . Or , through Modern again , the firm will obtain theatrical bookings , or instruct and equip a sponsor 's own organization to show films . Among the significant films of the past few years was " The New Frontiers , " which the Westinghouse Electrical &; Manufacturing Co. had made by Audio . The producer described the objective of this film as " the proving to the public that Westinghouse plays an important part in national economic life and also effects the lives of every individual in the country . " Modern showed the film before numerous non-theatrical audiences and placed it in schools and colleges as a part of cooking classes . DuPont made a film called " The Wonder World of Chemistry " through Audio , and this has been shown to the regular non-theatrical audience and to employee organizations . Co-operatively , the Advertising Federation of America , the American Associa- - tion of Advertising Agencies , the Association of National Advertisers , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a film called " Golden Years of Progress , " primarily to be shown at the World 's Fair in Chicago ; it was designed to " bring home to the public what a force general advertising had been in giving them the standard of living existing today . " Such pictures as these typify the less intensive efforts to state the case for business . Needless to say , certain business interests have executed film programs of much greater scope . The General Motors Corporation has been making films steadily , for a variety of purposes . " Progress On Parade , " an Audio production , narrated by Lowell Thomas , Edwin C. Hill , John B. Kennedy , and John S. Young , and released early in 1936 , expresses on film the basic theme of the magazine campaign which we described last month , " Who Serves Progress Serves America . " The printed advertisements were couched in very general terms , expounding " the advantage of multiplying wealth instead of dividing it . " " Progress On Parade " took another way to the same end @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intended to sell the film to non-theatrical exhibitors : " America 's number one automobile designer . . . is John Q. Public . it is n't industry that changes , it is YOUI And the picture shows how YOU have changed through the years until , to-day , the modern motor car symbolizes and crystallizes American Progress . " Immediately on release , this picture toured the country as part of the " Parade of Progress , " a motor caravan sent out by General Motors ; 2,250,000 people saw it in this way . Later , prints were turned over to the YMCA to distribute in the usual way , and a two-reel version was prepared for those who wanted longer showings . Since January , 1936 , General Motors has been making also films for intra-organizational distribution , on the theory that the best way to sell an idea to the whole public is to sell it first to the " General Motors people " ? laborers , employees , dealers , and the rest . One such film is " Who Serves Progress , " a four-reel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ divisions within General Motors , and the important part which men , as opposed to machines , play in the corporation 's life . A second film of this sort , called " More Jobs for More People in More Places , " dramatically portrays the expansion of the corporation since 1933 . Such films as these are shown at meetings of the 42 regional " General Motors Clubs " ? loose organizations made up of zone managers , dealers , plant employees , and friends of the corporation . These Clubs have been equipped with 16 mm.sound projectors , and they are encouraged to show General Motors films to civic groups in their localities . Chevrolet , the largest General Motors division , conducts a major film campaign of its own , having made 65 pictures in the past two and one-half years , for a total attendance of 75-80,000,000 within and without the company . Typical of many of these films is one of the most recent , " A Car Is Born , " which shows the construction of an automobile with special attention to the men involved @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chevrolet 's , and many other General Motors productions , has been shown by a crew of 125-odd employees of the Jam Handy Picture Service , Inc. ( largest of the commercial film producers ) ; these men , each fully equipped to stage showings , work steadily over the nation , cooperating with General Motors and Chevrolet and showing General Motors films in factories and in all the regular non-theatrical organizations . For the past two years the steel industry has also been making films intended to improve the public 's attitude toward business . In 1936 , the American Iron and Steel Institute ? which represents every important manufacturer of steel in the country ? had Audio make a one-reel sound-motion-picture short called " Steel . " Neither dialogue nor the explanatory voice of a commentator accompanied the film ; instead , the sound-track contained " an emotion-stirring musical score . " ( Audio 's management is very proud of its musical accompaniments , saying ? and without exaggeration ? that " the skillful use of music adds as much as 40 per cent to 50 per cent to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was produced for theatrical distribution ; the exhibitors accepted it , and by last summer it had been shown before 2,000,000 people . One of the " exploitations " which Audio prepared , for theater-owners to use in connection with the film , was especially astute : it was a plan enabling each exhibitor to arrange essay contests in the schools in his locality , offering free tickets as prizes for the best papers on steel . Also a two-reel version of the picture was prepared , and it has been distributed to schools and other non-theatrical outlets everywhere . Last summer , on its own account , the United States Steel Corporation , through its advertising agency , Batten , Barton , Durstine &; Osborn , retained Technicolor , Inc. ( a Hollywood firm ) , to film a story of steel which will be cut to make three separate pictures for release in February , 1938 . The whole undertaking is by far the most elaborate of its kind ; the production costs alone were $250,000 . The first of the three films ( titles had not been chosen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in technicolor ; the narrator is Edwin C. Hill . The film is destined for theatrical distribution , and is expected to reach a minimum audience of 10,000,000 people . It relates the complete story of iron and steel , from the mines to the salable product , with an emphasis clearly apparent in one of the tentative titles , " The Human Side of Steel , " and in these shots : subforeman Pete Cook of Waukegan ( Ill. ) greeting his wife and children ( two of the latter borrowed for the film ) , who have driven to fetch him after work ; Herman Hagen , wire-mill truck driver , plowing his garden while his three children ( all borrowed ) watch ; Homestead roller Jesse Salters , whose father worked at a blast furnace , whose sons work at the Homestead plant , and who has himself worked in steel since 1896 . The longer films tell the story in greater detail for non-theatrical audiences . The shorter of the two ( probably four reels ) , is a sound film in technicolor , destined to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; and it will also have showings arranged by the subsidiaries of U. S. Steel in their localities . The six-reel version , silent , in black and white , is more technical , and it will be handled chiefly by the Bureau of Mines . There is no doubt that such films as these three state that same case which we described last month as being argued overthe air and in print . The vocabulary is less abstract ; but as Lewis H. Brown of the Johns-Manville Corp . has told business at large : " The only way . . . to do this job ... is for each individual company to tell its own particular story . The more companies that do this , the closer we come to a composite picture of American industry and the benefits it brings to everybody . " This is advice especially pertinent to the creation of motion pictures , wherein the specific implies the general with rare immediacy and force . It is being applied in that field with more skill every day , as a mass of data indicates ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the relevant histories , that of the National Association of Manufacturers . The NAM began to make films in 1936 . Through Audio the Association produced two sound-motion-picture shorts , " America , Yesterday , Today and Tomorrow , " narrated by John S. Young , and " Men and Machines , " narrated by Lowell Thomas . The two pictures played in 4000 theaters , before an audience of 6,000,000 . In 1936 the NAM , also , elaborated the ideas contained in the motion-picture shorts in a series of five talking slide films , made by the Vocafilm Corp. , a specialist in this sort of production . The series was part of an astute plan designed to give corporations somewhat smaller than General Motors and U. S. Steel a chance to contribute to the general effort to improve public relations ? chiefly by " educating " their employees . To business men the NAM offered the series of slide films , together with the following : a sound-slide-film projector ; bulletin-board posters describing the films ; 100 miniature newspapers per film , to give the audiences " something @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ How to Conduct Successful and Interesting Meetings with Your Employees . " ( Sample : " In order to be assured of a 100 per cent attendance , it is desirable to show these pictures on company time . " ) This " package , " known as the " Business Facts Program , " was offered to employers for $125 , with the admonition , " . . . each month finds more well-known corporations added to the list of those offering information courses to their employees . But the vast majority of companies have been woefully negligent . Thus it is not surprising that the opponents of our present industrial system have won thousands of converts . It is not surprising that soap-box orators . . . and preachers of every species of ism find ready listeners . " The five films were these , as described by the NAM : 1 . " ' The Light of a Nation ' gives the story of American institutions . . . and discusses the various ' isms ' which threaten the nation . " 2 . " ' Men and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ machines destroy jobs . " 3 . " ' Flood Tide ' analyzes the present-day tax situation , warns against rising costs of government . " 4 . " ' The Constitution ' points out what this remarkable document means to us and how it preserves our individual freedom and our freedom of enterprise . " 5 . " ' American Standards of Living ' forcibly portrays what the American working man enjoys as the fruit of his labor under the American system . " Here is a quotation from the miniature newspaper intended to be handed out with this last of the five films : " If you walked down a street in any one of England 's factory cities , or wandered in a German manufacturing town , or rode in a rickshaw in China , the people who saw you would stop and watch . If you were close enough you would be apt to hear , spoken with a touch of envy , the words in their language for ' There goes an American . ' " The NAM sold the Business Facts Program to business with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Association 's seven field representatives organized business men 's luncheons , by industries each in turn , in Chicago , Cleveland , Cincinnati , Akron , and 45other key cities , showing the films and following up prospective users afterward . Meanwhile the public-relations department of the NAM in New York carried on an extensive direct mail campaign to acquaint business with the films ' advantages , and with the proper method of handling them : for instance , it was advised that foremen , rather than executives , recommend the slide-film showings in each case ? the implication being that this procedure would avoid governmental criticism . As a result of all this , the Association sold about 350 " packages , " and about 150 sets of films alone . Du Pont bought a package , projector and all , for each of 10 or 15 plants . A few of the other corpora . tions that showed the films to their employees were these : the American Cyanamid Co. ; the Baldwin Locomotive Co. ; Colgate-Palmolive-Peet , Inc. ; the Johns-Manville Corp. ; the Lukens Steel Co. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Inc. ; and a long list of utilities , besides several divisions of General Motors . Civic clubs , fraternal organizations , and the like might also see the films ; they had only to call the nearest Western Union office , and an operator would come over with any one of the films and a projector to put on a showing , for a fee of five dollars . Moreover , hundreds of manufacturers ' associations and other organizations affiliated with the NAM helped to arrange local showings in schools and colleges ( some 200 of which showed the films , sooner or later ) and before the usual clubs and special groups . Executives of many of the corporations that took the films , and their wives , did likewise . For 1937-38 the NAM has extended the original project , which was considered highly successful , by producing two more motion-picture shorts , " Frontiers of the Future " and " America Marching On , " and four new slide films ( by the Vocafilm Corp . ) : " Profits and Progress , " " Everybody 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' Good for business ' is also ' Good for the individual ' " ) , " What 's Ahead , " and Your Money 's Worth " ( " Explaining in simple terms what is Money ... Wealth . . . Capital " ) ; plus a revision of the 1936 slide film about taxes , " Flood Tide " ; and two new slide films , one on safe driving , the other on safety measures in industry . The package containing these films sells for only $40 to the corporations which bought projectors in 1936 ; and it will be promoted and distributed in essentially the same fashion as Iast year 's , enabling business men everywhere to meet " with sound facts the falsehoods and half-truths that imperil the American system . " V The advertising that we have been describing is only one portion of a comprehensive ? although not very well-articulated ? project , intended to shape more satisfactory relations between business and the public . We pointed out this fact last month , but we did not elaborate it because we wanted first to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ used . In the case of General Motors particularly , the management has come to feel the futility of telling the general public that business is conscious of its social responsibilities without also providing each of the smaller " publics " with some concrete proof that this is so . Accordingly , the " Who Serves Progress " advertisements , the radio broadcasts , and such films as " Progress On Parade " have represented merely the most clearly visible fraction of an extensive operation designed to sell General Motors and to sell business from the bottom up . In 1931 , Edward R. Stettinius , Jr . ( now chairman-elect of U. S. Steel ) , was in charge of General Motors ' public relations and industrial relations , the latter being then the more important . He hired Paul W. Garrett to succeed him as public-relations director ; and between that time and this the corporation has evolved a complete equipment , administered directly by Mr. Garrett , for improving relations with every specific group it touches . In 1931 and ' 32 the corporation began mailing letters to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interests were being kept in mind ; and since then , new courtesies or services to stockholders have been instituted every year or so . Also in 1931 , the first of a series of conferences was held at White Sulphur Springs to explain the corporation 's public policies to all its executives and to engage their full co-operation . By 1933 the reasons for selling business to the public were becoming very clear , and General Motors redoubled its activities , establishing , for one thing , the division of Customer Research , which periodically issues questionnaires to a large list of drivers , and interviews others , and compiles their suggestions to use in designing and styling next year 's cars . The corporation explains the undertaking to the public in these terms : " Customer Research can not be looked upon as an isolated departmental activity . To be truly effective , it must be in the nature of a spirit or attitude of mind permeating every phase of a business . Or putting it still a different way , we might say that Customer Research is simply @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Another important phase of the corporation 's public-relations work is its effort to gain the friendship of young people . The Fisher Body Craftsman 's Guild , of which Daniel Carter Beard is the honorary president , began awarding college scholarships to the builders of prize coach models in 1930 . An auto model contest has been added since , and the Guild has served as a nucleus round which to build the rest of the program for youth . In 1934 the corporation began to make the acquaintance of boys between the ages of nine and fifteen by sponsoring , through Chevrolet , the annual " Soap Box Derby " ? a series of downhill races for soapbox automobiles , with national finals for the regional champions . Of this undertaking C. P. Fisken of the Chevrolet Co. has been quoted in advertisements as saying : " It 's the Soap Box Derby against the soap-box orators . How can you have soap-box orators when thousands and thousands of boys are looking for soap boxes ? " The corporation has grown increasingly conscious of the significance of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in conference at White Sulphur Springs : " Since 1929 nearly 17,000,000 young people have come of age . What do they think of the ability of industry to provide for their future ? . . . What is going to be their verdict in the current conflict between individualism and the corporate state ? If you are interested in the part youth is playing in the modern world , study the records of the dictators of Europe . Each move is built around a proposal to give youth a place in the sun . " In 1934 the corporation had begun a series of radio talks on safe driving , and these were used , in 1936 , as the basis of one of the public-relations departments ' major campaigns . Material was made available to teachers to help them start " Junior Auto Clubs " in the schools . Five million copies of a booklet called We Drivers ( modeled on the radio series ) were distributed ; these were offered over the radio , and in several States officials were persuaded to hand them out with license plates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and a film with the same title was made . The Automobile Manufacturers ' Association also took up the cause in 1936 , and now , as we pointed out above , the NAM has begun to circulate two films on safety . Again , in 1936 , General Motors sent a motor caravan called the " Parade of Progress " around the country , following it in 1937 with another called " Previews of Progress . " Both these exhibits probably did more to sell business than to sell cars ? as was intended . In 1936 the Voice of General Motors began speaking on a national network , and the " Progress " ads began appearing in national magazines . The whole program was carried on , with improvements , in 1937 , as it will be again in 1938 . Meanwhile , during the past two or three years , the corporation has been constructing a complementary intra-organizational program which we shall describe next month . The National Association of Manufacturers has been making one of the most spectacular efforts to sell business ; and by capitalizing on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it has greatly increased its own prestige since 1933 . Ever since the early twenties the Association had been conducting a long , dreary campaign to preserve the open shop , without winning any very enthusiastic support from industry in general . However , in 1932 vice president Robert L. Lund of the Lambert Pharmacal Co. was elected president of the NAM , and before his termexpired he had renovated the institution . In 1933 he appointed a director of public relations and began to set up a public-relations department . He organized the first annual " Congress of American Industry " at the time of the 1933 convention ; and early in 1934 he appointed Walter B. Weisenburger , a former president of the St. Louis Chamber of Commerce , to reorganize the Association and to increase its influence . Late in 1934 Lund organized the Public Relations Committee of the NAM , becoming its chairman , and a little later the Association 's public relations program really got its start . Early in 1935 the NAM 's National Industrial Information Committee formed under Ernest T. Weir of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ number of the more prominent business men belong , acts as a kind of liaison between business and the people , and as a policy-making organ ; the Public Relations Committee 's function is administrative , and the public-relations department of the NAM carries on the day-to-day work . To complete its schedule of co-operative ads , radio broadcasts , and films , the Association has been issuing a weekly " Industrial Press Service " to more than 5000 small-town newspaper editors , all of whom have requested it , and who reprint its numberless restatements of industry 's views . The NAM also syndicates a cartoon called " Uncle Abner , " with political and social overtones , to about 300 daily papers ; it issues a business man 's service , for executives lacking a public-relations department , which consists of posters and leaflets to be distributed to employees , and news items and editorials to be reprinted in house organs ; and it issues bulletins on agriculture , legislation , and corporation law , and a bulletin for foremen and superintendents . Finally the NAM syndicates an editorial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " to some 300 daily papers with a combined circulation of about 4,000,000 . Seven economists write a column each per week , on the social and economic questions of the day ; the NAM finances the venture , but the economists ' opinions are said to be their own . In December , 1935 , Colby Chester , chairman of the board of the General Foods Corporation , was elected president of the NAM , and along with Lund , Ernest T. Weir , S. Bayard Colgate of ColgatePalmolive-Peet , George H. Houston of the Baldwin Locomotive Co. , Lammot du Pont , and Charles R. Hook , president of the American Rolling Mill Co. , he is considered to have done much to build up the considerable reputation as a spokesman for business that the NAM holds to-day . However , Chester had a great deal to do with the public-relations movement in his primary capacity as chairman of General Foods . Late in 1935 he had a survey of public opinion made , which revealed the general distrust of big business , and he presented it to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ response on record from the assembled financiers . In September , 1936 , he had President Clarence Francis of General Foods take another survey , covering the public 's opinion of banks , to the convention of the American Bankers ' Association . Undoubtedly these and others of Chester 's works have measurably helped persuade the financial community to join the public-relations movement . VI In any case , the movement that has been fostered since 1933 by General Motors and the NAM , besides the U. S. Chamber of Commerce and a few such individuals as Bruce Barton , has by this winter found support in every quarter . The U. S. Steel Corporation began public-relations advertising to the consumer in 1935 ; in the summer of 1936 it appointed J. Carlisle MacDonald as assistant to the chairman , to take charge of public relations ; and by the spring of 1937 it had established regional public-relations offices in Birmingham , Chicago , Cleveland , Pittsburgh , and San Francisco . The American Bankers ' Association , which had begun a " Constructive Customer Relations " program in 1933 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of bank employees in molding public opinion , " last summer had begun sending out a series of careful studies of public relations methods for bankers , including such advice as this : " . . the loaning function , instead of being wholly without public-relations value , can be employed to help create among the people of a community a better feeling toward bankers . " Also , late in 1937 , the advertising department of the ABA had prepared an electrically transcribed radio program called " Money Matters , " written round a mythical banker named John Sterling ; by December , sets of the transcriptions were being offered for sale to bankers all over the nation , to be put on the air under their signatures , in their localities . As the Association told its members : " These programs . . give you the opportunity to go into countless homes , by means of radio , and say the things you would like to tell these people in person . " The Stock Exchange elected Charles R. Gay president in 1935 , and he has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and friendlier attitude toward the public and the press ; and since November , 1936 , he has caused monthly letters to be sent to 600,000 Exchange members ' customers all over the country , explaining the functions and policies of the Exchange to them . Meanwhile the smaller firms in heavy industry have been going through the preliminary motions , with intent to join the general movement . Late in 1936 , vice president Bennett Chapple of the American Rolling Mill Co. spoke to the representatives of these firms , gathered at the convention of the National Industrial Advertisers ' Association ( NIAA ) . He told them how the U. S. Chamber of Commerce , the NAM , General Motors , and Ford had been selling business . He pointed out that " The growing develop . ment of the employee representation ( i.e. : " company union " ) movement in our large industries opens a splendid opportunity for the presentation of economic facts among the rank and file of industry . " He reminded his listeners that " The NIAA is especially fortunate because it is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and for this reason is in a position to effect the direct mobilizations of these forces . " He suggested that the industrial advertisers agree to devote a certain fraction of their total annual advertising space to a statement of the general case for business . And finally he called for a " mobilization " of the interested parties . As a result of Mr. Chapple 's speech , a committee on public relations was appointed , and at the convention in 1937 its chairman recommended specifically that the NIAA invite the heads of the other groups " which have thus far carried the burden of the work " to a conference , whose object would be to form a " representative national committee including in its membership leaders of major industries . " Prospectively , this national committee would : first , educate business men themselves as to their responsibilities ; second , foster local activities designed to improve public relations at the base ; third , address the public at large , through the various media . The chairman of the committee on public relations called for an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ case the important fact is that another organized group of business men has been brought actively to endorse the general effort to improve public relations . That effort has not lacked for financial support , but its effectiveness , over a long period , will clearly depend largely on moral support ? on a unanimous , or nearly unanimous endorsement by the business men of America . For the social principles which the leaders of business are trying to sell to the people postulate a community of interest not only between business and the public but among business men themselves . Powerful efforts are indeed being made to broaden the base on which the present movement rests ; we shall discuss them next month , in the final article of this series . 