@@469680

most human beings these secondary social adaptations of behavior , such as kindness , forbearance , and general decency of conduct toward one 's fellowmen , are still somewhat incomplete and imperfect , as clearly appears in times of stress or danger . And the extent to which the highest forms of human altruistic social adaptations have real and enduring survival values has yet to be measured . It can be argued with some plausibility that the reason they give the appearance of having some survival value , or at least of not being positively harmful , is because they became even comparatively widespread only during that recent portion of human history in which living has been relatively easy for nearly all mankind . In a world where getting a living was easy , altruistic social relations were correspondingly easy . Instances and localities of a real struggle for existence between individual men ( other than during large-caliber wars or in the processes incident to the assumption of the " white man 's burden " ) have been rare since the beginning of the nineteenth century . And @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enterprise ; nor is it at all uncertain that the pleasures of " civilizing " backward peoples are , like those of condescension , singularly one-sided . The urge to reproduce has as its more important consequences population growth , with its part in the struggle for existence and natural selection , and heredity with its concomitants , development and growth . For heredity is most clearly to be apprehended as an aspect of reproduction . Living things do not merely reproduce ; they reproduce themselves . This makes it clear that , viewed philosophically , the urge to reproduction is part of the primal urge to survival . Naturally this self-reproductive process tends toward social as well as biological stability . Genes are almost incredibly stable and resistant to alteration in the natural and usual circumstances of life . For something over fifteen years there has been going on in my laboratory a continuous experiment designed to test this point in a simple and direct way . This experiment has now included over 300 successive generations ? perhaps the longest bit of controlled breeding ever carried out , with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Allowing 30 years as a round figure for the average duration of a human generation , the time equivalent in human reproduction of this experiment would be 9,000 years ? considerably longer than the total span of man 's even dimly recorded history . The objective of this experiment with the fruit fly Drosophila has been to see whether a simple Mendelian ratio involving but one character would or could be altered in the passage of time by such natural forces as selection , different systems of breeding ( such , for example , as that called " grading up " by livestock breeders ) , and wide alterations of the environment nearly up to the limits of the organism 's ability to go on living at all . The net result of the experiment has been to show that the gene involved has preserved its initial characteristics unaltered . So also has the cellular mechanism for the shuffling and sorting of the genes in each generation . The demonstration of the inherent stability of the genic mechanism of heredity given by this experiment is extremely impressive . Analogous phenomena @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ considerable numbers of firmly established instances of organisms living to-day that are specifically identical with their progenitors in earlier geological eras . In human biology the conservative and stable element of true biological heredity is supplemented and reinforced by what has been variously called " social heredity , " or tradition , or the mores of the group to which the individual and his stirp belong . This is of course not inheritance at all in a proper biological sense . It is rather an environmental matter at bottom . A born Englishman transported to America as a child may , and in fact usually does , come as a man to think and act like an American . But to make him do this if he lives his whole life in England among the people of his kind would be virtually impossible . And it is a matter of statistical fact that vastly more human beings live out their lives not far from where they were born and among their kind of people than migrate or are transplanted into realms of other traditions and mores . The 1931 census of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ five hundred thousand odd people listed by birthplace fewer than one million were living in places other than those in which they were born . In consequence of this stay-at-homeness of most human beings , " social inheritance " or tradition plays an enormous but usually underestimated part in determining their individual and collective behavior . Its effects have not infrequently been confused with those of true biological heredity . Masses of data have been collected to show that near relatives , particularly fathers and sons , frequently follow the same professions or callings . It is often quite erroneously concluded that such facts prove a biological inheritance of talent or ability , either in general , or for a particular calling , or both . Such data are inherently incapable of proving any such conclusion . The observations can be much more simply and satisfactorily accounted for in the main by the operation of the purely environmental factors of familial contact from childhood , training , easy opportunity of entrance , and the social pressure of tradition ; in short by " social " not biological inheritance . The power @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ non-living machines do not , is a part of the general phenomenon of organic variability fraught with far-reaching social consequences . Organisms incessantly change and alter themselves to meet the fleeting changes in their circumstances . No living organism ever stays put . When it does it is dead , and in dying has passed into a wholly different category of matter . The process goes even deeper than change and adaptability in behavior . The very material substance itself that makes up the living organism is constantly changing . What then does " personal identity " connote ? What we are pleased to call the same identical man at the age of seventy years is composed of extremely little , if any , of the same material substance that was in him when he was twenty years old . Probably there is not a single molecule at seventy that was there at twenty . In the intervening years the only thing about him that has survived is his pattern , a sort of transcendental or spiritual wraith through which has flowed a steady stream of matter and energy . There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a living organism to a whirlpool . It is the pattern that is the essence of the business . It alone endures . And it is constantly altering and adapting itself to changing circumstances . Especially is this true and important of the psychological panel of the total pattern of the human organism . The effective environment of any particular living organism is determined by the pattern of that organism just as truly as the pattern of the organism is , in part at least , determined by the environment . For a particular man and for a group of similar men , but not for any mouse , the relative honesty of his banker and the urbanity of his dean are highly important elements in the effective environment . And what makes them so is not the bankishness of the banker or the deanishness of the dean , but the pattern of the particular man of whom we are speaking ? a pattern not shared by the mouse . In short , the relation between organism and environment is everywhere and always mutually reciprocal , and as man is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all organisms , so also is his effective environment the most complicated . More extensively and more effectively than any other organism he makes his own environment . He is constantly altering it in the hope of making it better . But such is the interplay of the contradictory biological elements in his nature that he dislikes and resists any alteration of his environment by anyone else than himself or the group of people similar to himself to which he belongs . The social and political consequences of these opposing attitudes are far-reaching and encompass within their range the greater part of our communal troubles in this imperfect world . The full implications of the reciprocally determinative influences of organism and environment have not been generally adequately valued in the last century 's development of biological thought . This is partly an obvious consequence of the trend given to biological philosophy by Darwin , Gallon , Weismann , and Mende ! , with their emphasis upon the entailed or endowed element in the whole biological picture . In human biology particularly the role played by heredity has come to take on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it has been urged that eugenics shouldbe overtly espoused and developed as a religion . And all this in a world where consciously planned and directed alterations of environmental conditions have had far-reaching and profound biological effects upon whole populations , not alone in the field of public health but in many others . In truth science , perhaps in common with all other modes of human thought , has a seemingly ineradicable tendency to crystallize its temporarily successful philosophies into dogma and , having accomplished the crystallization , to proceed to the scourging of whatever skeptics and heretics may appear . Public-health workers sometimes display a religious attitude toward their achievements as intense as the crusading zeal of the eugenists for their dogmas . Only a few hardy souls throughout history and at the present time seem able to realize for longer than brief periods that new knowledge is engendered more often than in any other way out of skepticism by hard work , and that religious attitudes and modes of thought enlisted for however noble a purpose not only have nothing whatsoever to do with science , but are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . II Let us now turn to the examination of some of the more conspicuous and far-reaching social consequences of the basic biological principles we have briefly reviewed . The three most obvious and important ones are that : I. Man is enjoying better health and individually surviving longer than ever before , likes it , and intends to go farther along the same road . 2 . He is vaguely conscious of being more crowded than ever before , and finds the various consequences of this crowding increasingly unpleasant , but chiefly because it threatens that enhanced survival which is his first and deepest biological concern . 3 . Therefore , he is groping about to find ways to alleviate the progressive overcrowding and preserve the health and survival gains he has made ; trying a great variety of experiments , some of which are sensible , others highly dubious , and a few completely idiotic . For the sake of clarity these three statements need some expansion . The urge to survival is the ultimate biological motivating factor that has transferred the maintenance and improvement of health from an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ field have been enormous . How enormous perhaps only a statistician can appreciate . This is not the place to go into the question of how they have been achieved . But the interesting thing about the case , broadly viewed , is that , without the abatement by a single hit of the basic individual selfishness in which the biological urge for survival is rooted , it has been perceived that it can be most effectively served so far as health is concerned by making a social matter of a great part of it . Assuring a pure water supply and innocuously disposing of the waste matters of living are things that the individual simply can not do well . Society can . And the social progression of the urge to survival in the field of health is by no means at an end yet . In two directions we may confidently look forward to great further changes and advances in the rather immediate future . In the first place , whether we or the physicians like it or not , it seems clear that the maintenance and improvement of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ social matter . The basic reasons are twofold , partly because of the continued normal evolutionary further growth of the same ideas and considerations that have brought us to where we are now regarding public health ; partly because of economic and political considerations . The number of persons who at the present time get inadequate medical care because they can not individually afford to pay for adequate ( and lacking it endanger other peoples ' health ) is so large that as a group they are already in a position politically to demand and get necessary medical service , and may reasonably be counted upon shortly to do so . In the second place it seems reasonable to suppose that advances in medical science are going to continue . The past seventy-five years ? an excessively small fraction of mankind 's earthly history ? have witnessed more progress in knowledge of disease and its effective treatment and prevention than was made in all the time that went before . And , objectively viewed , the rate of advance in medical discovery seems plainly to be accelerating rather than slowing . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the urge to reproduce , it is immediately to be noted that the growing consciousness of overcrowding ? too many people in the world for comfort ? is not the resultant of such simple matters as lack of space in which to build dwellings or to move about , or of inability to produce food enough to satisfy the collective hunger . It is the that the total number of living human beings on the globe at this moment has passed the two billion mark . But the gross land area of the globe is about thirty-five billion acres , so that on an equal parcelling each individual man , woman , and child would have over seventeen acres . If the total population of the earth were to be forcibly put upon the smallest of the continents ? Australia ? there would still be , on an equal division , well over an acre for each individual . Similarly relative to food , whatever trouble there is relates to distribution rather than to production . Such famines as now occur happen not because there is not enough food produced to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ getting it to the hungry works imperfectly . The social consequences of population growth present a much more subtle and complicated problem than mere space or food . The suggestion just made that the total land area of the globe might be equally divided per head of population is an obviously fantastic one , with only sterile arithmetic meaning . Not all the land is equally useful for sustaining human life either directly or indirectly . Some of it is of no use whatever . And this brings us to the crux of the population problem , which is that each unit of the population must somehow or other get its lining . All other forms of life except man get their living by one or the other or a combination of two direct ways . These are either by preying upon other living things , plant or animal , or by directly converting inorganic materials into living substance . Man to-day gets his living by indirect processes conveniently labelled economic . In the main he is employed in doing things which he can trade with somebody else for the requisites @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ become so large , and the discoveries and applications of science have made the producing of the things that can be traded so much easier than it used to be , that great numbers of people all over the world find themselves unable to get a living by this process that was formerly so relatively simple . The rapid development of the industrial type of civilization in the nineteenth century made the gloomy prophecies of Malthus at its beginning look silly . The population grew at a tremendous pace when he thought its growth would be checked by want and misery . And people , by and large , were having a grand timewhile their number was increasing , because they were experiencing the enormous improvements in the physical comforts of living that came with the advance and applications of science . But these very factors , plus the enhanced survival rate coincident with the development of public health , caused the ugly specter of unemployment to rear itself higher and higher until it has now become the most serious problem that humanity faces . At this point it is to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consequence of the relation of individual man 's biology to his age , approximately 50 per cent of all human beings have to earn the livings not only of themselves but also the major part of that of the other 50 per cent . Man develops slowly . Children are incapable of earning their own livings before they are about 15 years old and have passed approximately a sixth of their total life span and between a third and a fourth of their average life duration . At the other end of life , the support of the great majority of human beings over 50 years of age must come in whole or in considerable part either from the efforts of the active workers between 15 and 50 or from what they themselves were able to save while they were in their productively efficient ages . In practically all countries the sum of the numbers of persons under 15 and of those over 50 is almost exactly equal to the number of those between 15 and 50 years of age . But over and above this burden , that may fairly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ workers are now called upon to support the unemployed . No small part of the unemployed are so because they are unemployable ? not sufficiently fit and able in a biological sense to make an honest living in a world organized as this one is . These unfit organisms are kept alive by the rest of society for no realistically demonstrable reason other than that they were once born , and by being born somehow placed upon the rest of mankind what has gradually come to be regarded as a permanently binding obligation to see that they do not die . The remainder of the unemployed are so because there are too many fit , able , and employable people in the world to do the necessary world 's work , the aggregate amount of which has been , is being , and will continue to be steadily reduced by discoveries and improvements in the sciences and arts . Mankind is trying in several ways to meet this situation . The first and in the long run perhaps the most important way is by reducing its reproductive rate through the practice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with at least some justification , that even the admittedly imperfect technics of contraception as they are now known constitute the most important biological discovery ever made . While historians of the subject attempt to show that the practice of contraception is almost if not quite as ancient as man 's recorded history , actually the birth rates of large population aggregates did not begin to be sensibly affected by it until roughly the last quarter of the nineteenth century ; that is to say , since the beginning of the rapid development of the highly organized , integrated , and urbanized industrial type of civilization . At the present time the effects of contraception on the birth rate are plainly apparent over large and leading parts of the world 's population , and are growing at a rather rapid rate . The practice of birth control is a thoroughly sound , sensible , and in the long run effective method of meeting the problem consequent upon the biological urge to reproduction operating in a universe of definitely limited size . The only objection of importance that can be urged against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The socially and economically more fortunate classes of mankind have practiced contraception more regularly , frequently , and effectively than the less fortunate social and economic classes , with consequently reduced reproductive rates . It is contended by some that this has brought about a steady deterioration and degeneration of man as a species , and will continue to do so until all progress is stopped . After prolonged study of the matter it is my opinion that the alleged detrimental consequences of this class differential fertility upon the aggregate biological and social fitness and worth of mankind , while doubtless present in some degree , have probably been exaggerated in the reformer 's zeal to make his case . This is not the place , nor is there space , to state and document all the reasons that have led me to this view . But there are certain considerations that must be mentioned because they have been so consistently overlooked or suppressed . The first is the tacit assumption that lies at the very root of the argument . This assumption is that , generally speaking and with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are in that position because they are composed of not only mentally , morally , and physically , but also genetically superior people . But it may be alleged with at least equal truth that these very persons who are regarded as mentally , morally , and physically superior are that way in no small part only because they and their forebears have been fortunate socially and economi cally . The vast majority , in absolute numbers , of the most superior people in the world 's history have in fact been produced by mediocre or even in many cases inferior forebears ; and furthermore , the admittedly most superior folk have in the main been singularly unfortunate in their progeny , again considering absolute numbers . It is true that the evidence indicates that superior persons tend to produce on the average a somewhat higher proportion ( per hundred or per thousand ) of superior children than do more mediocre folk . But even this proportion is not so much higher as eugenic propaganda tends to make people ignorant of the statistical facts believe it to be . It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have larger families if you can persuade them ( though experience shows that this is not easy to do ) . But eugenic policies that propose to curtail differentially the reproductive performance of average run-of-mine humanity had best be cautiously embarked upon . Naturally it is to be understood that what has been said does not refer to the problem of the really biologically defective and degenerate members of society . There the eugenic position is sound and admirable in principle . The breeding of such people must be stopped , and by compulsory measures . Voluntary birth control will not help appreciably to the solution of the problem , for the persons concerned are not of a sort to make effective use of contraception . If all the contraceptive technics in the world were made fully available to them they would still go on breeding . One final point and I shall have done with this phase of our subject . It is a curious fact that at every stage of man 's history from at least the time of Plato ? and indeed of Theognis of Megara a century @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as certain as are some present-day eugenists , and just as deeply grieved , that mankind was going rapidly to the dogs because the right kind of people were not breeding enough and the wrong kind of people were breeding too much . Perhaps men are nearer the dogs now than they were in the Alexandrian age ; but I venture to doubt it . The evidence seems to me overwhelming that mankind is , on an average , mentally , morally , and physically much superior to-day to what it was when Socrates died . III So much for birth control and the eugenic objections to its alleged consequences . We turn now to the most ineffective , cruel , and altogether foolish large-scale method by which society tries periodically to ameliorate the consequences of the biological urge to reproduction , namely war . If this characterization is reasonably in accord with reality why do we go on having wars ? The reason has been stated with precision by a clear thinking human biologist , C. C. Walker , in the following words : The natural striving after security by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ endeavors CO exist , must affect the security of other peoples . Because when a people endeavors to ensure its existence , by reason of it automatic reactions to the problems connected with food-supply , security , and social stability , its endeavors will conflict with the strivings of other peoples who are also subject to the same environmental problems . Each people is only trying to exist . When a people considers that its existence is threatened by a particular environment . . . to such an extent that no adaptation to the environment will suffice , it is forced to attempt to alter that environment . But other people may consider that any alteration of that environment affects its own existence . The result is war . Is there any reason to suppose that this biologically natural process , with its characteristic of almost rhythmic recurrence , will ever come to an end ? It seems to me there can be such a hope only in the long ? very , very long ? run . And the only reason I can see for even this deferred hope is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and cheapness of transportation and coramunication between all parts of the world . The slow but steady and sure biological effect of easy getting about will inevitably be more and more interbreeding , with a gradual lessening of the racial and national differences between human beings . In the far-off end all mankind will presumably be a rather uniform lot ; all looking , thinking , and acting pretty much the same way , like sheep . Just in proportion as racial and national differentials diminish so will the frequency of wars diminish . But the diminution seems likely to be at a fearfully slow rate . And a low cynic might suggest that even war , horrid and stupid as it is , would he preferable to that deadly uniformity among men toward which we are slowly but surely breeding our way . Society here and abroad is just now experimenting with a whole series of internal readjustments that are being forcibly imposed upon temporarily dazed but always adaptable populations , in the hope that out of them will come a real and permanent solution of the problem that man @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of these experiments appear to fall into a few simple categories when realistically examined . They all stem from and put into practice one or the other of two ideas , neither of which finds unqualified support in the science of biology . The first of these ideas is that it is best to let one individual in a group run the group 's affairs ; permanently , absolutely , and without interference , on the philosophy that averaged opinion and averaged action are as stupid , inefficient , and unreal as an average egg is innutritious . The other and opposite idea is that it is best to have the whole group run the business as a whole , allowing no individual any powers except as a merely mechanical executor of the group 's will , on the philosophy that no individual is really superior to another and that , therefore , in averaged opinion and action wisdom alone resides . In their practical implementation , performance , and effects both ideas turn out to be singularly alike . Both alike scorn the intermediate idea of true democracy . And @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the world by a simple procedure universally regarded as criminal when practiced by an individual . It is that the more abundant life is to be assured to a too abundant people by stealing goods from the prudent and efficient and then giving them to the imprudent and inefficient . Since there are always a great many more of the latter kind of people than of the former , this turns out temporarily to be the most effective political device ever heard of . Whether it will prove to be so permanently is less certain . Adaptable as man is , there are , nevertheless , elements of conservative stability in his biological make-up whose roots go back to the very beginning of his evolution . And in that perfect state of society envisaged by our major prophets , where " economy of plenty " will assure , as we are told , that no one will have to work much for a living , and where the higher philosophy that holds " human rights above property rights " ( without perhaps dearly understanding what it means by either ) assures @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ public expense whether he works or not , is there not the barest possibility that there might appear a somewhat general inclination on the part of the more intelligent members of the group to opt for the philosophy rather than for the communal work ( however slight in amount ) ? If anything like this should happen might not the economy of plenty some day find itself once again in a parlous state of unplenty ? Not being myself a dependable prophet , I venture no answer . But in any case , and regardless of details , it is difficult to convince a biologist that a social philosophy will endure for any great length of time that deliberately and complacently loads upon the always weary backs of the able and fit an overgrowing burden . If there is one thing certain in the science of biology it is that no species or variety of plant or animal has long survived that was intrinsically incapable of making its own living . There is somewhere a biological limit to altruism , even for man . A large part of the world to-day @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exact locus of that limit as speedily as possible . IV Up to this point the discussion has been of the social consequences of firmly established biological principles . In what regions of biology may there be expected with some confidence developments new in principle and with important implications for human behavior , thought , and social relations ? The advances in the field of genetics , which has to a considerable degree dominated biological thought during nearly a half century and will probably continue to for some time yet , will inevitably have an increasing influence on human affairs as the meaning of its advances is better understood . But this influence seems on the whole likely to be more of a negative than positive character ? a matter of avoidances , taboos , and prohibitions rather than of positive contributions to human biological progress . Heredity represents the entailed side of biology ? things given ? about which it is extremely difficult really to do anything effective in the face of other compelling elements of human life and living , especially those elements belonging in the psychobiological realm . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ physiology and psychobiology may profoundly alter human affairs and outlooks in the not very distant future , and particularly in the direction of the greater release and more effective control of the energies and potentialities of man ( and of other living things at will ) . In recent years the investigations and deductions of the psychiatrists , endocrinologists , and psychobiologists have thrown a beginning glimmer of real light upon the underlying biological bases of the activities and conduct of living things , and especially of man . We are beginning to understand in some detail how conduct , normal and abnormal , moral and immoral , is the expression of " animal drives " or urges ? rather than of either free will or terrestrial and heavenly precepts . It does not seem extravagant to expect that as this understanding broadens and deepens , ways may be found to bring it about that men will act somewhat more intelligently and less harmfully in politics , business , society , religion , and elsewhere generally , than they sometimes have in the past . The ever-widening and deepening flow of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a philosophy of life based on releases , in contradistinction to the philosophy of life based upon inhibitions and prohibitions that has so long held us enthralled . I am not unaware that current political philosophies in various parts of the world look backward in this regard , and insist on more prohibitions and regimentations . But nature is never in a hurry . And that odd bird the Blue Eagle was much shorter lived than even the poorest dinosaur . This current trend of biology of which we have just been speaking has many different aspects . There are some who will recall the widespread interest and discussion stirred up many years ago by an essay of the late William James entitled " The Energies of Men . " It dealt with the release of normally untapped and unsuspected potentialities of men under certain conditions , sometimes those of shock and stress , sometimes under the impulsion of the will . Examples were given of men who , though enfeebled by poor health , performed feats of strength that would tax the finest athlete when they encountered conditions that demanded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ problem is being explored in the laboratory . We have experimented with seedlings grown under very exactly controlled conditions such that all the matter and energy for growth and living ( save for water and oxygen ) come from the food materials stored in the embryonic leaves of the seed planted , which themselves are an integral part of the plant . Under these experimental conditions the seedling goes through a complete life cycle of sprouting , growth , adulthood , old age , and eventual death . This life cycle corresponds quantitatively very closely to the normal life cycle of the plant in the field , except that it is greatly compressed and foreshortened in time . By appropriate aseptic surgical procedures we have removed carefully measured parts of the stored food resources of the cantaloupe seeds we have used , and then observed the relative performance of such mutilated seedlings as compared with the normal controls in respect of growth and duration of life . The net result is to demonstrate that the mutilated plants grow much larger and live many times longer as compared with the normal controls @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ amount of matter and energy for living available to them after the operation . The operated seedlings utilized their available food resourcesmuch more effectively than the normal plant does . It is as though an inhibitor had been removed , freeing potentialities for more adequate expression . The possibilities suggested by these experiments seem far-reaching , though admittedly the exploration of the field has only just begun . " Work in this direction on plants and lower animals may result in such an understanding of the physiology of releasing normally inhibited biological potentialities as to enable man to unleash effectively and usefully more of his own energies . In the field of human biology the admitted and crying need is for adequate synthesis of existing knowledge . It is an obvious truism that we know more in detail about the biology of man than about that of any other organism . Anatomists , physiologists , anthropologists , psychologists , sociologists , and economists have by analytical methods piled up a body of detailed information about man that is literally colossal . But what does it all mean for humanity ? Every @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ moral necessity to go forward in the attempt to get a better and more comprehensive understanding of the whole nature of man . The material , mechanized civilization he has evolved may easily become a monster to destroy him unless he learns to comprehend , develop , and control his biological nature . The bulk of scientific effort is , and always has been , directed towards analysis unaccompanied by synthesis . Scientific men have mainly left it to philosophers and literary men to be the synthesizers of their data , shirking the task themselves with a few notable exceptions , of whom perhaps the greatest was a biologist , Charles Darwin . But analysis at best only furnishes knowledge , while synthesis may lead to wisdom . And mankind sorely needs more wisdom right here and now !                     