@@222410

The Grand Old Party of Lincoln , McKinley and Harding last week received the ultimate insult . In the American Magazine shrewd old Charles ( " Charley the Mike " ) Michelson , ace Democratic press-agent whose propagandizing since 1928 gets an owl 's share of credit for returning his Party to power and keeping it there , published a straight-faced article titled My Advice to the G. O. P. <P> Political observers reacted as sportsmen would if Yale 's football coach , having reduced Harvard to the status of an early-season setup , should publicly advise the Crimson how to come back . Depending on how they assayed his advice , readers guessed : that Pressagent Michelson was having some sly fun with his old enemies , that the wrinkled old battler genuinely longed to match his wits once more with a worthy opponent , or that " Charley the Mike , " with Michiavellian cunning , was deliberately attempting to steer the tottering Elephant over a precipice . <P> If they could trust his sincerity , Republicans could have found no sager counselor than Charley Michelson @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , when National Chairman John J. Raskob hired oldtime Newshawk Michelson as No. 1 Democratic press tactician and speechwriter in 1928 , political observers were as ready to inter the Donkey 's carcass as they are now ready to bury the Elephant 's . " I am really trying to think with a Republican 's head , " wrote Charley Michelson as he set about planning a resurrection such as he once helped to accomplish . <P> After noting the lack of discipline and direction which marked the Republican campaign of 1936 , Master Mind Michelson pronounced : ' The party , in my opinion , needs a Mark Hanna , or a Matt Quay . " First declaring that he does not know Republican National Chairman John D. M. Hamilton well enough to surmise whether he has the requisite " iron in his soul ' ' to ride roughshod over the wishes of this or that segment of his followers , Mr. Michelson indicated his opinion by suggesting another candidate : Herbert Hoover 's Secretary of the Treasury Ogden Livingston Mills . " He is a vigorous fellow , with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ theories . He has , in addition , that quality of autoappreciation which is variously translated as egoism or self-confidence . That is not a quality which endears a man to his fellows , but the Boss is rarely a friendly fellow . " <P> What made oldtime G. O. P. bosses successful , says Charley Michelson , was " ignoring the mutterings of the Liberal group of Republicans . " The same principle , he thinks , will work in the future . Only chance for a Republican comeback is to stop straddling the liberal-conservative fence , return to the " rock-ribbed citadel of oldtime , fundamental conservatism . " That is why Alf Landon and John Hamilton , both tainted with Western progressivism , should be tossed overboard . The Republican National Chairman should be an emotional as well as physical resident of Manhattan , should " sit at the feet of the magnates , political and financial , and saturate himself with their philosophy . "                     