@@487816

THE casualties of Munich are not to be comprehended in terms of boundaries or economic loss or even in the imminent collapse of empires . They include , just as significantly , the individual victims of betrayal  --  the refugees without a refuge , whose faces , blasted clear of hope , we have seen in the newsreels and the picture supplements . The loss of liberty by peoples who have been tolerably free  --  a consequence that has scarcely begun to make itself felt  --  is another item in a total not yet found . Only by degrees are the figures in the monstrous calculation falling into line ; only by degrees are we coming to realize that the final sum will be a new world . We are slow to understand because one of the chief casualties of Munich is the capacity to grasp its full sense  --  even among those whose business it is to analyze the evidence . This is a fact that may loom large in the final toll of calamity , if only because it insures the lead in this critical time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ruthless and aggressive . The feeble resistance of the labor parties in France and Great Britain to the Daladier-Chamberlain plot is a clear example of a condition that in some measure affects the whole left  --  and many men and groups not usually included in the left . In the liberal journals of England and the United States the desperate struggle for a foothold in the future is as evident as it has been in the weak rebuttals in the British and French parliaments . They appraise the past sharply , assign blame confidently ; but when they look ahead , it is with anxious uncertainty . Whether to support or oppose armament programs , whether to defend distant possessions , whether to pre-I pare for war at all or to cling to some tenuous formula of appeasement  --  liberals and pacifists are uncertain . The more extreme isolationist pacifists begin to doubt whether the policy of jumping into a hole and pulling it in after them will really protect our beleaguered democracy ; or whether moral force will distract Hitler from his further ambitions . As for those , like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ security , who have insisted that only a solid , democratic resistance would stop fascist aggression , they have the sorry consolation of knowing that they were right  --  and that is all . Even the Socialists and Communists are for once without a formula . Revolutionary opposition and class war are all but ended in the democratic countries and will be hard to revive in the face of immediate armed threats ; and the tactic of the popular front has met its death blow . Russia withdraws visibly behind its fortifications , and repents its venture in international cooperation . Before the mental and political conditions necessary to a vital socialist movement reemerge , fascism may have won the day . We have little enough time either to recover our confidence or to devise a technique for making democracy prevail here and in the rest of the Western world . But it will take time . Only a Churchill or a Lloyd George can meet the challenge by simply shouting for arms and a bold front . Those of us who oppose fascism from the left benches must first discover @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foreign policy . Only if we make sure of the moral basis of such action can we afford either to support arms programs or encourage " appeasement " plans . In the United States it is relatively easy to project a beginning of such a policy , impossible yet to see its full implications . But even a beginning is more than has been accomplished so far , in spite of a New Deal government and a State Department committed to good-neighborliness and trade pacts . That strange mixture of democratic good-will , moral indignation , irresponsible detachment , and a sharp nose for profits that characterizes our foreign policy has , we fear , all the earmarks of the current American mood . Liberal opinion must agree on the elements of a program and then press them upon the people and the government . It is not frivolous to demand , as a first essential of a sane policy toward Europe , that Ambassador Kennedy be either withdrawn from London or firmly repressed . His boyish enthusiasm for collaboration with dictators is as shocking today as it may prove troublesome @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that we must oppose . The essence of the matter is that American action must no longer be geared into the cog-wheels of reactionary British policy . It was bad to be subservient before Munich ; now it is intolerable . The obvious corollary of this position is that we should adopt an independent course toward Spain . Time is now short . At this moment Chamberlain and Mussolini are working out the terms of Spain 's final betrayal ; a decision is promised within a few days . If President Roosevelt really cares about the survival of democracy he will raise the embargo against Loyalist Spain immediately ; no other single act would more sharply mark our recognition of the meaning of Munich or embarrass more the gentlemen who are planning a new dismemberment . A few other points of immediate policy on which liberals can agree may be put briefly : 1 . We must stop arming and supplying Japan for its conquest of China . 2 . We must stop nagging and threatening Mexico . A democratic foreign policy demands friendly support of the CArdenas administration . 3 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Italy whatever the apparent justification . 4 . We must be bold and humane in our treatment of the refugee problem . A willingness to take in a fair share of the homeless victims of Hitler would do more than October 29 , 1938 diplomacy or financial backing to induce other countries to open their doors . These scattered items are only the least common denominator of a democratic foreign policy . As such they may help to integrate the efforts and mental energies of American liberals , and serve as points of departure into fields still unexplored . No arms program or plan of industrial integration can be intelligently discussed , much less accepted or fought , except from some such position as is outlined above . As a nation we are heading into responsibilities and dangers new in our experience . Let us be certain at least that our government approaches them along a road that avoids the ambuscades of Chamberlain diplomacy . The Disease of Plenty 0 NCE again the disease of plenty is troubling our farm lands . Despite all efforts to adjust-supply to demand by means @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ huge surplus of grains and cotton and forced down prices , not indeed to the lowest levels of the great depression , but to well below those ruling in 1933 . Within the framework of existing legislation efforts are being made to meet the situation by crop loans , by subsidized dumping in export markets , and by buying up farm products for relief distribution . These measures , no doubt , are helping to put some sort of bottom under prices , but they can not be regarded as other than palliatives . Hence it is now open season for new farm policies . Within the Administration two apparently discordant trends of thought are in evidence . The President , if correctly reported by Senator Josh Lee of Oklahoma , favors a two-price system with growers subjected to rigid production control but assured a profitable return on the domestically consumed portion of their crops . The surplus would be exported for what it would bring on the open market , but it was not made dear - just how the margin between domestic and foreign prices was to be met . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the idea , an agreement prorating the world market among the chief agricultural nations . It must be said that , while we can not abandon export markets , the outlook in that direction for our great staples , wheat and cotton , is exceedingly bleak . The Peace of Munich means a huge increase in the domain of autarchy where the price factor no longer counts . No matter how cheaply we offer our wheat , ' the dictator countries will prefer the expensive product of their own fields or what they can obtain by barter from their economic vassals . More and more Britain will become the only dependable market , and with all exporting countries competing for its favors , the declining tendency of stet-441 ling is likely to depress prices as it did in 1931 and 1932 . With international trade so hampered , it seems to us that Mr. Wallace , who is seeking a solution of the farm problem in the development of the home market , is reaching nearer the heart of the matter than his chief . He , too , is considering @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the foreign consumer he hopes to dump the surplus on that huge army of our own people whose incomes do not enable them to purchase a full diet at existing prices . There , indeed , is a market ripe for development . According to a study of diets made by the Department of Agriculture , the minimum cost of an adequate though rather limited diet for a family of four at average retail prices during 1935 was $9.15 per week , or $475.80 per annum . If we compare this figure with the finding of the National Resources Committee that the average family income of one-third of the nation was $471 in 1935-36 , we have a vivid illustration of the old truism that the farmer can not prosper unless the whole country prospers . Mr. Wallace 's problem can not be preserved in cold storage until poverty is abolished , and meanwhile his efforts to find a partial solution by improving the nourishment of the underfed merit encouragement . It is important not to exaggerate the possibilities . It is improbable , for instance , that much can be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Our poorest families do not usually lack bread : they do suffer grievously from an ill-balanced diet in which the health-protecting foods  --  meat , dairy products , fruit , and vegetables  --  are inadequately represented . Granted , however , that sufficient surpluses exist of many commodities lacking in our poorer homes , the question remains how to distribute them so as to obtain the maximum social benefits . Mr. Wallace has yet to reduce his plans to practical form . His first announcement pointed toward some kind of scheme to sell goods to a minority at prices lower than those paid by the general public . The reactionary press has not been slow to point out the difficulties involved , and it is certain that a double distribution system would arouse terrific hostility in the retail trade . An enlargement of existing schemes for putting surplus commodities in the hands of relief clients might prove easier , but if this were used as an excuse for cutting down monetary payments there might be little increase in total food consumption . We would therefore urge Mr. Wallace to consider the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ distribution . If he looks abroad , he will find Britain operating a scheme whereby all school children can get milk daily below cost . In Sweden a more ambitious plan is being fostered by the government , which proposes to employ funds hitherto used for food-export subsidies to provide free lunches for all public-school children . Would it not be possible for us to give our school children one well-balanced meal daily ? It is difficult to believe that such a scheme would not gain cooperation from both the general public and the local authorities , and it would surely make a dent in the surplus by adding importantly to total consumption . What Chance Has China ? WITH the loss of Canton and the threatened fall of Hankow , China faces the greatest peril of its thirty or more centuries of existence . It is true that this is not the first time that China has been overrun by a foreign invader . Many times its cities have been sacked and pillaged by barbarian hordes , only to - rise in new splendor after the foreigner had been ejected or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Formosa , and Manchuria may be taken as a guide , China is confronted by no ordinary conqueror today . Japan has weapons at its disposal far more deadly than the tanks and bombers with which it beat Canton into submission . In Manchuria , for example , it has closed every university , college , and high school in order to prevent the Chinese from obtaining the tools of modern science . It has systematically and deliberately debauched millions by a government-operated drug traffic which is foisted on the population . Native Chinese business enterprise has been destroyed , and millions have been reduced to a state of economic serfdom . The same tactics are being used today in North China ; tomorrow they will be used in Canton . Knowing what is in store for them , the Chinese are unlikely to give in despite the decisive defeat of their armed forces . Previous Japanese victories have always found an important group in favor of submission , and the Japanese have staked much on the hope that , with the capture of Hankow , Chiang Kai-shek would be ready @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the aid of " silver bullets " ? the first important defection since the beginning of the war  --  there seems little chance that Japan 's hope will be fulfilled . The struggle will merely enter a new phase . If Hankow falls , the possibilities of frontal resistance to the Japanese will be practically exhausted . Japan will control the sea coast , the principal cities , and all the main arteries of communication . But if the main Chinese armies adopt the guerrilla tactics so successfully utilized by the Eighth Route Army in the north , Japan will have an almost insuperable task in merely holding these areas and keeping the lines of communication open . It will be in no- position to exploit this vast territory economically . So far the Chinese have made relatively little use of guerrilla tactics in Central and South China . But if they can be developed along the lines worked out in the The NATION north , Japan will be forced to keep huge garrisons at each of the strategic centers under its control . Otherwise , roving Chinese armies , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the weak spots in the Japanese defenses . Neutral observers report that the Japanese have lost three or four men to every one lost by the Chinese in the guerrilla skirmishes in North China . The puppet regimes of Peiping and Nanking have been complete failures , and many garrisoned cities in Japanese-held territories are virtually beleaguered and compelled to send armed raiding parties into the surrounding country to collect taxes . To make any headway toward suppression of guerrilla activity in the north and at the same time establish stable provincial governments it is estimated that Japan would have to double the size of its invading army and leave it in China indefinitely . All of this presupposes , however , a change of heart on the part of the central Chinese government . Heretofore , reactionary elements have opposed the general adoption of partisan warfare because of fear of arming the masses . A reorganization of the government may be necessary before Chiang will be free to adopt such new tactics , which he personally is known to favor . Along with any change in military strategy there might @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's failure to protect its own tremendous stakes at Hongkong , which as the port for Canton depends upon the resources of the captured region , must have shaken those who have placed reliance on British imperial interests . A showdown may be expected in the near future on the basis of reports that Britain is attempting to negotiate a Munich settlement for the Far East . If China rejects this , it may have to turn increasingly to the Soviet Union for the supplies necessary to maintain resistance . Given a modest amount of aid from abroad , the Chinese still have a chance of wearing Japan down and gaining an eventual victory . Despite the seizure of the specie supplies in Chinese banks , Japan 's foreign exchange is low . The costs of occupation , consolidation , and suppression will be almost as large as those of frontal warfare . On the economic front , the announcement that the Celanese Corporation of America will erect a $10,000 , - 000 plant for the production of a new artificial silk , following a statement of similar intentions by du @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than the capture of Canton , reported the same day . Japan may not have bitten of more than it can chew , but it is certainly attempting to swallow more than it can digest . With the extreme military clique now in the saddle at Tokyo , there is little likelihood that the army will be satisfied even with its latest conquests . Far more united and determined than it was a year ago , China still has the advantage of overwhelming numbers . In the end these may prove decisive .                     