@@487331

In its issue of November 29 The Nation published an article by Ludwig Lore summing up the activities of Nazi agents and pro-Nazi organizations in the United States and revealing the thoroughness with which the ideas of Hitler are being disseminated  --  and absorbed . Mr. Lore 's article followed an editorial in The Nation for November 8 in which the editors invoked for the Nazis in ilnierica the time-honored rights of free speech . The situation is full of uncomfortable possibilities . However remote this country may still be from the mood which leads men to flock to the fascist ranks , the germs of fascism and racial arrogance are undoubtedly in the ilmerican system . With this in mind , Mr. Lore warned us of the results of tolerance toward reactionary propaganda and suggested that our " doctrinaires of pure democracy ' " should consider well whether they had not better abandon their advocacy of free expression for all groups before it is too late . Many of our readers , as the letters printed below indicate , share his vieivs . The editors of The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made and unmade by the force of well-directed streams of high-pressure agitation . But behind the propaganda must lie human passions aroused and waiting to be mobilized . triumph of fascism in the United States , with all its attendant horrors , might be brought about by continued economic decline , the breakdown of confidence in democratic methods , the demand of a despairing people for drastic action , and finally by middle-class fear of imminent revolution . If that day comes , the propaganda of Nazi fanatics may well prove effective . But meanwhile , the growth of a healthy movement toward the left  --  strong labor unions , a radical political opposition  --  can only be fostered by an absolute support of the right of all groups to agitate- and spread their doctrines . It would be political suicide for those of us who demand the right of free speech for ourselves to deny it to any of our enemies  --  even the Nazis . To THE EDITORS OF THE NATION : I have just read your editorial How Shall We Meet Nazi Propaganda ? in which you concede @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ historic American doctrine still holds . If the Nazis were attacking the American government , as do the Socialists or the Communists , I would say with you that they are entitled to do it because our institutions are strong enough to stand criticism ; we have enough faith in them to resist such propaganda . But when the Nazi aliens come here to attack a small minority of people because of their religious beliefs and try to arouse others against them by a low emotional appeal , that is a different story . The laws here not only entitle people to free speech but to freedom in religious worship , and the Nazis , it seems to me , are certainly trampling on that law when they stir up agitation against the Jews . New York , November 3 L. MARTIN TO THE EDITORS OF THE NATION : Your editorial in the issue of November 8 on the subject of Nazi propaganda once more proves how a good principle may be made to appear ridiculous . I want to assure you that I am an ardent believer in the doctrine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ holding any doctrine one should be so extreme as to appear ridiculous . I venture to state that , in spite of their belief in free speech , neither the editors of The Nation nor Messrs . Ernst and Weinberger would tolerate and allow a meeting of white bigots , the purpose of which would be an invitation to Negro lynchings . Why , then , be so tolerant of a Nazi meeting and Nazi agitation ? Is such propaganda anything else than agitation for lynchings , both moral and physical , of the Jews ? German National Socialism is not a political , social , or economic doctrine . It is principally an anti-Jewish doctrine , a doctrine which does not deserve the protection of the principle of free speech . New York , November 4 S. SILVERBERG TO THE EDITORS OF THE NATION : In The Nation for November 8 you endeavored to answer the question , How shall we meet Nazi propaganda ? I must confess that I was shocked at your stand . You stated that " the situation demands that we continue to uphold the finest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all times , no matter what the consequences . " It is true that all liberty-loving Americans should uphold our dearest traditions of free speech provided it remains within proper bounds and does not conflict with the true meaning of our Constitution . But free speech should not include the sowing of the seeds of bigotry , the expression of racial hatreds and prejudices against certain elements of our minority population , or the undermining of our chosen form  --  of government by aliens . Los Angeles , Cal. , November 8 IRVING H. SCHWARTZ TO THE EDITORS OF THE NATION : Your editorial in The Nation of November 8 , How Shall We Meet Nazi Propaganda ? is sincere , noble , and idealistic . I believe , however that it reaches a disastrously wrong and dangerous conclusion . Your reasoning in this matter seems to me based on a naive idealism which takes no account of the realities of the situation . You say we must support Nazi free speech " if we believe firmly in our institutions and their Democratic spirit , " but you are surely not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Democratic spirit ( in the sense in which The Nation uses these words ) exist outside of Fourth of July and campaign oratory , or except in the minds of a very few idealists like yourself . You say also that the Nazis should not be interfered with because such interference would set a precedent for those wishing to suppress Socialists , Communists , and others the police may not like . All of us , of course , have had to face this possibility and its consequences . Yet it seems to me mere rhetoric to say that protesting against Nazi propaganda sets a precedent . When have the people who wanted to suppress Socialist or Communist free speech waited for a precedent ? Actually , as matters stand , radicals are to a large extent suppressed . So are liberals , Jews , Negroes , and others against whom Nazi venom is directed . The Nation 's stand does nothing to alleviate this condition . It merely extends to the Nazis further facilities for crushing their enemies . You also seem unduly optimistic in your statement " that there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will ever win over the bulk of Americans . " That is mere Pollyanna , happy-ending stuff . Is there no reason to believe that the mobs that lynch Negroes in Alabama , that lynched Leo Frank as a Jew in Georgia , that burn Negroes at the stake in Texas and torture I.W.W. 's in Washington may be won over to this propaganda ? No reason to fear that the Ku Klux Klan may be revived and the unspeakable Silver Shirts gain recruits ? It seems to me also that you overstress the legalistic aspect of the matter . It should not be necessary for the Nazis  --  and again I do n't mean Germans or German-Americans but only active supporters of Hitlerism  --  to commit overt crimes before we can protect ourselves against criminal intentions which we know exist . Probably there is no law as yet making it a misdemeanor to sing in public " Wenn 's Juden Blut vom Messer spritzt . " There is probably no law on our statute books , either , against scattering typhoid germs where they can do the most harm , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? ? that advocating the right to scatter typhoid germs is merely the citizen 's or the alien 's inalienable right " to make an ass of himself in public . " It is one of the tragic and grotesque anomalies of the situation that we have reached a point where nominal liberalism is not real liberalism , where we have to choose between liberty itself and a mere fetish of liberality . We have to face the fact also that a choice is not necessarily between a right course and a wrong one but only between two more or less wrong ones and that the less wrong is apt in the long run to be the historically right one . Refusal to make a choice , taking refuge in Pollyanna optimism about the impossibility of stampeding the American people into Hitlerism , and haphazard laissez faire on this issue seem to me a policy that definitely establishes the failure of liberalism in the present crisis . If The Nation follows this policy I think it will seriously and only too justly weaken its influence . New York , November 2 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the question " How shall we meet Nazi propaganda ? I ' I must disagree with the editors of The Nation . You say the alien has a legal right to criticize the government " unless he violates the law by inciting to violence or crime . " That is just the point . The entire Nazi propaganda is an incitement to violence and crime . Nazis have no ideas or principles . They are political gangsters and racketeers , as Mr. Ridder called them to their face . They have no programs unless inciting to pogroms is a program . Their propaganda is bound to lead to hatred , discord , violence , and crime . I discussed this very subject with my friend Roger Baldwin , and he said : " Let us wait , and if their propaganda results in violence and crime we will then arrest the criminals and the inciters to violence . " People who think realistically , who are not entirely devoid of common sense , try rather to prevent crime than to punish the violators after the crimes have been committed . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , such as the Communists , Socialists , and so forth , may be suppressed later , is a purely doctrinaire argument . Our giving the Nazis unhampered liberty to spread their propaganda of hate and violence would not make them hesitate one moment to strangle and crush us if they ever came into power . New York , November 2 WILLIAM J. ROBINSON Mr. Viereck Answers Mr. Lore To THE EDITORS OF THE NATION : Nazi Politics in America , by Ludwig Lore , does more credit to the author 's imagination than to his accuracy . It is perfectly true that I visited Germany a few weeks ago . It is untrue that I went there under the terms of any contract with Carl Byoir and Associates . It has been my practice for many years to go abroad in search of new material . That is how I happen to make my living . . . . I also , as is my wont , gathered data for a number of articles . The writer in The Nation suggests that Mr. Dickey went with me to interview the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ If Mr. Lore is right , my friend Dickey must have developed occult powers which enable him to project his astral body at will unseen into the presence of others . To the best of my knowledge Byoir and Associates have no contract with the German government . However , I should regard any effort on their part to distribute " informative material " on the New Germany far more laudable than Mr. Lore 's attempt to disseminate misinformation . If Ivy Lee , Edward L. Bernays , and others may interpret France , Poland , and Soviet Russia , why is it a crime for other public-relations counselors to render a similar service for Germany ? .. . I was a friend of imperial Germany . I was a friend of the German republic . I am a friend of Hitler 's New Germany . I have never befouled my father 's nest . But I always preserve my intellectual integrity . The objectivity with which I discussed ( in the Saturday Evening Post ) French , German , British , and American propaganda induced Colonel House to write a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " was published in book form . . . . If I write about the New Germany , I shall do so sympathetically . But I shall retain a sense of detachment . Even Mr. Lore admits this when he refers to the articles he expects from me as " absolutely unbiased and objective interpretations . " Thanks for the compliment , however grudgingly paid . Unfortunately some of my colleagues in Germany perversely close their eyes to the miracle of Germany 's reintegration under Chancellor Hitler . They exaggerate minor disturbances and difficulties as if they were police-court reporters , and ignore Hitler 's stupendous achievement in fashioning a new economic and social world out of the wreck of the old . New York , November 24 GEORGE SYLVESTER VIERECK Mr. Lore Answers Mr. Viereck To THE EDITORS OF THE NATION : Knowing George Sylvester Viereck 's favorable opinion of " Hitler 's New Germany , " I , too , found it difficult to believe at first that Propaganda Minister Goebbels should have to go out of his way to persuade the well-known German-American writer to new expressions of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in spite of Mr. Viereck 's denial , I know on unimpeachable authority that it is true : Carl Byoir and Associates have contracted with the Reich government to send Mr. Viereck to Germany to study German conditions with the understanding that he will on his return present " sympathetically " to a skeptical American public the " miracle of Germany 's reintegration . " This is no secret . The Neue TV ettbiihne of November 9 , 1933 , which I just have received , contained an article by Hellmuth von Gerlach in which I find the following statement : " Last summer and fall he Mr. Viereck was in Europe in response to an invitation from Herr Goebbels at the expense of the Propaganda Ministry . His old love for the Hohenzollern does not rust , although he has been able to combine it profitably with his new love for Hitler . . . . " I admire the sense of humor that prompts Mr. Viereck to pretend that I for one moment could speak other than ironically of his " absolutely unbiased and objective interpretation " of German @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's impartiality during the years of the World War . Certainly , a writer who can refer to the suppression of Germany 's labor movement , to the brutal terrorization of an entire people , to the campaign of destruction against the German Jew as " minor disturbances and difficulties , " possesses the objectivity necessary for an equitable interpretation of the Hitler regime to the American people . New York , November 25 LUDWIG LOREFinance .                     