@@166038

The airlines of the future , most aeronautical engineers agree , will fly swiftly and serenely far above turbulent weather in the rarefied air of the substratosphere . Already air transports are being built with cabins in which , by supercharging , interior atmospheric pressure approximating that aground can be maintained at substratosphere levels . Mainly responsible for development of a supercharged cabin was the U. S. Army Air Corps . Last week the Air Corps received from President Roosevelt this year 's Collier Trophy for " the greatest achievement in aviation whose value has been demonstrated in actual use . " Meantime , aeronautical science has its sleeves rolled up to attack the problem of full utilization of substratosphere speed potentials . <P> One difficulty of substratosphere flying is that in the thin upper air a propeller blade has to take bigger or more frequent bites of air to maintain the ship 's speed and altitude . By increasing the pitch of propeller blades bigger bites are possible , but wind-tunnel experiments have indicated that any propeller 's effectiveness reaches a limit when the speed of its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ level , 780 m.p.h. ; at 20,000 ft. , 500 m.p.h . ) . When propeller tips reach the speed of sound , they find themselves in a sort of dead heat with the sound waves they are generating . These waves , unable to get away from a source traveling just as fast , jam up around the propeller tips in clusters sometimes referred to as " compressible burbles , " creating as much of a drag as if the propeller had suddenly been transformed into a twirling dumbbell . Since sound waves travel more slowly in thin air than at normal atmospheric pressure , propellers in the substratosphere have a lower effective top speed than at sea level . Last week scientists attending the Fifth International Congress for Applied Mechanics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology suggested a way to improve propeller performance in the substratosphere : bigger propellers , designed to take bigger bites of air to make up for slower turning speed . For a starter they suggested 20-foot propellers , nearly twice the size of the largest now in use . <P> To turn such blades @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ week Vega Airplane Co. , a Lockheed subsidiary , announced specifications for a plane with two motors in one unit , geared with overrunning clutches to a single propeller . Overrunning clutches , similar in effect to a bicycle coaster brake or to the overdrive principle in some modern automobiles , permit a failing motor automatically to disengage itself , saving the still-functioning motor the strain of working against the inertia and compression of the dead one .                     