@@491046

MARCH the fourth , each four or eight years , sees the Executive family atop of a moving MARC The outgoing group and the incoming one pass at the White House gates . The moving out . is invariably sad and , in addition , it usually rains . The moving in is invariably glad , regardless of the weather . Privileges of residence in Buckingham Palace pass peacefully by natural succession , but privileges of residence in the White House are bitterly disputed . The premises are our Executive Mansion ; the terms , a four-year lease ; the landlord , the electorate of the United States . There are many applicants for tenant , but the choice usually resolves itself into a spirited wrangle between two men . Forty million give the decision on the biggest news day in our political calendar . Four months later , the tenant-reject moves out ; the tenant-elect moves in  --  or , if the tenancy of the occupant has been satisfactory , he may remain on a new four-year lease . Thus goes our national cycle . On March @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thirty-first moving day . The first one was in the late fall of 1800 , when John and Abigail Adams moved in from Philadelphia to pass the last few months of Adams ' term in what Mrs. Adams called the President 's Palace , a. gaunt , unfurnished mansion with neither a fence nor a turnstile . In setting forth for the newly-laid-out city of Washington , they followed a route via Baltimore , through thick woods and muddy lanes , in which they lost their way and wandered for two hours , finding neither a guide nor a path . " We might be wandering yet , " wrote Mrs. Adams to her daughter , " had not a stray Negro appeared to extricate us . " Since then , movings have continued periodically for 132 years , though today the route is more carefully marked and motor trucks have replaced the team and wagon . The moving in is simpler than the moving out . At the moment , Mrs. Hoover faces a more difficult task than Mrs. Roosevelt .. This is because the White House is a furnished @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his most honored citizen . The new tenant , if he wishes , may come in with nothing but his clothes and be perfectly comfortable . Everything in the presidential suite is complete for himself and his family : rugs , furniture , hangings , bedding , linen , silver and china  --  all appurtenances . But possessions will accumulate , however he struggles against it . Though he moves in with nothing but hand luggage , it takes a fleet of Army trucks to move him out . White Elephants in the White House 97111S is due to the generosity of the American peo- ple , which finds supreme expression in gifts sent to the Executive family . Official records fail to list the boxes of fine soap , cold cream , perfume , fruit cake , hemstitched-linen sheets and pillowcases , bric-a-brac , first editions , toilet sets and dreamless mattresses sent to Mrs. Hoover in the past four years . Or the turkeys , fishing tackle , cigar lighters and holders , radio cabinets and elephants  --  varying from the tencent-toy variety to a three-foot black ebony beast @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ elephants was a heroic bust of the Father of Our Country presented by the sculptor at the opening of the Washington Bicentennial celebration , large enough for a child to straddle its nose or perch in its ear . It would n't go inside the White House , so , after the unveiling on the grounds , the President tactfully sent . it to the congressional headquarters of Sol Bloom , director of the Bicentennial . There it may stay until it crumbles . Sheer bulk made it reminiscent of a 1400-pound cheese sent to Andrew Jackson by the " home folks , " and which he placed in the charming Red  --  formerly called West  --  Room , which the Monroes had furnished in French gilt , and damask . Fortunately , Jackson 's eight-year term took care of its disposal . Every item of White House news is occasion for a present . If the President sprains an ankle or a finger , a dozen kind-hearted souls in Oklahoma , Maine and Florida send a bottle of their favorite liniment . If he or the First Lady is " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , with nose and throat remedies . The Christmas that little Peggy Ann and Peter Hoover spent with their grandparents at the White House , Santa Claus had to hire an extra sleigh to deliver the mountains of toys . If all the canes made from the wood of the U. S. S. Constitution and sent to our various Chief Executives had been tossed on the White House woodpile and the President made custodian of kindling , his exercise problem would have been solved . Hoover would have been spared his frequent sessions with the medicine ball and Coolidge 's iron horse would have rusted , unused . Wilson , during his illness , received the greatest number of canes , varying from hiekory sticks with his name hand-carved , to gold-handled , jewel-incrusted walking sticks from celebrities all over the world . The most stupendous moving out in White House history was when Wilson left . No President of the United States ever received such magnificent gifts , or so many . When he traveled abroad for the peace conference , hailed as the savior of the world , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from private individuals , municipalities and members of royalty . They continued to arrive until the end of his term . He stored them in the White House to the limit of its capacity and sent . the residue to New Jersey . It cost him $1000 to move them from Trenton and Princeton to the Washington home where he passed the last three years of his life . His law books and assorted possessions still fill two rooms of a storage house in Washington . " About once a year , " says the storage man , " Mrs. Wilson and Mrs. McAdoo come round to make sure the buffalo moths are n't eating them . " The finest of Wilson 's presidential gifts are in his birthplace at Staunton , Virginia . When the Hardings moved to the White House they brought new life as well as new goods . Save for a few mouths of normal living , the mansion during Wilson 's time was a house of sickness , mourning and silence . The first Mrs. Wilson died there after a lingering illness . The war put @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the door and locked , out the visiting public . The President 's illness made the great rooms half hospital , half tomb for the last year and a half . Gifts That Add to the President 's Problems rrHEN came sociable , jovial Warren Harding , who 1 threw open the blinds and the gates to admit the sunshine and the public . While Mrs. Harding banished the gloom upstairs with bright hangings and flowers , her husband gave stag dinners of wienerwursts and sauerkraut in the long-silent state dining.room . Mrs. Harding was an accomplished musician . Among the gifts she received was a piano . The President received , among other things , golf clubs  --  enough to stock a country club . Gene Sarazen sent him the driver with which he won the national championship . The Harding presidential gifts today fill the three largest rooms of their old home at Marion , Ohio , which Mrs. Harding converted into a memorial .. The Coolidges moved to the White House from the New Willard Hotel with practically nothing but their clothes . Two Army vans moved @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from their own home in Washington , unlike the Coolidges , brought a great deal . No one dares compute their moving bill from the White House to Palo Alto . Of course , while he is still commander in chief of the Army , it is Herbert Hoover 's privilege to use Army trucks . Other Presidents besides his economical predecessor have done it . Theodore Roosevelt was disturbed , at times frankly annoyed , by the gifts with which his adoring public all but swamped him . Instead of canes , he got " big sticks " ? one with a butt end the size of a pumpkin . He also received animals . Crates of live foxes and raccoons arrived . Once a news item that T. R. 's favorite dog had been whipped in a fight brought in a crate a ferocious bulldog , with a note explaining the " brute had never been licked . " Executive presents are always a problem . Each one is acknowledged by a secretary , but what disposal shall be made Of it depends on both gift and donor . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , back it must go in a jiffy . An expensive electric clock that was sent to the Coolidges was tactfully returned . To keep such a gift could create an indebtedness which a President might be asked to repay by an official favor . Fortunately , the famous mechanical horse was the gift , not of the manufacturer but of one of Mr. Coolidge 's personal friends . On the other hand , when Mrs. Harding received from M. Tardieu a rare and beautiful piece of S  --  vres porcelain , she felt it was not a gift to her personally , but to the mistress of the White House from the Prime Minister of France , who had once been her guest .. It . still stands , a lovely classical group , on the man telshelf of the Red Room . Fortunately , nothing can become a part of the White House collection sinless passed upon by the Committee on Public Buildings and Public Parks . This saves the Executive Mansion from becoming an old curiosity shop . It has been both impossible and unnecessary for Mrs. Hoover @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by ambitious manufacturers , but if she should tell them how much she liked and used their product , her graceful words might be quoted for commercial use . Hence , notes of acknowledgment are formal and impersonal to the nth degree ; often written in the third person and signed by the secretary . Meanwhile , the First Lady disposes of the surplus sub rose , to some charity bazaar , always with the understanding that . her name shall not be used . Otherwise , she would he snowed under by similar requests from other charities . When the Lease Expires A L this helps explain the back-breaking problems of packing , shifting and heaving with which the First Lady must cope when she is about to leave the White House . She must not only remove all her private effects but , by the terms of her lease , leave the premises in the same condition in which they were turned over to her . All attendant confusion , however , is limited to second story and attic . In the beautiful state apartments below , little is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mrs. Hoover will start rolling up her Oriental rugs and her lovely table linens and laces , far more elegant than the White House supply ; pack up the handsome Hoover souvenirs from Belgium , Russia  --  all over the world  --  and the four years ' accumulation of presidential gifts , including a full-length portrait of the President behind four conventionalized flowerpots . Then she will unroll the stern red carpets which have been in camphor for four years , put back the virginal white iron beds for which her own four-posters have been substituted , and make sure that every White House pillowcase and serviette is freshly laundered and in its place . Then she will close the door behind her and drive to the inaugural ceremony . Pointers on White House Keeping T 11 EORETICALL I ' , the transfer of the White House from outgoing to incoming Executive takes place at the stroke of twelve , but actually it takes Place about a half hour earlier . A few moments after the Hoovers ' departure , their trunks and hand luggage will he sent . to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out President-elect Roosevelt 's clothes , and the maid hanging up Mrs. Roosevelt 's frocks , which she insists , will be simple . This hasty sweeping aside of all traces of the old regime for the new one always has its elements of sadness , and is sometimes bedewed with tears . But sometime prior to that momentous transfer , in accordance with time-honored tradition , Mrs. Roosevelt will call on Mrs. Hoover at the latter 's invitation . The exact date of this formal-informal call depends on the leisure of both ladies . It will be quite different from that other call , which the President-elect paid at the White House at the President 's invitation two weeks after election . The latter was news that set tongues a-wagging . Reporters wistfully remarked that none would ever know what the two men said to each other in the ten minutes they were left alone . But what Mrs. Hoover and Mrs. Roosevelt will say to each other is no secret . The outgoing First Lady will explain to the incoming one the mechanics of White House keeping . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her a preview of the mansion . Thirty years ago , Eleanor Roosevelt visited it often , when it was the home of her Uncle Theodore . The new mistress will advise the housekeeper whether or not she wishes to retain her services , and this may entail a. word of explanation concerning the day of arrival . One unpleasant bit of moving-day confusion which new White House tenants are spared is that they do n't have to grab a meager lunch at the nearest drug-store counter . Mrs. Roosevelt will advise Mrs. Hoover how many guests she and the new President are bringing from the inaugural ceremony , and a delicious luncheon will await them in the state dining-room . Incidentally , this will be the last White House meal charged to President Hoover . The President pays the entire food bill of his home , except for large official banquets. which are taken care of by a special fund . But this is his only household expense . Servants ' wages and other upkeep are paid by White House appropriation . Two moving-day anecdotes carry over from past administrations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Harding said , " Mrs. Coolidge , this is Mrs. Jaffrey . I hope Mrs. Jaffrey will like you . " Mrs. Jaffrey blushingly explained that this was putting the cart before the horse , as it were , but Mrs. Coolidge dispelled all embarrassment by a gracious , friendly smile . Mrs. Taft , in her eagerness to leave the upstairs apartments fresh and attractive for her successor , had new covers roads for the furniture in the upper corridor . This entailed an expenditure of 5250 for which , in the confusion , no official appropriation had been made . Later , the housekeeper , greatly disturbed , brought the bill to President Wilson 's attention . Wilson , always generous , though never rich , said : " We can settle that very easily , Mrs. Jaffray " ? and at once wrote his personal check for the sum . Just what furnishings the Roosevelts will bring with them is as yet a moot question . To date , the governor 's one statement concerning the matter is that he 'll bring only one Scotch terrier . How @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or Army trucks  --  well , both he and Mrs. Roosevelt have been too busy to think much about it . " Sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof . " But it is probable they will bring plenty . The President-elect owns one of the largest and finest naval collections in the country , consisting of books , marine paintings and etchings , and miniature reproductions of ships , from old sailing vessels to dreadnoughts , as well as two great lamps made from navy shells . Mrs. Roosevelt has her own pet reproduction furniture , made in the Dutchess County factory which she helped organize and still sponsors . More than any other First Lady in history , she plans to continue at the White House her numerous outside activities . She will still be teacher , editor and lady politician . Hers will be by no means merely a social job . This will mean a shifting about in the upstairs rooms so that she , as well as her husband , may have her own private office , or study  --  and a very busy one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will look under the new rfigime , only visitors after March fourth can tell . When moving day brings a new President , the tramp of movers ' feet is heard in the Executive wing , among the cases of private papers . In 1921 , the letters of Woodrow Wilson filled twenty four-drawer file cases . The letters of Calvin Coolidge are pigeonholed in the Congressional Library . Herbert Hoover 's private correspondence is bulkier than that of his predecessor , but not so unwieldy as Wilson 's . The Cabinet room , too , undergoes changes . Each retiring Cabinet member is privileged to take with him the chair which he occupies at Cabinet meetings  --  that is , provided he replaces it with one just like it . They are mahogany chairs of a standardized make , with tall backs and arms , upholstered in black leather and almost too comfortable for business . They cost around ninety dollars apiece , and not even the President gets his chair free . Previous to 1900 , only two inventories of the White House had been taken , and both of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , conscientious John Quincy Adams ; the second by General Grant 's son , who was also his secretary . But since the turn of the century , every July first the landlord takes an inventory of the contents of his house . And here he is Mr. Scrooge himself . Every dish , every spoon must be accounted for . Archie Butt , military aide to Theodore Roosevelt during his second term , tells of rummaging through a pile of breakage in the basement to find a souvenir piece of White House china for Mrs. Roosevelt . He speaks of her pleasure when he salvaged a slightly chipped butter plate , gold bordered , with the national coat of arms  --  the set which she herself had selected . The House of Fragments Nothing that is the official property of the White House can he given away . Once discarded , it must be destroyed . Whole barrels of broken china have been sunk in the Potomac . Thrifty ladies sometimes salvage worn-out sheets by tearing them into dust cloths . Upon occasion , old silver has been melted up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ House is really a gaunt treasury of odds and ends handed down from administration to administration . So often has it been rebuilt and refurnished that it has been called the " house of fragments . " When President Arthur moved in after Gar-field 's assassination , he took one look at the house he was to occupy and sent for his friend , Tiffany , of New York . He disposed of twenty wagonloads of furniture and attic accumulations , which he replaced with elaborately carved and inlaid tables and other effects in keeping . Tenants in the 80 's had free scope . Today renovations are limited by congressional appropriations . Mr. Coolidge , author of the famous statement that the " Government of the United States was costing almost more than it was worth . " carried his policy of rigid economy into the home he occupied , and did not . ask for a cent of special White House appropriations . Then , suddenly , the roof began falling down . The President and Mrs.Coolidge moved to temporary quarters on Dupont Circle while essential repairs were made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ she occupies . Mrs. Hoover has a flair for interior decoration and she knows historical furniture . Upstairs she has made three outstanding changes which it is improbable Mrs. Roosevelt will disturb , since she , too , has an understanding of and respect for historical values . The first alteration is the library ; the second , the Monroe nook ; and the third . the Lincoln Study . The White House Library Until the Hoover Administration there was no White House library . Theodore Roosevelt , a voracious reader , brought his own books and took them away . Woodrow Wilson did the same . Mr. Coolidge drew freely on the Congressional Library . President Hoover moved into a drought of hooks . He is accustomed to read himself to sleep , and the night after inauguration he looked around for a bit of literature to cool his fevered brain . Not a book was to be found ; not even a magazine . He finally appealed to a secret-service man , who , rummaging in attic corners . triumphantly brought forth a copy of Dickens ' Child 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reached the ears of the American booksellers . At once they appointed a committee to choose 500 volumes , which they presented , not to the President personally , but to the Executive Mansion . With this gift as a nucleus , Mrs. Hoover turned the upper corridor , once austere with red carpets and heavily framed portraits of past Presidents , into a pleasant library and lounge , with Colonial-type bookcases lining the walls . In the Monroe nook , known also as the Rose Sitting Room , she assembled THE SATURDAY that furniture , half early American , half Directoire type , which James Monroe brought to the White House . To make the room harmonious , she visited Monroe 's law office in Fredericksburg , Virginia , and had other furnishings  --  chairs , tables and divans  --  copied in authentic reproductions . Mrs. Hoover has been particularly proud of the refurnishing of this room as an economy measure . There was more Monroe furniture in the White House than that of any other President . The Lincoln Study over the East Room , President Hoover 's private @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made into a reproduction of Lincoln 's Cabinet room in Civil War days . By careful study of the famous painting , Lincoln and his Cabinet , Mrs. Hoover identified the chairs and other scattered White House pieces which rightfully belong in this room , and then assembled them from attic recesses . The White House has seen a number of tragic , emergency moving days . One was caused by that national calamity at Ford 's Theater , April 14. 1865 . The shock threw Mrs. Lincoln into a state which bordered on physical and mental paralysis . For five weeks she wandered helplessly through the President 's house , calling on death to take her . Sometime earlier she had discharged the long-established stewardess  --  the overseer and caretaker  --  and took the reins of management herself . The household , never too sympathetic with her , now , in her hour of affliction , degenerated into anarchy . While she was shut up with her woe , the White House was left without a responsible protector . The rabble ranged through it at will , pillaging not only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ furniture . Costly chairs and sofas were cut . Exquisite lace curtains were torn and carried off in pieces . The Johnsons moved into a. very dirty and dilapidated mansion . Sad Exies Garfield 's death deprived the White House of a group of happy , laughing children , such as it did not see again until the Roosevelt Administration . The American people like their White House gay . One of the many reasons that Roosevelt 's exit was so deplored was that his household epitomized the ideal American family . Mrs. McKinley was in Buffalo with her husband at the time of his assassination , and never went hack to the White House . Mr. Cortelyou took charge of clearing out the McKinley properties . EVENING POST Mrs. Harding returned to the White House from the Coast in August , 1923 , and personally supervised the packing of all her husband 's private papers and personal effects , while the Coolidges courteously remained at the New Willard Hotel for more than two weeks . At six o'clock one evening , Mrs. Coolidge called for her with the White House @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Mrs. McLean , in Washington . She did not leave the capital for Marion until a few months before her death . Almost every White House moving day leaves in its wake a trail of bitterness and disappointment ; often broken February 4 , 193J friendships , never entirely forgotten or forgiven . For , in spite of the responsibilities it brings , occupancy of the White House is prized . Coolidge was one of few Presidents who voluntarily renounced his residence while the public was clamoring for him to remain . Theodore Roosevelt got a yearning to live there again . Failure of his plans to mature caused a rift in an old friendship . The very first White House occupant found moving day bitter and sad . When John Adams , at the close of one term , was defeated by his old friend , Thomas Jefferson , he was so crushed with shame and indignation that he almost lost his dignity . Through motives of delicacy , Jefferson did not call at the Adams home for several days after his election . When he did , his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ You 've turned me out ! " To play second fiddle at the inauguration of his successor was beyond the magnanimity of John Adams . Before sunrise he was in his saddle , riding away from the capital . He never visited it again . The Two Jidamses Years later , Mrs. Adams , without her husband 's knowledge , wrote Jefferson and , by her innate tact and good sense , partially patched up the friendship between the two men . But John Adams never forgave the people for denying him a second election . When he died in 1826 , his last words were , " Thomas Jefferson still survives . " As it happened , his rival had expired about two hours earlier . And like father , like son . Hostile feeling ran high between John Quincy Adams and Andrew Jackson . Adams moved out of the White House on March third and was taking his daily horseback ride when the booming of the cannon announced that his successor had taken the oath . Jackson , on the other hand , remained at the White House four @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by easy stages . It was George Washington himself who set the courteous precedent whereby the retiring President rides with the incoming one to his inauguration . Since 1797 this precedent has been broken only by the Adamses , both great , but cantankerous . " The President of the ' united States comes in through the iron gates and goes out by the weeping willows , " said Dolly Madison . Since the fair Dolly 's time , the side entrance by the willow trees has been closed . But only the route is altered . The sentiment remains .                     