@@487411

THE " REFORM " BOARD OF THE NEW YORK Stock Exchange elected last May has been widely advertised as a vigorous wielder of the new broom , but the circumstances under which Robert M. Hutchins has resigned as one of its " public representatives " suggests that it has inherited from its predecessors a fondness for the-whitewash brush . With Mr. Hutchins a lone dissenter , the board decided to take no action with regard to establishing the responsibility of those members who had knowledge of the state of Richard Whitney 's affairs prior to his suspension . That certain members had adhered to the " code of gentlemen " when public interest demanded they break silence was clearly indicated by the report of the SEC . By its decision not to pursue the matter further on the ground that it would merely duplicate the investigation of the SEC , the board seems to condone that silence . According to a commentator in the New York Herald Tribune , Wall Street opinion is inclined to regard the consequent resignation of Mr. Hutchins as an " ultimate benefit , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " In the context of the case this can only mean inability to make a subtle distinction between business morality and everyday ethics . We congratulate Mr. Hutchins on this disqualification . PRIVATE COLLECTIVISM IS NO NEW DEAL bugaboo . One sees its vivid outlines in the monopoly-inquiry testimony on the glass industry , in which one company , Hartford-Empire , through its control of basic patents , dictates policies as completely as any commissar in a Soviet trust . This one company and a related concern accounted for more than 96 per cent of all glass containers manufactured in 1937 . The rest was divided among " independents . " The word is put in quotation marks because Hartford-Empire tells its supposed competitors how much they may produce , what kind of glassware they may manufacture , in what territory they may sell , with whom they may do business , and the conditions under which they may use machinery not patented by Hartford-Empire . Litigation is used as a deliberate instrument of business policy against recalcitrant inventors or independent business men . Hartford-Empire has made millions on the basic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it earned 67.77 per cent on net capital employed in operations . The life of patents is limited by law to seventeen years , but loopholes revealed by the inquiry will permit Hartford-Empire to have the use of its chief patents for fifty-four years . One of the devices to circumvent the seventeen-year restriction is to keep one 's application for a patent pending as long as possible  --  the application keeps others out of the field . Testimony from the automobile industry showed that the original Selden patent on the motor car was kept pending for seventeen years . Fortunately it was broken in the courts in 1911 , and Detroit is remarkably free from the patent monopoly . It is worth noting that while a Congressional committee is uncovering these evils the Supreme Court  --  over the protests of the new liberal minority , Black and Reed  --  has this year widened both the scope and duration of patents . PHILIP MUSICA 'S AMAZING IMPERSONATION , for seventeen years , of F. Donald Coster , ranks as one of the greatest feats of acting in history . There was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nor can one regret that shot in the bathroom which , conventional though it was , proved the exactly right curtain to a drama which pales the most expert efforts of our thriller merchants . At present we have actually witnessed only the last act , and we await eagerly the unfolding of the complete plot . There are hints that it includes gun-running and bootlegging in addition to purely financial skulduggery . We hope that the multitudinous government agencies which are taking a hand in the investigations will not get in one another 's light . The public must-be given the whole story , which has , we suspect , apart from its entertainment value , some pretty serious morals attached to it . CHANGES IN THE SOCIAL SECURITY ACT recommended by the Advisory Council on Social Security are excellent so far as they go . Government participation in the financing of social insurance has proved necessary and successful in most countries . Broadening the coverage of the old-age-annuity plan to include farm employees , domestic servants , and workers in non-profit , religious , and charitable institutions is desperately @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ benefits and the supplementary allowance for aged wives are equally vital , as is the recommendation for the payment of disability benefits regardless of age . On these latter proposals , however , the Advisory Council appears to have been unnecessarily cautious . Wives are not to receive an allowance unless they are sixty-five years of age , regardless of their husband 's age or capacity for work . Thus elderly wives of aged husbands are left very much in the lurch until they reach the stated age . Similarly , it is to be regretted that the Advisory Council did not come out flatly for immediate protection for workers whO are disabled before they reach sixty-five . As the council itself points out , " No other group in our population is more completely dependent or in a more desperate economic situation . " Equally regrettable are the many omissions in the report . No provision is made , for example , for eliminating the fantastic reserve principle behind the old-ageinsurance plan , though the added benefits may serve to reduce the reserve somewhat , or for correcting the glaring @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been doing good work in a field where private enterprise has not yet recovered from its excesses during the boom years . We are therefore glad that the President has used his powers under the National Housing Act to raise the maximum of insured mortgages from two to three billion dollars . By insuring mortgages of up to 90 per cent of value on medium-priced houses the FHA has paved the way for a revival in building of this type . Its mode of operations gives the intending home builder real protection against jerry-building , while by cutting out second and third mortgages and providing for regular amortization it diminishes the risks of home ownership . Competition among the savings banks and other large holders of funds to obtain insured mortgages has been growing , with the result that initial charges have been much reduced . Basic interest rates , however , are still as high as 4% to 5 per cent . With federal insurance making these mortgages almost the equivalent of government bonds yielding 3 per cent or less , the question arises whether too high a premium @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ institutions . It is also important to remember that the FHA , while doing admirable work , is not able to , contribute to the urgently necessary task of rehousing that " one-third of the nation " most in need of better accommodation . The group to which it especially caters is that able to afford a rent of around $50 a month . Hence while applauding the President 's decision to extend its resources , we must ask whether proportionate attention is being given to really low-cost housing . We call attention to the article by Charles Abrams on another page which deals with various aspects of the fight for adequate housing . AT LAST THE NAZIS HAVE GONE TOO FAR IN expressing their complete contempt for the British government . When they seized Austria , Mr. Chamberlain talked appeasement ; when by threats of force they compelled Britain and France to sacrifice the Czechs , he talked appeasement ; when they violated the Munich December 24 , 1938 agreement before the ink on it was dry , he talked appeasement ; when they loosed their mobs on the Jews @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ talked appeasement . But even a Chamberlain will turn , and the limit of his patience was reached when the German press was ungentlemanly enough to refer to the venerable Earl Baldwin as a " guttersnipe . " This epithet moved the Premier to protest , whereupon the Nazis underlined their caddishness by discourteously boycotting the dinner at which his speech was made . Such behavior has drawn a solemn rebuke from the London Times , Mr. Chamberlain has gone so far , for him , as to ask in the obsequious tones he reserves for the Nazi gangsters for a " sign " that they want peace , and there are indications that even-the Cliveden set is beginning to wonder whether work on the Berlin-London axis ought not to be indefinitely suspended . THE CRY OF CHILDREN IN DISTRESS HAS NOT often gone unheeded in this country . After the war both Congress and individual Americans assisted generously the victims of the blockade . When the Russian famine threatened ten million children in 1921 , there was no hesitation in going to their aid . But today there is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there are 60,000 outcast children , of whom half are Christians , threatened by starvation and subjected to moral terror . Britain has offered to care for 15,000 of them ; little Holland for 5,000 . Surely America will not look the other way . We appeal to the President and to Mr. Hoover , who whatever their differences share a common humanitarianism , to join in proposing to Congress an amendment to the law which would permit at least 10,000 of these children to enter outside the quota . Funds for their support and foster-parents willing to care for them are already assured . And we know that the people of America , a land built by immigrants , would respond with a generous " Yes ! " to a proposal that refuge be given to 10,000 innocents . It needs only to be made . NAZI HENS HAVE BEEN FORMALLY TOLD IN the Berliner Tageblatt that they must lay 140 eggs yearly in spite of short rations . ( We had been wondering who reads the Tageblatt . ) Those who fail will get it in the neck . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Goebbels plans to open the campaign by leading a contingent of willing Aryan hens down the Wilhelmstrasse . At a given signal they will lay fresh eggs at the feet of Adolf Hitler as they cluck the slogan , Kirche , Kiiche , Kinder . . . . A German court has ruled that paintings and pictures of Nazi leaders may not be attached for debt . The ruling was made in the case of a German who wanted to keep a painting of Hermann Goring that he had won in a shooting gallery . Which reminds us of the 679 English diplomat who , when Goring said he had been on a shooting trip , asked innocently , " Humans ? " . . . In another ward of the European insane asylum : The Grand Duke Vladimir emptied Paris of taxis when he called a meeting of Russian monarchists , who greeted him as " Czar of all the Russias . " Well , not quite all . . . . One Huaracha Cuchicela has suggested to the Lima conference the restoration of the Inca empire in Peru . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The suggestion has presumably been referred to a committee , which is expected to take no action promptly . FREDERICK -B . ROBINSON 'S RESIGNATION AS president of the City College of New York is his most important contribution to the advance of education in a long and reactionary careen His administration was as intolerant as it was inept ; it won for him the contempt of his profession and the scorn of conservatives and liberals alike . When such distinguished liberals as Ordway Tead and John T. Flynn were appointed to the Board of Higher Education , it became clear that Robinson 's days were numbered . His successor should profit from his extraordinary but far too long-drawn-out demonstration of how not to run a college . TO WILLIAM MAcDONALD , WHO DIED LAST week in New York , belongs the credit of having written the most remarkable editorial which appeared in The Nation in the post-war period . It was called The Madness at Versailles , and appeared on May 17 , 1919 , immediately after the publication of the peace treaty . At the time it was considered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was then ready to accept President Wilson 's assurance that the peace treaty was all that it should be . Mr. MacDonald rightly declared that it divided the world into two camps and that it opened up a new battle " to make man free . " Today , however , after nearly twenty years , the liberal , peaCe-loving forces stand with their backs to the wall . As for Woodrow Wilson , the editorial correctly prophesied that " his rhetorical phrases , torn and faded tinsel of a thought which men now doubt if he himself ever really believed , will never again fall with hypnotic charm upon the ears of eager multitudes . " This was only one of William MacDonald 's distinguished services to this journal as European correspondent , editorial writer , and first editor of the International Relations Section , which for several years dealt at length with foreign problems . He was an admirable teacher of history at Bowdoin College and Harvard and Broivn universities , a meticulously careful historian , and a journalist and book reviewer of erudition and distinction . The Nation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with gratitude its lasting indebtedness to William MacDonald .                     