@@487420

The Shape of Things PROSPECTS AT LIMA FOR ANTI-FASCIST UNITY in the Western Hemisphere are difficult to appraise at this writing . In the formal opening speeches President Benavides of Peru , Foreign Minister Cantilo of Argentina , and Secretary Hull paid tribute to the ideals of democracy and warned against the incursion of totalitarian philosophy . Each made it dear that amity among the American states does not necessarily mean isolation from the rest of the world . But the difficulty of achieving an effective mutual pact to resist fascist penetration is indicated by the formation of a bloc headed by Argentina to oppose solidarity plans that might provoke German economic reprisals  --  it also indicates how real the fascist penetration is . It appears doubtful whether Argentina would accept , even in modified form , the plan proposed by Venezuela for immediate consultation and common action in the event that an American nation is attacked by a non-American power . For years Argentina has been bitter in its opposition to effective pan-American union . Reinforcing this traditional opposition is the fact that the present Argentine government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to look askance at too close cooperation with anti-fascist countries like Mexico and Chile . The United States , occupying a middle ground politically , is in a position to mediate between these extremes . The outcome at Lima will depend largely on the skill and restraint with which our delegation discharges this responsibility . INVITATION TO ANTHONY EDEN extended by the National Association of Manufacturers turned out splendidly for all concerned save those liberals who looked to the former Foreign Secretary for a bold lead in defense of democracy . Mr. Chamberlain gave his blessing to the enterprise , and his faith was not destroyed by as much as one embarrassing phrase in a long but completely vacuous speech . Mr. Eden himself has had a pleasant trip to America , including a preview of the World 's Fair , and has opened the way for his return to the Cabinet  --  whenever Hitler gives the 0 . K. The post of Dominions Secretary , which calls for dignity rather than authority , is still vacant . The manufacturers may have felt they did not receive much meat for their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Moreover , Mr. Eden 's speech toned in admirably with the vaguely liberal sweetness which pervaded the convention . It is alleged that fierce struggles went on in the Resolutions Committee before the annual program could be drafted , and this is borne out by the innocuous generalizations which finally emerged . We may be unduly suspicious of the emphasis during the convention on " social service " and a " new sense of responsibility . " But more specific evidence is necessary before we are convinced that the N. A. M. has experienced a change of heart and not merely adopted a change in tactics . FATHER COUGHLIN 'S BLATANT DISTORTIONS have brought out a series of exposures and repudiations from sources which even he can not dismiss as " Communist . " An Episcopal clergyman tracks down , in this week 's Nation , his misstatements on the Jews and reveals that the source of his chief canard is not a supposed British White Paper but a scurrilous anti-Semitic sheet issued by the Nazis from Erfurt . In last Sunday 's broadcast the radio priest completely distorted an article @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1938 . Father Coughlin said the Jews in Bridgeport and Cleveland persuaded the schools to " stop Easter and Christmas practices which had proved embarrassing to Jewish children . " The fact is not that the " practices " were " stopped " but that Jewish children were excused from religious services in the schools at Easter and Christmas . Finally Father Coughlin misrepresents the attitude of his own church . Cardinal Mundelein , recently returned from a visit to the Pope , has issued a statement declaring that Coughlin does not " represent the doctrine or sentiments of the church . " Other Catholics are speaking up against his effort to spread anti-Semitism : Alfred E. Smith , at a dinner of the Xavier Alumni Sodality in New York ; the Commonweal , in an editorial attacking his " all too pious acceptance of propaganda from a party whose Fairer proudly boasts his machine is based on huge lies " ; and Frank J. Hogan , head of the American Bar Association , in a radio broadcast warning that " one hate breeds another . " Mr. Hogan quoted Pope @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " That is the Nazi objection to Catholicism . Maybe Father Coughlin shares it . THE McKESSON AND ROBBINS AFFAIR SHOWS that Wall Street is still unsafe for the investor . This corporation , long established and hitherto highly respected , is one of the largest units in the drug manufacturing and wholesale trade , with its latest balance sheet indicating assets of some $75,000,000 . It was supposed to be operThe NATION acing on a profitable basis when , without warning , suit was filed in Hartford for the appointment of receivers . Subsequent investigation has shown that one large department , trading in crude drugs , had overstated its assets by at least $10,000,000 . It appears that huge inventories existed only on paper , that warehouses supposed to contain these inventories were fictitious , and that associated Canadian firms , of doubtful authenticity , depended , for their credit on forged Dun and Bradstreet reports . In the words of one of the directors , Wilbur L. Cummings , " the facts are so fantastic that we still ca n't believe them . " What is even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its extraordinary career , under the direct supervision of the President , F. Donald Coster , without the knowledge of the board or discovery by the auditors . We hope that the investigation which the SEC has instituted will probe to the very bottom of this scandal . But it should do more than that . This case is one more proof of the need for strengthening the law in regard to the auditing of corporation accounts . The SEC should seize this opportunity to formulate proposals insuring stockholders the protection of a wholly independent audit . ALTHOUGH THE SUPREME COURT ON MONday again refused to grant Tom Mooney habeas corpus and declined to review an anti-labor decision by the Fifth Federal Circuit Court of Appeals , it covered itself with honor by upholding the right of a Negro to enter a state law school . This particular decision affects the University of Missouri but establishes a precedent for the fifteen other states that segregate black students from white . McReynolds and Butler disgraced themselves by a dissent in which they put forward the extraordinary view that to end Jim Crowisrn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ FRONTS THE AMERICAN NEWSPAPER Guild is challenging the press lords , whose chief consistency is that they practice the anti-labor doctrines which they preach . Since October 1 a remarkably effective strike has shut down the newspapers of Wilkes-Barre , Pennsylvania . Although all the familiar paraphernalia of strikebreaking has been invoked , culminating in the formation of a typical " Citizens ' Committee , " one defection from the publishers ' united front has already occurred . The intervention by national officials of the A. F. of L. in precipitating timely " jurisdictional disputes " has not undermined the strike , but has brought a rebuke from local A. F. of L. leaders . An even more impressive demonstration of the Guild 's maturing strength has occurred in Chicago . Some months ago the Guild unit of Hearst 's Herald-Examiner and American in that city was virtually dormant , its militancy  --  and finally its membership  --  destroyed by systematic reprisals . It was patiently reconDecember 17 , 1938 strutted ; but as its influence mounted , a new campaign of terrorization began in the form of dismissals , company @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ F. of L. was a candid partner . Since last January , when contracts were signed by Hearst , the Guild has charged eighty-seven violations of the pact . Its strike call was supported by a majority of editorial , business , and circulation workers , and a precipitous decline in the papers ' circulation is already apparent . In both Wilkes-Barre and Chicago - the strikers ' demands are eminently reasonable , a fact which most newspapers will prefer not to mention . DALADIER 'S VICTORY IN THE CHAMBER WAS a logical result of the French Premier 's anti-labor stand in the one-day general strike . The division was strictly along class lines . Socialists and Communists voted to a man against the government , while the entire right and center , with a few minor exceptions , rallied to the Premier 's support . That the right should find it necessary to defend the Premier on the strike issue is self-evident . But it is difficult to believe that Daladier 's triumph is more than temporary . For no Premier in recent French history has shown such incapacity to rule @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ months . During this period he has not only betrayed one of France 's closest friends but in the process has succeeded in destroying the keystone of France 's security , its system of alliances in Central and Eastern Europe . On top of this , his closing of the French-Spanish frontier has placed a fascist power at the country 's back door and threatened its communications with its colonies . As a direct result of his policy , France has been subjected to the indignity of unprecedented Italian demands for Tunisia and other French territory . And , finally , Daladier has so mishandled domestic policy as to bring the nation to the brink of civil war . To offset these major defeats , Daladier has only a dubious promise from Hitler to respect the Franco-German frontier , and a renewed promise of British support . Reports that members of Daladier 's own party are projecting a new ministry , ranging from Blum to Reynaud , sound authentic . His best friends must wish him well out of his blundering . ARITA 'S , STATEMENT FORMALLY CLOSING the open door @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trade seem finally to have awakened Great Britain and the United States to the need of action . On the theory that the best way to check continuing Japanese encroachment on the continent lies in helping the Chinese to defend themselves , the British government is considering an advance of export credits to China . While the proposed credits would be purely commercial , they would be of indirect military value . The summoning of Ambassador Nelson T. Johnson from Chungking suggests that President Roosevelt has 651 not yet fully made up his mind as to the proper course for the United States to adopt in the face of Japan 's challenge . A substantial loan to China would undoubtedly be the most effective reply . But it would be the height of folly to advance such a loan while we continue to furnish Japan with war materials and foreign exchange to destroy the investment we are making . This contradiction in policy could be avoided if the President would utilize the power granted him under Section 338 of the Tariff Act to embargo imports from countries which flagrantly discriminate against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nation two weeks ago has produced a number of protests , of which two representative examples are printed on page 675 . Our critics object to our acceptance of an advertisement for so reactionary a magazine as Liberty , particularly when its purpose is to draw attention to an article by Max Eastman , whose criticisms of Stalinism are absurdly regarded in some quarters as indicating his adherence to fascism . It should be superfluous to remark that The Nation regards the policies of Liberty with abhorrence . The advertisement in question was a stupid piece of sensationalism , and the article it publicized- as unworthy of Eastman as it was worthy of its publisher . But this does not affect the main issue . The Nation refuses to combine the practice of censorship with the preaching of free speech . Those who would have it do so claim , we are sure , to be fervent defenders of American democracy . We would suggest they can best defend it by being democratic even to the extent of permitting the circulation of views they regard as blasphemy . As Jefferson declared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be tolerated where reason is left free to combat it . " ANTHONY EDEN 'S SPEECH BEFORE THE N. A. M. was the most sustained flight into the higher platitudes ever praised by the New York Times . . . ' . The Paris Council has halted a move to rename a street rue . Chamberlain . The French can rue Chamberlain without naming a street after him . . . . A publisher who recently received a wire from one of his regular authors asking " How long is a novel ? " wired back somewhat casually , " About a hundred thousand words . " Whereupon he received another wire saying , " Then I 'm through , thank God . " Let us hope the happy ending got in under the wire . . . . A man in the Bronx who tried to get across the street by crawling under a horse 's belly was badly kicked . Chamberlain did n't succeed either . . . . If King Carol has enough Nazis shot while escaping he may yet achieve his ambition for " A Rumania of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for a Japanese bombing of Chinese civilians three months hence : Shrapnel from Sixth Avenue El , New York , U. S. A.                     