@@141544

METTERMCH-H. du Coudray-Yale University . Press ( $4.00 ) . <P> In the period after the Napoleonic Wars , Prince Metternich of Austria became an almost legendary figure as the great defender of absolute monarchy , the subtle , far-reaching , implacable enemy of revolutions wherever they appeared in Europe . Traveling about the continent , he advised the dissolution of athletic societies in Germany as potential revolutionary groups , the suppression of the Carbonari in Italy for the same reason , while his counsel was sought when students rioted , soldiers mutinied , princes conspired . To conservative historians he has been known as the most accomplished defender of the principle of divine right ; to liberals he appeared the archenemy of progress , democracy and the rights of man . To his most recent biographer , however , these are among the lesser distinctions of Clement Wenceslas Lothaire Nepomucene Metternich , ranking little higher than his fabulous wit , his great personal charm , his ability to work without seeming to do so . Although Metternich never mentioned it in his memoirs , and described himself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jacobins , Author du Coudray says that he used revolutions when they suited his purposes , the fear of them when they helped to keep quarreling kings united . <P> Since Metternich 's career was an almost unbroken series of triumphs after Napoleon 's fall until his own , in the Austrian Revolution of 1848 , his biography deals principally with intricate diplomatic maneuvers , grows more tedious as it advances . The best pages in Author du Coudray 's book consequently cover Metternich 's relations with Napoleon , and the Congress of Vienna . Born in Coblentz in 1773 , Metternich was educated at Strasbourg a short time after Napoleon . He possessed a practical , precise mind that made him disinterested in diplomacy , interested in science . Leaving his diplomatic apprenticeship in Dresden and Berlin , he was sent to Paris at the age of 33 , soon established himself despite the fact that he represented a defeated country and that Austrian aristocrats could scarcely bring themselves to be civil to Napoleon or his ministers . Since Napoleon liked to talk with him , he soon detected two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dealing with him . The first was that Napoleon was always laying the ground for future action while seeming to be absorbed in immediate affairs . The second was that Napoleon 's cynicism and his belief in the limitless corruptibility of human beings was a deep weakness , blinding him to the possibility of an alliance against him that he could not disrupt . Since few aristocrats could conquer their prejudice enough to study the Emperor carefully , Metternich had a great advantage in the negotiations of the allies , soon maneuvered a weak , twice-defeated Austria into a decisive position among European powers .                     