@@142927

After raging furiously for over a fortnight the " Battle of Madrid " simmered down last week to a peevish interchange of inconsequent bombardments . The great Leftist offensive launched " to raise the Siege of Madrid " ( TIME , July 26 et seq. ) had been broken by the Rightists at Brunete and not a single structure stood last week in that shattered spearhead of the Madrid defenders ' advance . As pretty , Polish Mile . Gerda Taro , 25 , was taking pictures for LIFE and footage for the MARCH OF TIME of the retreat from Brunete she was killed . <P> As always happens after a major action has not turned out well , there was such unrest behind the lines last week that Leftist Premier Dr. Juan Negrin used his news-organ Socialista to point up the situation sharply : " Deterioration of the enemy 's rear guard will serve us little if we do not guard our own rear . There are defects in our rear guard and silence regarding them serves no good purpose . There is but one duty : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President Francisco Franco , after starting up again the offensive against Santander he had to stop to check the Leftists at Madrid , started another drive against Leftist positions 100 mi. east of Madrid and then turned to statecraft , forming a Cabinet of seven ministers , five of them generals . To Spaniards the name of General Martinez Anido as Minister of Interior , in charge of police , meant that any last vestige of possible compromise with Spain 's Communists , Anarchists and Socialists had been deliberately wiped out by the Rightists . Martinez Anido was Vice-Premier under the late Spanish Dictator Don Miguel Primo de Rivera , suppressed with hundreds of executions the proletarian uprising in Barcelona when he was Captain-General of Catalonia . <P> In what was called the first actual trial on charges of spreading disease germs in warfare , two Frenchmen . Jean Boujennec and Louis Chabrat , were arraigned last week before a Rightist court martial at Pamplona . The Court took note of their confession that they had been paid $3.750 , inspected tubes found on them said to contain typhoid and sleeping-sickness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the court martial . President Franco intervened , delayed the Frenchmen 's execution " pending an international inquiry . " With Spain 's civil war in its 13th month , neither side had yet used poison gas . <P> At sea last week two unidentified submarines , presumably Rightist Spanish , German or Italian , opened fire on the Leftist freighter Andutz-Mendi , set it ablaze . Up the mast scrambled a sailor to hoist his shirt as a flag of surrender , had his head blown off by a freakish hit of one of the submarine 's projectiles . Freakish too was the escape of the Rightist sea-raiding cruiser Almirante Cervera . She was caught by a Leftist air squadron which rained some 20 bombs , some so close that spray from their splashes spattered her decks , but zig-zagging frantically she opened up with her anti-aircraft batteries , escaped .                     