@@469810

ON FEBRUARY 12th of this year newspapermen in Washington asked prominent political leaders what policies Lincoln would advocate if he were abroad in the land once more . With a solitary exception the statesmen on Capitol Hill took the occasion of the one hundred and twenty-seventh anniversary of the Emancipator 's birth to engage in verbal bombardments praising or condemning the New Deal . The exception was Senator George W. Norris of Nebraska . His gaunt , sad-eyed face was lighted by a quizzical smile as he told his interrogators , " Lincoln would be just like me . He would n't know what the hell to do ! " Such a reply from a newcomer to politics would have been regarded as inexcusably na ? ve . Politicians are not supposed to be frank with the voters . The hypothetical return of Abraham Lincoln is a subject to be considered ? at least for public consumption ? with due reverence and pomposity . Yet George William Norris has been breaking political rules and maxims in this fashion for two generations and he has served in Congress longer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American public life this gray-haired , seventy-fiveyear-old prairie philosopher has brought a candor and sincerity which once prompted the " Topics of the Times " to declare : " Norris has many critics , but no criticism of him has ever included the charge that he is what is known in politics as a ' trimmer . ' His insurgency has never been confined to the period between elections . It is not lulled by favor , Battery , or White House breakfasts , or fear of consequences with the voters . " The New York Times does not favor the social and economic reforms advocated by Senator Norris . Its admiration of his probity is admiration for an op ponent . This respect for Nebraska 's senior Senator among his adversaries is not confined to the Times . His unwillingness to indulge in the customary equivocations and hypocrisies of politics has made him virtually a national institution . In an era in which it is common to identify public figures with certain qualities ? Roosevelt with personality , Borah with oratory , Hoover with efficiency ? Senator Norris , practically @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with honesty . Lewis Gannett remarked of him in 1926 : " George Norris is the only honest man in political life in America . " By all the accepted standards of modern political combat , the voters of Nebraska should have retired Norris long ago to his little home at McCook . He has consistently refused to submit to the various pressure clans which roam the arena of public affairs , looking for wayward statesmen to terrify . He has denounced political patronage as an unmitigated evil and has never solidified his following with the disbursement of government jobs . He has often bolted the Republican party in Presidential years . He does not attend White House receptions and the other social festivities which the public reads about so avidly . He and his wife have disagreed publicly as to political policy . He belongs to no church . He has never surrounded himself with the hocus-pocus atmosphere of aloofness and Olympian wisdom dear to most statesmen . He has not hesitated to antagonize important men , whether they be captains of industry , cabinet members , or residents of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ floor of the Senate to read satiric doggerel about the Vice-President then presiding over the upper-chamber . He has been so apparently indifferent to obliteration at the polls that the Nebraska State Journal once intimated that martyrdom is an inseparable characteristic of his personality . Since 1902 Norris has represented his State in the national capital . He spent his first ten years there in the House of Representatives . He was elected to the Senate in 1912 and is now completing his fourth term in that body . During these thirty-four years he has been so free of the fears to which most politicians pay homage that Senator Arthur Capper of Kansas recently said , " George Norris is a living , perambulating Declaration of Independence in human form . " Here is a singular and remarkable career ? one of the longest in the history of Congress ? which offers vivid proof that there can be an occasional rare exception to the truism expressed a century ago by the prophetic Frenchman , De Tocqueville , " A political aspirant in the United States begins by discriminating in his own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to issues is the fact that he behaves like a human being . His unruffled course through the turmoil of public life is a challenge to the widely prevalent belief that politicians ? like royalty ? can not remain in power if they act like normal persons . They must be clever clowns , providing entertainment for the populace , or oracles solemnly mouthing pompous truisms , or their mouths must be perpetually wrinkled in gay , cavalier smiles . They must attend church faithfully and make frequent allusions to the Scriptures in their public utterances . There can be no subject on which they are not seemingly posted . They must pose as authorities on everything from garden spades to light cruisers . They must never be mistaken ; if they blunder , some subordinate must shoulder the blame . This pretentious and frequently hypocritical way of living , though it is the price which many men are willing to pay for high public office , has not been the price of the longest tenure in Congress . Norris lives as simply as if politics had never removed him from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thousand inhabitants . Most American families disagree as to political opinions ? and so do the Norrises . In 1928 the Senator announced he would support Alfred E. Smith for the Presidency . Mrs. Norris promptly said she could not reconcile Smith 's advocacy of repeal of the 18th Amendment with her own dry views and would scratch her ticket , voting for neither Smith nor Hoover . For a time the country was treated to the unusual spectacle of a wife collaborating in the possible political embarrassment of her husband because they honestly disagreed on an issue of the campaign . Many ministers in Nebraska said the " good people " of the State were ashamed of Norris , particularly as he had been a dry all his life . The Senator answered that he still believed in Prohibition , but that he considered economic questions such as taxation and public ownership infinitely more important than the liquor problem . This performance was repeated on a modified scale in 1932 when Norris supported Roosevelt , another advocate of repeal . Despite their occasional political differences , the Norrises are among @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ walk together and to drive their inexpensive sedan . They shun social affairs and are together whenever the Senator is not participating in public events . More than fifteen years ago a Washington newspaperman remarked of Norris , " He has not any of the things which Senatorial hearts most crave : social position , influence in his party , or companionship of the cocktail-drinking , poker-playing good fellows . " In the summer months the Senator and Mrs. Norris motor to Wisconsin , where they have a little forest cabin he built with his own hands . Crowds and lavish functions are distasteful to them , and no shoesalesman and his wife travel more obscurely than this couple who have been in the national capital since almost the turn of the century . In Washington the Senator and his wife spend the evenings at their apartment . They have three daughters , all married , and one of Norris 's sons-in-law is his secretary , John P. Robertson . The Senator is a voracious reader . His library is lined with books on social and economic problems , many of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He devotes long hours to analyzing reports on hydroelectric power , armaments , and other subjects which draw his attention . Rostand 's Cyrano de Bergerac is his favorite book and the militant challenges of that hero have a deep emotional appeal for him . He has always associated the cadences of stirring poetry ? which he loves to read aloud ? with the deeds of his friend , the elder La Follette , and he quoted at length from William Ellery Leonard and other poets in his memorial address when the Wisconsin Senator died in 1925 . In his offices Norris is accessible and unassuming . He is no desk-pounder , no thundering oracle bellowing like the throat of Vesuvius . He frequently will tilt his feet on the desk and let the visitor carry the brunt of the conversation . A corncob pipe and a plentiful supply of cigars are his chief enjoyment and he generally has them arrayed on the blotter in front of him . Like Borah and two orthree other Congressional veterans , he dresses in dark baggy suits . Most of the time he wears @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concession to sartorial correctness when the humidity of the Washington summers drives him to linen clothing . He is eager for information and wants to know what is taking place in the country and what the people are talking about . Tales of poverty and distress move him immeasurably . He is naturally sad and heavyeyed and his face ? beneath his white hair and dark brows ? is touched by sorrow whenever visitors tell him of the misery prevalent in many parts of the country . It is one of the anomalies of Washington that this grave old man , whose very appearance is melancholy , should move into debate with sardonic humor as one of his principal weapons . Capitol Hill has not yet forgotten the letter which Norris publicly addressed to Secretary of State Stimson seven years ago when the controversy over Dolly Gann 's social status was at its height . Here is an excerpt : The League of Nations , the World Court , the maintaining of a big Navy . . . are all important and may affect the peace of the world , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the great question that is now agitating the whole world as to where the Vice-President 's sister shall sit at the dinner table . Another Vice-President was the target of Norris 's shafts of satire when Charles G. Dawes rushed from the Willard Hotel to reach the Senate in time to vote with the conservatives on an important bill . Into the Congressional Record Norris read a rhymed parody , comparing Dawes ' pell-mell rush through the Washington streets with Sheridan 's ride to Win-chester : Up from the east out into the day Bringing to the Willard fresh dismay The affrighted air with a shudder bore Like a herald in haste to the chieftain 's door The terrible grumble and rumble and roar Telling the battle was on once more And Dawes fully fifteen blocks away . . . . One summer during the Coolidge administration Norris was run down by an automobile and slightly injured . The Senate was anxious to adjourn and escape from the heat of the capital , but Norris limped to the floor and declared , " I am ready to stay here all summer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ right to demand that we all stay . I am in good shape ; when that automobile struck me the grinding and crunching of the wheels simply massaged and invigorated me . " Norris 's colleagues were indignant , but they remained in Washington for several weeks to consider the tariff . The goodwill and friendly companionship of the majority of his fellow Senators has never been anything but an incidental objective with Norris . Content to be a lonely anchorite , over a period of three decades he has angered virtually every Congressional adherent of the party system . Political discipline and party patronage are his betes noires . He is so suspicious of political alliances of any sort that he has not even agreed with other liberals in their demands for a new party . In 1924 , when appeals for a Progressive party were coming from the hinterlands , Norris threw cold water on the proposal : " I have small faith in a new party . There is too much belief in parties in this country . Unless its leaders were Christlike men ? in which case @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be dictated by a few bosses conferring in private , just as in the old parties . " This mistrust of political factions prompted Norris to insist last year that the constitutional amendment giving Nebraska a unicameral legislature contain a provision calling for non-partisan election of the members . It gives Norris considerable amusement to relate to his visitors how he became convinced of the futility of party discipline and ties . On February 22 , 1904 , when he was a young Congressman with a drooping mustache and faith in the infallibility of the Republican party , the Democratic whip in the House moved to adjourn in tribute to the memory of George Washington . Norris was the only Republican to support the motion . He was severely reprimanded by the floor leader of his party , who explained that Republicans positively could not endorse legislation introduced by Democrats , no matter how worthy it might be . Several months after this episode , the forty-three-year-old Representative from Nebraska delivered a five-minute speech opposing an increase in pay to a doorkeeper whom he regarded as merely a customer at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ parties . Norris , later looking back on his service in the House , declared , " Although I was a member of the House for ten years , and eight years of that time my party was in control , I never received a single piece of patronage . . I doubt whether there ever has been an instance where a man has served that long in the House . . . and has never been given a single solitary appointment of any kind . " Unwillingness to court the support of his party made each of Norris 's campaigns for re-election a hazardous undertaking . His eminent fellow-Nebraskan , William Jennings Bryan , would come into the district every two years to stump for the Democratic candidate . In 1908 Bryan delivered more than thirty speeches in behalf of the Democrat , and Norris kept his seat by a margin of only twenty-two votes . After the election was over Bryan told Norris he was glad he had won and that he frankly preferred him to the Democrat whose victory he had urged . On the way back to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made of Bryan 's course . This experience with party lines impelled Norris to attempt what the capital then regarded as impossible : the overthrow of Uncle Joe Cannon 's rigid rule over the House . " The Speaker is in control of the political guillotine , " Norris contended . He demanded that the Committee on Rules , instead of being composed of five members selected by the Speaker , should consist of fifteen members appointed by the House . " This is anarchy under the color of law , " Cannon thundered . But in 1910 Norris was the spearhead of a carefully-timed insurrection which stripped Cannon of the power he had wielded so long without question or challenge . Only three votes decided the battle . Two years Iater Norris successfully fought both the Democrats and the Republican regulars and was elected to the Senate . He was nearing fifty-two when he entered the upper chamber in March of 1913 . He took his seat branded as a political insurgent , but he had not yet acquired a reputation as a rebel in the economic field . Most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political reforms . He had attacked the stilted procedure of the electoral-college method of electing the President and he had condemned political deals and alliances . But in the economic sphere his exploits had not been daring . if anything , he had inclined toward caution . When most of Red Willow County in Nebraska had flirted with the Populist movement , Norris and one other attorney were the only lawyers to resist the clamor . A roamer in far political pastures , until his advent into the Senate he had held relatively conservative economic beliefs . In the upper chamber , however , Norris found himself in intimate contact with two men whose influence greatly shaped his life . One of these was Robert M. La Follette of Wisconsin , a Senator since 1906 . La Follette was voicing the demands of the workers and the farmers of the Northwest for industrial and agrarian reforms , and was opposing the railroads , the banks , and Wall Street . Norris soon found himself increasingly in agreement with the man from Wisconsin . The other Senator who met a sympathetic ally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ frankly called himself a " philosophical anarchist . " The Oregon Senator and Norris ? newcomers to the Senate ? became constant companions . Both social recluses , they spent long hours walking along Washington 's byways . La Follette , Norris , and Lane became the nucleus of a little group of Senators and Representatives who endeavored in vain over a period of two years to prevent American participation in the World War . Each of the trio had thought he saw in Wilson a President who would be susceptible to La Follette 's economic reforms , to Norris 's political ideas , and to Lane 's social beliefs . Yet as the country moved inexorably toward entanglement in the conflict raging in Europe , they became the President 's most implacable opponents , and he in turn denounced them as few Chief Executives have ever denounced members of the nation 's highest legislative body . By the middle of 1916 the lines were tightly drawn and Norris , La Follette , and Lane were marshaling a tiny unit of a dozen Senators to protest the demands for increased military @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ own munitions , and Lane angrily predicted that the young men enrolled in compulsory military training would eventually be used as strike-breakers . The trio of Norris , Lane , and La Follette led a long debate for an amendment to forbid the intervention of American troops in Central American countries , but at the showdown could muster only five votes in addition to their own . La Follette condemned the Administration bitterly as he described how he and Norris and Lane , while riding in a street car , had overheard Federal employees complain that they had been coerced into marching in the Preparedness Parades . Norris accused Wilson of saying to the members of Congress , " You shall not express your opinion if it conflicts with mine . " In the midst of the vain struggle to avert participation in the War , Lane 's health broke down . Physicians diagnosed his ailment as Bright 's disease and warned he had not long to live unless he avoided all possible excitement and strain . They besought him to withdraw from the stubborn little pacifist bloc , but one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rather die to-morrow than not go down the line with George Norris . " Between the two Senators there was a deep bond of friendship . Long after Lane 's death , his family described how Norris sat at his colleague 's bedside night after night when Lane was too weak to attend Senate sessions . The most furious of the storms of derision broke over these men when their filibuster prevented passage of the armedship bill at the 1917 short term of Congress . Patriotic organizations excoriated Norris , La Follette , Lane , Stone of Missouri , and a handful of others as " twentieth-century Benedict Arnolds . " Wilson denounced them as " a little group of wilful men . " The abuse was so vehement in Nebraska that Norris decided to offer to resign and stand for re-election . Even La Follette advised against such a course , pleading that the people would act in the heat of war hysteria as they would not act in the calm aftermath of later years . But against the counsel of his friends , Norris returned to Nebraska , rented @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ explain his position to his constituents . No one would volunteer to preside as chairman of the meeting and Norris received several messages threatening his life . When he finally walked on to the platform , a lonely figure in a baggy suit , he faced a grim crowd which packed the auditorium in ominous silence . " I have come home to tell you the truth , " Norris began . Slowly , painstakingly ? step by step ? he described to the people who had sent him to the Senate the reasons for his opposition to America 's entrance into the War . Then he returned to the capital and was one of six Senators who to the end maintained their stand against the War resolution . On the final day of Senate debate ? April 4 , 1917 ? Norris brought down upon himself the wrath of pulpit , press , and patriot by exclaiming , " I feel that we are about to put a dollar stamp on the American flag . " As the full import of this challenge struck his colleagues , James A. Reed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Norris replied , " The Senator from Missouri has said something that at some time he will regret , I believe . " Alone of the six dissenters , * Norris was still in the Senate in 1925 when Reed described the minority vote against the War as " the most superb act of courage this century has witnessed . " Few Americans ever have been called upon to endure a barrage of ridicule comparable to that which was hurled at the Senators who opposed the War resolution . They were castigated as " skunks , " " traitors , " and " copperheads . " Congress was deluged with petitions insisting that they be expelled from the Senate and even banished from the land . Lane died six weeks after the vote in the upper chamber . Norris crossed the continent to attend his friend 's funeral , and as he was leaving the newly-covered grave in the Oregon hills , he remarked to Lane 's daughter , " Well , Nina , your father 's gone . He gave up his life for peace . I guess a few @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Norris faced reelection in 1918 , but dared to challenge the Espionage Act and other Administration measures . The Democratic Senatorial nominee was supported by Nebraska 's Senior Senator , Gilbert M. Hitchcock , the sponsor of the War resolution . Although the election was held in the last few days before the Armistice ? when enthusiasm was running high over Allied victories on every sector ? Norris defended his War position and defeated John H. Moorhead by 21 , - 000 votes out of a total of 220,000 ballots . Assured of a second Senatorial term , Norris continued to oppose Wilson 's demands . He condemned the Treaty of Versailles and threw himself into the fight against the Japanese claims to Shantung . Japan 's aggression in China has always aroused his indignation . It is still rumored in Washington that Borah won over Norris to the isolationists ' refusal to ? The other five were La Follette , Lane , Stone of Missouri , Gronna of North Dakota , and Vardaman of Mississippi . ratify World Court membership two years ago by emphasizing to his colleague @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to prevent Japanese imperialism . When Harding replaced Wilson in the White House in 1920 , and the Republicans gained a majority in Congress , Norris became chairman of the Senate committee on Agriculture . A year later Henry Ford submitted his famous offer to buy Muscle Shoals and Norris was plunged into the hydroelectric power problem . This has been the great , consuming interest of his life . He has analyzed and explored it from every perspective . Engineers say he is as conversant as they are with the technical details of the question . Since Ford first focused attention on Muscle Shoals as a national issue , Norris has been the country 's most tenacious advocate of public power development . In 1921 Henry Ford was near the crest of his popularity . He even was mentioned frequently as a possible Presidential candidate . His Muscle Shoals offer , including as it did a provision to manufacture nitrogen for fertilizer at not more than eight per cent profit , was hailed with enthusiasm in rural districts . A majority of Congress was inclined to favor the proposal . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The magic name of Henry Ford seems to have dulled all the reasoning faculties of thousands of farmers " ; and for three years he carried on a desperate campaign to prevent Muscle Shoals from being sold . On several occasions he was barely able to avert favorable action on Ford 's bid , although in 1922 Norris had strengthened his forces by assisting Robert Howell to replace Gilbert Hitchcock as his Senatorial colleague from Nebraska . So soon had the sponsor of the War resolution fallen by the political wayside ! Finally in 1924 Ford withdrew his offer . Yet two years later both Houses of Congress passed the Underwood bill to turn over Muscle Shoals to private operation . With his tenacious fight apparently lost , Norris made an eleventhhour thrust and blocked the Underwood measure on a point of order when it was already submitted as a conference report . After this almost unbelievable recovery on the brink of defeat , Norris marshaled his support to block the proposal permanently . As a result the $46,000,000 Wilson Dam at Muscle Shoals to-day is still the property of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ background in the power problem . Here , possibly , is the reason why President Roosevelt is the first occupant of the White House to be supported vociferously by the gray-haired Senator from Nebraska . Here is the reason for the excitement in Norris 's voice when ? during the debate last year on the " death sentence " bill ? he proclaimed , " Holding companies constitute the greatest evil of our civilized age ! " Power looms large in his vista of national affairs ; once when a prominent editor asked him for a statement on an important foreign policy , he confessed to having spent so much time in study of the hydroelectric issue that he was not even conversant with the other problem . Unanimity on the power question is the stoutest chain holding Norris to the New Deal . On a number of subjects the President and he have disagreed : the limitation of crops , the increases in Naval armaments , Farley 's patronage methods . But Mr. Roosevelt has accepted a generous portion of the Senator 's power advocacies . Pressure from the White @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rural electrification . Federal power " yardsticks " in the form of giant dams are under construction on the Columbia River and other streams . In the South the Tennessee Valley Authority constitutes the New Deal 's most remarkable experiment in social planning . All this has been the partial fulfillment of a dream to Norris and he has assured the President of unqualified support in the coming election . Some of Norris 's admirers are afraid that the implacable Senatorial foe of Wilson , Harding , Coolidge , and Hoover has been spellbound by Roosevelt 's personality . But of one fact there is no doubt ? on the power issue the President has been more consistent and tenacious than in the pursuit of any other objective . When the holding company bill was at stake , he refused to give ground in the face of rebellion within his own Congressional ranks . He has kept political considerations out of the appointments of Dr. A. E. Morgan and David Lilienthal to head the TVA and of Morris L. Cooke to manage the Rural Electrification Division . The TVA has moved @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Norman Thomas and the editors of Judge have hailed it as the most significant achievement of the Roosevelt Administration . Senator Norris is largely responsible for this escape from the customary halts and compromises of the New Deal . He has followed every phase of the power problem with the relentlessness of an Indian trailer . He communicates constantly with persons on the scenes of operation at Chattanooga , Tennessee ; Bonneville , Oregon ; and other power centers . During the debate on the holding-company legislation , he took complex charts and graphs to the floor of the Senate and suspended them from a portable blackboard . Using a pointer like a pedagogue drilling a group of schoolboys , he explained the intricacies of utility combinations to his colleagues . He feels so intensely on the issue that several times he has assailed Comptroller-General Mc-Carl 's detailed questioning of TVA expenditures , despite the fact that McCarl was once his secretary . Norris told newspaper correspondents he would have been heartbroken if the Supreme Court decision in the TVA case had gone against the Government . And when the development @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to him , he generally stalks over to 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue to see the President about it . III Between the fifty-four-year-old occupant of the White House and the seventyfiveyear-old veteran of the Senate there is a unique friendship . From George Norris the President has accepted rebukes and criticisms he would not tolerate from any other person . Almost without cessation , Norris has condemned the patronage empire of Jim Farley . His hatred of the spoils system prompted him to support the late Huey Long 's resolution authorizing an investigation of the Postmaster-General . When the Democratic political forces opposed the reelection in 1934 of Senator Shipstead of Minnesota and the late Senator Cutting of New Mexico , Norris branded the action as " gross ingratitude " and scathingly added that it had been undertaken with the " knowledge and consent of the President . " He and five other liberals stalked indignantly from the Senate chamber when Cutting 's Democratic successor , ex-Congressman Chavez , was sworn in . Norris has always voted against and denounced the Naval appropriation bills ? bills marked " must " by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to harness Norris to political strategy , and in an election year , with the Administration anxious to dodge the Constitutional issue , he has called the Supreme Court a " continual Constitutional convention " and has sponsored a measure to curb its powers . " I do not intend to avoid this issue , " he recently telegraphed a friend . Mr. Roosevelt does not cherish people who question his favorite policies . The one exception is Senator Norris . The venerable Nebraskan can denounce a New Deal Naval allotment as " militaristic " in the morning and at an afternoon press conference the President will reiterate the hope that " Uncle George " can be persuaded to serve another term in the Senate . On a recent speaking tour in the Middle West Mr. Roosevelt referred to Norris as one of the greatest of all Americans . It was the President 's express wish that the key unit of the TVA be named " Norris Dam . " He also has put his relations with the Senator on a personal as well as an official basis . For the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ himself an occasional visitor at the White House for an evening discussion in the Lincoln study . After one of the Presidential cruises to Central America , Mr. Roosevelt jocularly remarked that a happy result of the voyage was a Panama hat he brought back as a Christmas gift for " Uncle George " to replace a dilapidated Stetson the Senator once lost at the White House . Liberal critics of the New Deal have been disturbed by Norris 's support of the Administration . They intimate that the dean of the Progressive bloc has overlooked the fact that frequently the Roosevelt deeds do not accord with the Roosevelt promises . They feel it is a mistake for Norris , an outspoken foe of large armaments , to aid an Administration engaged in gearing the war machine to its highest peace-time pitch . They do not want the nation 's most forthright liberal to be attached to the New Deal , should it eventually fail ? as they believe it will . Let the Senator answer these complaints in his own words , in a letter addressed to a constituent in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ difficulties which had never before confronted any living man . He had no precedents to follow . He had to guide the ship through uncharted seas . . . . In some respects it seems to me that President Roosevelt has been one hundred per cent right . In other respects , he has failed . . . . I could never believe that it was right to destroy food products when so many people were suffering for the necessities of life . . . . Yet I have believed it was my duty to go along with any program which was honestly conceived with a view of bringing better conditions . This confidence of Norris in a Democratic President is a sharp contrast to his attitude toward the Chief Executives of his own party . For twelve years his verbal forays on the Senate floor aroused the wrath of Harding , Coolidge , and Hoover . When the Republicans rebuked him for sponsoring a resolution calling for an investigation of the Tariff Commission and its relations with Coolidge , Norris snapped back , " No man owes a duty to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he owes to his country . " Once , while speaking of Coolidge , Norris blurted out , " He thinks he is a little Jesus Christ . " The clerk tactfully changed the sentence in the Congressional Record to " He thinks he is the embodiment of perfection . " This sort of verbal recklessness is almost without parallel in public life . Nine hundred and ninety-nine politicians out of a thousand balk at all except the most discreet approach to religion and its institutions . Yet during a discussion of Japan 's subjugation of the Chinese Norris stated , " I am not a member of any church ; I am not a member of any religious organization . . . . " He went on to describe himself as " one of the followers of the religion proclaimed by Abou Ben Adhem . . . who loved his fellow-men . " It requires both courage and simplicity of character to make a declaration like that on the floor of the United States Senate in these days when newsreel photographs show every public figure parading in and out of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arena of American politics ? a mild , soft-spoken old man defying every orthodox rule for success in public affairs . See him in the Senate chamber , quiet and unobtrusive , his head cocked to catch what is taking place . His white hair contrasts vividly with the black mop of his forty-one-year-old colleague , Bob La Follette , Jr. , who sits back of him . When he speaks he does so in subdued , almost-conversational tones . Norris has none of the thunder of Borah , little of the eloquence of Ham Lewis , none of the histrionics which characterized Huey Long . Sometimes his colleagues and listeners have difficulty in hearing him . He is inclined to be long-winded on certain subjects and occasionally he is dry and monotonous . The New York Times , in discussing the possibilities of a filibuster against the War resolution in 1917 , prophesied , " For the others ( outside of La Follette ) only Norris is likely to be lengthy . " Norris 's speeches are not adapted to rabble-rousing . The word-music of contemporary political oratory ? composed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ style . He does not cram his addresses with frantic appeals to God , Home , and Mother . Maps , statistics , and charts are his ammunition and he will fill pages of the Congressional Record with tables which relatively few of its readers bother to analyze and understand . Iv How far to the left is Norris ? Of course he is listed in the Red Network . If for no other reason , his presence in that extraordinary roster of the supposed enemies of the republic would be assured by his sponsorship of the Lane Pamphlet attacking compulsory military education . He is willing that the principle of public ownership be applied not only to power , but to other basic industries such as coal . He is an advocate of co-operatives and he has sponsored anti-injunction bills and other labor legislation . These and similar proposals are aimed at the modification of capitalism ? and the Socialists are enthusiastic over the TVA ? but Norris has not given outright support to the Production-for-use program of the Farmer-Labor party of Minnesota . He is not a money radical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assistance measures . He voted against Father Coughlin 's banking bill when it was before the Senate , and he turned down flatly the threats of the Townsendites , terming the OARP transactions levy a " pyramided sales tax . " He has continually contended : I do not believe we can ever have a permanent recovery until we take some steps which will bring about a more equal distribution of wealth and property . I believe the saving of the situation and even of civilization depends upon something of this kind . Along such a course also ran the beliefs of Huey Long . But whereas Huey reduced the answer to a simple Share-theWealth formula , labeled with Biblical metaphors and put in attractive bottles for the peasants of the South , Norris has proposed more steeply graduated income and inheritance taxes , using graphs and statistics to bolster his arguments . For nearly two decades Norris has hammered away at this theme . Now he is ready to retire . He sees younger men like Black of Alabama , Nye of North Dakota , Bone of Washington , La @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pope of Idaho coming up in the ranks to take his place . He wants to withdraw to the little town of McCook , where he has had his home ever since he entered politics . Norris did not file in the Republican Senatorial primaries this year , and if he decides to run again , he must do so as an Independent candidate . He has received thousands of letters from every State urging him to remain in public life . The President has repeatedly requested him to seek another term in the Senate . Nebraska 's Democrats at their recent convention adopted a resolution which said , " The need for his ( Norris 's ) return to his unfinished work in the Congress outweighs all consideration of party regularity and transcends all fair regard for the political aspirations , however worthy , of any individual . " At this writing a movement is under way in the State to nominate Norris by petition , regardless of whether he gives his consent . On two previous occasions the Senator determined to retire , but each time circumstances forced him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discouraged by the inevitability of Coolidge 's victory over La Follette , he declared , " I have been bucking this game for twenty years and there is no way of beating it . Now I 'm through . " But his friends suppressed his telegram declining the nomination , and he was reelected by a decisive majority . He listed his campaign expenses as " Postage , two cents . " Again in 1930 he wanted to withdraw ; but Republican regulars ran against him in the primaries a grocer who was also named George W. Norris , and the Senator , aroused by this trick , again won the Republican nomination and in the general election opposed Gilbert M. Hitchcock , the wartime Senate leader who was attempting to come back in politics . Hitchcock pointed to his long record for patriotism and was supported by the Republican conservatives as well as by the Democrats . Norris said , " There is nothing which has given me so much suffering or of which I am so proud as my vote against the World War . " The result was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years ago Norris won a victory in his State even more notable than his 1930 triumph . Nebraska 's voters adopted by an overwhelming margin his amendment to the State Constitution providing for America 's only one-house legislature . It was a score for the Senator over most of the old-line politicians in the state . And three years ago he won another notable triumph . He became one of the few men in history almost solitarily responsible for a change in the Constitution . Four times he had hammered through the Senate his amendment abolishing " Lame Duck " sessions of Congress , only to see it killed by the House ; but he persisted , and finally his proposal became the twenty-first amendment to the Constitution . Next year it will result in the Presidential inauguration being held in January . George W. Norris is ending his career ? a career which began amidst the poverty of eighty acres of stumps in Sandusky County of Ohio ? in an era of unrivaled political demagoguery . It has become expedient for the ambitious statesman todemand governmental economy in one breath @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ espouse a balanced budget and cash payment of the bonus , to praise the Civil Service while constructing a mammoth patronage machine , to insist upon higher tariffs on products from his own district and free trade for goods manufactured by the other fellow 's constituents . Tolerance and honesty in public affairs are at a greater premium than ever before . Appeals to hatred and ignorance are legion . To millions of Americans " humbuggery " has become a virtual synonym for politics . Yet in this age of expediency at least one man has proven that success and sincerity in public life are not necessarily incompatible . In George W. Norris the nation has produced a unique figure : a politician who can act like a human being , express his convictions , and yet survive at the polls . There are those who contend he is unduly suspicious ; others claim that his hatred of the " power trust " and " the interests " amounts to an obsession ; but not even his most aggressive foes question his integrity . Frequently harsh in his mistrusts , sometimes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been on Capitol Hill more than thirty years , and the hour is yet to come when he will mince words on a public issue . It is encouraging that the most forthright member of Congress is the member whom the people have kept there the greatest length of time . On all issues except where the Senator is concerned the voters of Nebraska are relatively conservative . Respect rather than agreement is responsible for his thirty-four-year tenure . Perhaps intellectual honesty is not an unappreciated virtue after all .                     