@@430998

IT A TIME when so many people are taking an emotional interest in evolution it is not surprising that sophistry should assume the role of master of ceremonies . It eases the pain of the tender-minded with a venerated though unworthy evasion . Man was not descended from an ape ( perish the thought ! ) but both came from a common ancestor . Although this statement is well supported by the decree of science , it serves no good purpose when it leads to the bland assumption that our unknown ancestor was an angel . If we could meet him on the street , we should undoubtedly run . Further back are the insectivores ? remoter forefathers who may possibly console those who like hedgehogs better than apes . Beyond the insectivores are many other ancestors , but they could not conceivably bring comfort to anybody . Even if they could , it would be the false comfort of a head buried in the sand . If we have any respect for our minds , we must admit the truth about our bodies . If man is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with such difficulty from the slime of the past , he must not close his eyes to the past . Biological history repeats its mistakes , and the descent to Avernus is easy because the path is well trodden . Man is the only animal with any power to direct his own evolution . Before he can use this power he must learn from the past the reasonable expectations of the future . A pious delusion of many people who like to moralize on evolution is that all organisms have tended to perfect themselves . Professional evolutionists , themselves , are no doubt partly responsible for this cheery falsehood . It is but human to sugar-coat a pill that is bound to be bitter to many . It is ennobling to think of all nature as struggling for higher things . But when most of creation is living in parasitism and degeneracy , when this condition is known to have persisted from very early times , to think of evolution as a physical if not  | a spiritual yearning toward perfection is clearly to outrage that good lady , Truth . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to sing , " God 's in His Heaven ? All 's right with the world ! " even while we sink into the abyss which awaits the unaware . The most casual observer of nature , provided his mind is not made up before he looks , can see that comfort rather than perfection has been , and is , the goal of all flesh . It is only when organisms must struggle against heavy odds to gain comfort that they succeed in bettering themselves . Unfortunately , we can only guess at the initial stages in the history of life . Nobody knows how the vast chemical and dynamic gap between the inorganic and organic worlds was bridged . Perhaps life went through precellular chemical stages of gaining complexity before attaining a form comparable to any , of the forms in which it is clothed to-day . The earliest organisms probably lived for millions of years in a subcellular or unicellular condition . Eventually life must have developed to a stage of complexity comparable to living bacteria . It is a long step from primitive bacteria to the green @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fossil plant . It is a longer step to worms , the first animals recorded in fossils . It took nature nearly one-half of geological time to bring life to the dignity of seaweeds and worms . Never since has the struggle to live been so disheartening . Simple as these early creatures were , their existence indicates as great a victory of vital energy over the first half of recorded time as does the presence of man over the last half . Although life in the good old days was not so good , and most organisms went weakly armed to the battle with physical forces , a few were able to sit back and take it easy . The bacteria remained primitive while moons passed over them and while relatives climbed the heights of attainment . Being small and simple , they were able to adjust themselves to a variety of conditions . Once adjusted , they remained small and simple . They have come down to the world to-day little changed . Many were not content with mere primitiveness , but took to living as parasites in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The bacteria must be credited with success of a sort . They gained their biological desires by desiring little . When plants and animals were separating on dietary grounds , the bacteria were learning to eat everything . To-day we find them living on a host of materials , including such gastronomic delicacies as iron , sulphur , and petroleum . Their other adaptations are equally simple or perverted . In remaining primitive and becoming degenerate , bacteria have won a long life if not a noble or an exciting one . But they have done merely what all creatures tend to do when they can . It is to their biological credit that they have escaped so long the death penalty that nature likes to inflict upon weaklings.  | WHAT IS DEGENERACY ? BEFORE we place the label of degener , acy upon an organism , we must understand what degeneracy is . All flesh has certain limitations ? such , for example , as the need of moisture and warmth , or the urge to satisfy such primary appetites as hunger and sex . These are normal idiosyncrasies of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ normal specific limitations . It is not to the discredit of man that he can not fly like a bird . ( It is perhaps rather to his discredit that he should try . ) It is no failure in birds that they do not reason like men . But when a bird such as the ostrich loses its power of flight , it has degenerated even as a man who has lost his reason . From the little available evidence it would seem that in the beginning nearly all creatures lived as free and independent lives as were possible under the normal limitations of their flesh . They moved about freely . They earned their livelihood from the dead world and did not steal it from their neighbors . In the parade of organisms through time the student of fossils sees some creatures who preserved their original independence . He sees many others who forfeited it , and became , in one way or another , degenerate . Near the very beginning , most plants sold their birthright of free locomotion . It was easier to cast anchor and wait @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what existed in the immediate vicinity , than to sail forth upon the world in aggressive and possibly dangerous search . The vegetable kingdom is still at anchor . The bodies of some plants have improved splendidly with time , yet nobody would compare the finest tree with even the lowest man . In the beginning , plants and animals were doubtless indistinguishable . The marked difference in composition , manner of growth , and response to stimulation did not then exist . They could only have originated after the plants had abandoned locomotion , after they had , in the truest sense of the word , degenerated . Those animals who chose the easier life of fixity have fared no better than the plants . All corals , bryozoans , cystoids , blastoids , crinoids , and certain sponges , graptolites , brachiopods , mollusks , and crustaceans were cut from all hope of high development when they became rooted to the sea floor . When oysters began their career in Carboniferous time , they had a respectable position in good , middle-class invertebrate society . They kept pace with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clung to one spot . They have been sitting for so many aeons cemented to the bottom of the sea that to-day they are of no social importance , except possibly in a stew . Very young oysters emulate their remote ancestors by swimming actively about for a short time , but only too soon they settle into the lethargy that has degraded their tribe . When marine animals first encased their bodies in limy walls , they gained a great advantage over the physical forces of their environment . No more significant advance in organic evolution was ever made . But success does not always succeed . The shells of many invertebrates became so ponderous that the animals within grew phlegmatic . Oysters are not the only sad spectacle that greets the eyes of the paleontologist . In fact , the history of most backboneless animals is a story of decadence inside a shell . Squids , lobsters , crabs , shrimps , insects , whose shells have remained thin or have tended to disappear , and whose flesh has kept active , are decidedly the exceptions in invertebrate evolution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and lives his life in calm aloofness is a degenerate but not a rascal . He sits in his own corner of the world and travels his own road to futility without inflicting  | either his habits or his philosophy upon his neighbors . But it is only a step from an easy , honest living to an easy , dishonest living . Although records are meager , they show that parasitic degeneration begins when organisms lose their power of locomotion . Partnerships are formed for mutual advantage . Some of these relationships work out for the good of all concerned ; most end in parasitism . As life unfolded through the ages , parasitism grew until to-day the ignoble spectacle of one creature living at the expense of another greets us everywhere .. Although the nature of parasitism offends our sensibilities , there is no doubt that it serves a useful purpose in checking the multiplication of prolific organisms . Darwin calculated that a single pair of elephants ? the slowest breeding mammals on earth ? were capable of nineteen million descendants in seven hundred and fifty years . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It is quite easy to see that the space and food supply of the earth 's surface would rapidly be exhausted if nature 's prodigal fecundity were not checked . Certain parasites must be thanked as one of the instruments that save the earth from suffocation under the bodies of her offspring . However valuable some parasites may be in the economy of nature , however little the others may wrong their hosts , they are always their own enemies . Excepting the one-celled germs , all parasites have fallen from the position held by their free-living ancestors and relatives . Some parasites are of very high descent , and in them we see the best examples of backward evolution . It can not be denied that parasitism is often a successful adaptation from the point of view of the parasite . But that point of view is an uninspired one . The tapeworm ? most successful of parasites ? has lost his locomotion and his sense organs . Through absorbing food already digested in the alimentary canal of his victim , he has lost his digestive organs . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He has not only lost the bodily excellencies he once possessed , but also the prospect of ever regaining them ; for biological honor , once sacrificed , is never regained . Yet he has won the comfort and security he wanted , and has merely carried to an extreme a tendency which is in every single one of us . THE UPWARD URGE A MYTH THE CAUSE of variation in plants and animals is the ultimate explanation of evolution . Biologists are so busy searching their haystack for this elusive needle that they have devoted little attention to the striking fact that many organisms have failed to vary and hence to evolve , either progressively or regressively . There are many creatures who sit on the biological ladder , too sluggish to climb , too vigorous to fall . Such stagnant types have been so abundant that they can hardly be considered exceptions to nature 's plan . Whatever may be the cause of such stagnation , its occurrence is proof enough that the universal tendency to perfection is a myth . However vague may be the inner biological @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Unless organisms are kicked into activity by a hostile environment , they get nowhere . Since no living creature has ever enjoyed being kicked , there has been in the past , as there certainly is now , a universal attempt to avoid it . That is why there are animals living in the abyssal depths of the oceans . In such places climatic and geologic conditions have been most unchanging . Here many organisms found a haven where they could live long lives of dullness.  | There was nothing in their surroundings to stimulate progress , so there was no progress . Meanwhile , more vigorous relatives faced a harder life in the shore waters of the oceans , in lakes , rivers , and on the land . Here they were driven to change or to extinction , but they were seldom abandoned to stagnation . So close is the relationship between the evolution of a given race and the physical history of the earth , that the paleontologist sees in geologic change the deity who pulls the strings . Wave after wave of organisms has piled upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than its forerunner , until at last humanity came . But when the winds of geologic change stopped blowing for a time , when the inorganic world became relatively quiet , then the living world grew quiet and stationary too . ENVIRONMENTAL CHANGES No GREAT evolutionary advance has ever come under an easy environment . When continents are rising or falling , and seas are leaving or entering the lands ; when rivers and lakes are drying up ; when mountain ranges are being built and climates are changed ; when gardens become deserts and glaciers desolate the tropics ? these are the times when creatures better themselves . It was only when continental uplift quickened streams that active animals with backbones arose from the invertebrates . It was not until aridity had dried up their pools that fishes grew lungs and legs for life on land . Not until the forest homes of our arboreal ancestor had dwindled in the cold , did man come into existence . Sheltered from such external stirrings , all plants and animals would settle placidly into lives of stagnation and degeneracy . This tendency @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than by the races that have failed to progress in spite of extreme changes in climate and physiography . Some creatures have found isolation near the very thick of the battle . Types that burrow in the ground escape many of the vicissitudes of a stern environment and a cutthroat competition . They live long and undistinguished lives . Some burrowing brachiopods have come from the seashores of the remote Ordovician period to those of to-day , almost unchanged . Their vitality seems just as great now as it ever was , and they will probably pass over the horizon of the future as they have risen from the past , immortal and insignificant . Certain individual peculiarities have favored the stagnation of some creatures . Attached degenerates , such as corals , live longer than many of their more deserving neighbors . Small , inconspicuous animals live longer and evolve more slowly than large , impressive ones . Reptiles had their day when they blossomed into the largest land animals that ever lived . But after the sun had set and risen again , the dinosaurs were gone , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to carry forward the reptilian banner . Many living birds and mammals have slipped through the mills of time because of their small size . The kiwi , flightless bird of New Zealand , is the smallest of the giant moa tribe , and the only one alive to-day . Nature is cruel . With supreme irony she allows many of her degenerates and sluggards to live on indefinitely , and rewards her more ambitious offspring with an early death . A universal trait of the flesh is that it builds only for the present . If the future brings new conditions , the very organisms that succeeded most admirably may perish most miserably . The past is strewn with the bones of creatures who became so rigidly adapted to one set of conditions that they could not change to meet the demands of new conditions . Nature flips the coin with a " Heads I win ? tails you lose . " She offers her children stagnation and degeneracy on the one hand , or overspecialization and extinction on the other . DANGERS OF SPECIALIZATION I T SELDOM fails that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ environment and mode of life , until they sr , so rigid that change is impossible . Early Tertiary time was a heyday for browsing mammals . They had met the requirements of their environment perfectly . But when their forests shrank and they were forced to eat grass or die , they died . Their teeth had become so specialized for browsing that they could not learn to graze . The forest horse , Hypohippus , was a more progressive animal than his contemporary , Merychippus ; but Hypohippus was a browser and became extinct , while the more primitive Merychippus gave rise to grazing horses whose blood still flows in the veins of modern horses . It is an almost universal law of nature that creatures become set in their ways , whatever those ways may be . This is merely a response to the universal urge to be comfortable which dominates the lazy and the active alike . Evolution has trodden its many pathways undirected by the creatures in which it moves . Even man has reached his present condition with little conscious direction on his part . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of our parents , the government of our rascals , even the books of our " book clubs , " it would seem that we are perfectly normal animals going willingly where we are driven . Yet with all our conformity ( or standardized unconformity , when that is fashionable ) , we have an innate faith that we are masters of our destinies . We have developed far enough to know that this is at least partly true . We need not be blind slaves to nature . Despite the ebullitions of physical culturists , our bodies are weakening ; yet we are sidestepping the racial death that would certainly come to less , intelligent animals for similar weaknesses . Many of our organs are useless antiques , but when the appendix , for example , threatens our lives , the surgeon cuts it out . A sound set of teeth is nearly as rare as a coat of fur , but the dentist reenforces our mouths and the clothier conserves our bodily warmth . Our hands have lost their glory , but they can still push buttons . We @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as long as oculists and ear specialists can assist most of us in distinguishing red from green traffic signals and in hearing the whistle of a locomotive , the race will not perish from these defects . Our sense of smell is almost gone , yet this is a loss not without its compensating advantages . Our upright carriage makes childbirth increasingly difficult , but before our life stream is dammed at its source , we shall probably discover some way of removing gestation to the laboratory . OUR WEAKENING BODIES ALTHOUGH we are not the men we used to be , our physical shortcomings will probably not exterminate us in the immediate geologic future . Our bodies will hold together , with a little help , for a long time . But man 's great hope is for a progressive evolution of mind and spirit . With his brain he has already won exemption from some of nature 's sternest laws . Nature decrees that the unfit shall die . Man rules that when the unfit are human , they shall be placed in asylums . Nature demands complete control @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , churches , and consciously strengthens himself . How far man can use his intelligence to shape his own destiny , nobody knows . Nor is the goal to be striven after any clearer than the means by which it may be reached . Unfortunately he is swayed by brute passions . A decade ago it was the lust to kill ; to-day , if novelists ? reflect current trends , it is a morbid devotion to the urge to reproduce . Such divagations from the course his intellect points out may be but minor victories for nature , yet they suggest how easily even the mind and spirit of man can slip into reverse gear . If he is to escape the clutch of backward evolution , he must first know Nature for what she is . This may mean the destruction of some of his dearest delusions and a less devout worshiping of their creator .  |                     