@@431047

 | Kidnapers in Uniform Condensed from " Our Lawless Police " ( Viking Press ) Ernest Jerome Hopkins journalist and investigator , who conducted a coast-to-coast field survey of police methods for the Wickersham Commission IN MAY 1930 , a New York business man named Turner went to Dallas , to transact business . On the 16th , having a telephone call to make , he used a public telephone booth in the downtown section . Unfortunately for Turner , the line was busy . He left that booth , walked on , and entered another . The line was still busy , and he went into a third . Upon emerging , he was arrested by Patrolman X of the Dallas department . Patrolman X thought , or had heard , that nickels had been pilfered of late from public telephones . Here was a man that had entered three booths ? he must have been pilfering nickels . At headquarters , Mr. Turner told who he was , what he was doing in Dallas , whom he had been trying to get by telephone . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and that was regarded as incriminating evidence . He was locked in a cell . He asked to be allowed to notify a friend , who would secure him an attorney . This request , a basic legal right , was denied ; he was told he had done enough telephoning for that day . At the end of two days and nights the police let him go . Meanwhile Turner 's mail had piled up ; telegrams had arrived and gone unanswered ; certain people were frantic . He had remained in that cell , incommunicado , for 48 hours . No one except the police knew he was there . He was , to all intents and purposes , kidnaped . The casual kidnaping of individuals by the police is an evil of fantastic proportions and outnumbers all other " crimes against the person " committed in the United States . What Mr. Turner had actually encountered was our lawless American method of trialand-error crime detection ? the first link in that illegal chain which leads from false arrest to the third degree . In the first three months @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and booked : " On suspicion . " This means 1823 individuals arbitrarily deprived of their liberty without due process of law and locked up while police tried to find out whether or not they were guilty of something and , if so , of what . During the year 1929 the Dallas police had booked more than 8goo persons " on  | suspicion . " In each period , less than five percent of these arrested persons were , in the end , charged with any offense at all , or even brought before a judge . Other figures from 18 major cities , covering about three-quarters of a million cases of arrest , show that nearly half of these arrested persons were released , after a greater or less delay , either by the police themselves or by the first judge who had the chance . In Baltimore , 1555 arrests of " suspicious characters " were made ( traits of character being apparently regarded as violations of law ) and all of them , the whole 1555 , were released without charge . In Los Angeles 12,202 arrests @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out of work , in that favored city , is against the law . St. Louis ' amazing showing included 13,947 arrests of men on robbery charges , of whom 13,218 were not even charged in court . Such a condition indicates not even efficient clairvoyance ; it is kidnaping run wild . Of course , once in a while this wasteful experimentation turns up a " wanted man . " If the first ten persons met on the street be arrested and sufficiently grilled , some of them will confess to some sort of guilt . But no right of so experimenting upon the population exists by any remote shadow of law . And when such outrageous incidents are published the citizen wonders " What if I were next ? " Simply put , this legal kidnaping is the technique of arresting a man on faint suspicion or a " tip , " holding him in a police jail while investigating for evidence , and making the main feature of that investigation the " sweating " of the man himself , to make him confess the crime . This plan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ specific constitutional decrees . Further , it certainly has been developed at the expense of investigative energy and lawful detective technic . Cases solved on clues are so rare as to be news stories . True , a fingerprint on an abandoned automobile trapped the Fleagle gang in a Colorado bank robbery and murder ; but it was found by an obscure clerk in the Bureau of Identification at Washington , after the Chief of Police of Colorado Springs had thrown 5o innocent men into jail , grilled them variously , and had obtained " identifications " of four , who were indicted and well on their way toward the gallows when rescue came . In the Bobby Frank murder in Chicago , Loeb and Leopold were finally trapped through a pair of spectacles picked up in a marsh ; but before the spectacles were found , a schoolteacher had been viciously beaten with the rubber hose and had falsely confessed .  | In five cities in 1926 ? New York , Chicago , St. Louis , Milwaukee , and Cincinnati ? there were 35,692 felony arrests . Three out of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all . I use these figures merely as emphasizing the serious fact that the actual job of trying arrested persons , and acquitting , convicting , or reaching no verdict regarding them , in an astonishing degree has been taken over by the police departments of our various cities . The third degree tries more men , convicts more men , acquits more men , in felony cases , than the regular trial courts ever see . This secret institution has developed , under cover , into the most thoroughgoing violation of fundamental personal rights to be found in any civilized nation today . One of the penalties of false arrest is the " police record . " Something approaching libel here enters the picture of lawless law enforcement . Police departments quite commonly interchange such records , and such is police ( and public ) psychology , that a police record is a police record , no matter whether it be a record of innocence or one of guilt . Such a record may undermine its subject 's legal status for life . During the war , in Seattle , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ L. trade union . The D. W. W. made overtures to that union on a strike proposal , and the union refused . The engineer went to the I. W. W. hall to deliver the union 's message of refusal . While he was on his feet talking before a cat-calling audience , the police raided the hall . He was thrown into jail with the rest , and fingerprinted . In the morning he was released , his identity having been established . In 1928 , in San Francisco , this man was retained by a British mining concern to go to South America . The Brazilian authorities desired character clearance from local police and the engineer went to headquarters where his name was sent up to the identification bureau . A policeman returned proclaiming , " Well , we 've got one of them , anyhow ! " This man 's police record had popped up , a thousand miles away , after ten years . And the card was marked as follows : Charge ? Vagrancy ( I. W. W. ) Whereupon , the officer grew insulting . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you belong ? " he inquired . Explanations meant nothing . The false arrest , the prompt discharge , the untruthfulness of the damaging statement meant nothing . This had every essential of libel ? the damaging nature of the record , its publication , its falsity , its use so as to damage a reputation and cause financial loss . The law does provide that a  | civil suit for damages may be brought against an officer by any person who has been unlawfully deprived of his liberty ; but in most cities the policeman has little to fear from a civil action . To begin with , victims of false arrest who are in a financial position to sue a policeman are extremely rare . The great mass of arrested persons are of the submerged classes , dwellers on the critical margin of society and of the law ; they have no standing in court . If suit is brought , the policeman may be defended in court by a city attorney , a police department attorney , or a political attorney , whose services cost him nothing . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ paying the court costs ? are abnormally great . It is a peculiarly American fallacy that because a man wears the star of authority , he thereby enjoys some sort of general disciplinary control over the population . Ask the first ten people you meet whether a policeman has the right to arrest anyone he pleases , and you will get a fair percentage of affirmative answers , and a much higher percentage of loosely qualifying phrases such as : " Pretty much anyone . " Actually , false arrest is expressly prohibited by the Constitutions of the United States and of the several States and by many statutory provisions . The sole legal object of any arrest is to secure the presence in court of s particular person . The policeman is not the judge ; his function is more nearly that of errand-boy for the judge . And the law requires that the policeman have reasonably well-based indication of guilt in advance . Only such indication allows him to break the right of individual liberty which we inherit like the air we breathe . Yet all police reporters know @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scores of individuals are " run in , " without being charged with any concrete offense , or even being considered especially connected with any known offense . Papers never print such things ; they are n't news , they are indurated custom . This is , in its bulk , an enormous usurpation of unlawful authority . If it does not eventuate in serious social maladjustments , then causes do not breed effects . The phrase " on suspicion " on which these arrests are booked points definitely to police work by the percentage method ? some percentage of these arrests will probably prove guilty of something . The thinnest clue ? or no clue and no crime ; the slimmest indication ? as in that grim violation of no statute which the police call " loitering " ? has been basis enough for many , many arrests . Going into three phone booths was enough in Dallas .                     