@@487780

IKE A QUACK DOCTOR who tells you that if you , ? had not called him in you would have been dead in two weeks , Mr. Hoover  --  the same Mr. Hoover who rebuked his opponents for " playing politics with human misery ' ? told his audience at Des Moines that the gold drains had " at one moment reduced the amount of gold we could spare . .. to a point where the Secretary of the Treasury informed me that unless we could put into effect a remedy we could not hold to the gold standard but rid two weeks longer . " There is no convincing evidence that this was true , and Senator Glass has now contradicted it directly : At no period of the deliberations last spring and summer did any spokesman for the Administration privately or publicly express the slightest concern for the gold stand-. ard . . . . If any such phantom disturbed the mind of the President or- any of his advisers they withheld the fact from those of us with whom they professed to be in frank @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Julius Klein , attempting to answer Senator Glass , contradict each other : Senator Watson makes the . moment " of the great gold crisis sometime in last February ; Dr. Klein puts it in June  --  a difference of - four months in the date when we were just two weeks away from abandoning the gold basis ! Most of us in America knew enough not to take Mr. Hoover 's statement seriously ; we understood that he was just throwing a scare into the voters to prove that only the Republican Party is capable of saving them from calamity , and that they owe him eternal gratitude . Europe , unfortunately , - Which does not understand these matters so well , took the President 's statement seriously , and has been raiding the dollar again , while the Administration is busy proving that now everything is all right . But are the raids on the dollar illogical ? If the head of a great New York bank were to assert publicly that last summer his bank was within two weeks of closing its doors , would it be surprising @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? F OR MAYOR-OF NEW YORK CITY Tammany Hall has nominated a typical henchman of the quite faMiliar type , John P. O'Brien , one of the- poorest surrogates of the city . Totally undistinguished and little familiar with the workings of the governrrient of the greatest city in America , now in the throes of a most dangerous financial crisis , he was selected by the bosses while the convention of some 20,000 delegates sat obediently waiting to be told for whom to vote . That he will do Tammany Hall 's bidding there is no question . Mr. McKee , acting Mayor , who was so-certain that he was going to run independently , forgot all about that as soon as Mr. O'Brien was nominated and his local boss from the Bronx decided to go along with the other bosses . Meanwhile the Republicans have nominated a seventy-one-year-old back-number , L. H. Pounds , who at his best never amounted to much . And so the betting is 25 to 1 on O'Brien . The independents were unable to act because of lack of an outstanding candidate and adequate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Fortunately , Jimmy Walker has been definitely eliminated , on the surface because of his own letter of withdrawal , but perhaps because there was conveyed to him on his steamer the news that if he ran , Al Smith would take the stump against him and tell the truth about him . Fortunately , too , there will be another election a year hence . Meanwhile , as Morris Hillquit has decided to run for Mayor on the Socialist ticket , New York City will have one honest and fearless man to vote for . We believe that he will poll a record vote . One occurrence has now deeply stirred the city  --  the bipartisan deal by which Senator Hofstadter , the chairman of the recent anti-Tammany investigating committee , sold himself to Tammany for a judicial nomination . The bar has risen against this outrage , and an independent ticket is in the field . T HE NOMINATION of Lieutenant-Governor Herbert H. Lehman for Governor of New York State was forced upon Tammany by Franklin Roosevelt and Alfred E. Smith acting together , with the result that these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a cheery " How are you , you old potato ? " The greater credit goes to Al Smith . For hours and hours the Tammany leaders fought him in an endeavor to change his point of view , pointing out to him that Lehman had voted against him in Chicago , and had therefore been disloyal and should be punished . Al refused to be moved ; if Lehman had made one mistake ; that should not deprive him of the promotion he had earned . Al 's formula from beginning to end was " I will nominate Lehman  --  no ifs and no buts . " And to that he stuck , besides letting the Tammany leaders know that if Jimmy Walker were nominated for Mayor again , he would take the stump against him . As for Lieutenant-Governor Lehman , he has undoubtedly been a high-minded public servant within the limits of his beliefs and his party ties . Like Franklin Roosevelt he has not found it possible to say one word about the revelations of Tammany misconduct in the city of New York , from which he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mayoralty nominee  --  whom he hopes to meet " frequently during the campaign . " But there is no denying that he is A forward-looking , progressive , public-spirited man , tremendously interested in labor and housing problems , who has served the public well in his office . As for the Republicans , as we said last week , they have chosen an excellent candidate in the person of Colonel William J. Donovan . He will make an aggressive campaign and give Mr. Lehman a hard race if he does not defeat him . H E STANDS WITHAL as one of the foremost and greatest builders of American industrial empires . Others followed in the paths which he traced . . . . " Thus read in part an unsigned paean of praise of Samuel Insull which appeared , quite fittingly , as a financial editorial in the New York Times for June 12 last . The same article assures us that " Mr. Insull fell , not because his ideals were wrong , but because of his persistent optimism at a time when others were curtailing their activity ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ much , and . . . was unable to obtain the comparatively small amount of money that would have tided him over another year . " The writer had no room for any sympathy with the masses who suffered the loss of several billions of dollars in the collapse of ' the Insull house of cards ; he could only feel for the fallen king . The authorities have not been so kind to him . They have arrested brother Martin Insull , while the " foremost and greatest builder " has fled to Greece , whence his extradition is doubtful . These giants who only yesterday were lecturing America on the wickedness of government ownership , on how perfectly they were running public-service enterprises , are now under indictment for common swindling . The charge is that they helped themselves to resources of one company after another to bolster the earnings of other companies or their own loans . Incidentally it appears now that they sold their securities to a long list of friends , quite often politically prominent , in advance of issue , at half the prices the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into the League of Nations , which terminates the mandatory control exercised by Great Britain over that country since the World War , is being hailed as a triumph for the League mandate system . Iraq has secured its freedom , not as a result of revolution , but of peaceful international procedure . Our enthusiasm for this accomplishment is dimmed , however , by the fact that Iraq is to remain bound to Great Britain undera twenty-five-year alliance concluded in June , 1930 . By virtue of this agreement Great Britain is authorized to maintain air bases and troops in the , country , while the Bagdad , government promises to employ only British military instructors and to use armaments identical with those used by the British forces .. Each party undertakes " not to adopt in foreign countries an attitude which is inconsistent with the alliance or might create difficulties for either party . " Iraq , also engages to employ certain British judicial and financial advisers . It is difficult to see how the League can justify admitting to its membership a state bound by an agreement which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a newly established state may legitimately employ foreign expert assistance . But just as the Lytton report suggests that in Manchuria this assistance should , be international rather than Japanese in character , so the League should have insisted that any continuing control over Iraq should not remain in the hands of a single Power . T HE PRIVATE PAPERS of Gustav Stresemann , which are now being published in Berlin , have caused a mild sensation in the capitals of Europe , particularly in London . Among others , H. Wickham Steed , the noted British journalist , appears deeply concerned over what he considers the deception practiced by the late Foreign Minister of Germany in his relations with France and the League of Nations . The Stresemann correspondence , according to the summaries cabled to this country , suggests that the German statesman , while negotiating the Locarno agreements and seeking membership in the League for Germany , was actually using these ostensibly peaceful negotiations to embarrass France and cloak Germany 's selfish foreign policy . This interpretation is read especially into certain letters Stresemann addressed to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Stresemann corresponded with the Crown Prince is viewed with dark suspicion . That Stresemann also advocated in these private letters " a solution of the Rhine problem " and " the reconquest of Danzig and the Polish Corridor , and modification of the frontier of Upper Silesia , " as well as Anschluss with Austria , appears to the British observers sufficient cause to challenge the man 's sincerity and integrity . These observers forget that there has never been any secret as to the ultimate goals of Germany 's foreign policy . Stresemann was simply using the tactics employed by every diplomat in trying to advance what he considered the best interests of his country . THE GROWING SERIOUSNESS of the race problem in South Africa is again attested in the recently published report of the Native Economic Commission . Appointed by Prime Minister Hertzog , this body inevitably represented a conservative point of view . Nevertheless , its report frankly points out that in view of overstocking and overpopulation " the very existence of large numbers of natives in the reserves will , in the near future , be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ native workers is , moreover , injurious to the whites . The gap between the European and the native wage is so large that " there is a steady pressure on employers to reduce to a minimum the number of such European employees and to get as much of their work as possible done by natives . " In other words , the cheap-wage policy in reality reduces the scope of European employment . " The broad fact is that the population of the country can become better off only if more wealth is produced , and the most promising source for this at present is the Native Reserves . " The report urges the economic development of the Native Reserves , according to the principles of scientific agriculture ; it declares that it is necessary to increase the area of native-owned land . As the basis of native policy the adaptationist principle should be adopted , which means " talcing out of the Bantu past what is good , and even what is merely neutral , and , together with what is good of European culture for the Bantu , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ merely emphasizes what previous investigations have brought out . It is doubtful , however , whether the Hertzog regime , dominated by the Afrikanders , will be able to carry out a really forward-looking program . FOREIGN AFFAIRS ' TENTH-ANNIVERSARY number lies before us , as usual containing some remarkable articles , as usual dignified , able , and very informative . A careful perusal of its table of contents for the period of its existence shows many articles by unquestioned experts , with a very strong percentage of contributions from dyed-in-the-wool upholders of the status quo , and from men in high office or distinguished by the conservative point of view . Political issues are usually treated in , the grand old pre-war manner , sometimes by those who are themselves not too valuable , leaders , which is perhaps to be expected when one reads that George W. Wickersham , Charles G. Dawes , Newton D. Baker , John W. Davis , and Edwin F. Gay are on the editorial advisory board . None the less , its conservatism does not prevent its accepting articles from such radicals as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have little quarrel with that conservatism . Every point of view should have its representation in journalism , and Foreign Affairs has certainly well presented the controlling opinion in international matters . We could , of course , wish that its editors and backers could face more realistically the facts of the lost World War and free themselves more completely from the war-time ideology . But whether they do so or not , they are performing a most valuable work in helping to make America better informed and more internationally minded . IN THE AMERICAN LEGION MONTHLY for Sep-tember Colonel Frederick Palmer deplores the apathy of the present generation toward political questions and sighs for the days of the old Tippecanoe campaign when men were men and stepped out of their buggies to stand up for political beliefs . Very interesting and quite typical of the doughty colonel of war correspondents ! Yes , but some people are aroused , even in these days . Who are they ? Why , the liberal , labor , Socialist , and Communist groups , the people most despised by Colonel Palmer and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . They are the only ones really stirred by the horrible condition in which America finds itself , with millions of its men , women , and children facing starvation through no fault of their own , while the Colonel 's associates in the American Legion concern themselves only with trying to get a bonus out of the United States Treasury , and have neither intelligence nor patriotism enough to understand where progress lies , and what constitutes a genuine political program . Indeed , it is just the soft , complacent , Pollyanna type of mind which Colonel Palmer illustrates that is the real stumbling-block to any political advance . It is the men who have ruled America for the past twenty years through the Republican and Democratic parties , and have allowed it to be controlled and prostituted by the great business interests , who are solely responsible for the present apathy of voters . EQUIPPED WITH A SMALL STAFF of artists and writers and one page of advertising , the magazine Americana has issued its first regular number . Nor could there be a more appropriate moment for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ studied as a s ) mbol and as a symptom of the times . It is the depression itself wrought in violent black and white . It is bitter without being revolutionary ; humorous without being gay ; savage and futile . After proclaiming themselves anti-Republican , anti-Democrat , anti-Socialist , and anti-Communist , its editors announce with horrid delight : " We are Americans who believe that our civilization exudes a miasmic stench and that we had better prepare to give it a decent but rapid burial . We are the laughing morticians of the present . " The morticians in question are Alexander King , GilDert Seldes , E. E. Cummings , . and George Grosz , the German artist . They are assisted by various contributors and , we suspect , by the make-up editor of Ballyhoo . This little child of the depression is neither pleasant nor wholesomely , vigorously unpleasant . It is merely unattractively sadistic . We suspect that George Grosz will presently be dropped from the staff . His drawings , to be sure , are sufficiently sardonic , but what of his philosophy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him he voices this sentiment : " I think America is a fine and astonishing land full of virile self-sufficiency . I hope to make my home here . " What kind of a mortician is Mr. Grosz ? EVEN AMERICANS WILL REBEL if things go too far . At eight-thirty on a recent evening the populace of the , United States , respectful if dubious , tuned in on Mr. Hoover 's portentous speech in Iowa . At nine-thirty , accustomed to the prompt intervention of the omnipotent announcer , the listeners ' confidently , awaited the President 's concluding words . Confidently and also impatiently ; for at nine-thirty on every Tuesday evening Mr. Ed , Wynn comes on the air . But Mr. Hoover had only arrived at point number two of his twelve-point program . The populace shifted in its myriad seats ; wives looked at husbands ; children , allowed to remain up till ten on Tuesdays , looked in alarm at the clock ; twenty thousand votes shifted to Franklin Roosevelt . Nine-forty-five : Mr. Hoover had arrived at point four ; five million Americans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's time had not been altered or canceled ; two million switched off their instruments and sent their children to bed weeping ; votes lost to IVIr . Hoover multiplied too fast for computation . Ten o'clock : the candidate solemnly labored point number seven ; too late to hope for even a fragment of Ed Wynn . What did the N. B. C. mean by this outrage ? Whose hour was it anyhow ? Ten million husbands and wives retired to bed in a mood of bitter rebellion ; no votes left for Hoover . Did the Republican National Committee pay for the half hour thus usurped by its candidate ? If so , we can assure it that $5,000 was never less well spent .                     