@@487413

WHEN Congress convenes in January , the spotlight will be thrown on the government 's lowrent housing program , and the lion will be i seen cavorting with the lamb . In the past year the small group of public-housing supporters has been joined by a host of new cronies  --  industrialists , builders , and suppliers of materials , Democrats and Republicans , members of real-estate boards , and an unclassified array of individuals who refer to themselves as housing experts . The capital 's hotel lobbies , have been sibilant with talk of specifications , subsidies , slums , and costs ; architects , contractors , and salesmen have haunted the scene , all seeking their share of the $828,000,000 housing purse . The slum dweller 's cause has burgeoned into big business and with if into big-time politics . Today there are evidences of a hard road ahead for housing . Opposition and approval have in many instances become indistinguishable . While there are still some who frankly view with alarm all forms of government intervention as paternalistic or useless , the really menacing opposition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ legislation with restrictive amendments or by attempting to gain control of the housing administration by the pretense of sympathetic interest . The difficulties inherent in the program itself , together with the public 's unfamiliarity with the technical problems of its administration , have reinforced criticism and opposition ; and obscure but well-sounding proposals for its modification have often taken on the force of irrefutable logic . Of course mistakes were inevitable in the early days , and numerous enough to make excellent copy . Costs were high and delays endless , for a ponderous bureaucratic mechanism creaks a bit as it gets under way . The field was a new one , much energy was dissi ' pated on minor issues , and by the time a federal housing administrator had started to work himself in , he was , , already on the way out . From Robert Kohn to Horatio Hackett to A. R. Clas to Howard Gray and finally to Nathan Straus -- these were the changes within four years . Under Straus the policy that had accounted for much of the difficulty was changed : housing administration was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , where it belonged . Favorable sentiment developed rapidly throughout the country ; within a year local housing authorities were established in more than 225 cities , and the movement which had started as a minor part of a temporary works program grew overnight into a generally accepted and permanent social policy . For a time it seemed as if anyone who dared oppose slum clearance thereby declared himself in favor of disease , poverty , and crime . But there were always those who waited for the opportunity to discredit and , if possible , to destroy housing legislation . The lines of attack now being developed conform to no one pattern , for housing 's many enemies differ sharply in motivation and background . Moreover , the enormous power wielded by the Housing Administrator has from the outset caused much concern . The creation of an independent agency , though designed primarily to keep housing from political entanglements , has never received the whole-hearted blessing of many whose opinions are audible in influential circles . In addition to these retarding factors , Mr. Straus does not make friends easily @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political wisdom in dealing with a situation he felt to be essentially non-political . Possibly he has placed too much emphasis on successful administration and too little on the things that matter politically when a Congress convenes . On the day of his appointment it looked as though his housing career would be as short-lived as that of his predecessors . No sooner had he been nominated than he was haled before a Senate committee . He had been in office less than a month when he was accused of delays . Nevertheless , Straus survived all attacks creditably , and is now in a position to get things done . The future of the slum dweller finally begins to look brighter . In one year the United States Housing Authority has completed the enormous task of organizing the administration , establishing its policy , obtaining local legislation , and learning to deal with a multitude of new and inexpert agencies that had to build huge housing developments for the first time . Decentralization meant adjust- ment of federal policy to the laws of three dozen states and to the circumstances @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ methods , and costs . In many cities ? housing authorities were even without funds to defray the necessary expenses of preparing their applications , for the centralizing policy of the Housing Division of PWA had left hardly half a dozen agencies still equipped to proceed . Yet in a single year the total amount of the available funds has been applied for and allotted , contracts have been signed for projects in seventy-five communities involving more than $320,000,000 , and forty-five actual advances have been made to thirty agencies . The contracts provide for the rehousing of 684 64,451 families at monthly rentals ranging from $2 to $5.18 per room . The income groups to be reached range from families earning $400 a year to those in larger cities with an average income of $1,100 . Local opposition to tax exemption , which so retarded PWA housing , has been overcome , and though the minimum requirements for local cooperation have been fixed by statute at only 20 per cent of the federal contribution , local contributions actually average 73 per cent . Considering that it takes about a year @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the site-selection to the steam-shovel stage , the achievements of the USHA form a remarkable record . But the Straus performance has nevertheless been a hard one to put across to the public . It would have been comparatively easy to convince the average citizen that bad housing is a menace to health ; the education of the public with respect to earmarkings , cost figures , and specifications is something else . Moreover , the housing movement has never had any support comparable , for instance , to that given to the labor movement , the prohibition movement , or even the Townsend movement . The support it has received has been mixed , uncertain , unorganized , and leaderless , the kind that was certain to give way before the first really ' energetic encroachment . This now seems to threaten . Present funds are nearly exhausted , and Congress must act to replenish them if the program is to be continued . It is at this point that criticism and opposition can become most effective . The simultaneous appearance of many articles on housing in widely circulated magazines @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ session is something more than simple coincidence . Some of the authors have been unwitting parties to a plan to undermine one of the- most essential social movements in our . history . Despite Straus 's extraordinary record , there is a strong tendency to identify him with the shortcomings of his predecessors . By one critic Straus is nominated for decapitation ; others suggest as an alternative the decapitation of the program itself . The building and loan associations , whose supporters are strongly represented in the lower house , have organized local opposition , and in a few cities federal assistance for housing projects has even been rejected . The National Association of Real Estate Boards has advocated the provision of minimum facilities only and limitation of operations to slum clearance . A campaign is being organized to amend the federal statute to restrict administrative discretion . Most important and most effective of all the attacks is the attempt to restrict local legislation . In New York State , once the spearhead of the housing movement , damage has already been done . Public opinion demanded that the federal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for this a constitutional amendment was needed . What happened ? Though all The NATION that was required to enable both city and state to borrow , to lend , and to spend was a simple statement to that effect , the amendment finally adopted was a mass of mechanisms , restrictions , prohibitions , and limitations for which there is no parallel in constitutional documents . It disabled more than it enabled , and what it enabled , among other things , was a picnic for private enterprise . Strange bedfellows combined to sponsor it in the Constitutional Convention . State aid was limited there to slum-clearance projects , and though everyone favors slum clearance , it is likely to prove impracticable during a period of dwelling shortage . Tearing down inhabited tenements on any large scale , as experience has shown , would intensify the shortage to such an extent that rents in adjoining areas would jump 25 per cent or more . Not only would it promote overcrowding and distress , but the increased congestion would bar further slum-clearance operations because of increased land costs . Only the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not all . The city and state were forbidden to engage in private business , and therefore no stores could be erected in the projects . Of course this provision might also operate to increase surrounding land values by increasing the rentals of sites for stores , moving-picture houses , and other commercial enterprises . Though tenants might have to pay as much as a dollar a month more per room because of the loss of store revenues , and though logical planning dictates the erection of self-contained units , the restriction was incorporated in the amendment . As if this were not enough , real estate was specifically exempted from local taxation for housing subsidies . The Vladeck proposal to spend 1 per cent of the budget for slum clearance is thus no longer practicable , for now special taxes would be necessary . Under the amendment little discretion is given to the housing manager in the selection of his tenants , for it is prescribed that the old residents of the area must be given preference even though the needs of other families may be more pressing . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ funds to be lent to private owners to repair old-law tenements . For the first time in eighty years the legislature was permitted to open the public treasury to private individuals . The old prohibition written into the laws of the state after the railroads had mulcted the treasury of millions was lifted . We may soon see government-subsidized slums , blocks of decrepit old tenements revived and perpetuated by a dash of taxpayers ' insulin . Since so-called limited-dividend corporations are also enabled to borrow funds , we may also witness a flood of applications that are really attempts to bail out of land ownership at public expense . For as the PWA and the State Housing Board know , in a speculative enterprise like building few owners are willing to limit their profits to 6 per cent unless something else is gained . While some parts of the amendment are permissive December 24 , 1938 and legislation must be enacted to put them into effect , the victory of its ingenious sponsors is already taking form . Robert Moses , with the sanction of many influential real-estate bodies , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ moneys for limited-dividend corporations . Moreover , he urges that such private improvements be exempt from taxes , while low-rent projects serving slum dwellers should pay their-full share of taxes . He favors immediate acquisition of slum sites by condemnation ; in practice this means payment to landowners on the basis of assessed valuations rather than of real values . Tenant selection under his plan is to be made by the Welfare Commissioner , which would automatically classify tenants as objects of charity . He would scrap the present Housing Authority , designed by law to keep politics out of housing . Mr. Moses was opposed to all public housing in 1936 , but the cause is far too popular to be opposed in New York today . The strategy now is , " If you ca n't destroy your enemies , then join them . " The housing movement in New York State has become a bandwagon which indi-685 viduals with varying stakes are trying to steer in directions which favor their best interests . The most effective opposition may be expected when the Republican Party decides on its housing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ blows in the next few months . Thus far , the program has been generally favored , at least in principle ; even Herbert Hoover has expressed himself in favor of slum clearance . The form the Republican plank may take is indicated by the recent gubernatorial campaign in New York . Mr. Dewey 's stand , undoubtedly sponsored by state and national advisers , points to hard days ahead for the movement . Ostensibly he was for slum clearance , but the federal program to him was " an invasion of the business of the states . " By inference , the federal government should stop its housing activities and Congress curtail any further appropriations . States and cities , of course , are in no position to provide the huge subsidies needed for extensive operations . With federal support withdrawn , public housing and slum clearance would again be reduced to the status of a slogan .                     