@@494100

Machiavelli in Moscow ' SOVIET POIICY , " declared Winston Churchill on October a , perhaps with tongue in cheek , " is a riddle wrapped in mystery inside an enigma . " A month later L6on Blum opined that " the Russian mystery is growing more sinister and more formidable . " Shrill cries of outrage coupled with bewildered guesses as to Soviet objectives have made the problem more puzzling . Official Soviet utterances have aggravated the confusion , for many of these verbalizations have purposes which are better served by concealing intentions than by revealing them . Yet most of the mystery fades if one applies Mr. Justice Holmes 's dictum that " the vindication of the obvious is sometimes more important than the elucidation of the obscure . " Behind Moscow 's formulas are ends of action which have been carefully formulated and consistently pursued . The USSR is a Great Power competing for power with other Great Powers . Its interests in the game of power , like those of its competitors , are fixed by the constant facts of geography and by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leaders do in the arena of power politics is determined by their estimates of the factors which circumscribe their freedom of action and delimit their alternatives . The Kremlin 's changing course has been completely logical if viewed as a series of answers to a problem of power . Moscow 's task after 1933 was to strengthen its internal and external defenses against the resurgent Reich . At home it was imperative to thwart Nazi tactics of " boring from within . " Stalin learned lessons from the murders of Duca , Dollfuss and Barthou . In the Moscow trials and the purge of the Communist Party and the army , those who acted as agents of Berlin and Tokyo were brutally liquidated . Innocent dupes and dissenters died before firing squads . Others also died who were , in intent or in effect , members of a Fascist " fifth column . " The doubts which this bloodshed raised among liberals were not shared by Hitler . He was convinced by the purge that the Drang nach Osten could not be realized beyond the Soviet borders through those techniques of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the Balkans . The feverish militarization of the Soviet state , moreover , convinced him and his potential Japanese allies that a frontal military assault would be danger oars in the extreme , even if Britain and France gave their blessing . He shunned Rosenberg and heeded Ribbentrop . " Appeasement " in the West persuaded him , perhaps wrongly , that his path of least resistance lay not toward Moscow but toward Paris and London . The Kremlin 's external problem of defense was one Comment on this article appears in the editorial section . ? T113 =TOESof building barriers against Berlin and finding allies to encircle the Reich . Usable strategic barriers could be found only in Czecho-Slovakia , Poland and the Baltic states . Allies could be found only in Britain and France . Hence Soviet entrance into the League in 1934 , championship of an eastern Locarno , signature of military pacts with Paris and Prague in 1935 and support of collective security . Hence also the " People 's Front " line to hinder Nazi efforts within Spain , France and other democratic states . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " peace " and " democracy " as abstractions but defense of the USSR against threatened aggression . The means adopted , however , failed to achieve the end desired . Downing Street and the Quai d'Orsay wrecked the League and connived at Nazi rearmament . Warsaw embraced Hitler and vetoed an Eastern Locarno against Germany . Paris gave Czecho-Slovakia away to Der Fiihrer rather than permit Moscow to join in her defense . The Western powers yielded Spain to their enemies . They reduced collective security and the People 's Front alike to a farce ? under the tragic delusion that Hitler could be trusted to turn against Russia if the West granted him mastery of Mitteleuropa and the Baltic . The " peace front " against the Fascist imperialisms was stabbed in the back not by Stalin or Litvinov but by Laval , Blum and Daladier and by Simon , Hoare and Chamberlain . Power-holders who are at once rational and ruthless adopt new means when old means fail . Past formulas died at Munich and Barcelona . A possible future formula emerged after March of 1939 , when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that Hitler threatened them rather than the USSR . When the story of the Anglo-Soviet negotiations comes to be told , it will in all likelihood reveal Moscow playing a role determined exdusively by the strategic exigencies of a possible war with the Reich . Soviet strategists took the view that they could not assume obligations to fight Germany unless they had control of the bases required for effective military operations against Germany . The Allied peace-makers and interventionists of 1919 had supported the cordon sanitaire separating Germany and Russia . As a nececcary condition of an alliance with the West , Moscow now asked for the possibility of using the border states for defense against the Reich . London and Paris refused . The diplomatic negotiations broke down in July over the question of guaranteeing the Baltic republics against " indirect aggression . " The military negotiations broke down in August over the question of permitting the Red Army to operate in Poland . Moscow had already proposed to Helsinki the cession of the four small islands in the Gulf of Finland covering Kronstadt . The refusal of Helsinki , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accept Soviet military protection was abetted by Britain and France . Without Soviet military protection , these states were at the mercy of Hitler . An alliance that is strategically unworkable is worse than no alliance at all . Stalin , Molotov and Voroshilov drew the necessary conclusions from Anglo-French refusal to meet their terms . What followed was a work of diplomatic genius worthy of a Medici , a Richelieu or a Bismarck . To cripple one 's enemy by embracing him instead of fighting him , to win objectives as a price of " friendship " which could otherwise be obtained only by the risk of conflict , was to achieve a victory so startling as to confound friends and foes alike . The simultaneous precipitation of hostilities between a dangerous neighbor and the neighbors of that neighbor ensured the success of the enterprise , since Hitler became the prisoner of the war he had unleashed . The hasty evacuation of Germans from the Baltic was at once the measure of Hitler 's helplessness and the cream of Stalin 's jest . With Berlin 's assent Moscow has now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unwilling to concede . The accords of September and October have given the USSR military control of the Baltic and of the borders of Prussia , Hungary and Rumania . Moscow has now found " allies " to encircle the Reich without assuming any obligations to fight beside them . Moscow has gained at a blow the strategic objectives it set for itself in 1933 , at no cost beyond ideological consternation among comrades and sympathizers abroad . The cost is high . But the cost of inaction would have been higher . Ideas are weapons . During war , however , force speaks louder than words , and trickery often achieves victories for which force alone does not suffice . If war continues , the Soviet Union will continue to win victories , unless Germany defeats the Allies or the Allies defeat Germany . Moscow will do what it can to prevent either outcome . If a " compromise " peace is made , Britain and France will be compelled to seek Moscow 's aid on Moscow 's terms or face extinction . If all the belligerents are exhausted , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ outmaneuvered all its rivals in the game of power . This result has nothing to do with " Thermidor , " " Brumaire , " " adventurism , " " Bonapartism " or Nazi doctrines of Lebensraum . Diplomatic art and military science transcend ideologies and social systems . Soviet diplomacy , like the architecture of the Kremlin , rests upon precepts first tried and found true in the Italy of the Renaissance . The Kremlin 's victories have nothing to do with the question whether Russia is a Fascist state or whether Stalin is a moral monster or whether communism is bankrupt . The USSR is a Great Power . Stalin is a practitioner of Realpolnik . Communism is a cause whose disciples must inevitably be concerned in the first instance with the defense of the Soviet Union . Under existing circumstances this happens to be neither an ideological nor a moral problem but a military one . The Kremlin has , thus far at least , solved it brilliantly . The means are not pretty . Realpolitik seldom is . The ends are not noble . Power politics is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the enhancement of power . To contend that Moscow should have adhered to earlier formulas which London and Paris had rendered sterile is to ignore the dangers of clinging to fictions . To argue that Moscow should practise Christian ethics in a world of brigands is to forget that Communists are not Christians . To insist that Moscow should not have played power politics is to forget that those who refuse to play become the victims of those who play . Force and fraud are never edifying even when the mailed fist is gloved and deception is camouflaged . Bolsheviks , however , have always been frank apostles of violence and deceit . Class war , social revolution , proletarian dictatorship are products of force . For liberals to condemn Bolshevik faith in force and to question the purposes to which Soviet power is put is to reaffirm the liberal gospel . Those purposes have been socialist purposes in eastern Poland . And purposes are in truth a matter of taste . But for liberals to condemn Bolsheviks for Machtpolitik in diplomacy while condoning other uses of force is absurd . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ owe it to themselves to face these realities . Whether Communist totalitarianism can ever evolve into a social order in which human freedom and individual dignity will again become practical values remains a moot question on which liberal skepticism is increasingly justified . Whether Communist economy can ever achieve prosperity for the Russian masses is equally a moot question . These questions , however , can not be answered by reference to the ends and means of Soviet diplomacy . Foreign policy in this context is related to domestic policy at only one point : the military security of the USSR . Effective defense is a prerequisite of any possible progress toward liberty and plenty within the Soviet frontier . It is also a prerequisite of the maintenance of the Stalinist tyranny , if one prefers a different formula . In any case , military security has been ensured . Its attainment is not now a threat to the Western powers , as Churchill and Chamberlain fully recognize , nor is it likely to be in any visibly near future . It may on the contrary be a potential asset against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as in the past , is dominated by the needs of defense against Berlin . If this be treason , Hitler must make the most of it . Six years of blunders and betrayals on the part of democratic leaders have convinced Red Russia 's rulers that the Western powers are doomed , that liberalism is bankrupt , that capitalism is mortgaged to the worms . Those who wish the Western way of life to survive the Fascist assault may shortly find it useful to persuade the Soviet dictatorship that these assumptions are in error . That task is not furthered by indignant denunciations of Moscow 's strategy . That strategy is ethically indistinguishable from that of Hitler , Chamberlain , Mussolini and Daladier . It is merely more successful . If it is to be turned to the advantage of the West , liberals must redefine their own ends and means . And if their cause is to prevail they must run risks of also learning lessons from the Florentine who , four centuries ago , advised Lorenzo how to play power politics . 