@@255002

Last week in Manhattan attention was called to a 15th anniversary , one which was not given over exclusively to the commemoration of bygones , but on the contrary crowded with hopes for the future . It was tangibly marked by an ambitious program in which the Cleveland Orchestra under Conductor Nikolai Grigorovitch Sokolov and a company of players were to present as symphonic dramas Charles Martin Loeffler 's Pagan Poem , Henri Rabaud 's Procession Nocturne and Werner Janssen 's New Year 's Eve in New York . <P> The anniversary so celebrated was of the establishment of the Neighborhood Playhouse , best known to Manhattanites as the tiny Grand Street Theatre near the Bowery where three and more years ago unusual plays and an annually clever revue ( Grand Street Follies ) attracted large uptown audiences . The Neighborhood Playhouse in a broader sense represents an idea of Alice and Irene Lewisohn ( scionesses of a famed Jewish family ) , who used to put on plays for children at the Henry Street Settlement . Plays for children grew into plays for grown-ups and in 1915 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with Jephtha 's Daughter for which special music was written . <P> At first the Lewisohn Sisters presented plays only on weekends . During the week cinemas were given for five cents ' admission . Short dramatic interludes were introduced in which actors like Albert Carroll and Blanche Talmud , who have since made names for themselves , appeared . Then the Playhouse adopted a regular schedule , won increasing notice with such plays as Granville-Barker 's The Madras House , Gibour with Yvette Guilbert , The Little Clay Cart and The Dybbuk . <P> It was characteristic of the Lewisohn sisters that in 1927 , after the success of The Dybbuk , they closed their theatre , announced that they " must pause and consider further developments . " They told some that the institutional notion of a theatre ( workshops for scenery and costumes had been organized , also a training school for young players ) was intruding upon the bigger , finer ideas with which they had begun . Thus vaguely , with idealistic intonation , the sisters have always revealed themselves . Alice , now married to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But Irene has carried on in the same lofty spirit . As " the Lewisohn Sisters " she inaugurated the production of " symphonic music with stage and orchestra " for which she has written the scenarios , done the directing. * Out of these experiments grew last week 's performances for which Conductor Sokolov provided the musical ideas . Soon Irene hopes to realize an anniversary scheme to include a longer season in Manhattan , road tours for which she has already solicited the coperation of leading orchestras , larger opportunities for her theatre school ( now limited to after-school classes for children and an intensive two-year course for 16 pupils ) and a theatre which will have studios and living quarters for Neighborhood workers .                     