@@469480

MITE sons of Liberty are with us I again . Their couriers speed from city to city , their proclamations fill the papers , the welkin resounds with their cries . But the motions are not quite what they were in ' 76 . The patriots this year ride no horses ; the village , the hamlet , and the farm see them not ; they hang no lanterns from church steeples . On the contrary . They are to be seen emerging from corporation law offices , their leaders go to meet appointments in the sleekest of automobiles . A philosopher on observing the spectacle might observe one other and more profound difference between the actions of the forefathers and the doings of the descendants . The boys of ' 76 were after something ? the boys of ' 34 are losing something . The latest addition to the gallant hand is none other than Herbert Hoover , who has just emerged fromretirement ? voluntarily ? to pronounce , in the Saturday Evening Post , a stirring philippic on " The Challenge to Liberty " and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reported that Mr. Hoover yearns for a come-back and though it is highly significant that the article should appear on the eve of the congressional election , these things need not detain us . Nor need we be distracted by the charge that the article is the howl of an embittered ex-employee who complains about the State because it fired him . The interesting thing about the dissertation is that it is a fair reflection of the current agitation and concern of a considerable body of influential people in this country ? the rich . Though the article discusses in some detail the present Administration 's policies ? in agriculture , in finance , and in industry ? the details are really beside the point . In Mr. Hoover 's own words , " the scope of this survey does not include a full examination of monetary , fiscal , and credit policies . I am here concerned solely with profound departures from liberty . " He is avowedly attempting to get down to first principles , and there is no more interesting spectacle than an American politician engaged in such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in grappling with Mr. Hoover 's somewhat difficult style , the substance of his argument is this : That in the past year and a half the Executive has snatched dictatorial powers from the people or their representatives and has then proceeded to prescribe rigid rules of business conduct , with the threat that these rules would be enforced by fine and imprisonment if necessary . Under such an executive and such a government , according to the argument , all freedom and initiative vanish and , under a cast-iron regimentation , we must become a nation of helots , saddled with bureaucrats , little better than slaves . " For the first time in two generations , " says he , " the American people are faced with the primary issue of humanity and all government ? the issue of human liberty . " " Regimentation " is the word round which the whole argument crystallizes , and it is worth examination . Strictly speaking , this article was not the first ventilation of Mr. Hoover 's concern with the problem . Hedged about with indirect discourse , the fruits @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Times on May 27th last . At the time his settled opinion was this : " Some people will take more regimentation than others , and the same people will take more regimentation at one time than they will at another . But in the long run human nature will stand just so much regimenting . Hence , there is simply no sense in overloading a government with a lot of permanentpolicies involving more of it than the rank and file will permanently put up with . " How about communism ? the statesman then was gently prodded . How about the Nazis ? Communism , he observed , was divesting itself every year of as many regimentary features as the face-saving instinct of political rulers would sanction . Naziism would blow up as soon as the sacred emotional sanctions which explained the Hitler evangel began to crack . And , he added significantly , " Before they launch any more new noble experiments , the bright young men in Washington had better remember this . " Not long after this interview came the announcement of the formation of the American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dedicated to the preservation of our god-given rights ? of property . Among its more prominent members arc John W. Davis , John J. Raskob , and hen &; du Pont . That these men are Democrats and Mr. Hoover a Republican does not mean that the Liberty League was organized as a party measure to steal Mr. Hoover 's thunder . Far , far from it . Republicans and Democrats alike are terrified at the threat of regimentation . Their beliefs are one and the same . They are not strange bedfellows for a single night ; over the sort of regimentation they dread they are now and forever in one another 's arms . II Regimentation , after all , was hardly invented as a war cry of opposition to President Roosevelt 's New Deal . I am old enough ? and sufficiently recovered from financial shellshock ? to remember with some vividness the great libertarian days under that truly forgotten man ? Calvin Coolidge . In that sunny economic prime , if my recollection is sound , we were regimented too , but THE BOGEY OF they called @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ governors it was good . We were expected to believe that Mr. Coolidge , who refreshed the nation with a constant stream of economic platitudes and often took five-hourlong afternoon naps in the White House , was a strong , silent statesman , the herald of a new economic order of lasting prosperity , one of our two or three wisest and ablest presidents . We were insistently drilled and catechized in the faith that the summit of the nation 's genius , virility , and culture had been reached in the business man . Drill sergeants and a ballyhoo of propaganda bugles summoned us to this archetypal American 's frequent orgies of planless development . Was a subdivision to be opened on trickily manipulated bank loans , with all the comforts of high-pressure salesmanship and inordinate prices for customers ? Was a new industry to be floated by a local patriotism " drive " for stock subscribers and without any definite consideration of potential market and shipping facilities ? Low persons who ventured to criticize the economic validity of such operations were branded by all the available agencies for inciting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ current usage . If they happened to hold posts in the community ? on faculties , on newspapers , or in public office where they could be reached conveniently ? they were made to realize by silencing orders , by checks to their further advancement , or by summary dismissals that great , economically free regimenters knew how to function as autocratic executives . In the background loomed further and further projects for making us good automata . Prohibition , with the widespread general blessing of big business men , later hailed as rugged individualists , was busily attempting to regiment personal taste , dietetic habits , and social customs . The height of the Coolidge Day of Freedom marked also the height of the prohibitionists ' effort to make opposition to their regime and its social philosophy impossible in a political leader and to penalize violations with the unusual punishments and fantastically felonious legal definitions of the Jones Act . Taking up the torch from their superiors , lesser groups pressed onward toward sweeping regimentation of their own . The fundamentalists planned that knowledge of the principles of evolution should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the small minority attending private schools ; and then launched an attempt , which got at least as far as an enactment by the legislature of Oregon , to see that there should be no more private schools . The Ku Klux Klan darkened social , intellectual , and political life in a dozen States with the intolerances and disorders of a premature Naziism . In industry , Mr. Henry Ford , announcing that every business was a " little monarchy , " decreed how much and when his employes should drink and smoke , indicated where and according to what standards they should live , how they should spend their leisure time , and the size of the gardens they should cultivate . Other industrial titans applauded and went as far in enforcing similar ukases as the authority of more limited pay envelopes would permit . All over the land the " spirit " of the employed force became the object of almost psycho-analytical scrutiny . In thousands of industrial and sales organizations pep meetings became more common than prayer meetings during a revival . The more it was hailed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ became a matter of drilling the ranks in routine evolutions . In hundreds of department stores , for hundreds of thousands of traveling and house-to-house agents , drummers and canvassmen , the very words and phrases of sales argument and dialogue , the very mannerisms of ingratiation , of seduction and conquest were described and prescribed with a solemnity suggesting that stock turnover must be an affair for ritualists . Great artists in the specialty of " making them buy it and like it " dreamed of a day when sales resisters ' answers would be equally stereotyped . A San Francisco department store not unaptly caught the flavor of the era by requiring its employes , at opening and closing time , to stand at attention while the notes of a bugle floated down a great central well and in and out forests of counters , from books to lingerie . While men who were good at boss-buttering , pep meetings , and designing rituals rose more and more toward the top in industry , the really " key men " of the structure laughed at these cruder forms of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and they rated the Ku Klux Klan as about on the level with a silly high school society . " You and I do n't give a whoop for this prohibition foolishness but it 's a damn good thing for my working force . And they tell me the Klan is gettin " em back into church on Sundays . " Nevertheless , they were perfectly willing that their highly generous political campaign contributions should fall into the hands of Klan leaders and the prohibitionist college of cardinals . These lesser forms of regimentation were helpless to touch the " key men " personally , but they were of considerable practical help in maintaining the kind of regimentation in which they were genuinely interested . For the " key men " of individualism 's golden age were not interested in individualism at all in so far as it might have any connection with individuality , as it might have implied any development of the cultural and intellectual differences among different individuals . They were interested in creating , marshaling , disciplining , and ordering about a population of mental and emotional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1 . That the American business man was the salt of the economic earth and the rightly ordained dictator of the contemporary economic era. 2 . That his acquisitive instincts , which were the essence of the nation 's genius and , for all practical purposes , the total sum of that genius , must be left free and unfettered to dominate the intellectual , the esthetic , the political , and the recreational life of our times . This is the form of regimentation , or of would-be regimentation ? since of course it never was entirely accomplished ? which the individualism of the rugged geniuses of the Coolidge age amounted to . These knew the kind of regimentation they wanted ; they had it ; they intended to extend it and keep it . Now they want it back again . But such pummellings of the Coolidge era are old stuff and , what is more , they are deceptive . A flourishing depression literature has dissected the carrion of the boom days over and over again and has given the impression that up to 1920 things were doing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only reason why the rugged individualist era is recalled here is because Mr. Hoover and the leading members of the Liberty League were among its peculiar ornaments and because they regarded that era with peculiar complacency . A proof of this complacency , i E any were needed , might be found in Mr. Hoover 's own inaugural : " We have not yet reached the goal , but , given a chance to go forward with the policies of the last eight years , THE BOGEY OF we shall soon , with the help of God , be in sight of the day when poverty will be banished from this nation . " The disagreements between the presidential candidates of 1924 were in no sense fundamental ; it was only that Mr. Davis , now of the American Liberty League , wanted Mr. Coolidge 's job . As for the depression , it has served to throw into clearer light Mr. Davis 's agreement with Mr. Coolidge 's successor . The liberty which they and their fellows cherish is the liberty of economic license for the fortunate few , even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many . In their private lives they may esteem many kinds of personal freedom , but the solid core of their faith is the belief in complete liberty of action for those who possess . The regimentation that they fear with a most deadly fear is a regimentation that may lay hands upon their possessions . And this belief and this fear were not born under Coolidge . They are as old as time . They stand forever beside the haves in the eternal war with the have-nots . III We have said that in his article Mr. Hoover attempts to get down to first principles . Let us see how far he gets . " Who may define liberty ? " he asks . " It is far more than independence of a nation . It is not a catalogue of political ' rights . ' Liberty is a thing of the spirit ? to be free to worship , to think , to hold opinions , and to speak without fear ? free to challenge wrong and oppression with surety of justice . Liberty conceives that the mind and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is free to choose his own calling , to develop his talents , to win and keep a home sacred from intrusion , to teat children in ordered security . It holds he must he free to earn , to spend , to save , honestly to accumulate property that may give protection in old age and to loved ones . . . . In every generation men and women of many nations have died that the human spirit might be thus free . In our race , at Plymouth Rock , at Lexington , at Valley Forge , at Yorktown , at New Orleans , at every step of the Western frontier , at Appomattox , at San Juan Hill , in the Argonne are the graves of Americans who died for this purpose . . . . When these boundaries of liberty are overstepped America will cease to be American . " After a lengthy discussion of New Deal legislation , Mr. Hoover ends on this note : " There are other channels in which our economic and social life is being regimented which could be developed . These @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is government direction , management , and dictation of social and economic life . It is a vast shift from the American concept of human rights . . . . It is a vast casualty to liberty if it shall be continued . " The first thought that occurs to the reader is that the passage is not only unrealistic but is profoundly lacking in conviction . Where Hamilton could bluntly say : " The People is a great beast , " where the Jacksonians could say : " To the victors belong the spoils , " where Tweed could say : " What are you going to do about it ? " , where a nineteenth-century capitalist could say : " The public be damned , " Mr. Hoover is forced to fall back on the Almighty . " The high tenet of Liberalism , " he says , " is that liberty is an endowment from the Creator to every individual man and woman upon which no power , whether economic or political , can encroach and not even the government may deny . " The vigorous self-confidence of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its way westward , opening up new fields for conquest . Wealth is old , afraid of the future , and , calling upon its gods , is wailing itself up . If regimentation be the dread of Mr. Hoover , if liberty be so precious to Mr. Davis and Mr. Raskob , why have we not heard more of it before ? " . . . in the Argonne are the graves of Americans who died for this purpose , " for liberty . Did they so ? Where then was Mr. Hoover on the 22d of May , 1931 , when before the War Policies Commission ? under the chairmanship of Patrick Hurley , Mr. Hoover 's Secretary of War ? there appeared Herbert Bayard Swope who testified as follows : " Enlightened and informed public opinion in war is ideal , but the plan is dangerous . We must have a stencil . If we take the muzzles off the dogs of war , we must put the muzzles on the people . . .. Public opinion must be conscribed . . . . The regimentation our italics @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inescapable processes of war making . Thinking along independent lines must be stopped . . . . Censorship must prevail . . . . It is rare ? it is never ? that a nation is instantly galvanized into the vast emotionalism that is needed in war . The real causes are too remote from the individual . The issues , colored and excitative , must be brought home to each . " Here are explicit statements surely , and the word regimentation is not missing . Strange that Americans could have died in the Argonne for something declared dangerous . Were Mr. Davis and Mr. Raskob outraged by Mr. Swope 's statement ? If so , history records no trace of it . Was there a shout of alarm from the White House , a denunciation from Mr. Hoover ? There was not a whisper . It is easy to call up the memories of dead heroes who gave their lives for liberty , it is simple to take one 's stand on the rock of Liberalism ; but from a public character who does these things the citizenry has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is that Mr. Hoover has been a generous advocate of regimentation in the past , has supported it and , on occasion , has applied it himself . If he never fought against Jim Crow regimentation of the Negro , he slept quiet beside the iron business control exercised , in private , by his Secretary of the Treasury . The strait-jacket may be obnoxious but not when applied to a Bonus Army . There is one modest passage in Mr. Hoover 's indictment that ought not to slip by the casual reader . Here it is : " How far the regimentation of banking and the government dictation of credit through various government agencies may extend is not yet clear . There arc national stresses again the italics are ours in which the government must support private financial institutions , but it is unnecessary for it to enter into competitive business to accomplish this . " Not yet clear ? Oh , yes , it is . Is it possible that these two sentences are protective coloring for those secret loans which Mr. Hoover 's Reconstruction Finance Corporation made ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dawes 's bank was quietly handed $90,000,000 ? Was not the fragrant Union Guardian Trust Company of Detroit regimented into accepting a loan of $12,983,000 ? Other individualists , Democrats as well as Republicans , were attended to in similar fashion , and all the while the freedom-loving people of this country , who furnished the money for these loans , knew nothing until John T. Flynn blew the lid off in the pages of this magazine . But enough of illustration . Such argument is academic . Freedom of opinion , of speech , of protest for others interest Mr. Hoover and the American Liberty League not at all . They are interested in property and its control , a control they will try to keep . IV t It is not to be supposed from the foregoing that if the opinions and actions of these sterling patriots are open to question , those of the New Dealers are to be accepted entirely at face value . The new regimentation ? for there is no denying that there is quite a lot of it ? has stirred up Liberty 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the potential benefit of certain other kinds of freedom and talent . Only the most fervent believer in the Roosevelt epic would claim that those benefits have been achieved , that the mechanism for achieving them has been developed and brought into action , or that it has been impressively effective even within the modest operating scope which has been given it . The famous section 7-a of the National Industrial Recovery Act , for instance , has occasioned a number of widespread and sensational conflicts between capital and labor over its inner meaning , but it has not , in the more spectacular tests , greatly advanced the rights of labor to deal effectively with its employers under the auspices of organizations of its own choosing . The NRA , having passed the stage of ballyhoo and noble exhibitionism , has been modified and relaxed , both by government permission and by what might be called the inner " sales resistance " of the business heads pledged to put it into practice . On the whole , its primary purposes of " spreading the work " and of raising @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ program of crop limitation , running afoul of the drought , has become less a planned economy than a minor adjunct of natural calamity . The CWA has been abandoned , and its heirs , the SERA and the FERA , are still resolutely ducking the hazards of attempting any program which might remotely he construed as putting the unemployed in competition with private industry . Nothing concrete has been done in a single instance to advance the various interesting schemes of some brain trust economic advisers for forcing the wealthy to disgorge their glut of capital resources and convert them into active purchasing power . Stock exchange and labor regulations are largely in the hands of new , and frequently renewed , sets of commissioners , whose tenderness or harshness of mind toward the old acquisitive liberties remains to be revealed . Drastic regimentation has been in the air no doubt ever since something was said in March , 1933 , about depriving the money-changers of the freedom of the temple , but the regimentation from which the great freedom-loving souls of the old normalcy order have suffered and derived @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " regimentation . Nor is there reason to believe that if it were all accomplished and literally enforced , the general public would be any more , if anything like so much , under the heavy hand of the drill sergeants than it was during the gay , libertarian age of the 1920 's . Some measure surely can , therefore , be taken of the individualistic zeal of the opposition by examining the spirit with which they have resisted these comparatively mild assaults upon liberty . The more forensically , not to say politically , inclined apologists for the tried and true , non-experimental order of the pre-power age have confined their activities largely to joining organizations and making speeches against " the revolution . " Mr. Ogden Mills , for instance , in his new role of a metropolitan banker expert on agriculture , has proposed that a return to the old freedom of initiative in business is necessary to set the farmer back upon his economic feet . Col. Robert R. McCormick of the Chicago Tribune has discovered , and tirelessly exploited , the dangers involved in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wages for grossly underpaid journalists and over the minimum age for newsboys . Colonel McCormick fears that such authority may undermine the freedom of the press and lessen the revered power of newspaper advertising space to stimulate flow of purchasing power . His fellow-publisher , Mr. William Randolph Hearst , has flung his newspapers into a crusade against income taxes and the NRA , on the principle that the genius of the business man , having built America , must be freed from even so much as the fear of " brain trusts " if the building is to go on . All of these gentlemen and their satellite sub-leaders have done considerable regimenting of opinions and organizations in favor of rule by big business drill sergeants and against the rule of the drill sergeants of government . But none of them has explained specifically , or in anything but vague emotional appeals to the army , how , without considerable future regimenting of such matters as opportunities for employment , distribution of industrial products , and the flow of purchasing power , any active markets can be restored for re-emancipated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ labor issue that the new crusaders for individualism have shown their true colors . Here , where labor has been attempting to break into the charmed circle of acquisitive genius and acquire some authority of its own in the administration and economic policies of industry , the crisis has demanded something more than the mere mobilization of opinion and the formation of the resistant legions in ranks of fixed prejudice . In emergencies like the Toledo and San Francisco strikes , and in more specious but probably more tense local crises , it has seemed necessary to fire the regiments of individualists with battle lusts and the massed brutality of actual warfare . The intermittent strikes of the itinerant fruit , vegetable , and cotton pickers of the Imperial and San Joaquin valleys ? imported and enforced wanderers starved almost into madness ? offer vicious illustration of employer savagery . As a Californian , I can report that the job has been done with a military efficiency creditable to the professional competence of the individualist major generals . As a result of organized propaganda , no Californian with the slightest tendency @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to remember that the strike of the Pacific coast longshoremen was primarily conducted in order to make effective their organizing and collective bargaining rights under Section 7-a . From one end of the State to the other , solid burghers and jobless white collars , cultists and the orthodox , were drilled like children in their lesson that several score thousand American workmen , with a vague sense of indefinite grievances and no intelligence about their practical interests at all , were seduced by a horde of wily Communists into starting a revolution aimed at the overthrow of the economic order and the American form of government . Meanwhile , from the right of the line , the shock troops of the combat division performed according to orders . The San Francisco police did their share of shooting and execution . The Los Angeles police intelligence division ? locally famous as the " Red Squad " ? preserved the sacred freedom of the open shop as prescribed by the Merchants ' and Manufacturers ' Association , by breaking heads and legs of pickets and their supporters at San THE BOGEY OF @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ red-baiting organizations , beat individualism into the skulls of dissenters with clubs and brass knuckles . Sweating with zeal , they reinforced the doctrines of economic freedom with kidnapping operations , destruction of property , and wholesale arrests of doubtful legality . No individualists have disgraced more effectively the decencies of American individualism in the lifetime of the republic . Nor can any realistic observer of the mobilizations being now accomplished question the certainty of further disgrace . I pick up the Los Angeles Times the second morning after the primary nomination of Upton Sinclair as Democratic candidate for governor of California . " Is This America ? " calls the attacking bugle in an editorial page title . " All of us are either for what we have known as American patriotism , or for some dark unknown chaos of destruction . . . . Mr. Sinclair is not the ultimately important factor . What is eating at the heart of America are a maggot-like horde of Reds who have scuffled to his support . . . . They are eating off the halyards that hold up the Stars and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been borne in upon the minds and consciousness of the most skeptical . . . that the wolves are here . . . . We are standing at a fatal crossing of the roads . " I can conscientiously report that true individualism in California to-day lies under the menace of regimentation by dangerous professional agitators . The passage just cited is an excellent sample of their work . One must hesitate before making a confident prediction that California will get through the Upton Sinclair election in November without outrages from a newly fomented American Naziism , sprung from the loins of the red-baiters and their kind . V At the bottom , in a complexly interrelated society , individualism and regimentation tend to become surprisingly the same thing . The individual can not " be himself " in a way of consistently pursuing his own interests , or of writing his ideas of social and economic justice into government , without demanding a considerable amount of conformity from the neighbors . Individually , we want the economic and social traffic of the technological age handled in different ways , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ free initiative . Yet the traffic must be regulated . Day by day it is borne in upon us by concrete economic experience that the production and exchange system can no longer be made to function , that employment can not be created and fairly rationed out among society 's individual members , that purchasing power can not be made to flow , merely by leaving that system to the automatic action of its own internal mechanisms . We must regiment ourselves economically or risk the extinction of power-age civilization in a new anarchy . Such an anarchy would he far more dreadful and destroying than the mental pictures of Communism conjured up by the Better America Federations , the Patriotic Societies and Navy Leagues and the Merchants ' and Manufacturers ' Associations . Stripping off false banners then , two sorts of regimentation are proposed to us . One is the brand which , while seeking to mobilize the American masses into an army of easily disciplined , easily underpaid , and easily junked economic robots , has proved itself complacently callous to the needs of any form of individualism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the kind of regimentation which would regulate the operations of acquisitive genius in order to provide an economic security under which , for the first time since the dawn of the machine age , the latent individuality of the many will have some chance to set itself free . To say this , of course , is not to make simple an urgent problem of grave difficulty . It is inevitable that economic collectivism will bring with it restraints . The task is to see to it that in that collectivism the greatest freedom for individuality may be maintained . Difficult , yes . Impossible , no . If it is impossible , what has happened to the energy , the genius , the initiative that the Liberty boys adore ? Have the American people become completely incapacitated ? What Mr. Hoover and the Liberty League sponsors do not seem to understand is that for most of us these liberties are gone already and were gone before ever the New Deal arrived . It is monstrous to speak of the right " to rear children in ordered security " when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . If we concede to these patriotic gentlemen the type of liberty they want , the kind of liberty most of the rest of us are likely to get will be the liberty of ignorance , squalor , starvation , and death . Why prate , for example , over the evil in socialized medicine which would deprive a man of the right to choose and pay his own doctor , when in accepting medical charity , over seventy per cent of the sick people have lost their privilege of selecting a doctor for the treatment of their ills ? The remedy is not to let p ? ople die because , in a well nigh jobless world , they can not pay for medi inc . The solution is to make the regimentation of socialized medicine skilful , efficient , and humane . Examples could be drawn from every profession and field of activity . It is not a toothache that afflicts us , but a cancer . Our affairs arc in flux and their outcome can not be foreseen . Other hands than ours will write the considered history @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ peculiar virtue of our people has not been our collective intelligence but our abounding vitality . We have come through a succession of revolutions and may do so again , accepting regimentation and punching it into shapes now undreamed of . But the philosopher is human also , human enough to feel a burning rage at those who , in the presence of such misery , sorrow , and desolation as our people have never known , have the assurance to stand up and slap a nation in the face . 