@@486485

WE GREET WITH ENTHUSIASM the announce- ment that the Department of State has been working out a set of statutes designed to maintain American neutrality in case of war between other nations by modifying our present theory of neutral rights . This move comes at a moment when the United States is not involved in any immediately threatening conflict and the danger of war hangs over large areas of Europe and Asia . It is a strategic time to appeal to American caution and our traditional dislike of being dragged into other peoples ' troubles . Certainly there is every argument on grounds of humanity and good sense to waive or suspend any commercial rights whatever , on land or on the high seas , in order to prevent war . Peace is better than trade  --  or even national pride . If a sane man starts down the street to go to market and finds himself cut off by a gang war or a riot , he does not push his way through and depend on the law to save him from embroilment or bodily attack . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the row is over . The people of the United States will , we are certain , support the State Department in any proposed changes in existing laws , however drastic , which will help to keepthe- country out of the next war- They have enough troubles without emulating that well-known hero Sam O'Day , who , it will be recalled , died defending his right of way . WHILE THE PROGRAM for unemployment insur- ance drafted by the President 's Advisory Council is a marked advance on the cumbersome Wagner-Lewis bill , it can scarcely be considered an adequate solution of the problem of insecurity in industrial employment . The feature of the new plan which provides that the federal government is to pay a subsidy to the States whose insurance laws conform to certain minimum standards is an improvement over the older scheme . It is also encouraging that the funds are to be raised exclusively by a tax on employers . On the other hand , the council 's suggestions as to minimum standards are extremely unsatisfactory . Payments to unemployed workers are to begin after a two- @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of their regular pay , with a minimum of $15 a week , and are to run for twenty-five weeks . What is to happen to the worker after the twenty-five-week period is not stated . Possibly he is to be taken care of by a permanent public-works plan which has not yet been formulated . But is there any assurance that such will be the case ? In its present form at least , it is evident that the new plan does not meet the problem of unemployment as we have known it during the past five years . There remains , moreover , the question of what shall be done for the twelve million persons who are now without work . The proposed scheme obviously can not aid them until they have been given jobs . In fact , no plan which attempts merely to spread the " normal " risks of industry , such as seasonal and mild cyclic fluctuations , is sufficient today . What is needed is an all-embracing national program which will give adequate support to all persons unable to earn a living- , whether @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or unemployment . TO CALL the long-range program of the National Resources Board a " national plan " is only to add to the current confusion on economic policies . But if we cast aside this much-labored term , it is evident that the board has made an extremely valuable inventory of national assets and has added some useful recommendations regarding their exploitation . Much of the report is so general in its treatment as to have relatively little bearing on immediate problems , but at several points its recommendations give valuable insight into the probable course of New Deal policies . It is proposed , for example , that the government purchase submarginal lands at the rate of about 5,000,000 acres a year for fifteen years in order to obtain " more effective use of areas than is possible under private ownership . " The land thus purchased is to be added to the national and State forests and to the nation 's park systems . This is planning of a type that presents no great difficulties under capitalism . But the contradiction which is always met in the effort @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ system is illustrated by another of the board 's suggestions . It indorses the subsistence-homestead movement as a permanent national policy , but at the same time urges that no steps be taken to facilitate the movement of any considerable number of unemployed persons from urban areas into commercial agriculture . While this represents a somewhat ingenious attempt to expand agricultural production without depressing prices , it implies a wholly artifical distinction , impossible to maintain . Somewhat the same criticism might be made of the proposal to initiate a permanent public-works administration , but here the issue is sharply drawn between the interests of a few individuals and those of society as a whole . Planning will not be easy , but there is no other way out . THE NATIONAL CRIME CONFERENCE , which met in Washington early in December , offered on its adjournment a nine-point program in the interest of more and better law enforcement . Although the resolutions considered various aspects of the high incidence of crime in the United States , they all came to more or less the same conclusion : that our knowledge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are inadequate and it would be a good idea to improve them . Thus legislative committees were urged to consider the problem of criminal justice , parole boards were besought to study the question of parole , and a subsequent conference was projected further to discuss the various issues involved . About the only positive and specific reform proposed was improvement in the sanitary conditions of local jails . In other words , during an entirely well-intentioned and serious-minded conference , at which dozens of persons were delivered of thousands of words in speeches which went on steadily from morning till night , it became clear that nobody knows much about the causes of crime and everybody has a different idea of what to do about it . As with sin , however , we are all against it , and it is a happy subject for popular disapproval at a time when there are a lot of difficult questions about which many persons can not make up their minds . HERE AND THERE in the conference the ancient attitude of " stamping out " and " bearing down on " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Department of Justice , urged the " extermination " of those " filthy " beings who prey on society ; Peter J. Siccardi , president of the International Association of Chiefs of Police , was inclined to believe that third offenders should be incarcerated for life ; and Miss Dorothy Frooks , unsuccessful candidate for Congress from New York , proposed the elimination of convict baseball teams on the ground that convicts " should be denied the right of society while serving sentence . " Directly in line with this point of view , which every modern penologist distrusts , the New York Police Commissioner , Lewis J. Valentine , has issued his unlawful and stupid order directing his men to " muss up " persons arrested on suspicion of having committed a crime . " Draw quickly , " says Mr. Valentine , " shoot accurately , make it disagreeable for these men , make them leave the city , make them afraid of arrest . . . . I will protect you and the District Attorney will protect you .. . . We do n't want police brutality @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ criminals . " As the first-exhibit in the campaign to muss up without being brutal , the police brought Leo Byrne , alleged to have been caught red-handed in robbing a till , before Magistrate Greenspan with a black eye , a swollen cheek , a bloodied nose , and other probable lacerations . It wouldseem hardly necessary to point out that Commissioner Valentine 's order , coming with a promise of protection for police lawlessness from a supposedly responsible official , is a much graver offense than the petty larceny and assault of which Byrne is accused . The Commissioner has risen from the ranks and he had the reputation of being a tough cop himself . Only when we eliminate the tough-cop mentality from our treatment of criminals shall we even begin to reach a civilized attitude on one of the most pressing problems of modern society . THE ITALIAN-ABYSSINIAN dispute is likely to be a more basic test of the efficacy of the League 's peace machinery than the Hungarian-Jugoslav affair which has just been settled . In place of a controversy between two minor nations , we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whose existence is scarcely known to the average newspaper reader . The issue itself is relatively unimportant , but it is typical of the sort of dispute that is constantly arising . A skirmish occurred between border patrols of the two nations , growing out of uncertainty regarding the title of a few score square miles of desert . Each side accuses the other of aggression in precipitating the conflict . While Italy has not refused definitely to submit to arbitration , Mussolini 's letter to the League gave clear indication of his intention of forcing a direct settlement , a process in which Italy , of course , has every advantage . This is a challenge which the League can ill afford to ignore if it desires to retain any of the prestige which it has gained in recent weeks . FRAGMENTARY REPORTS from Hongkong indicate that the main body of the Chinese Red Army has broken through the blockade imposed by the joint forces of Nanking and Canton and has penetrated the province of Kweichow , where a Communist army under Ho Lung has been operating for some months @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the Soviet troops had covered more than half the distance on their dramatic trek to Szechuan . As a result of the Communists ' success , the amicable understanding which had just been concluded between Chiang Kai-shek and the Canton militarists appears to be seriously threatened , each faction seeking to pin responsibility for the Reds ' escape on the other . Some light may be thrown on the paucity of , Chinese news here by a recent letter to a correspondent from the New York Times which explains that paper 's inadequate coverage by the circumstance that its China correspondent had been " on vacation for the past three months . " The vacation of this particular correspondent is apparently at an end , however , for a recent dispatch under his name ascribed the abduction and murder of two American missionaries to " Communist-bandits , " though the nearest known body of the Red Army is from 150 to 200 miles distant and there is no authentic record of a foreigner ever having been killed by Communist troops . DESPITE REPORTED DISSATISFACTION among farmers with the AAA program @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ten seem to have voted for continuance of the Bankhead Act , which limits the cotton crop . Only two States , Oklahoma and California , have failed to give the necessary two-thirds ' majority for the plan . Since the farmers have tended to plant their best lands and to let the less fertile fields lie idle , we shall doubtless see again a larger yield per acre than before the limitation went into effect , with a corresponding penalty for the better farmers in the form of a tax on their surplus . It is said that a considerable percentage of the affirmative vote was contributed by the owners of small farms , themselves exempted from limitation , who voted for restriction for their more prosperous neighbors . Whatever the causes of the sweeping reaffirmation of the restriction program , the results in terms of our foreign trade will be the same as before . The United States formerly produced about 70 per cent of the world 's cotton ; last year it produced only 4-1 per cent . And there is no reason to suppose that the foreign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their production will willingly yield us the market again when we have got back to " normal . " The whole program offers one-of the more striking inconsistencies in an unplanned economy ; although there are millions of persons without an extra shirt to call their own , we cut the extra shirts off at the source instead of trying to improve our system of distribution so that everybody can have more . THE CAREFULLY NURTURED MYTH of prosperity that once hung about the name of Ford and the American automobile industry officially died in the first sessions of the hearings held in Detroit under the direction of Leon Henderson , head of the research and planning division of the NRA , in an Administration attempt to find a way of leveling out peaks and valleys of automobile production and employment . The witnesses were workers and not publicity agents , which perhaps accounts for the realistic tone of the hearings . One Ford employee testified that the peak for Ford wages was reached in 1929 . The daily average was from $6 to $10 a day but the annual wage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , was only $1,470 . At present the daily wage is $5 but the yearly income is $650 . This same witness touched also upon technological matters . When Model T gave way to Model A , 15 per cent of Mr. Ford 's employees lost their jobs . An employee of the Buick Motor Company told of workers leaving their jobs in the factory because they could feed their families more adequately on relief . ( Mr. Hopkins 's order wiping out the minimum wage on relief projects will do much to put a stop to this . ) And F. J. Dillon , A. F. of L. organizer , introduced a bitter and disrespectful note by pointing out that although the Chrysler Corporation made profits of $10,000,000 in the first nine months of 1934 , annual wages of from $400 to $600 are common among its employees . The A. F. of L. program proposed a basic thirty-hour week and a basic minimum annual wage of $1,500 . The Society of Designing Engineers and the Mechanics ' Educational Society of America were less humble in their demands , suggesting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for designers . Meanwhile , the forthright statement of Francis Biddle that the National Labor Relations Board stands ready to enter the automobile controversy in view of labor 's distrust and contempt for the Wolman board , offers the chance of a real battle whose outcome is not fixed in advance . If it takes place , it will at least serve to show up the famous automobile settlement of Mr. Roosevelt  --  a slick streamline model designed to cut down employee resistance  --  which the Wolman board has so far failed to sell to the workers . THE RECENT CONFERENCE on civil liberties held under the auspices of the American Civil Liberties Union was the first attempt on the part of the twenty-two participating groups to get together with government representatives to draft a program of legislation which would be promptly and effectively presented to the House and the Senate as soon as they should begin their sessions . Various aspects of the issues of freedom of opinion and organization , and of resistance to those who repress civil rights , were discussed . The question of radio , press @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ organization and collective bargaining , the immigration laws , particularly with respect to the deportation of aliens , federal policies toward unemployed demonstrations , and the rights of relief workers to organize were all on the agenda . Senator Costigan of Colorado made an effective plea for a federal anti-lynching bill , which may have a good chance of passage after the unspeakably brutal torture and murder of the Negro Claude ' Neal in Florida last October ; and a resolution was adopted urging the right of share-croppers in the South to organize in protest against their living and working conditions . In general it was found that the government representatives were willing and even eager to cooperate with the members of the conference in pressing forward legislation , and it was not unusual to note Administration agents in favor of modification of the law to the end that civil rights might be more effectively guaranteed and upheld . TN MARKED CONTRAST to the civil-liberties confer -- 1- ence , in which an honest attempt was made to gain the cooperation of the federal government in upholding the American bill of rights , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the form of a pamphlet entitled " Combating Subversive Activities in the United States . " This document recounts the alleged attempts of various groups  --  most particularly the Communist Party  --  to overthrow the American government by violence , and offers a number of measures intended to suppress these dangerous plots . The proposals include a sedition law which would make membership in the Communist Party a crime , a law denying use of the mails to " subversive " matter , including Communist newspapers and periodicals , the regulation of the admission of aliens by " a treaty obligation on the part of the country of his origin to take him back at any time if ordered deported from the United States , " the strengthening of our naturalization laws to exclude Communists or members of other " subversive " organizations , and federal legislation patterned after the new British sedition bill , which would prohibit " attempts to incite disaffection or insubordination among the armed forces of the United States . " In other words , the Chamber of Commerce is proposing a red-hunt of gigantic proportions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of every radical in the United States , to the number , according to this worthy organization , of more than half a million , an estimate which the Communist Party must find flattering . The proponents of free opinion and free organization in this country , therefore , will find themselves confronted , when they ask Congress for appropriation and necessary legislation , by the proponents of suppression and reaction . They should be warned in advance and should fortify themselves for a struggle to preserve democracy against the forces of fascism .                     