@@431137

IF YOU plan to use a radio receiver on your sailboat or motor boat this summer , there are certain precautions that must be observed if it is to give unfailing reception . Incorrectly installed or not specially prepared for its life on the briny , it will develop all sorts of troubles , and may even cause serious damage to the boat . First of all , a marine radio receiver should be sturdily built and highly sensitive if it is to give all-around satisfaction . The high sensitivity is desirable because , on most boats , it is not possible to use an antenna long enough to permit a receiver of low or moderate sensitivity to perform well . To protect the various condensers and resistors from excessive moisture , the receiver should not be placed too close to the upper deck nor too near the bilge . If near the deck , it is likely to be subjected to extreme heating at times , and cooling at others , which results in the condensation of moisture on the cabinet , coils , and other parts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ occur . The best position is near the center of the boat , preferably on a bulkhead about at its midpoint . Wood cabinets , it has been found , give less trouble from condensation than those made of metal . Perhaps the biggest bugaboo of any seagoing radio installation is electrolysis ? the creation of a destructive electric current by the action of salt water on metals . It is difficult to keep saltladen moisture out of the receiver cabinet , so the vulnerable parts must be protected against it . Transformers are frequent sources of trouble unless they are properly protected . Salt spray may set up electrolysis in transformers that have galvanized-iron frames , the electrolytic action taking place between the iron and the zinc coating and resulting in the eating away of both . Sometimes the iron core and copper windings , in combination with the salt water , form an electrolytic cell which , in a short time , causes the complete failure of the transformer . The remedy for such transformer trouble is to seal the units so that they are moisturetight . If the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , inspect it carefully . The protective coating may merely form a shell , and not penetrate to the center of the winding . Because the hollow shell serves only to hold moisture in contact . with the metal , such protection is worse than none at all . In such cases , the windings and core should be completely saturated with varnish or wax . In treating an uncoated intermediatefrequency transformer , for example . dip it in paraffin and connect first the primary and then the secondary across a 221/2-volt or a 45-volt " B " battery . leaving the windings shorted until they become hot , but not hot enough to damage the insulation . A little experimenting will make it easy to judge the degree of heating required . This warming of the windings causes the paraffin in the outer layers to penetrate to the innermost turn . The transformer finally is dipped again in a hot paraffin bath . to complete the sealing . Audio transformers can be treated in the same way , care being taken not to burn out the windings . One of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by corrosion at the terminals of transformers and other parts where soldered connections are used . This occurs even when silver solder is employed . About the best remedy is to protect all joints with waterproof paint or other material , or to use welded connections . Another common trouble that can be traced to salt water is the jamming of a loudspeaker , caused by an accumula- tion of rust between the tiny voice coil and armature . This corrosion comes from the armature , and can be prevented by carefully coating the metal with lacquer thin enough to provide ample coil clearance . Corrosion also can be blamed for the short life of brass contacts , such as switch points and switch blades . The best protection is to silver-plate the areas where contact is made , a procedure that usually is not very expensive . Silver is not attacked by salt , and provides good electrical connections . GENERALLY , the antenna system on a boat radio will give little trouble from the standpoint of corrosion . In most cases , it is rigged high enough above the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ salt spray , and what does collect dries quickly or is washed off by rains . Sometimes an aerial that provides more surface than a single wire is desirable . One of the best is a cylindrical cagelike affair made by soldering several strands of uninsulated wire to copper hoops , the wires being spaced equally around the hoops . The antenna leadin should enter the cabin roof or side wall through a weatherproof insulator , as shown in one of the illustrations . Some boats have fresh-water supply systems that are isolated electrically from the boat " ground " that includes the engine and propellor . Such a water system never should be used as a ground or an antenna for the radio set . If it is , electrolysis may be set up in such a way that screws in the boat 's hull will be eaten away , or the propeller or other parts severely damaged . There is a remedy for the electrolytic action , however . It consists of tacking a sheet of zinc to the boat bottom , keeping it isolated electrically from other metal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ however , is to ground the receiver to the frame of the boat engine or , in the case of sailboats , to some metal part that communicates with the water in which the craft floats . Another problem that generally has to be solved in connection with the use of receivers on motor boats , whether in salt or fresh water , is the suppression of interference from the engine 's ignition system , fan motors , and other auxiliary electrical equipment , and from similar sources on other boats that may be moored within a radius of 300 feet or so . This is the same problem that confronts the owners of automobile radios . A well-shielded antenna lead-in , with the shielding grounded to the motor frame , will do much to eliminate troublesome outside noise if the receiver itself is of modern construction and adequately shielded . Interference from spark plugs and other parts of the boat 's own engine ignition system generally will not affect radio reception if the receiver is powered by a separate battery , in which case a simple switching arrangement should be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the engine generator or to a separate direct-current generator for charging . As in home installations , small electric motors are a common cause of interference .  | One of the best ways of eliminating this trouble is to connect into each motor lead a filter consisting of a radio-frequency choke and grounded condensers , as indicated in the diagram . A suitable radio-frequency choke can be made simply by winding about twenty turns of insulated wire ( generally No. 14 , or whatever size is necessary to carry the motor current ) around a broom handle , and then removing the coil from the handle . Usually the choke will retain its shape without further treatment , but it can be taped or coated with varnish or wax . Between each end of this choke and the ground , connect a 0.1-mfd. , 200-volt paper condenser . Thus a typical two-wire motor will require two chokes and four condensers . Often larger condensers , up to 0.25 mfd. , will prove more efficient . A little experimenting will soon reveal the best hook-up . A COMMERCIAL type of radio receiver @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the standard sixvolt automobile set . When suitable current supplies are available , small tablemodel receivers can be employed . More satisfactory , of course , is the special custom-built marine receiver that operates on a battery when the craft is at sea , and on a regular 110-volt lighting circuit when in port . Such receivers generally are made to cover the short-wave as well as the broadcast band , and may operate two or more auxiliary speakers in various parts of the boat . When standard automobile sets are used , those having motor-generator units rather than vibrators for obtaining the high-voltage plate current are more satisfactory . For boats operating on fresh water , the problems are less difficult , but it will pay to take reasonable precautions against damage by moisture , heat , and similar agents .  |                     