@@494061

Ambassador Kennedy as a Tory In the British House of Commons a member asked about the censorship of an American newsreel containing statements by two prominent Englishmen critical of Prime Minister Chamberlain 's policy at the time of the crisis with Germany in September . Sir John Simon , replying , said that a representation had been made to United States Ambassador Kennedy , who had communicated it to " a member of the Hays organization , " and the excisions in the film had been then made . Sir John stated , " His Majesty 's government are grateful to the Ambassador of the United States and I am glad to think that the Ambassador of the United States and ourselves are in complete accord . " But other Englishmen , angry because of this infraction of the strong Anglo-Saxon tradition of the freedom of speech and press , are not similarly grateful . Nor was Ambassador Kennedy representing his own country well in acting as the accomplice of the British Tories in using governmental power to squelch criticism . Mr. Kennedy , it is true , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ newsreel to be changed , but " simply referred their request to the Hays office . " But even if Sir John Simon is incorrect in believing that there was anything as strong as " complete accord " between Mr. Kennedy and him , it would rather have been Mr. Kennedy 's duty to protest strongly against the censorship . Before this incident we have heard well authenticated reports that Mr. Kennedy is playing the British Tories ' game rather than representing his own country and its principles . President Roosevelt ought to make a prompt investigation of the facts , and if they are as they appear , he ought to remove Mr. Kennedy . The Polish-Russian Understanding An important shift has taken place in Northeastern Europe . Heretofore , it has been assumed that Poland was completely under German domination ; and it has been assumed also that since Munich , Soviet Russia would be isolated from the Western world . Both these assumptions are confounded by the new Polish-Russian understanding which continues the non-aggression pact of 2932 and is to be supplemented by trade arrangements of various sorts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stable ; the agreement is largely an act of reprisal against Germany because Hitler refused to permit Ruthenia to be carved up . Presumably the new friendship with Soviet Russia could be dropped overnight if the Germans were to offer a high enough price . Nevertheless , the move is one of great significance . It punctures the myth that Hitler must now be considered irresistible and infallible . The Poles , his next-door neighbors , are quite ready to defy him and make friends with his supposed inveterate enemies on the East . As for Russian polity , it is dear that there is to be no banging of the door against the West . The Russians will continue to solve their problems one at a time , as each situation requires . Despite the collapse of French policy , the USSR is still a factor to be considered . The Doctors and " Contract Medicine " The American Medical Association , which is opposed to " sosialized medical care , " also objects to what it calls " contract medicine , " under which an individual can pay a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he is ill . Although services of this type are now widely used in the United States , the AMA continues to fight them ; the recent action by the Department of Justice against the District of Columbia medical society was based upon a dispute of this character . While many doctors continue to follow meekly the policies laid down for them by the executive group in the AMA , not all of them do so . The New York County Medical Society a few days ago was asked to approve a by-law curbing contract medicine , and after a long and stormy session , refused to do so . The action was a notable victory for the rising tide of opinion both within and without the profession in favor of experiments to solve the problem of providing adequate medical care for everyone regardless of his individual financial position . Un-American Lies The two most prominent purveyors of lies in the United States at present are Representative Dies and Father Coughlin . They both retail untruths so rapidly that it is impossible to catch up with them , but we may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A witness before the Dies committee called The New Republic a " Communist weekly . " The Congressman also called Roger Baldwin , leading spirit of the American Civil Liberties Union , a Communist , thus hoping to smear Secretary Ickes , who is on its board . Mr. Baldwin , as his friends know , is not a Communist . Whatever his views about the economic system , his main energy for years has been devoted to preserving liberties guaranteed by the American Bill of Rights , and he has at times been under heavy fire from Communists for defending these rights in the cases of Nazis , Fascists and other black reactionaries . Mr. Dies tried to smear the National Labor Relations Board by accusing its economist , David Saposs , of being a " Red , " quoting in substantiation a passage written long ago by Saposs , the burden of which was that the capitalist system is unsatisfactory . Chairman Madden of the Labor Board explained that the passage in question was a description of opinions expressed by others at a conference reported by Mr. Saposs , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Mr. Saposs in fact is an outstanding labor economist , being one of the collaborators with Professor John R. Commons in his monumental " History of Labor in the United States . " Though , like many intelligent Americans , he wants changes in our limping economy , it is pure libel to assert that he ever wanted to bring about such changes by other than democratic methods . In these and other cases Dies spreads charges on the record without bothering to verify their truth or to give the victims a chance to testify . Father Coughlin in a radio speech asserted that " the 1917 list of those who , with Lenin , ruled many of the activities of the Soviet Republic , disclosed that of the twenty-five quasi Cabinet members , twenty-four of them were atheistic Jews . " The Soviet Republic was not in existence until the autumn of 1917 . The revolutionary provisional government of Russia was non-Bolshevik . Alexander Kerensky , its Premier , now asserts that there was not a single Jew in this government . The Central Committee of the Bolshevik Party @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seven Jews . Father Coughlin also asserted that an official British " White Paper , " issued in 1919 , listed Kuhn , Loeb and Company and Jacob Schiff of New York as among those who financed the Russian Revolution and communism . The British Library of Information , which has a copy of this White Paper , replies that no such statement is made in it . The charge is likewise denied by Kerensky , by Leon Trotsky , and by Kuhn , Loeb and Company . The United States Secret Service , a report of which Father Coughlin also gives as authority for a similar allegation , states categorically that no such report was ever made by it . Prospects of Relapse Business is better . Between July and October the Federal Reserve index of industrial production rose from 83 to 96 ? a figure only four points lower than the " par " average of 1923-25 . During the same time the index of income-tax payments increased from 81.3 to 83.7 . Since March , according to a report by the Labor Department , 900,000 industrial workers have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ doubt that a major factor of improvement has been the government 's " pump-priming " expenditures . There is a direct correlation between the increase in public expenditures by the WPA and the PWA and the graphic rise of industrial indices . The WPA is spending more than $20opoo , o00 a month and the PWA ( according to estimates ) close to $20,000,000 . Despite the beneficial effects of this spending , Washington rumor ? which is often extremely accurate ? has it that the WPA is about to be drastically cut , partially to make room for the huge expenditures anticipated in the name of " national defense . " We have often stated the economic arguments against the substitution of an armament orgy for public spending as a means to recovery : the pay checks go not to the needy unemployed , for the most part , but to skilled workers who are already drawing good salaries . And armaments are a social cipher compared to the useful projects the government has undertaken and should continue to undertake . Metropolitan Life Fights the Union For more than a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been fighting for recognition of their union , Local 30 , the United Office and Professional Workers of America . In April , 1938 , the union won the election conducted by the New York State Labor Relations Board . Metropolitan Life refused to bargain with the union representatives , and on July 27 the New York State Supreme Court ordered the company to obey . The Appellate Division sustained the decision but the Metropolitan Life is still adamant . It has taken the case to the Court of Appeals to prove the state law unconstitutional . Meanwhile the directors of the company have employed all the shabbiest antiunion tactics . The office workers are beset with anti-union leaflets and handbills praising the labor policies of Ford , Knudsen and Girdler ; a company union called the Employees ' Fidelity Association has been organized . Within the past three weeks they have fired twenty-seven leading members of Local 30 , and are threatening the jobs of several hundred more . It is remarkable that Metropolitan Life , on the eve of the SEC 's searching investigation into the industry , should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and federal labor laws . More is involved , however , than tactics . Metropolitan Life is owned , according to law , by its policy-holders . The company 's officials are only trustees , bound to act in the interest of the investors . Hundreds of thousands of these are themselves trade-union members or sympathetic to the labor movement . The violent , anti-union campaign of Metropolitan Life is a violation of the trust by which it exists . News Notes of a Week Germany 's pressure upon the Jews continues . New regulations virtually confiscate 20 percent of the wealth of individual Jews ; personal property is being handed over in " pawnshops " where contemptuous Nazis set their own valuations . Proposals for new homes for the refugees continue amid growing opposition to giving them a chance in any well populated area in the temperate zone . Tanganyika , British Guiana and Alaska were all discussed . . . . There were more armed conflicts along the northern and southern borders of Ruthenia , where Poland , Hungary , Czechoslovakia and Germany are all said to have forces @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will visit Mussolini in January . . . Lieutenant General Eiki Tojo , Japanese Vice-Minister of War , predicted that his country will soon engage in a full-dress struggle with Soviet Russia . Washington dispatches said the State Department will again try in the next session of Congress to obtain modification of the neutrality law so that the President can embargo an aggressor nation while exempting its victim .... The Joint Preparatory Committee on Philippine Affairs recommended a gradual severance of economic ties over the next twenty-two years to lessen the financial difficulties of freedom . Business men in Washington gave testimony for and against profit-sharing , the " incentive tax " and an annual rather than a daily or weekly wage .... A conference of several thousand lawyers demanded the lifting of the Spanish embargo .                     