@@468961

IT IS the boast of England that the idea of being a gentleman is peculiar to her people , and I think there is solid substance in the boast . As an ideal , it has at least the supreme merit of simplicity . The gentleman is , rather than does ; he maintains towards life an attitude of indifferent receptivity . He is interested in nothing in a professional way . He is allowed to cultivate hobbies , even eccentricities , but he must not practice a vocation . He must not concern himself with the sordid business of earning his living ; and he must be able to show that , at least back to his grandfather , none of his near relations has ever been engaged in trade . It is desirable that he should have attended one of a limited number of schools , preferably Eton or Harrow ; and it is practically essential that he should have been to Oxford or Cambridge . He must know how to ride and shoot and cast a fly . He should have relatives in the army @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ diplomatic service . It is vital that he should belong to a club , urgent that he be a member of the Conservative Party , and desirable that his ideas should coincide with those of the Morning Post . An ability to endure the Riviera in the winter , and to make the round of English country houses from August to November is a valuable , though not an integral , part of his equipment . These may be termed the foundations upon which the ultimate superstructure is raised . But there are certain emotional and intellectual penumbrae which should not go unemphasized . His favorite authors should be Surtees and Kipling . He should deprecate the moral elasticity of modern fiction . He should feel the fine sanity of Gilbert and Sullivan while he is alien to any profound concern about Beethoven or Mozart . He should know how to arrive late at the opera , and his feeling about the theater should be that a man wants to be amused there . A visit to Paris should leave him with a sense of pleasant proximity to sin , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ German . He should play most games in some fashion and feel that their cultivation is the secret of national greatness ; but he should play none so well that he is thereby distinguished from his fellows and he should be convinced that professionalism ruins the true spirit of sport . Under no circumstances can he be a teetotaler except upon medical grounds . Certain other qualities are important . He should know nothing of political economy and less about how foreign countries are governed . He should equate bolshevism with original sin . While he should never be a freethinker , he should not be enthusiastic about religion ; to be so is to run the risk of obtrusiveness . He should be properly conscious of the merits of Empire and feel that only the strong hand can maintain our prestige in the East . When he dines out he must he able either not to talk at all or to confine his conversation to that plane which indicates a full knowledge of the right gossip without being an index to a dangerous profundity in any special theme . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he marries an American he must take care to ally himself only with those properly endowed families who are received into the best London houses . He may be good at gardening . He may become a director of a company , provided he is not too well informed about its business . He must find speech difficult , and eloquence impossible . He must feel intensely the moral beauty of good form ; and he must recognize that to wear , for instance , a black tie with a tail coat in the evening is proof ( unless one is a head waiter ) of a debased origin which can not be outgrown . If , finally , he travels he must return without having suffered the deformation of a broader mind . There are great qualities in the English gentleman which must not be overlooked . He believes with ardor in playing the game with those of his own status . He has the habit of graceful command . Save to Indians , Socialists , trade union organizers and poachers , he is almost uniformly tolerant . He is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , chivalrous and deferential . He rarely parades his vices and he has a horror of ostentatious virtue . If he forgets to pay his tailor , he is always punctual with gambling debts . He profoundly respects the Royal Family ( of whose failings he breathes no word in public ) , and bishops , and those Ministers of the Crown who belong to his own party . He rarely pushes a claim too far and he is too intellectually humble to take long-term views . If he grumbles much , at least he can laugh at himself : and no one is so apt to extricate himself skilfully from a dangerous situation . He enjoys the exercise of power ; and since he rarely knows how to make money , it is still more rare for him to be corrupted by it . Having , in general , received a classical education , he has , like Shakespeare , as a rule , small Latin and less Greek . He is the type by whom , with the aid of the lawyer , England has been governed until the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that his supremacy has been seriously threatened . For the greatest event in English history was the fact that we have had no revolution in the modern time . Our social structure has remained largely unchanged since at least the middle of the eighteenth century ; and a people with a genius for deference has preserved almost entirely the allotted privileges of leisure and of station . Your average Englishman still admires the class which does not have to earn its living ; he feels safe and respectable in its hands . He may have doubted Lord Rosebery when he published a book ; but he admitted his title to the Premiership when he won the Derby . Between a self-made Welshman like Mr. Lloyd George and a squire whose mind , like that of Mr. Henry Chaplin , is unstained by thought , the Englishman has seldom hesitated to choose the latter type . The workingman rarely respects his master ; it is rare for him not to respect the peer who lives by owning . The employer may like the individual worker but , in the mass , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ apart , therefore , all his natural aspirations tempt him to look upwards to the class which represents past tradition and the glamour of high estate . Since the THE DANGER OF BEING A GENTLEMAN 369 gentleman has always realized how much his power depends on the prosperity of business , the alliance between them has been mutual ; and intermarriage with the more eminent of the business community has always persuaded the latter that the preservation of the gentleman is his own best safeguard . And the gentleman 's tenacious hold of power has given him something like an instinctive knowledge of when compromise and concession are desirable . However much he may have opposed the wants of other classes , he has never so far challenged them as to threaten his own security . His genius for compromise and his capacity for absorption have given him control for two hundred years of English destiny . II The condition upon which he maintained his supremacy was simple enough . For a century after the Industrial Revolution , England 's commercial leadership was unchallenged . The state was largely a negative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ international problems to solve . The prosperity of the upper and middle classes was solid and ample and , save for the brief moment of the Chartist Movement , the rights of private property were never in serious question . England was in a position to afford government by gentlemen . No one had , in politics at least , to take long views ; and the main questions in issue did not seem to require any complicated or technical expertise . Just enough national education to produce the foreman who could read and write ; just a high enough level of national health to prevent the recurrence of cholera and typhus ; a well-advertised charity to meet the wants of the really deserving unemployed ? upon these foundations Englishmen might well feel that their lines were fallen in pleasantplaces . Political economists proved to demonstration that the more exuberant hopes of the working class were impossible of fulfilment ; and the capitalist had the satisfaction of knowing that his abstinence made him the effective author of the prosperity which was the wonder of the world . In that epoch , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one in England seriously challenged his right to leadership ; and English domination of foreign markets made his habits the example upon which the leisured class of every other state sought to model itself . All the best people used English materials ; and their solidity and workmanship gave them an unquestioned title to preeminence . The gentleman 's conquests were unending . He made it the right thing to go to the Riviera , to Switzerland , to Egypt . His picture galleries formed the basis of future American triumphs . He made the world mad on golf and tennis ; he invented the week-end ; he showed how to polish the rough edges of business enterprise by casting the kindly eye of patronage upon the more expensive fine arts . To the theory that a little learning is a dangerous thing , he invented the reply ( which England , at least , accepted ) that much learning is ungainly , and in any case drives men mad . He made Wimbledon and St. Andrew 's into international cathedrals ; while fashionable women of all countries went to St. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mecca . Until , at any rate , the outbreak of the War , the gentleman had persuaded the world to believe that he was the final term of human evolution . Men , of course , there always have been who doubted the hypothesis ; but they have been too few in number to affect the argument . One has only to read the letters of Ambassador Page to see bow a distinguished American could fall , even in middle age , beneath the gentleman 's spell . One had only to meet Lord Balfour to appreciate the exquisite artistry of the type . One might resent Lord Curzon 's superb insolence ; at least it was impossible to deny that so imperial a manner was obviously born to rule . And those who doubted were , after all , for the most part unsuccessful men ? exiled scholars like Marx , dyspeptic prophets like Carlyle , thin-lipped and poverty-stricken agitators like Philip Snowden , poetic craftsmen like William Morris . Who listened in America to Debs or Henry Demarest Lloyd while the gilded age was coming to maturity ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the War Englishmen , at least , questioned the title of the gentleman to lead them . There were passing waves of unrest ; but , in general , the sense of security was sufficiently widespread for so careful an observer as President Lowell to report that the British Labor Party was destined to remain a mere wing of Liberalism . The gentlemen of England had made her what she was ; not merely Waterloo was won upon the playing fields of Eton . The traditions they embodied saved England from the materialism of America . They prevented her from seeming , like the new industrial Germany , a nation of nouveaux riches . Her tolerance permitted wide dissidence of opinion . Her social experiments showed the amazing adaptability of her ideas . The War proved not only that her gentlemen knew how to die ; the solidity of her credit in crisis showed that she had absorbed the best lessons of bourgeois economy . Matthew Arnold 's plea that England needed to temper her gentlemanly tradition by a dose of social equality seemed largely falsified , at least to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Yet it may be predicted with some certainty that the historian of England in the last century will be largely occupied in explaining the dangers of being a gentleman . For no small part of the present difficulties of England are the outcome of his leadership . He has been the model to imitate , the example to follow . His habits , his tastes , his way of life have determined the conduct of all save a small handful of insurgent Englishmen . Broadly speaking , his philosophy has been a refusal to think in terms of principle . Do not be forehanded . Meet the day 's problems as they arise . Make your ideal of life one in which there is neither excessive effort of intelligence nor undue ardor of emotion . Follow your own bent and assume that the world will adjust itself to your requirements . Be suspicious of the thinker and skeptical of the man who dwells upon the heights . Be so certain of yourself that your code of behavior is imposed as a universal . Never doubt your superiority over other people . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as to convince the foreigner that you may be pained by failure to attain it . Take life as a game in which excessive seriousness is fatal to the spirit of play . Never be driven by a purpose so as to be its slave ; thereby , like Robert Owen and Bentham , Clarkson and Plimsoll , you may become a bore to other people . Remember that manners and tradition give to life that dignified emollience without which it loses half its savor . Be sure that in every sort of conflict the rules ( which you must take care to make ) are more important than the victory . Never allow the unpleasant to obtrude . Do not discuss inconvenient truths if there is danger that they may give offense . The roots of this attitude are hisTHE DANGER OF BEING A GENTLEMAN 371 torically clear . They result from the mingling of the aristocratic ideal of chivalry with the Puritan notions of the successful middle class . In it all , the predominance of the aristocracy is obvious , fur the main objective of the successful middle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . And let it he said that the attitude , as it has worked , has always possessed a certain mature graciousness . It has imposed itself without conveying an undue sense of domination . It has won allegiance from its inferiors without excessive strain . It has been kindly , it has had a sense of obligation , there has been about it a certain shrewd worldly wisdom which it is impossible not to admire . With something like the grand manner , the English gentleman keeps his word . He can administer with less bureaucratic irritation than any other type I have known . He can arbitrate commercial or international differences with the same fine equity that he umpires a cricket match . Once he has won , it is difficult for him ( as the General Strike and the War made clear ) to bear a grudge . He does not like to see the weak and the helpless go unnecessarily to the wall . But the problem is not the virtues of the type so much as its adequacy for its function ; and it is here @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no field of activity in the modern world in which the amateur , however benevolent , can retain his function as leader without risking the survival of those who depend upon him . The gentleman 's characteristics are a public danger in all matters where quantitative knowledge , unremitting effort , vivid imagination , organized planning are concerned . How can the English gentleman govern India when he starts from the assumption that the Indian is permanently his inferior ? How can he measure the strength of Russia in 1914 when Sir George Buchanan , his Ambassador there , does not even think it necessary to learn the language of the people to which he is accredited ? How can he prevent the rise of the Labor Party when England is divided , as Disraeli said , into those two nations of rich and poor neither of which has effective acquaintance with the other 's life ? How can his aristocracy breed great soldiers when a large part of the officer 's life in a crack regiment is passed not in professional study , but in the fulfilment of traditional social @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Here , as I think , its implications can best be shown by tracing its results in three entirely disparate realms . Of these , perhaps industry is the most important , as also the most obvious . It is significant that foreign challenge to English industrial supremacy became effective at the moment when the alliance between the aristocracy and the middle class became an essential feature of English life . The main defects of British enterprise have been exactly those most characteristic of the gentleman . A refusal to consider adequately the wants of the customer ; he must buy not the thing he desires but the thing you have to sell . An inadequate attention to technological development ; the scientist in industry ought not to have the weight of the practical man . A disbelief in the necessity of large-scale production in the modern world ; just as the gentleman would rather lose his income than his uniqueness . A passionate devotion to excessive secrecy both in finance and method of production ; so the gentleman must live his own life in his own way without counsel or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appointment ; so the gentleman has always been loyal to his relatives without undue regard for their fitness for the posts to which he has called them . This enables you , further , to discount ability and to rely upon a mystic entity called " character , " which means , in a gentleman 's mouth , the qualities he traditionally possesses himself . A refusal to be absorbed by one 's business activities ; so Saturday afternoon becomes gradually a holiday which extends from Friday until Monday , with golf on weekdays , a fortnight at Christmas in Nice , and a conspicuous expenditure which satisfies the craving for social prestige ; so the business man comes to think that by adopting the mores of the gentleman he may be regarded as free from the taint of trade . If his business becomes a limited company lie may invite a couple of needy aristocrats on to the Board of Directors and thus find a side door into society . As he grows more wealthy he may send his son to a public school , there , in all probability @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gentleman possesses by inheritance . Or , in the second place , we may examine the history of the two traditional political parties in England . From the nineties of last century they were increasingly unable either to devise a program which should attract the working classes to their ranks , or to select from among proletarian leaders men who should represent them either in the House of Commons or the Cabinet . From the enfranchisement of the urban worker in 1867 until the close of the War , Liberals and Tories between them had never had a score of working class supporters in the House ; to-day neither has one . Mr. John Burns is the only workingman who has ever sat in a Cabinet not distinctively Labor in complexion . The reason of this inelasticity is simply absence of imagination ; for many of the older leaders of the Labor party to-day began as members of the traditional parties , and leftthem through the experience that there was no effective place in their counsels for men of a working-class origin and outlook . The gentleman , in fact , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he is willing to share the entrance to its inner citadel only with his friends . Neither Liberal nor Tory has known how satisfactorily to define the place of trade-unionism in the state . They have not , as Lord Haldane sorrowfully confessed , appreciated the real importance of a system of national education . They have never really sought to democratize either the army or the navy ; the officer class in each has been carefully preserved for those who were fortunate in the choice of their parents . Right down to the close of the War , the diplomatic service was preserved also as what John Bright called the " outdoor relief department " of the British aristocracy . So , too , the legal and episcopal Benches have been rigidly confined to members of the upper middle class and the aristocracy . Even a Labor government finds it difficult to appoint working men and women to the unpaid magistracy . The political failure of the gentleman , in a word , is that he had not the imagination to perceive that the inevitable accompaniment of political democracy would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , he did not believe in it ; and even the weak Labor government of 1924 seemed to him something like a convulsion of nature . Just as he could never bring himself to believe that brown men or yellow men might resent white control , so he could not convince himself that poverty might give rise to claims . The rich and the well-horn had always governed and they were strongly allied . To him it was intolerable pretension that people like Ramsay MacDonald or Arthur Henderson should claim an equal share in the disposition of the state . Like Mr. Churchill , they could THE DANGER OF BEING A GENTLEMAN 373 not believe in Labor 's fitness to govern . They were the victors in the battle of life ; and it was part of the rules of the game that to the victors should belong the spoils . The result on English politics is decisive . The gentleman 's lack of imagination , the narrowness of his social loyalties , has ranged against him one of the fundamental estates of the realm . Even to-day he does not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by wicked agitators whose ideas are probably inspired by Russia . He , the leisured and secure , thinks that the workingman has been pampered into disobedience against his masters by reckless social legislation . He believes that there is too much education abroad , and that the natural loyalty of his inferiors has been unsettled by training above their station . He is incapable of that imaginative realism which admits that this is a new world to which he must adjust himself and his institutions , that every privilege he formerly took as of right he can now attain only by offering proof that it is directly relevant to social welfare . He has no sense that the urge of the common people to expansion is one with which he must come to terms . His heart is in the old world ; and because he is utterly unconversant with life as it exists for the vast majority , he can not adjust himself to the new . The gentleman in the presence of modern democracy is as bewildered as Pilate before the spectacle of Christianity . Another consequence of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people , said Ba , gehot , the English have a genius for deference ; by which , I take it , he meant that they know their betters when they see them . One of the results , certainly , of governance by gentlemen has been a curious humility in the average Englishman which has the most complex ramifications . R. affects even the Labor Party , many of whose members assume that the battle of social justice has been won because they dine at the great houses . For them the appearance of a man like Sir Oswald Mosley in the ranks of Labor has a significance of distinction which far outweighs the socialism of Mr. Shaw or Mr. Wells . They assume that a gentleman who throws in his lot with them is entitled to the reward of office . They are anxious themselves to show that they can act and think as gentlemen do . They maintain all the panoply of a court ; they appoint only aristocrats to the posts which aristocrats traditionally occupy . A people , in brief , which has been ruled by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one which has been accustomed to the self-exercise of power . That is why there is so much less servility in France and America than in England . That is why the eminent English man of letters is proud to be selected as poet laureate and to accept social recognition from the great families . That is why the Times will print a letter , however absurd , from a duke in large type , and one , however important , from the secretary of the Trade Union Congress , in small . That is why , also , the births , marriages , and deaths of even the remotest members of the Royal Family east light and shadow upon every home in England , why the coming of age of a great gentleman like the Duke of Norfolk , of whose character and intelligence nothing is known , is almost a national event , and the fit subject of leading articles in the press . Foreign observers , Dibelius , for example , have severely criticized this English snobbery and argued that it shows how complete is the lack in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ take too superficial a view . English snobbery is a collective inferiority complex . It is the result of two hundred years and more of instruction in the thesis that only the gentleman is fit to govern . The distance between the workers and their governors in wealth and refinement and access to distinction has been so vast as to seem to the majority an unbridgeable gulf . And most of the things in which , accordingly , they have sought refuge ? their grim Nonconformity , their coarse pleasures , their narrow and confined homes ? have done little to develop elasticity of mind or that graceful skepticism which enables man to question where he does not understand . They have been limited in outlook because they have been limited in opportunity . Like most prisoners , they have grown accustomed to their chains ; when they are struck off they are bewildered and act as though they were still hound . The gentleman , in fact , has become a public danger to England because he is now merely a costly , if decorative , appendage to a civilization @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ perform . He has never encouraged himself to use his imagination ; and for our problems imaginative leadership is above all essential . He has never disciplined his intellect to organized analysis ; and it is only from that scientific approach that authority can be maintained . His distractions have been so many , his luxuries so great , that he has become concerned rather to enjoy life than to master it . He has been too individualist to welcome organization and too self-confident to welcome ideas . Having been born to power , he does not know how to share it ; having inherited unquestioned leadership , he does not know how to act so as to justify its retention . He has been so long unchallenged in his preeminence that rivalry tends , by its surprise , to embitter him . He has had so much certitude of temper that he is paralyzed by the newuncertainties . He has been so much accustomed to command that he feels it unnatural to be called upon to obey . His familiar landmarks are disappearing , and he thinks and acts like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his superiority has gone because the ideal of life he embodied no longer commands universal respect even among those of whom he was once the spoiled favorite . He has lost the basis of his self-esteem because he has no longer either a purpose to maintain or that conviction of its necessity which might give it life . Yet no one , I believe , will see the passing of the gentleman without a brief annotation of regret . In the period of his apogee , he was a better ruler than any of his possible rivals . I , at least , would rather have been governed by Lord Shaftesbury than Mr. Cobden , by the gentlemen of England than by the Gradgrinds and Bounderbys of Coketown . There was something picturesque about his thickheadedness , something monumental about his complacency . Compare him with the elegant trifler who was the gentleman of the ancien regime , or the rigid disciplinarian whom the German aristocracy provided , and he shines in the comparison . He was often capable of the generous gesture , he was frequently tolerant , there could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to admire . He threw up odd men of genius like Byron and Henry Cavendish , statesmen of public spirit like Lord John Russell and Harlington ; he would found great public galleries and establish the British Museum . He was very costly , and , in the mass , depressing and dull . Yet , through it all , he always had the saving grace of a sense of humor . Nor is it certain that we shall replace him by a more admirable type . The new Renaissance bravo like Mussolini , the new Jesuit writ large like Stalin , those new plutocrats of whom Mr. Barron 's Diary has been giving us so striking , because so innocent , a picture ; are we certain that these represent a change for the better ? The leader of the future seems not unlikely to be the remorseless one-idea 'd man , who governs us by hewing his way to his goal . He has no time for the open mind . He takes clemency for weakness and difference of opinion for crime . He has a horror of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ kind of chain . Where we would be peaceful , he calls us to the affirmation of power . For the music of idle dreams he offers us the relentless hum of giant machines . The majesty of the forest is , for him , the volume of a timber supply , the rush of waters in the river , the source of electric power . The gentleman scourged us with whips . We must beware lest our new masters drive us to our toil with scorpions . 