@@493774

Fifty-eight Lawyers Report AS A STUDENT of constitutional law I welcome the efforts of lawyers to enlighten me . I have recently received three free and unsolicited favors . Mr. Thomas N. McCarter , president of the Edison Electric Institute , has sent me an opinion of Mr. James M. Beck and Mr. Newton D. Baker to the effect that parts of the program of the Tennessee Valley Authority arc unconstitutional . Mr. Wendell L. Willkie , president of the Commonwealth and Southern Corporation , has sent me an opinion of Winthrop , Stimson , Putnam and Roberts that some of the proposals that ultimately fructified in the Utility Holding Company Act went beyond congressional power over commerce . Mr. Raoul E. Desvernine , chairman , National Lawyers ' Committee of the American Security League , has sent me an opinion on the unconstitutionality of the National Labor Relations Act in which fifty-eight lawyers were assumed to have concurred . I say " assumed , " because Mr. Desvernine does not say more than that the opinion was submitted to the fifty-eight for approval or criticism , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the report is now issued in its present form . " This does not specify complete concurrence , but , so far as I know , none of the fifty-eight has entered a public disclaimer . From time to time , also , I receive briefs in support of the government 's position in pending cases and briefs by opposing counsel . These briefs are not supposed to express the candid , independent and impartial views of their authors . They are designed to persuade a court . They make no other pretension . In this they differ from the other documents referred to . Yet I find that the writings that profess to be " opinions " or " reports " are just as much briefs as those that call themselves such . 1 see no difference in temper between the " opinions " rendered in response to the request of a client and the " report " prepared out of an uncompensated desire to serve the public weal . The briefs prepared for submission to a court are better briefs . They do not have so many evident @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to a court does Well to avoid such frailties . The canons may differ for a brief prepared for the consumption of the legislature or the electorate . I would not say that the lawyers who prepared the " opinions " and the Itreport " are poorer lawyers than those who pre-Pared the briefs called briefs . Their apparent inferiority may be explained by the fact that they Were lawyers acting not as lawyers , but as publicists or public-relations counsel . Some have questioned the propriety of the action of the National Lawyers ' Committee of the American Liberty League . It has been charged that some of them were influenced by their professional affiliations with clients whose interests are affected adversely by recent legislation . How can one tell ? It may be doubted whether even those thus condemned as indirect client-servers could tell themselves what animated them or what determined the particular positions they took . Certainly fifty-eight briefless barristers who never had a client might readily be found to expound the same views . They are views widely held by lawyers . It might have been the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rather than to leave exposure to others . It might have been the part of wisdom . But could they or anyone else tell just how much their affiliations influenced them ? I do not know those affiliations , but it must be that not a few of the fifty-eight are members of firms that do client caretaking for concerns that are large employers of labor and that do not relish the National Labor Relations Act . It must be that the views expressed by the National Lawyers ' Committee arc pleasing to those concerns . It must be that these views will not scare clients away . They may even attract clients . Lawyers can not advertise , but if they become widely known , it may help a lot . Is it conceivable that lawyers for large employers could he in the mood to weigh carefully any conflicting constitutional considerations ? Is it conceivable that in fairness to their clients they could join in a report that went against the known desires of those clients ? Is there not some predetermination as to conclusions when lawyers so situated are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ divides employers and employees into two opposing camps ? Such questions have been asked and they have provoked sensitiveness On the part of sonic of the National Lawyers ' Committee . The American Liberty League has distributed a copy of a speech by Mr. James M. Beck in which he complains of what he calls " the Attempt by New Deal Spokesmen to Curtail Freedom of Speech as Exercised by the National Lawyers ' Committee of the American Liberty League . " With reference to the report on the Labor Relations Act , Mr. Beck says : When this report was published , it was greeted with a storm of criticism by responsible members of the administration . Indeed an attempt was made to destroy its effect by anticipation , by suggesting that many of the lawyers who composed the Committee were attorneys for industrial corporations . This is probably the fact , but the innuendo that because a lawyer represents a corporation he could not express an honest opinion upon the validity of a statute is a gross insult to the entire legal profession . This does not meet the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the opinions expressed by the National Lawyers ' Committee are " honest " in the sense that the members sincerely hold those views . I do have doubts whether those opinions are what from an intellectual and emotional standpoint 1 would call " independent and independently arrived at . " I welcome the freedom of speech that the National Lawyers ' Committee has exercised . I doubt whether behind it there was such freedom of thought as to entitle the conclusion to any weight because of the names subscribed to it . To point the issue more directly , suppose for example that the National Lawyers ' Committee ? verc to draft a report on the Holding Company Act in tone and temper like that on the Labor Relations Act . One can hardly doubt what the conclusion of the Committee would be . Would Mr. George Roberts , who is a member of the National Lawyers ' Committee , be free to point out that the proposed report was just a brief and failed to give due weight to the considerations on . the government 's side of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had given a professional opinion to the Commonwealth and Southern Corporation that the proposals for such legislation were unconstitutional ? Or take the case of Mr. John W. Davis , who is also a member of the National Lawyers ' Committee and has , so far as I know , indicated no disclaimer of the report already published . One could hardly think him fully free to give full weight to considerations in favor of the constitutionality of the Holding Company Act and to express them forcibly as a citizen when as a lawyer on behalf of a newly discovered client he is being paid by another client to do his best to convince the courts that the balance is all the other way . This would not be fair to his clients , to whom he owes a professional duty . So it might not be fair to the public for him to speak as a citizen on a professed platform of impartiality when he is not free to be impartial . No one with a mind in pawn to a client on a specific issue could expect his published @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ however sincerely believed . On the holding-company issue Mr. Davis has a mind in pawn to a client . His duty to that client is not to be fair but to be effective , to present strongly the strength of his side of the case and to minimize the strength of the other side . Even were he able to turn the levers of his mind abruptly to an enterprise of objectivity , he is not free as a citizen to demonstrate to the public the excesses of his contentions as a lawyer . So Mr. Davis might anticipate that any discerning person would discount any professions of intellectual independence made on his behalf by the American Liberty League . One knows from his high and supremely competent service as Solicitor General of the United States that he could write a i forceful brief against many of the contentions in the report that he is now put in the position of independently supporting , or against many of the contentions that might be made in an adverse report on the Holding Company Act . One with less than his high competence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his high competence could write a measured analysis of the issues , could place the particular statute in its relation to those issues , and mark out the field within which the Supreme Court may make its choice . The Court is free to choose for or against the constitutionality of the Labor Relations Act and for or against the Holding Company Act . Categories on one side can be capped by categories on the other . The Schechter case can be expanded or it can be confined to its facts , Not yet arc these statutes either constitutional or unconstitutional . Those who say that they are one or the other are inevitably being influenced by their hopes and desires . To insist that the report of the Lawyers ' Committee was an advocate 's brief is not of necessity to say that it should not have been issued . Many law-review articles have much of the quality of a brief . Inevitably an author somewhere is guided by preferences . The sources of such preferences may vary greatly . There may be a general preference in favor of national @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a general preference for customers as against stockholders and bondholders , a general preference for experimentation , a general preference against government by nine judges as contrasted with government by legislatures and executives . A law-review article that seeks to lend support to the constitutionality of contemporary legislative novelties would be in a measure a brief dictated or influenced by some general social or economic views . If one lawyer may do this in an article , why may not fifty-eight do it in a report ? This invites further consideration . As a preliminary point , it may be observed that the report in question was so predominantly a brief both in substance and form that no good law review would be likely to think it acceptable as an article . No good law review would think of seeking the concurrence of fifty-eight authors . Whatever might be true of fifty-eight lawyers , if selected wholly at random , it is not to be credited that fifty-eight teachers of constitutional law selected at random would unanimously concur in the report of the Lawyers ' Committee or unanimously concur in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whether these fifty-eight lawyers were selected at intellectual random , even though there was professed care to get geographical and political distribution . It is hard to believe that the effort was to get representation of widely differing views and interests . It is hard to believe that the fifty-eight were not from the beginning more likely to agree than a certain nine will be . It is hard to believe that fifty-eight were gathered in order to get fuller and more careful canvass of the intricate problems of constitutionality involved . It is hard to believe anything except that fifty-eight were gathered in the hope of conveying by force of numbers an impression that could not be made by separate law-review articles written by the few who actually drafted the report for the fifty-eight . Upon whom was this impression sought to he made ? And why ? Perhaps the progenitors of the plan could not tell us even if they would . Perhaps they were inspired by a kind of boyish enthusiasm that did not stop to give mature thought to what they were about . Certainly there are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ free legal advice to those affected by contemporary legislation hardly-comports with some of the canons of their profession . For this it seems too drastic to recommend disbarment or even the lighter penalty of expulsion from the American Bar Association . It is enough to recommend laughter . But their conduct as a whole has a more serious side . This serious side is discussed in an editorial in The United States Law Review for October , in which the following point is made : The constitutionality of legislation is the function and responsibility of the courts , and pronouncements such as those accredited to the fifty-eight lawyers are of dubious desirability , to say the least . Whether the purpose of such emanations is to influence the federal courts when such legislation shall be presented for consideration , or whether it is to arouse public sentiment so that confidence in the courts will be impaired should the legislation be held constitutional , is not clear . But neither purpose has anything to commend it . Whether the design of the Liberty League was to get an opinion that would encourage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Act , no one can very well say . Such , however , is in considerable measure likely to be the result of the opinion backed by fifty-eight names . The conjoint affirmation will promote the popping up of lawsuits before various district courts throughout the country . Every lawyer for an employer has a good part of his brief written for him in advance . Some employers may get more direct aid from some of the fifty-eight if any are so humble as to come within the promise of Mr. Beck that " if and when any American citizen , however humble , is without means to defend his constitutional rights in a court of justice , one or more of these lawyers will , without compensation from any source , defend the rights of the individual , and in this way carry out , in the most effective way , their oath to support , maintain and defend the Constitution . " This sounds fair and noble , and one thinks of James Otis . Yet , is anyone really fooled ? The enterprise is too na ? ve @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ argument ad hominem . He asks : " Would it not have been wiser and more dignified for the ' New Deal ' spokesmen to show in what respect the Committee 's conclusion was unsound ? " He adds rightly that " abuse is never argument . " He again says : " Would it not have been better for Secretary Ickes , himself a lawyer , to explain in what respect the Committee 's conclusions are incorrect ? " This will doubtless be donein due time and in due form and place by government counsel , who happily at the moment are men of competence . The fact that opponents of legislation choose to assert its unconstitutionality in a broadside is not a reason why government officials or others should emulate them . The argument ad hominem is not a good argument on the substantive issue . It was not directed to that issue . It was directed against the notion that any weight should be attached to the Lawyers ' Committee report because of the legal ability of the names behind it . The plan of the Liberty League @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the names behind it . Against such an effort the argument ad hominem is appropriate . It happily is not " a gross insult to the entire legal profession . " If it is an insult to fifty-eight of that profession , it may not he wholly undeserved . It is they and not their critics who may have done something to cast discredit upon the profession to which they belong . 