@@487821

WHILE Spaniards die by thousands , republican Spain lives more fully than ever . Social upheaval and civil war induce quick changes . Remarkable progress has been made in the last three months . The army is more efficient and the government more powerful . The people 's faith in victory is firmer and their discipline greater . The Socialists are stronger , the Communists relatively weaker , and the Anarchists have less chance of being admitted into the Cabinet . Ten days ago I flew over the Pyrenees , now once more powdered with snow , to Valencia and rushed directly from the aerodrome to the Cortes session . Prime Minister Juan Negrin was speaking . " We are going to save the world , " he said . " We shall awake from the lethargy in which we have lived for two centuries . I have faith in Spain . I believe in our victory . " This is an optimism that springs from achievement . Then Senor Portela Valladares rose . He was Prime Minister on February 16 , 1936 , when the Popular Front @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Romanones , the famous friend of Alfonso XIII , recently told a foreign ambassador , the feudal barons and army chiefs began to plot the rebellion . Portela revealed in his Cortes address that the reactionaries had tried to dissuade him from handing over the government to what he called the " legally elected " Popular Front . " But the people had expressed their choice , and only the people are right . " Soon after the insurrection , however , Portela wrote a letter to General Franco offering homage and support . Now he wished " to affirm my adhesion and sympathy for the government . I am confident of the future . Without the republican government , there can be no Spain . " Recantation notwithstanding , many people resented his presence in the Cortes , and when Guerra del Rio , a deputy of the corrupt Lerroux party , took the floor , the Communists marched out in a body . Subsequently anonymous leaflets were circulated in Valencia denouncing these and other conservative parliamentarians who dared to reappear in the country they had once betrayed . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of its supporters , invited this opposition at home for the sake of the impression which the converts ' confessions and professions would be sure to make in rebel ranks and abroad . The decision to move the national capital from Valencia to Barcelona is another and much finer proof of the strength and resolution of the Negrin Cabinet . The enemy can easily interpret this move as a " flight " to a point nearer the frontier , and for this reason not all friends are convinced of its wisdom . But where practical necessity dictates , the government pays no heed to the possibility of a first unfavorable reaction . Catalonia , the October 30 , 1937 jester says , is the only state which has strictly adhered to the policy of non-intervention . This is not of course literally true , yet there is enough in the statement to make it a good joke . Without Catalonia and without the fullest exploitation of Barcelona 's industrial potentialities the war can not be won . With Catalonian industries fully utilized , republican Spain could in nine months produce all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The transfer is not motivated by fear of a military defeat . Dr. Negrin spoke to me about its desirability in Madrid last July during the battle of Brunete . He said that if the offensive was successful , Madrid would be safe from capture and he could then shift the government to Barcelona despite its distance from the besieged former capital . The removal will also enable the Spanish republic to take full advantage of its improved relations with France and other nations . Some day the Western democracies ' deeply dormant instinct of self-preservation will be sufficiently awakened to induce them to help themselves by helping the Loyalists . Meanwhile the republic relies on its own growing force and trusts in its ability to tap known but still untouched resources . The army fought better at Belchite on the Aragon front than at Brunete in the Sierra line . Its organization and its transport system are better , though it is short of good officers , deficient in artillery , and seriously outnumbered in the air . Despite Nyon , the Mediterranean is not yet quite safe , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Black Sea . But Madrid will hold out . The southern front , where the war may ultimately be won , is temporarily being neglected in order to stiffen further the Aragon line . Most of the Italians have been transferred from the north to the Saragossa region , but they will find the government prepared . Mussolini 's heroes enter the peninsula in regular shipments . Nevertheless , the government is convinced that it can resist endlessly in the heart of Spain and perhaps , if weather contributes , retain part of the Asturias . Ministers say the war will last from one to two years more . The population suffers stoically ; the nearer the front , the greater the enthusiasm . And even where there is no ecstasy there is conviction of an ultimate triumph . Food scarcity has become a serious problem . The authorities are importing supplies and have now allocated huge sums for still larger purchases in foreign countries . Rationing is not yet as general as the privations which make it necessary . On the whole , an astounding amount of economic laissez @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ testify to the vigor of democracy and its disadvantages in war time . The hardiness of republican optimism must seem miraculous to those who have not been in intimate contact with the violent anti-fascism , the strong distaste for the ugly past , which dominates Loyalist Spain . After the rout of the Italians at Guadalajara the morale in Franco territory dropped sharply . We know this from revealing articles in fascist newspapers . But the republic has lost Toledo , Malaga , Bilbao , and Santander , and still its spirit is buoyant , its nerves steady , its faith high . An army can be defeated , a people never . The rebels have an army471 but no masses . The masses will forge their own weapons . This conviction is the strength of the Negrin government . Before the Cortes assembled , rumor had it that Caballero would try to overthrow the Cabinet . But he did not even appear . He was too busy defending his weakened position in the U. G. T. ( General Union of Workers ) . On May 28 , shortly after Negrin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ G. T. voted twenty-four to fourteen to support the new Cabinet . Caballero , nevertheless , prevented the smaller executive committee from adopting the same policy , and when the individual trade unions insisted on announcing their adherence to the Negrin platform , Caballero proceeded to suspend them from the federation on the ridiculous ground that they had failed to pay their dues . In this manner he expelled first nine unions , including the brave Asturian miners ( just then engaged in a heroic struggle against Franco 's legions ) , then others in quick succession , until he himself was left  --  at the last count  --  with only nine unions inside the organization , while thirty-two had been thrown out . Only Caballero 's known inflexibility and unrivaled political myopia can explain this strange action in the midst of a war . It is the very opposite of democracy . Some of his best friends have deserted him , others are chafing , and he may soon be a general with a small staff but no soldiers . Nevertheless , such is the decency of this civilized country @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the majority of the U. G. T. , led by Gonzales Pefia , an Asturian miner , has offered to negotiate with the hopeless rump which retains the headquarters and the federation 's international connections but only a remnant of its membership . The Caballero myth is dissolving and with it the political menace implicit in his opposition . The NegrinPrieto bloc is in consequence enormously reinforced . Moreover , the Communists have yielded strategic ground . For many months a struggle has gone on for the political control of the republican army . The Communists wanted it and thought they were entitled to it . Almost half the soldiers , most of the political commissars , and many of the outstanding officers are Communists . On the issue of control they gave battle to Caballero and won . But Prieto , the new Minister of War , has withstood them stoutly , and the honors , for the moment at least , are his. , Last July he published a decree prohibiting party propaganda in the army . The Communists were irritated but bowed . They threatened active resistance , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ already approved , proscribing party propaganda by army officers among the civil population . The publication of this decree was accordingly postponed , but Prieto issued it on October 7 . He would not have been surprised if a political crisis had resulted , but , instead , the Communist Party publicly declared its readiness to obey . This accords with the new line of the Communists . The party has issued instructions against " sectarianism , " that is , against pressing party interests and party claims to the obvious detriment of other anti-fascist groups . It follows that the campaign for Socialist-Communist fusion , which has provoked the rising displeasure of Socialists , will no longer be pushed with the same vehemence . Some of the energy thus saved will be devoted to encouraging agrarian collectivization . The Communist policy of internal peace has already brought a partial truce in the war of editorials and polemics between Communists and Anarchists . A committee , consisting of two Anarchists ( the Anarchist Berbegal is chairman ) , two representatives from the already amalgamated Socialist-Communist youth , two bourgeois republicans , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to coordinate the activities of all anti-fascist youth organizations . Finally , the Communists want the C. N. T. , the Anarcho-Syndicalist trade-union federation , to be represented in the Negrin Cabinet . Caballero 's chief strength , paradoxically , lies in his pact with the Anarchists . The Communists wish to deprive him of this support . But the Socialists contend that if the Caballero who had the bulk of the U. G. T. behind him could do no damage even with the Anarchists ready to help him , there is no reason to pervert strategy to defeat him ; he has already been defeated by his own blunders . The main argument against Anarchist Cabinet members is that they can not control their followers . The The NATION Anarchist-Trotskyist putsch in Barcelona in May took place although there were then four Anarchists in the Cabinet ; Garcia Oliver , the Anarchist Minister of Justice , went to Barcelona to assist in suppressing the disturbance , and returned to complain that no one would listen to him . In a coalition each minister is expected to bring to the government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no such power . Moreover , the peasants of Aragon and Catalonia can not quickly forget the troubles the Anarchists brought on them , and the government would lose popularity if it now admitted the C. N. T. For this and other reasons the Cabinet feels that it can rule even from Barcelona without Anarchist participation . If Negrin feeds Barcelona and nationalizes its industries , he will have the city with him . The republic 's main preoccupation is not internal politics . It is the foreign situation . How slow these democracies are , how difficult to shake them into a realization of the dangers that beset them ! One merely asks that the British be pro-British and the French pro-French . If these countries lack the sense to let Loyalist Spain safeguard their interests , they will be forced to do the fighting themselves later on .                     