@@493655

A Note on Hopper MANY PEOPLE believe that Edward Hopper is n't an artist at all . His non-spectacular realism offends them and they are willing to read into his restraint an actual lack of emotion , an inability to look behind the architecture , sunlight , wind and sky that he sets before us . They will have an opportunity to voice their objection in witnessing his retrospective exposition at the Museum of Modern Art , New York , to recite Robert Henri 's old complaint against him . The exhibition proves , I think , that Hopper 's relation ? ship to his immediate contemporaries , Rockwell Kent , Coleman and Sloan , is of the most superficial order , and that by direct comparision with them it is possible to mis ? interpret his intentions , to underrate the quality of his realism and to attack him for not being a mystic . As long as there is an argument against Eakins and Homer , there will be a similar objection raised against Hopper , for he belongs to the tradition that they have established @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has proved for our generation at least that honesty need not be accompanied by dullness or inadequately expressed intentions . His sense of an American reality includes solid craftsmanship and the art of redesigning architectural masses into coherent form . If his America often seems bright and empty , very well , we must grant ' him the right to interpret what he sees , whether it is the lighthouse at Two Lights or the harsh interior of a hotel bedroom . He has his own distrust of mere technical brilliance , for he has said of his water colors , " They 're too much like Sargent 's , " knowing well that his sense of form and his love of sunlight for sunlight 's sake would rise to the surface of rapidly completed work . In this exhibition , which covers a period of twenty-five years , " Williamsburg Bridge , 1928 , " remains his master ? piece . Its architectural firmness , its warmth of color ( a strength which is also shown in " Freight Cars at Glou ? cester " ) are characteristic Hopper . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ canvas ; it will represent the American city for many years to come , the empty windows of its tenements looking outward in bleak sunlight . Following this comes his " Early Sunday Morning , " and then his " House by the Railroad , 1925 . " The latter canvas is , I think , the best historical comment ever made by an American painter : Here are the eighteen-eighties in the fretwork of the large white frame house and in the foreground is the railroad track . No further statement is necessary , for to say more would be mere repetition or literary digression . The new " Barber Shop " canvas repeats something of the same effects produced in " Tables for Ladies " of 1930 , and is therefore less inter ? esting than the fine landscape , " Camel 's Hump , " the most convincing example of Hopper 's very recent craftsmanship in the current exhibit . It is characteristic of Hopper to find little solace away from New York City and New England . On a visit to New Mexico in 1925 he was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ found " Locomotive , D. and R.G. " and he no longer felt that he was wasting time . This anecdote reveals , I think , the source of his great strength , . his . poetic insight into the nature of his own problems , and certainly , his limitations . FIORACE GREGORY .                     