@@491097

THERE is not in existence anything that could be called a classic history " of a business depression , in the sense of a narrative , authoritative , generally accepted and complete , of exactly what caused it , precisely how the first break came about , the sequence of events , each relation of cause and effect , and just how and why it ended . Probably there will never be such an account , for the causes entering into a depression , like those bringing about the boom which is its antithesis , are as unsusceptible to detachment as the elements in a chemical solution , and one of the elements in a depression , as in a boom , is mass mood , a thing so volatile in nature , so eccentric in its manifestations , as to defy analysis as much as it defies control . But the depression from which we seem to be emerging has some characteristics which make the possibility of exact narrative exceptional . The events are recent , and many- of them took place in ways which leave official @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against the attacks of panic was more largely in the hands of one man  --  and he a President ? than ever before ; past panics were handled mainly by the financial community in New York , with Washington in the role of giving help . Throughout this depression , leadership of the country was almost wholly in the hands of President Hoover . Although it is early yet , either to analyze the causes of this depression or to write a complete narrative of it  --  if a complete narrative will ever he possible  --  it seems tenable to divide it into two main periods . From the opening drop on the New York Stock Exchange on October 23,1929 , until the spring of 1931 , the depression in America had to do mainly with American conditions , By about March , 1931 , we seemed emerging from our own part in the depression . There was seemingly justified hope that the country was about to begin the climb back to prosperity . Then , beginning about May , 1931 , President Hoover was obliged to defend America against onslaughts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and he had to defend the world , for it seems tenable to suppose that when history writes the whole story . Mr. Hoover will be seen not merely as the President of the United States but as the defender of the established social order , called by Mr. Hoover " individualism , " against conditions which tempted many parts of the world to turn to Communism or some other regimented form of social and political organization . Some periods of the latter portion of the struggle  --  Mr. Hoover 's bringing about of theGerman moratorium , his course in the face of the fall of the British pound , and his defense of America against the withdrawal of gold by foreign countries  --  lend themselves to comparatively simple narrative . O N 6 , 1931 , Frederic M. k. . / Sackett , American Ambassador to Germany , home for the purpose of a report which he felt should be made in person , dined with President Hoover at the White House . To the President , Ambassador Sackett made a report which now stands on the record as an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the degree of its subsequent fulfillment . Germany , Ambassador Sackett recited in detail , was suffering under two groups of conditions which , feeding each other , were progressing toward an end such that " we must face the possibility of a debacle or revolution unless something is done . " One of the conditions was progressive social deterioration leading to misery and despondency , and expressing itself in political unrest and public disorder ; the other condition , hardly separable , was a financial deterioration which threatened the solvency of the Reichsbank . President Hoover , gravely impressed , told Ambassador Sackett to come to see him again before returning to Germany . Immediately upon reaching his desk the following morning  --  May seventh  --  Mr. Hoover set about assembling information about late developments in Germany . Resourcefully he utilized not only official channels but also other means that happened to be at hand . He asked Silas Strawn , president of the United States Chamber of Commerce , to draw out the German delegates to the International Chamber of Commerce , then in session in Washington , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the German delegates took a most gloomy view . On the same day , Mr. Hoover called on the State Department for a complete report on recent political and economic events in Germany ; and on Dr. Julius Klein , of the Department of Commerce , for figures showing the relation between German finance and reparations and the in-andout payments of each country in the circle of intergovorument debts . The following day  --  May eighth Hoover had at dinner the Belgian delegates to the Chamber of Commerce meeting and made guarded inquiries of them but for the world , set about mobilizing against the consequences , to a country and a world already deep in depression , of an imminent crisis in Germany . On May twentieth , twenty-first and twenty-second , he consulted with Governor Eugene Meyer , Jr. , of the Federal Reserve Board , about the quantity of short-term investments by American banks in Germany , and the quantity of longterm German bonds held in America , and the effect that a German collapse might have on America 's banking and credit structure . He consulted almost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Stimsou . He had Mr. Stimson transmit to him immediately upon receipt the reports from the American Embassy at Berlin about daily developments in Germany , the reports from Ambassador Walter E. Edge in France and from the acting head of the American Embassy in Great Britain about developments in those countries , and reports from Minister Gilchrist Stockton at-Vienna about consequences of the failure of the Creditanstalt . From all these sources and from other American embassies and legations , Mr. Hoover asked for special reports giving the confidential views of European statesmen . On June second , he had as guests at the White House Ambassador Charles G. Dawes , just home from London , and Hugh Gibson , home from Brussels . On the same day he talked again and at length with Ambassador Sackett , now departing for his post in Berlin . On June fifth , the President , having assembled all the information available , summoned to the White House for a prolonged discussion Secretary Stimson and Secretary Mellon and Under Secretary Mills . Later that day , Mr. Hooves ' wrote and put in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ step he considered taking . ANTIME , in Germany , events fateful enough in themselves were accentuated by one of those purely fortuitous episodes which often about the condition of Germany . On May eleventh , he talked with Secretary of State Stimson about the effect of a possible collapse of Germany upon the already strained condition of the world . On May fourteenth , Mr. Hoover suggested to Secretary Stimson that additional light might be procured from the reports of the conference then in session at Geneva to consider means of ending the world depression . Mr. Stimson was obliged to report on May twenty-first that the Geneva conference had adjourned without doing anything helpful . THE sum of what Mr. Hoover learned was that 1 during the preceding autumn , at an election in Germany , September 14 , 1930 , so large a vote had been east for parties and leaders favoring Communism in one form or another , direct or indirect , and the Hitlerites , as to shock the commercial , financial and other conservative elements of the country . These , fearful for Germany 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of capital out of the country , to Switzerland , Holland and the United States  --  it was a quiet flight from the mark . This diminution of domestic capital was peculiarly detrimental to Germany because six years before much of her domestic capital had been destroyed by the loss of confidence resulting from the extinction of the old mark through inflation , and since then Germany had been largely dependent on borrowings from abroad . The condition of Germany  --  and also the depression everywhere throughout the world  --  was accentuated by the failure on May twelfth of the Vienna Creditanstalt , oldest and largest bank in Austria , doing about 70 per cent of the country 's banking business and controlling more than half the country 's industry . It was known that the Creditanstalt had close relations with the large German banks , and that the latter must be in some degree embarrassed . The Creditanstalt failure brought the condition of Germany to the attention of bankers everywhere , and throughout the world there arose a concern about credits extended to Germany , a disposition not to renew @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the flight of domestic capital , - already great and now accelerated , pointed toward danger to the Reiehsbank and such a further injury to German industry as might bring paralysis . The financial deterioration of Germany was an acute condition . It was accompanied by and in part caused by another condition  --  a social and economic deterioration which was chronic and had been cumulative since the war . It expressed itself in unemployment , hopelessness , despair . The social and financial conditions combined were progressing rapidly toward a climax . The climax , it was universally judged by the well-informed , would take the form of overthrow of the German republic and revolution , with Communism as the probable outcome . The effect of that on a world already in depression , and on a social and political order already put to the test in many parts of the world , would be somberly formidable . An the ad-vices received by Mr. Hoover from Europe were to the effect that if Communism should spring up in Germany , " it can hardly be confined within German frontiers . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that " he could sense a situation where a Communistic element in Germany , spreading to Poland , might appeal to Russia and gain such support from the Soviets as would hasten Communistic conflagration " in Europe generally . If f M R. HOOVER , feeling respon- sibility settle upon his shoulders not only for the United States act as the trivial detonants of latent forces . The German Government , on June third , in a sincere effort to uphold the country 's financial and social structure , decreed new economies in government , reductions in pay and new taxes . The decrees were received with resentment , amounting in many places to public disorders . In an effort to make the impositions palatable to the people , the government , three days later  --  June sixth  --  addressed a manifesto to the public . While the phrases of the manifesto ? ' ' greater burdens and sacrifices " " despondency and indignation must not weaken our strength " ; " the German nation is in a decisive struggle for its future " ? were well adapted to stir the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had , when published outside Germany , the effect of alarm . The dispatch describing the manifesto in the New York Times for June seventh was headed REICH 'S " LAST EFFORT " PUT FORTH IN DECREE . This was the first extensive consciousness in the outside world of Germany 's danger . It did not impress the public generally , but bankers and business men everywhere took alert and apprehensive account of it . Another fortuitous event led to a mistaken impression , fateful to Germany and the world . On May thirtieth , it was announced that Chancellor Bruening and Foreign Minister Curtius would , on June sixth , go to Chequers , near London , to visit Prime Minister MacDonald . The world  --  especially the financially sophisticated part of it  --  already nervous , assumed the purpose of the visit . was to say that Germany would cease to pay reparations , which , if it happened , coming on the initiative of Germany , would precipitate a European wrangle fromwhieh anyconsequence , includingwar , might eventuate . This was not the intention  --  the Germans contemplated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , think it would be necessary until some months later  --  Curtius and Bruening , not yet aware themselves of the imminence of disaster , told MacDonald they would not act before September at the earliest . The circumstances of the visit , however , and its association with events already known , gave rise to an air of mystery and menace , and increased the fear about Germany which was now entertained by every head of government and every important banker and business leader in the world . The withdrawal of credits from Germany , the flight of domestic capital , the reduction of the Reichsbank 's gold supply went on at a cumulative pace . V AT WASHINGTON , President Hoover , on June fifth , telephoned Senator Dwight Morrow , of New Jersey , asking him to go to New York and sound out the sentiment of the financial community . On June ninth , the President had Senator Morrow at dinner at the White House , together with Under Secretary of the Treasury Ogden L. Mills . Morrow reported that the New York bankers were panicky over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agreed , that Governor Harrison , of the New York Federal Reserve Bank , should be sent to Europe to confer with heads of banks there . On June eighth , Mr. Hoover discussed the situation with a full meeting of the Cabinet  --  excepting Mr. Mellon , who had left for Europe on a vacation  --  destined to be turned into one of the hardest errands the aged Secretary of the Treasury had ever had . June thirteenth and fourteenth  --  a Saturday and Sunday  --  Mr. Hoover was at his Rapidan camp . He was not resting . Morning to night , his guests did not see him , except at meals , at which he was silent , preoccupied . In his cabin , alone excepting a secretary and one friend , he strode broodingly up and down the room , pausing to concentrate his mind on a suggestion , stepping to his desk to consider a phrase in the announcement of policy he had evolved . The telephone rang incessantly . There were calls from Secretary Stimson reporting a conversation the day before with Owen D. Young @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gilbert , who had been agent general for reparations payments of Germany ; from Secretary Stimson reporting a summary of State Department cables indicating that " a serious crisis will arise politically in Germany by Tuesday " ; from Under Secretary of the Treasury Mills transmitting reports received hourly from Europe ? " runs on central European banks , crisis has developed more rapidly than anticipated ? G overnor Harrison , of the New York Bank , can not go to Europe  --  he must remain in New York to take care of a possible crisis there ; from Governor of the Federal Reserve System Eugene Meyer , Jr. , spending Sunday at his home in Mt . Kisco ; from Bernard M. Baruch , fa miliar with the financial situation and able , as a leading Democrat , to be helpful in getting Democratic support for the step Mr. Hoover was contemplating ; from Under Secretary of State William R. Castle , reporting a transoceanic telephone conversation with Mr. Mellon in Europe , who said the situation was " absolutely critical " ; from a New York official of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Bank of England , as saying that " a week 's delay before making relief measures effective was too long  --  for Austria it was a matter of days . " VI T HERE was at this point  --  the beginning of the weck June fourteenth to twenty-first  --  a juxtaposition of scheduled events ahead which was awkward . ( Continued on Page 28 ) FREMEDMIT EfOOVER LED YEZ WORLD . DEPRIESSIION iContinuad from Page 51 . Mr. Hoover was obliged to leave Washington for the West . Months before , he had engaged himself to make speeches at Indianapolis , at Marion , Ohio , and at the grave of Lincoln at Springfield , Illinois . On Tuesday , June sixteenth , he would be delivering an address dedicating the memorial to President Harding at Marion . On the same day , in Germany , there was scheduled to occur a meeting of the steering committee of the Reichstag which would pass upon whether to convoke the Reichstag . If the Reichstag should be brought into session , the political and social crisis in Germany would come to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would he obliged to resign , and " a new government representing the discontented elements in Germany would be installed . " Secretary Stimson , with most well-informed persons , believed the Reichstag would be convoked and that this would lead to a political crisis . With this somber anticipation hanging over him , Mr. Hoover , at Rapidan on Sunday , June fourteenth , with the telephone ringing a recessional , walked from his cabin up the laurel-bordered path to the automobile that would take him across fifty miles of quiet Virginia countryside to the train on which he was to leave for the West . The situation illustrated vividly the weight and complexity of the burdens that have come to rest upon the President of the United States . On the very eve of a world crisis , he was obliged to begin the delivery of three prepared speeches and stand on rear platforms waving greetings to crowds who little knew the thoughts he must turn to in his stateroom between train stops . His last telephone talk before leaving Rapidan was with Secretary of State Stimson , to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would have a telephone installed in his car , and that at any time he would he ready to leave the train to talk at any near-by telephone . By this means Mr. Hoover was able to learn , at Marion , Ohio , on Tuesday , June sixteeuth , that the proposal to convoke the German Reichstag had been lost , having only 209 votes against a needed 289 . Some impulse of caution , some apprehension of crisis , had arrested the hands of German politicians , and gave Mr. Hoover a few days for the preparatory steps which were absolutely essential to what he was about to do . Mr. Hoover learned also , however , through reports from Germany transmitted from Washington , that in two weeks , from June first to June fifteenth , the Reiehsbank had lost approximately $1 50,000,000 of gold out of the $600,000,000 they had held . In New York alone , from the tenth to the eighteenth of June inclusive , the New York Federal Reserve Bank had paid out for account of the Reichsbank more than 582,000,000 . This amounted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had contemplated a course which could be embarked upon deliberately and carried out over weeks or mon the , with ample time for consultation with other governments and with political leaders in America . Now , faced by an imminent banking crisis , he must act quiekty. vrr T IIE step Mr. Hoover contemplated must , he knew , have the support of Congress , of both parties  --  and Congress was not in session . Mr. Hoover set himself to getting , from congressmen scattered all over the country , enough individual pledges to command a majority . While still on his trip he consulted Senator Fess , of Ohio , at Marion ; Senator Watson , of Indiana , at Indianapolis ; Senator Glenn , of Illinois , at Springfield . Arriving back in Washington late in the afternoon of June eighteenth he put in long-distance telephone calls for upward of 200 senators and representatives . Telephone managers and operators , sensing urgency , pursued the congressmen from spot to spot . One was located on a fishing trip , forty-eight hours from the nearest telephone . The call @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his home in Grand Rapids , to Detroit , where it was found he had gone on a lake trip with the Chamber of Commerce , and to Toronto , where the message was delivered to the senator just as he was rising to make a speech at a banquet . Hurrying excitedly to the nearest telephone station , his request to call the White House at Washington encountered a state of mind on the part of the operator which seemed to imply that a call to a psychopathic hospital or the police station might do as well . The senators and representatives , Republicans and Democrats alike , were helpful . Democratic Senate leader Joseph T. Robinson , of Arkansas , felt he should not publicly give the use of his name in support of the plan Mr. Hoover outlined , but said he would not make any opposition . Democratic leader of the House , John N. Garner , of Texas , said he would say nothing and do nothing pro or con until the meeting of Congress in December . TXTHILF the telephone calls leaped V V zigzag @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , late in the afternoon of June nineteenth , gave out a preliminary announcement : " Since my return from the Central West . yesterday , I have conferred with those leaders of both political parties who are present in Washington , with respect to certain steps which we might take to assist in economic recovery both here and abroad . These conversations have been particularly directed to strengthening the situation in Germany " Followed the next day a complete statement of his proposal , beginning : " The American Government proposes the postponement during one year of all payments on intergovernmental debts Subject to confirmation by Congress , the American Government will postpone all payments upon the debts of foreign governments to the American Government payable during the fiscal year beginning July 1 next , conditional on the like postponement for one year of all payments on intergovernmental debts owing the important creditor powers . " The proposal , Mr. Hoover added , had been approved by twenty-one senators , Republican and Democratic , whose names he gave ; and by a similar number of representatives . Subsequent approvals by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ majority of Congress . tx W HETHER the German mom- V V Corium would have halted the depression , had not certain subsequent . developments intervened , is one of those " ifs " of history which are more fascinating to speculate about than easy to be sure of . The markets of the world thought it would : In one day  --  Saturday , June twentieth , with only a two-hour session , a broad and emphatic advance in the New York stock market , which added from 3 to 11 points to the market value of leading issues , was the most vigorous in nineteen months , since the beginning of the depression in October , 1929 . United States Steel gained 6 points , Union Pacific 10 , Atchison , Topeka &; Santa Fe 11 , American Telephone &; Telegraph 7 . Fifty typical stocks increased their average price by $7.89 . Commodity prices rose in unison : Wheat I3 to 2 cents at Chicago ; corn 15 to 24 cents ; cotton 6 to 22 points ; rye and oats in proportion . Bankers and business men @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a private cable to its French branch on June twenty-second , said that - to many of us here , the American proposal seems the greatest piece of good fortune that has come to the world since America entered the war . " Observers of the public mood , and the public itself , thought so : Newton D. Baker , former Secretary of War  --  his testimony has exceptional value because he was of the party opposing President Hoover  --  said that " those who noted the reception accorded the President 's proposal by plain men had the experience of hearing artisans and small business men spontaneously evidencing their understanding and approval . " The nations which were links in the chain of intergovernment debts thought so . Their newspapers , upon the instant of the announcement , gave expression to extravagant relief , heaped approval on the proposal , and extravagant praise on President Hoover ? " like Lindbergh through a foggy night of world economic crisis , " said the Osservatore Romano . " The bold initiative of President Hoover may have historic consequences , " said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the chain of intergovernmental debts accepted the proposal happily , gratefully , promptly  --  all except one  --  France . x T HE Hoover proposal , given out in its full form at Washington Saturday evening , June twentieth , was too late for publication in Paris afternoon papers of that day . Paris had no Sunday papers of consequence , but the French Government received the proposal , and French editors had a clay in which to decide what attitude they should take . Their decisions , significantly in agreement , appeared in the Paris papers of Monday , . June twenty-second . The Journal des Debate was " stupefied " by Mr. Hoover 's " noisy and brutal disregarding of well established rights . " " Hoover 's midnight attack , " said L'Avenir . Differing only in the raucousness of their language , Le Temps and Le Matin being less violent , the tone of the French press as a whole was , as it was put in a summary cabled to Washington , " frankly hostile , in some cases hysterically abusive . " This instantaneous denunciation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people ; had the French Government wished to accept the Hoover proposal , in the same spirit as every other government , they could not now do so . The universal assumption , however , among diplomats familiar with the intimacy between the French Government and the French press , was that the French Government had no wish to accept the Hoover proposal , and that the denunciation by the French press , especially the semiofficial part of it , was an arranged prepara tion for the stand to be taken later by the French Government . The reasons for French hostility to the moratorium were natural , and arose out of France 's familiar postwar attitude toward Germany . France disliked Germany intensely , and the Hoover moratorium would tend to put Germany on her feet , would release her from payment of about $400,000,000 of reparations during the ensuing year . France feared the Hoover moratorium , if accepted by France , might invalidate the Young Plan , which France regarded as the contract binding Germany to paying reparations . France feared that payments under the Young Plan , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , that the Young Plan might lapse . France feared that rescue of Germany by this means and at this time might ultimately result in modification of the Versailles war settlement with Germany . France feared that money saved by Germany through release from a year 's payment of reparations might be used by Germany to strengthen herself economically and in a military sense . In addition , there was a suspicion , shared by many diplomats  --  though not all  --  that France wished to see come about precisely the German financial crisis which the Hoover moratorium was designed to avert . The suspicions visualized a program said to be contemplated by France . After the Reichsbank should fail , or after the German financial crisis should progress far enough , France  --  she was very rich in gold  --  would come forward with an offer to make the advances necessary to save Germany , but would couple the offer with a demand for political promises on the part of Germany to live up to the Versailles Treaty , to suppress agitations against it , to cease building pocket battleships @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in all respects to manage her affairs in ways of which the result would keep her weak as a rival to France . Part . of the basis for this suspicion about France with respect to Germany was what France had already clone about Austria . When , the preceding month , the Austrian Creditanstalt failed and the Austrian Government needed $22,000,000 to save the national credit , the French Government offered to advance the amount subject to a significant stipulation : " Austria must ( a ) formally renounce every combination , political or economic , which might modify its international status . . . " This stipulation , while expressed in general terms , was universally understood to mean that Austria must not enter into any union with Germany , and specifically that Austria must renounce a customs union arranged a short time before with Germany . This gesture of France toward Austria had been . described by a British statesman , in a private conversation , ( Confirmed on Page 311 ( Continu  --  d from Parr 28 ) as " attempted blackmail . " Austria had been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or the French money , by the action of the Bank of England , which advanced the amount , needed without stipulations . The suspicion about France , the motives imputed to her by many diplomats and others , composed part of the atmosphere in which France began consideration of the Hoover moratorium . When she came to the point of giving reasons for hesitating to aceept , or for changes which she wished , or reservations which she proposed , her reasons , though technical , were understandable . To the mental habits of the Americans in Paris who had to listen to them , and the Americans in Washington who had to pore over them and answer them , France 's objections seemed exasperatingly trivial , pettifogging , but it is necessary to concede that some legalistic basis for them could be found . The important thing about them was that they entailed negotiations between France and the United States  --  and that consumed two precious weeks . With discouraging detriment to the Hoover proposal , which for its larger success in stopping the depression depended much on its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ French Government 's reluctance , its objections , its reservations , were blazoned upon headlines everywhere . FRENCH WILLING AMERICA SHOULD REMIT DEBTS , BUT WANT THEIR REPARATIONS PAID , said the New York Times headline on June twenty-first . xr T HE French paltering about accept- ance , their demands for amendments and reservations , meant delay and conference . Mr. Hoover , knowing that success of the moratorium depended much upon promptness and unanimity in the acceptance of it , realized that he had had a setback , but with a characteristic combination of patience and pertinacity set about getting France 's assent as quickly as possible . For the conference that must take place , he turned to Secretary Mellon . Mr. Mellon was in London . He had gone to Europe for personal reasons , to spend some time with his son at Cambridge University . To a man who is seventy-seven and has been engrossed in the public service for ten years , opportunity for a period of association with an only son about to step from college into life must seem important and precious . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's position . He felt , though , that at this moment the most important thing in a gravely menaced world was to get the French to add their acceptance to those which all the other nations had promptly given . He felt , too , that Mr. Mellon , with the prestige attaching to his name , the combination of gentleness and force in his personality , could conduct the negotiations with the French with greater hope of success than any other man available . On June twenty-second , Mr. Hoover , with fine consideration in his hesitating words , and yet with serious urgency , asked Mr. Mellon " with the greatest reluctance , " if he would be willing to give up his personal plans and go to Paris to sit with Ambassador Edge in negotiations to persuade the French to accept . It turned out to he possibly the most trying task Mr. Mellon had ever undertaken . It was not merely that Mr. Mellon 's experience had been mainly in negotiations with men having the same background as himself and speaking the same tongue  --  the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The French were even more different in mentality , more different in their psychology of negotiation than in language . Further yet , the French were , as respects this negotiation , in a mood of the sort they call " difficile " ? resentful that Mi .. Hoover had not consulted them in advance ; suspicious that the moratorium might have been cooked up by the Americans , British and Germans ; apprehensive about preservation of the Versailles Treaty and the Young Plan ; dismayed by interruption of their plan for European dominance . Even the physical conditions were vexatious . Carrying on the conference on behalf of the United States involved , largely , getting the views of the French , transmitting them to Mr. Hoover , getting Mr. Hoover 's response , and then presenting the American position to the French in the manner Mr. Mellon deemed most persuasive or , on some occasions , most forceful . The conversations with Mr. Hoover had to be carried on by transatlantic radiophone , and telephoning across 3000 miles of ocean , in spite of refinement of mechanism , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ happened that the mechanism was not , at the time , in the best condition . The French telephone system was being revamped . As a detail of the process , new instruments were being installed throughout Paris . In the American Embassy , the only telephones in service were one in Mrs. Edge 's bedroom and one in the concierge 's room in the basement . To one or the other of these Mr. Mellon was obliged to go , from the conference room with the French some distance away , frequently at a moment 's notice . The conversations with Washington were very long and very frequent . On one day  --  July sixth  --  between half-past eleven and half-past three , Mr. Mellon talked with Washington four times , with steady conferences with the French in the intervals between . Little wonder that Mr. Mellon 's age , his fatigue , the physical strain of telephoning , and the refined intricacy of the points brought up by the French , led him , in his conversations with Washington , to occasional expressions of gentle mystification about the French @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , that never became doubt nor expectation of doing anything except to go through to the end . XII N OW'for two weeks Mr. Hoover was held with concentrated intentness to the task of getting the French to accept . By transatlantic telephone he directed each step of the negotiations in France . He sent messages to the German Government asking it to use its influence to keep the German press from expressions of exultation that might irritate or alarm the French  --  some parts of the German press talked as if America , with Britain and Germany , were now about to take the destinies of the world in hand , with the French excluded . He held hack rising criticism of France in America , and at the same time used this Criticism to show the French that he could not yield to their demands  --  Borah in Idaho , chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee of the Senate , seeing newspaper accounts of French demands for modification , telegraphed the President that he " could not support a proposition which would require that any payment whatever should be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sent for Senator Dwight Morrow  --  Mr. Morrow was at the White House steadily from . June twenty-ninth to July third . The President consulted with American friends of France peculiarly trusted by the French , and France was told that unless she accepted , " the repercussions from the world disappointment will bring about again the very crisis which the world was , facing last week , and it might be gravely intensified by reason of the disappointment itself . . . For any nation to run the risk of nullifying the effect of this great , constructive gesture would appear incredible . . . . It would seem well worth while " for the French " to go the limit in concessions . " The French were told that American public opinion would not approve any moratorium which did nut extend its benefits to all debtors alike . The French were reminded that the United States was giving up 8350,000,000 while the French were asked to give up only 580,000,000 . The French were assured that Mr. Hoover had not discriminated against France about discussions in advance  --  because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nation in advance . F ROM the opening sentence , Mr. IVIelion 's negotiations with the French were intricate , tedious , meticulous . First , the French said that a portion of the German reparations , the unconditional annuities  --  of which France was receiving the bulk  --  must continue to be paid . When they were reminded that this would deprive Germany of much of the benefit of the moratorium , while all the other nations would have the full benefit , they modified their demands . When the first modification was resisted , they put forward a second , and after the second , a third , and after the third , a fourth . The Germans should pay the unconditional annuities to France and France would lend back an equivalent sum to Germany . Germany should pay the unconditional annuities into the Bank for International Settlements and the bank would loan an equivalent sum to Germany and other Central European countries . Germany should pay the unconditional annuities into the Bank for International Settlements and the bank should loan an equivalent sum to Germany alone . And @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when settled , automatically gave rise to new points : The Bank for International Settlements would make a loan hack to Germany  --  but to precisely whom in Germany ? To the German Government ? But apparently the bank had no power to make loans to governments . Then to German industries ? But to which industries ? Eventually , the decision was to loan to German railroads . Should the recipient of loans from the hank pay interest ? If so , at what rate ? When should the loans made by the bank be repaid ? And so on , and so on . A similar series of intricacies arose about payments in kind . The Americans came to feel there was no end to it . No sooner was one question settled , or apparently settled , than the French raised another . And each point settled seemed to shed a pollen which instantly took root and became several more points . After days and days of this , a suggestion was made that some of the points should lie left fur later consideration byacommission of experts which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " in the spirit . of Mt .. Hoover 's original proposal . " XIV O SATURDAY , July fourth , the ' lla ) French composed a cable bringing the negotiations up to date  --  though decidedly not to a conclusion . It arrived in Washington Sunday morning , July fifth . President Hoover was at Rapidan . Under Secretary William R. Castle , in the State Department at Washington , started to read the French statement over the telephone to the President . It was at noon , just before Sunday dinner . In the midst of the reading , Mr , Hoover dropped the phone , called Senator David A. Reed , of Pennsylvania , who was his guest , summoned an automobile and started for Washington . Someone , realizing he was without dinner , hastily made up a package of sandwiches and sent it in another car to catch up with him . The trip to Washington was the fastest of the scores the President made during his four years of visiting Rapidan . At the White House , Mr. Hoover called Under Secretary Mills , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ got in touch with Mr. Mellon in Paris by telephone . The President said , in effect , that it was now two weeks since he had made his original proposal ; that as a result of the French delay the world was slipping into a new downward spiral of economic deterioration ; that the latest note from the French was not only not an acceptance  --  it left several points open and even raised some new ones ; that , anyhow , most of these points raised by the French were not America 's concern  --  properly they were matters having to do only with the European signatories to the Young Plan and should be settled by them among themselves . Finally , Mr. Hoover said , he proposed now to restate his original proposal , taking into account only the principal objections raised by the French . This statement Mr. Hoover told Mr. Mellon to lay before the French  --  and to ask the French if they would accept it or reject it , yes or no . If the French wished , they could say yes to his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or as reservations such matters as they reserved to be settled with the European powers which were signers of the Young Plan . But if the French said no , then Mr. Hoover would go on with the moratorium as respected the nations which had accepted it  --  leaving France under obligation to make her payments to America and Britain , which . were greater than the unconditional annuities which she was insisting that Germany pay . The dilemma thus set before France was one that touched the pocket nerve acutely . In Paris , July sixth , was a hurried scurrying . Mr. Mellon , skilled negotiator , serene in crisis , became placatory toward the French , and toward M Hoover had the manner of smoothing him down  --  he urged the President nut to he too peremptory , argued against any spirit of ultimatum . Late that day the French wrote what amounted to a paraphrase of Mr. Hoover 's statement . Mr. Mellon read it to the President over the phone . Mr. Hoover said it was all right , authorized Mr. Mellon to initial it . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ headline of the New York Times on July . seventh . IContinaed on Fare 34 ) ( Continued ( ro , . Page 31 ) To Mr. Presider t Hoover said , " You are to be coneratulated a thousand Limes : it is a fine service and a great ashievement. " xv AXTE SAY that it was too late , mean- ing V that had the French accepted the moratorium instantly , with the other nations , some unhappy things that happened later might have been averted . Perhaps . But the malevolent forces at work had got much momentum , And some incidents beside the French delay worked to neutralize the beneficence of the moratorium . The Germans , having been relieved of paying 8400,000,000 is ample testimony to show how well done it was . And then , before the director could clear his throat to voice his approval , the recorder jumped out of his booth and chirped : " We 'll have to do that over . Someone sniffled at the rear end of the stage , " Those worries are over now , The company @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the essential sound effects will be added later through the intricate bit of business called dubbing . The discovery of that and the reduction of background noises are the two biggest steps so far in the recording of sound . That 's how it is that when they are working on the stages the only sound picked up by the microphone , as a rule , is dialogue . It 's carried over an electric wire to the mixer , who sits in a booth or at a portable table and listens in with ear phones . He adjusts the volume , and from there the sound travels to the main recording building , where it 's amplified and brought into a recording machine  --  the heart of the entire system . The motor of this machine and those that run the cameras are synchronized perfectly so that the conversation is consistent with the scene . It was an amazing thing , one day in a projection room , to hear the heroine say fervently : " Oh , Jack , I adore you 601 " even while she shot @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ track getting a little ahead of the action track . A Library of Sounds The recording machine is one of the most sensitive instruments employed in the whole process . In it , by means of a photo-electric cell , the sound waves are transformed into light waves and are photographed on film . The negative is developed then and a print made . In it synchronizer the sound print is matched to the picture print through the use of numbers stamped on each inch of film . These are the rushes , or the results of the day 's shooting , which the director sees at night . his makes his selection el ' the various scenes  --  every one of them has been filmed several times and from several angles  --  and when the picture is completed , the best of the various days ' rushes are assembled and edited . Then comes the matter of dubbing in the sound effects , or the music , or both . in the history of the talkies , everything is dated either 8. 1 ) . or A. D. ? before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ boon . And because of it. , the sound libraries came into being . for a year , while extravagantly grateful , nevertheless , asked for more . The head of the Reichsbank said that America , Britain and France must loan Germany $1,000,000,000 . The method of his advertisement of Germany 's need was described by a cynic at the time : " He got . himself in airplane and rode up and down Europe , and wherever he could mobilize two reporters , he exhibited Germany 's rags , told how had her credit was , and tried to borrow a billion dollars . " What with psychological factors and fundamental ones , financial Europe was on the down grade and slipping fast . By July eighteenth , Mr. Hoover , at the end of the transatlantic telephone , was listening to a panicky , ( Continued from Page 11 ) The librarian cheeks through the files to see if he has the appropriate noises or music in stock . if he has n't the former , the company does one of two things  --  sends out a sound @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the scoring room . IF suitable compositions are lacking , musicians are called in at ten dollars an hour , The effects and the music being duly recorded or taken from the library , they are matched to the action track on another miracle machine that has been evolved since the advent of the speaking screen . It 's a miniature projector coupled with an amplifying horn . With this the film editor can watch the one film and listen to the others simultaneously . Sometimes there are as many as six films running on it at once . For example , there will be the dialogue , or scratch , track , a little German hand , dogs barking , a loud cough , the ripping of a coat , and the sound of an automobile horn . Then these tracks are placed on re-recording machines so they will all be entered on the one strip of film . Here is where the dubbing room functions . At one end or it is a projection machine and at the other a screen and a horn . There is also a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the re-recording machines is controlled and combined , or mixed . The sound has to he regulated in accordance with the dramatics of the picture . If a violinist is playing at the far corner of a room , the music must be fainter than if he is shown in a close-up , and so on . From the mixer 's table the commingling of sounds is amplified and carried back to the recording room , where it is photographed on one track . The sound negative , however , always remains separate from the picture negative , except in the case of some of the news reels . The two are joined together only on the composite print  --  which is what you see and hear in the theater . CAN ltl . GENERAL BATTLE NOIRES . Machine guns . Cannon boom . Drum roll . Cries of men as they charge . CAN 17 . CROWD EFFECTti . A pplause . Wumen 's screams . General hum of voices . Boos , razzherries . After-show hubbub , boys selling music sheets , ears being called , and BO @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dog barks , Pig squeals . fantastic plea that he request American banks to loan a large sum of money to help arrest conditions which were destined to result , a few weeks later , in the fall of the British pound . Mr. Hoover , as he listened and reflected , with the telephone in his left hand , a pencil in his right , drew curious diagrams on a mulch pad and scribbled two sentences about the condition to which America had come : " Our situation serious ; Steel " production down to " 32 per cent . Our banks can not he brought to much more than to hold the front . " Editor 's Note  --  This is the best of three article . by Mr , Sullivan , dealing with high lights or the depression and President Hoover 's activities to meet the situation , based on official records . The second will appear next week . Seals barking . Bull bellows , Dull breathing . Driving cattle  --  men 's voices , moos of cattle . These are lists taken at random from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 18 . Just ordinary rolls of film with minute striations on them to indicate the registering of sound . The small segments or camphor are to keep moisture there , otherwise the film would shrink by the time they came to use it again and would give out a fluttery noise ? whiskers , Wailing for a Wail The recording of some of these sounds leads to amusing and often-strange adventures . To illustrate : The peculiar cry of a gibbon monkey was required for an important travel feature . The company had been unable to pick it up in Asia , so the sound-effects men back at the studio were given orders to get it . Now , it seems that a gibbon utters his shrill threnody only at certain times in the hours around dawn , if he happens to feel in the mood . The men set up their equipment at three A.M. every day for nearly a week . The monkey Was curious , but said nothing about it . At length he grew bored with their silent waiting , and on the sixth morning , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he deliberately turned his hack on them and wailed loudly . But it was not recorded ; the men had been fast asleep . With the new portable sound outfits , studio engineers travel to all parts of the world collecting rare additions for the libraries . A Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer crew in London sent back the actual chiming of Big Ben , so that it could be heard in The Mask of Fu Manchu . Another unit , headed by Col. W. S. Van Dyke , is in the Arctic and they have a complete sound laboratory housed in their frozen-in schooner . One of the noises they are most proud of is the breaking up of a gigantic ice pack  --  during which , incidentally , they came near losing two of their men . Probably the most . troublesome sound to register is one that seems the easiest to the layman . Thunder . Fox , or course , uses basswood sheets in combination with thunder drums . A number of the other studios synthesize it also . Sheets of galvanized iron fifteen feet long are employed at HNO , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cannon balls down a trough , let them drop four feet onto another trough , roll and drop again , That simulates                     