@@493568

THE WAILING of sirens . Hens and dogs scurrying across the road . The roar of the escorting motorcycles . Movie trucks , their cameras perched on their tops like machine guns , lurking at points of vantage . Observation planes droning overhead . ' White faces peering out of the parked cars that lined the way . Dispatch riders tearing back and forth . And thus a cavalcade of 1,200 hunger marchers , lurching their way in trucks along the road from Baltimore , approached the capital . The sacrosanct beehive there was being threat . ened and the whole district around Washington was alive with defenders . A cordon of cops shunted the trucks down New York Avenue , along which they proceeded a mile or so until they reached another cordon of cops lined up to bar them . There the hunger marchers found themselves bottled up with a steep bank to their left , , a freightyard to their right and in front of them the cops , backed with machine guns and a gas squad of seventy-five trained men . At the end @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Legs " Brown , waddling about en ? couraging his , braves , or every now and then stuffing himself into his blue coupe to be whisked down the avenue on mysterious missions . Newspaper men , photographers , movie camera men ( hopefully lugging around gas masks ) , stood about calling each other " comrade " and longing for the march ? ers to start some trouble . The gas squad , with all their bombs slung in aprons on their stomachs ( they had a new one that makes you puke if you get a whiff of it ) , were lined up and patiently waited while a frantic young man went rushing about to find the staff photographer for The Washington Times . Meanwhile the hunger marchers , who had been riding standing in their trucks for two hours , waited quietly where they were until the leaders gave them the order to dismount . They were determined men and women in shabby clothes . While the leaders conferred , the band they had brought along with them played " The International " and other Com ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a whistle was blown and the marchers clambered out of their trucks to stretch themselves on the bleak avenue which the District of Wash ? ington had generously offered as a shelter and a home . At once there appeared , almost out of the air , a swarm of furtive and lipless men in felt hats and spring overcoats who strolled ominously up and down the avenue . Many of them were disguised as marchers , the disguise consisting in not having shaved that morning or in carrying a copy of The Daily Worker . There were scores of them . With the uniformed police the marchers were matched almost man to man . Darkness finally descended . The cordon of police across the avenue relaxed their vigilance and gath ? ered in little groups chatting with reporters or among themselves . Major Brown , a contented smile on his face , had been wafted home to supper . Reporters , photographers , camera men , stood about grimly waiting for the story to break . Someone among the marchers had produced a mandolin and a group was singing . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were parading up and down the avenue singing the " International . " Sil ? houetted against the darkening sky stood the gas squad on the crest of the cliff , while in the far distance , bathed in flood lights , glowed the dome of the Capitol . Washington , the city of white col ? lars and red tape , slept peacefully , inviolate against hunger . WHEN THE hunger marchers in three col ? umns entered Washington , the police con ? voyed them rapidly across the city to a desolate mile of concrete highway ? the New York Avenue extension as it cuts through a ravine to join Bla ? densburg Road . Here the trucks were halted under guard . The march had been planned since midsummer . Early in September it had been announced that " three thousand or more delegates elected by their Unemployed Councils , unions , fraternal organiza ? tions and at unemployed meetings " would appear in Washington at the opening of Congress to present their program and demands for winter relief and unemployment insurance . " For the dele ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Capitol Hill was a triumph of organiza ? tion . The delegates had to be selected , and this in it ? self was a considerable task . Trucks in which to transport them had to be hired , bought or bor. rowed . Routes had to arranged and schedules harmonized , so that the marchers from Seattle . might reach their destination on the same day as those from Los Angeles , New Orleans and Bangor . Meetings and parades had to be organized in every , city through which the marchers passed . Food , . winter clothing , sleeping quarters for the delegates ; gasoline , oil and repairs for the trucks ? all these , essentials had in some way to be procured ; and 