@@487822

THE best that one can say about the recent sessions of the League Council and Assembly is that they might have been worse . Not that the members of the League of Nations rose to the occasion or shouldered their responsibilities under the Covenant . Far from it . But in Geneva we are grateful for small mercies . The condition of the patient is still serious , but there has been a slight increase of strength during the last month . The reason is that the British government has not been able to have things entirely its own way . It would be difficult to exaggerate the services that Litvinov renders to the League . He knows what he wants , he stands firm on points that he considers essential , but he keeps his action within the limit of what is possible and he prefers even a quarter of a loaf to no bread . What is more , he says what he thinks  --  which is rare in Geneva . He understands that , as he himself said in his speech before the Assembly on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to whom the interests of peace are really dear to tell the parrots in high places that nonsense repeated day by day does not cease thereby to be nonsense , that a spade should be called a spade and aggression aggression , whatever slogan it decorates itself with . " As a diplomatist he was head and shoulders above any delegate at the recent Assembly . Valuable services were also rendered by Isidro Fabela , Mexico 's permanent delegate to the League , who headedthe Mexican delegation at the Assembly , and by his colleagues , Augustin Lefler ? , Mexican Minister in Prague , and Seflorita Palma Guilien , Mexican Minister in Copenhagen . The return of Mexico to Geneva has been a great gain for the League . W. J. Jordan , the delegate of New Zealand , has also been very useful . He is not in the least a diplomatist , but he is courageous and obstinate and his bluntness is a welcome change from the conventional platitudes to which we are accustomed . When the resolution condemning the Japanese bombing of Chinese open towns was being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on behalf of the British delegation tried to prevent Japan from being mentioned by name . Wellington Koo , Litvinov , and Jordan led the opposition to this British attempt to curry favor with Japan . Jordan said that it would be a scandal if Japan were not mentioned , and that if it were not he would vote against the resolution . He suggested that Lord Cranborne should propose also to omit any mention of China and to condemn the bombing of open towns " somewhere or other by somebody or other . " The opposition was successful , and the resolution unanimously adopted by the Assembly stated that the Chinese towns had been bombarded by Japanese aircraft . The weakness of the British stand on Japan in the Assembly and the concessions to Italy that followed the Nyon conference confirmed Mussolini 's impression that the British and French governments are afraid of the agOctober 30 , 1937 gressive powers , and that he has only to go on kicking them to get what he wants . He has since had further confirmation . On September 24 the British and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ciano , the Italian Foreign Minister , to ask Mussolini to condescend to enter into tripartite conversations . When Delbos announced this fact to the French press in Geneva on the same evening , he used brave words . The Italian Foreign Minister , he said , had been told that the British and French governments were ready to enter into tripartite conversations with Italy , but only on one condition : Mussolini must give them something more than declarations ; he must show his good faith by acts . The first and most essential preliminary to any negotiations was the withdrawal of the Italian troops from Spain and the Balearic Islands and a guaranty that no Italian " volunteers " would remain on Spanish soil and that no more would be sent to Spain . Delbos added that a communiqu ? identical with his statement would be issued in London that evening . The communique was issued , but it was far from being identical with the statement of Delbos . It mentioned the visit of the British charge d'affaires , but not that of the French charge d'affaires . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proposal that there should be tripartite discussions between the British , French , and Italian governments , but did not mention the conditions attached by Delbos to this proposal , because , of course , the British government did not agree with those conditions . This is an example of the contemptuous way in which the British government treats its subordinates in Paris , who entirely deserve it . On October 2 the British and French delegates voted in the Assembly for a resolution which said , among other things : The Assembly ) regrets that not merely has the London Non-Intervention Committee failed but that it must today be recognized that there are veritable foreign army corps on Spanish soil , which represents foreign intervention in Spanish affairs ; sincerely trusts that the diplomatic action recently initiated by certain powers will be successful in securing the immediate and complete withdrawal of the non-Spanish combatants taking part in the struggle in Spain ; . . . and notes that if such a result can not be obtained in the near future , the members of the League which are parties to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . On the same day the British and French governments sent to the Italian government a note of which the tone and the language were very different from those of the resolution just quoted . There was no longer any question of " immediate and complete withdrawal . " The British and French governments humbly suggested that the withdrawal of " at least a substantial number " of the foreign combatants would ease the international situation . For the rest , the note was so obsequious in tone and so completely lacking in any firmness that Mussolini naturally thought that the British and French governments were not in earnest and replied to the Anglo-French invitation with a blank negative . By the time that this article appears in print , you will know whether the worms have at last turned . At the time473 of writing we have no indication about their attitude , but there are signs that Neville Chamberlain at least wishes to go on negotiating with friend Mussolini . Unless the British and French governments at once raise the embargo on the export of war materials to Spain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a breach of faith toward the Spanish government . At the meeting of the committee that drafted the resolution on the Spanish question Alvarez Del Vayo objected to the statement that if the immediate and complete withdrawal of the non-Spanish combatants could not be obtained in " the near future " the members of the League that were parties to the non-intervention agreement would consider ending the policy of non-intervention . Vayo said with reason that the expression " the near future " was too vague and might be given widely different interpretations . Delbos gave him a formal assurance that the French government meant by the phrase not more than ten days , and that if a satisfactory reply were not received from Mussolini within ten days , the French government would act . This assurance was , I believe , confirmed by Lord Cranborne , the British delegate on the committee . It was only in consideration of this assurance that the Spanish delegation consented to accept the resolution . The ten days have now expired , and the French frontier is still closed . The Spanish delegation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for , although not satisfactory , it was better than anybody had expected . The best proof of that is the opposition that it excited on the part of all the friends of Franco . When it came before the Assembly , the delegates of Albania and Portugal voted against it and thus prevented it from being formally adopted , as unanimity was necessary . From the practical point of view , however , the action of Albania and Portugal was of little or no importance , and from the political point of view their negative vote was perhaps more to the advantage of the Spanish government than their abstention would have been . Of the European members of the League nineteen voted for the resolution , two voted against it , and five abstained . The five were Austria and Hungary , which are Italian satellites , Bulgaria , which is under German influence , Switzerland , whose Foreign Minister , Motta , is pro-fascist and a great admirer of Mussolini , and the Irish Free State . The reason given by De Valera for the Irish abstention was that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of non-intervention . This was not the case , as was pointed out to De Valera a dozen times by a half a dozen different people , but he is an obstinate man and when he gets an idea into his head , it is quite impossible for anyone to get it out . The abstention that surprised everybody was that of South Africa , which nobody understands to this day . Eight Latin American states  --  the Argentine Republic , Bolivia , Chile , Cuba , Panama , Peru , Uruguay , and Venezuela  --  also abstained , and for the same reason as that for which they voted against the reelection of Spain to the Council , namely , that they had failed to strike a bargain with the Spanish government about the rebel refugees in their embassies and legations in Madrid . They insisted on conditions that the Spanish government was unable to accept . Colombia , Ecuador , Haiti , and Mexico saved the credit of Latin America by voting for the resolution . The other matter of first-class importance before the Assembly was the Chinese appeal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first place to the Council , which with the consent of China referred it to the Far East Advisory Committee set up by the Assembly in February , 1933 . Wellington Koo agreed to this course subject to the understanding that the Council itself remained seized to the appeal and that the Chinese government reserved the right , if and when circumstances required it , to ask the Council to take action in accordance with the procedure of Article XVII of the Covenant , which deals with disputes in which one of the parties is not a member of the League . The reports and resolution adopted first by the Advisory Committee and then by the Assembly were again much better than had been expected , although they fell far short of the obligations of the Covenant , for they proposed no measures to stop the aggression . Nor did they say explicitly that Japan had been guilty of aggression . They did say , however , that The NATION Japan had invaded and attacked China and that the Japanese action was " in contravention of Japan 's obligations under the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Pact of Paris of August 27 , 1928 . " In this case , too , the British delegation were obliged to go farther than they had intended . Their desire to shield Japan was shown by Cranborne 's grotesque proposal . The most active enemy of China on the Advisory Committee was the Polish delegate , Komarnicki , who acted throughout as the advocate of Japan and abstained when the reports and resolution were adopted by the Assembly . This is significant . For the last two years it has been believed in Eastern Europe that there was an alliance , or at any rate a close understanding , between Poland and Japan , aimed against Soviet Russia . The relations between the Japanese embassy in Warsaw and the Polish Ukrainians are close and peculiar . The Polish Ukrainians appear to have forgotten their grievances against the Polish government and are concentrating their energies on stirring up trouble in Russian Ukraine . There is little doubt that the Japanese embassy in Warsaw has supplied funds for that purpose . The conduct of Komarnicki clearly shows than an alliance or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in fact if not in form a triple alliance of Germany , Poland , and Japan . On the Chinese question the Assembly was unanimous . There was no vote against the reports and resolution of the Advisory Committee , and only Poland and Siam abstained . The news of President Roosevelt 's speech reached Geneva on the last day of the Assembly . It was received by the British delegation with more embarrassment than pleasure . It now remains to be seen whether the Brussels conference will have any effective result . I can not conclude this summary of the Assembly 's session without mentioning an incident that caused deep pain to Leon Blum 's friends and admirers , especially those whose frendship with him is of long date . He spent a few days in Geneva during the Assembly and , although he was not a member of the French delegation , allowed himself to be put up by the delegation to make a speech at the meeting of the drafting committee against any declaration by the League that Italy had been guilty of aggression against Spain . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Assembly formally declared Italy to be an aggressor any negotiations with the Italian government would probably be impossible . This speech , as might be expected , has caused profound resentment in republican Spain , where the press has denounced Blum as a " social traitor . "                     