@@487882

THE PEACE OF EUROPE , having been planted on top of a handsome sowing of dragon 's teeth in the form of the Treaty of Versailles , is now threatened by exactly the crop of bitter fighting men that might have been looked for . That much of Chancellor Hitler 's speech explaining why Germany was withdrawing from the League of Nations and from the Disarmament Conference can be granted him : a bad war was ended by a bad peace , and Europe learned nothing from either , although prior to the establishment of the Hitler Government the sympathy of the world was inclining , more and more toward the Germans . But to dissociate Germany summarily from the only existing attempt to improve matters is the work of an insane and dangerous egotist . France has already repudiated Hitler 's attempt to create a Franco-German bloc against England ; England , it is predicted , will firmly oppose any suggestions for reduction of armament ; Italy talks of a rapprochement of nations without Germany . It is true that Hitler insisted on Germany 's ultimate desire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agree ; it is true that Italy is taking the German withdrawal- with " maximum calm " and emphasizes those portions of Hitler 's speech which urged amity among all nations . In spite of all this official dispassion , in spite of allthis talk of peace , the cloud of war hangs thick over Europe . In Austria barbed wire is being strung along the frontiers ; in every country of Europe except censored Germany the word " war " is being shrieked or whispered , either one with telling effect . The Disarmament Conference , already on the rocks , is admittedly lost , in spite of Arthur Henderson 's adjurations to carry on . It has adjourned until October 26 . A fortnight after that come the German elections , when every German is to be permitted to approve of the Nazi foreign policy  --  and God help him if he refuses ! Meanwhile Europe waits . IT is at least encouraging to note that the French government is not too much disturbed , although it sees clearly enough that in the conciliatory phrases toward France in his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the other Allies , especially England . There is no clamor in France for a reoccupation of Germany and little excuse for it in any act of the Reich thus far . Indeed , with , the exception of propaganda in Austria and Schleswig and the various border incidents which may kindle the European powder keg , Teuton fury to date has spent itself chiefly internally . The main cause of friction has been attacks upon foreigners in Germany , generally for failure to salute the Nazi flag . For these occurrences Germany has been officially regretful , and has just arrested , in response to most emphatic protests , the assailants of Roland Velz , the latest American victim of Nazi ruffianism , although dispatches point out that no storm trooper has been punished so far in consequence of attacks on foreigners . If German violence could be confined to Germany , there might be no disruption of the peace of Europe . Foreigners would learn that they entered Germany at their own risk . The outside world has far more effective means of influencing events than military aggression @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tightening about the Reich . The resolution of the American Federation of Labor recommending a boycott of German industry commits to that policy the largest organization that has so far spoken in this country . It may be argued that the censorship permits nobody in Germany to know of it . But the censorship can not restrain the effect of the boycott upon Germany 's economic life , and that , in turn , can not be concealed from the German public now any more than could the country 's desperate industrial plight during the World War . WHILE EUROPE IS SHIVERING under the blow dealt it by Germany 's withdrawal from the League , Japan and Russia are continuing their contentious negotiations over the Chinese Eastern Railway . Izvestia and Pravda have both carried articles protesting alleged official documents proposing seizure of the railway by the Japanese . Japan 's comment in reply varies from indignation to the soft answer which is evidently designed to smooth the incident over . But two Soviet officials , recently appointed to posts on the railway , have been summarily removed by the Japanese @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this action also . It is plain that there is considerable tension between the two governments , and the newspaper editorials in Moscow merely give warning that Russia will not take too many affronts lying down . Izvestia says frankly : " It is therefore quite clear that the plan for seizure of the Chinese Eastern is the plan of the Japanese government and that all responsibility for working out this plan . . . and for the consequences rests wholly upon the Japanese government . " Japan 's answer may very well be fortified by Hitler 's withdrawal from the Disarmament Conference and the League . German animosity in general has been directed against Russia and not in the least against Japan , and Germany now joins Japan in having repudiated the League and all its works . It is not too much to say , probably , that as a result of the German decision , Japan and Germany are closer together than ever , and Russia is farther from either . Which not inconceivably makes Russia nearer to the rest of the world . IT 'S A LONG @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ worth making to consider the banishment and return of Tshekedi , the native chieftain . Although Tshekedi 's authority extends only among his Bamangwato tribesmen , and not to Europeans , he tried a white settler and sentenced him to be flogged for offenses against native women . For this the chieftain was banished by the British High Commissioner of the protectorate after a spectacular trial . But the banishment aroused much criticism among European elements in South Africa , especially among the missionaries , who contended that the flogged man had got what was coming to him . Hence London recently ordered Tshekedi 's reinstatement . The significance of the incident lies in its revelation of changing conditions . A quarter of a century ago neither of the major events would have been dreamed of in a region under British rule . The flogging of a European by order of a native would have been almost inconceivable , and had it occurred , the continuance in office of the man responsible for it would have been impossible . But Britain 's far-flung line of world imperialism has had to give @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been x-rayed and found to be mostly a moral justification for commercial greed  --  a rationalization of the need of a hard-pressed capitalist industrialism to exploit the last corners of the world . Not only have the " lesser breeds " revolted against Kipling 's phrase but those for whom the creed was written no longer believe it either . The doctrine of the " white man 's burden " and the industrial system which it sought to justify have both been crumpled by the march of events . PRESIDENT ROOSEVELT and Secretary of State Hull should be warmly commended for having changed the attitude of the United States with regard to the appointment of a Chief Adviser to Liberia under the plan of assistance of the League of Nations . The Firestone interests , supported by the permanent officials of the State Department , had insisted that the adviser be an American citizen . At the meeting of the League of Nations committee at Geneva by which the plan of assistance is being put into final form , the Liberian representative strongly opposed this course . The reasons for this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of August 16 . They are , briefly , that the State Department in 1926 forced upon Liberia a loan it did not want , whose interest payments  --  at 7 per cent  --  it hasbeen unable to meet , and that the League plan of assistance for Liberia is in reality the State Department 's plan for collecting the loan . This plan , which bristles with provisions for " foreign experts , " would not only deprive Liberia of its administrative autonomy but also seriously reduce such essential public services as education and health in order to guarantee the disproportionate salaries of the unwanted " experts . " When , finally , one reads Firestone interests for State Department , Liberia 's opposition becomes doubly understandable . It appears that neither President Roosevelt nor Secretary Hull , both of whom have been busy with other and more pressing matters , was fully aware of the implications of the proposal that an American be named . When the situation was fully described to these officials , they acted promptly , and in consequence General Blanton Winship , the American member @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Liberian delegate that the United States would not oppose the appointment of an adviser from a disinterested country . SPAIN , the youngest republic in the Old World , has ree-ognized the administration of Grau San Martin in Cuba . This is now in its sixth week , having already exhibited double the longevity of its predecessor , the Cespedes Government . True , reports emanate from Cuba that the government is not representative , that the students number only a few thousand , that they are young and irresponsible , that the army represents only itself , that President Grau is but a puppet of both . Granting that all this were so , is it the function of the United States to sit by until just the government we think " right " is shaken out of the dice-box of chance ? We helped instal a most " representative " government and gave it our blessing . It vanished before the crude realities of revolution . Are we so old and distant from the days of our national beginnings that we can not understand the genuine youthful stirrings in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ history , proximity , and circumstance ? Howard Brubaker , in his pithy column in the New Yorker , remarks pointedly : " There is another difference between Cuban and American folkways . Havana students are running the government while ours are curled up with copies of Kipling 's " ONE of the immediate results of the Administration 's intrusion in the New York City election has been the sabotaging of the Senate investigation of investment banking . Valuable as were the revelations brought out by the examinations of the house of Morgan and of " old Doctor Kuhn , Loeb , " it is no secret that the probing might have been deeper and more productive . Ferdinand Pecora , counsel for the Banking and Currency Committee , at first unfamiliar with the intricacies of finance , was presumably gathering wisdom as he proceeded . The division of his interest by his candidacy for the district attorneyship of New York on the McKee ticket has , however , already become manifest . The investigation of Dillon , Read and Company was superficial and hasty . It barely scratched the surface @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the cumulative evidence of enormous bankers ' profits , of evasion of tax payments through the legalistic loopholes of the income-tax law , of " rigging the market " for the sale of dubious offerings , of none too great solicitude for the safety and soundness of the securities sold the public , and of the involvement of men highly placed in public office or in private life through loans or membership on preferred lists . But the story of high finance and of the leadership which dominated America to its cost in the Dizzy Decade is too important to be slighted . The information which is obtained may form the basis for remedial legislation . The Chase National Bank is to be investigated next , and it is an open secret that the preparation for this inquiry is sketchy and inadequate . The banking fraternity is quietly rejoicing . Thus President Roosevelt 's Man Farley has done the Administration and the country a double disservice . He has injured or at least imperiled the prospect of a New Deal on two fronts . AN INVESTIGATION hardly less important than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the District of Columbia for several weeks . It has had no nation-wide publicity , although it has exposed conditions relative to the concentration of wealth and industrial control which affect the interests of virtually all Americans . This is the milk-trust investigation undertaken by the Committee on the District of Columbia of the Senate . It began simply as an inquiry into high milk prices in the city of Washington , but thanks primarily to the vigor and dogged persistence of the committee 's investigator , Elwood Seal , it has led to the exposure of the curious methods whereby the National Dairy Products Corporation grew within the space of a few years from a small company owning six or seven small dairies to the largest milk trust in the world . In every case in which dairies or milk-distributing firms have been absorbed by the trust , with the exception of two small companies , the corporation paid for the properties purchased not in cash or out of its own resources but by issuing stock . After examining the books and questioning the treasurer of the corporation , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ face " to show watered-stock operations in all subsidiaries acquired by National Dairy . " The Senate committee is mainly interested in the manner in which the trust brought most of the dairy farmers in the rural districts adjacent to Washington under its thumb , as well as in the methods whereby the corporation acquired control of the two largest milk-distributing companies in the capital . But so important is this inquiry to the country as a whole that the Senate , upon reconvening , should act immediately to widen its scope . THE California Council on Oriental Relations reports a most encouraging change in sentiment on the Pacific Coast in regard to the 1924 immigration law . Composed of some forty-five outstanding citizens of the State the council has now drawn 3,000 representative leaders of opinion into cooperation with it , among them the presidents of the three largest universities in California ; municipal , county , and State officials ; manufacturers , business , and professional men ; and agriculturalists throughout the State . The object of the council is to bring about the amendment of the law so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ footing as the other countries of the world , whereas their nationals are now discriminated against by being completely excluded and not given the benefit of the quota plan . Not only does the report itself indicate a great change in public sentiment in California , but there is much additional evidence in the favorable attitude of the press of the State , with the exception of the Hearst newspapers . Thus , the San Francisco Newsadmits that the act of 1924 is a " gratuitous insult to Japan " and that the Pacific Coast carries a heavy responsibility for this injustice to the Japanese and Chinese . " The sooner the exclusion act is replaced , the better for international relations , " says the San Francisco Chronicle , pointing out at the same time that putting Japan and China upon a quota basis means only the admission of the horrendous number of 185 Japanese and 105 Chinese a year . The California State Chamber of Commerce , to its great credit , is leading the fight . It is , of course , true that the profit motive is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has risen from $125,000,000 in 1913 to something over $2,000,000 , - 000 today . WITHOUT BEING VINDICTIVE , one may nevertheless rejoice at the speedy disposal of the Urschel kidnapping case by the Department of Justice . Within a period of ninety days from July 22 , when Charles F. Urschel , the rich oil man of Oklahoma City , was urged from his home at the point of a gun , the money paid by the Urschel family was recovered , the kidnapping gang was apprehended , and six of them began life sentences in various federal penitentiaries . After a series of kidnappings in which nothing much happened except that the kidnappers received the swag and returned the victim , it is heartening to know that it is apparently not impossible to punish this type of criminal with the restraint he deserves . If this is the result of federal participation in the apprehension of such criminals , then one can be grateful for the law that made such participation possible . Kidnapping was distinctly assuming the proportions of a successful racket in which the rewards were large @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to keep the families of victims from doing everything in their power to bring about the return of the kidnapped person , even though this includes paying ransom money in large sums and keeping quiet , and since local police to date have been unable in most cases to find the kidnappers , one can be grateful for the competence and incorruptibility of federal officers , who may thus add to their long list of successful prosecutions of counterfeiters and mail robbers the successful prosecution of the lowest criminal of them all . GEORGE CRAWFORD , Negro , under indictment for the murder of Mrs. Agnes Boeing Ilsley and her maid , must go back to Virginia for trial . The Supreme Court of the United States has ruled that the issue raised by Judge James A. Lowell , that Negroes did not serve on grand juries in Virginia , is not valid in habeas corpus proceedings . The Circuit Court of Appeals had previously reversed Judge Lowell , and its decision is now sustained by the highest tribunal in the land . An enormous service , however , has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into the open . The eyes of the nation will be focused on Virginia , where the probability of a fair trial for Crawford is greatly enhanced . The publicizing of the racial discrimination in the omission of colored jurors has already brought some reform in that State . The Supreme Court 's reversal of Judge Lowell 's decision was essentially on technical grounds and does not at all preclude , should Crawford be found guilty , an appeal to the Supreme Court on the issue that a man is not being tried by a jury of his peers if members of his race are excluded therefrom .                     