@@469890

IN THESE days when something grievous seems to be the matter with everything it is not surprising that the public school should be much criticized and investigated . What is surprising , and heartening , is the unanimity with which school people themselves are bewailing the failure of the schools to do what they should be doing at this stage in American civilization . Typical of this new attitude in the profession is a project recently completed by Julia Emery . Like every other American teacher , she had been brought up on the doctrine that one of the chief functions of the public schools is to produce the high grade of citizenship upon which a democracy is peculiarly dependent . In the fall of 1935 she was suddenly fired with a desire to find out something about the actual performance of the schools in this respect . Accordingly , she worked up a series of questions designed to test the information possessed by young Americans about the political world they live in . The test was given to twelve thousand high school students in communities varying in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ carefully tabulated answers may be accepted as an accurate picture of what Americans aged fourteen to eighteen know about their world . After three years when Franklin Roosevelt had been the most discussed personage in the Western hemisphere and perhaps in the world , 1 per cent of those high school students could not name the President . Only 22 per cent of them knewthat Stalin is a dictator . When asked the official position of Cordell Hull , less than a third of them could produce the right answer . Only 20 per cent could identify Pierre Laval , 9 per cent Stanley Baldwin , and 3 per cent Maxim Litvinoff . Twenty per cent did not know that Russia is Communist , and 40 per cent did not know that Germany is Fascist . The percentage was somewhat higher for Italy , but still scandalously low in view of the fact that the Ethiopian adventure was in full swing at the moment . When they were asked to select from a list of political characteristics those applicable to Communism , Fascism , and Democracy , their answers were little @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ same- One per cent could locate Mukden , and 10 per cent Prague . More than a third of them did not know where Geneva is . In the world of to-day such a state of knowledge among individuals nearing the end of their school life is shocking enough ; but when the totals were broken down to compare the answers of the year levels , the result was a matter of public concern . For the seniors did only a little better than the sophomores . Even in a large high school which had rather prided itself on its work in current history and international relations , the median for right answers among the sophomores was 25 and for the seniors only 37 . That is fairly conclusive proof that the American high school is failing to train for an important phase of modern citizenship . Once upon a time perhaps AmeriCAN THE SCHOOLS cans could vote intelligently without this sort of information ; but that day belongs to a past which may be dear but is certainly dead . Although the results of this test have not been widely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seen them and pondered their significance . For they pose again the old question : " What are public schools for ? " with such sharpness as to make the usual answer sound a shade too glib . If the function of the public schools is to produce the intelligent citizenry which a Democracy must have , what do they mean by turning out high school seniors who know next to nothing about the political and economic patterns of the modern world ? This whole question of citizenship and Democracy is an old one . From the Founding Fathers , with their keen disagreement over the capacities of the common man , straight down to George Counts and Charles Beard , the more thoughtful Americans have always perceived that the quality of citizenship must be vastly higher in a Democracy than in other forms of government , that if the common man is to have power he must be taught to live up to his obligations instead of letting himself become one of a rabble . In all that long discussion the voice of the schoolmaster has been prominent . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ idea of free schools was struggling into the concrete expression of red brick and recitation bench , the schoolmaster argued that the electorate must be able to read and write . After the Civil War , when the usual post-war demand for more instruction in patriotism made itself felt and when the full effects of the prolonged immigration were beginning to appear , he caught up the theme of citizenship in earnest and made of it an apologia for public education , a good and sufficient reason for every increase in taxes . It was the teachers who hammered most faithfully at the proposition that the public school is the best instrument for training citizens . As it was by then abundantly clear that mere literacy only made the common man the slave of a sensational press , the educators shifted to the ground that the schools must teach American history and the mechanics of government . The required course of " civics , " taught mostly by memory drills on the Declaration and Preamble and by prodding pupils through badly written textbooks , became the bane of early adolescence . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the curriculum . And history was one long procession of dates and generals . Naturally the quality of actual citizenship was not much affected . Immediately after the World War a new thesis was developed : in addition to teaching " constitution " and American history , the school must become a little world in which children should learn to act like citizens . Proctor buttons , student councils , home-room organizations , and required reading on the making of Americans broke out like the measles in the school world . Thus the talk went on in teachers ' meetings and education journals . It was all very pious , very respectable . The public listened indulgently . Only a few teachers realized that they were creating for themselves a vested interest in citizenship somewhat akin to the vested interest of the medical profession in health . None of them had any foreboding of how uncomfortable it would presently make them . II The years since 1929 have shaken all of us in our habits of thinking , but no occupational group more profoundly than teachers . It is not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has changed from complacency to one suggestive of sackcloth and ashes . Even the rank and file has begun to admit that , in spite of all the fine talk about training citizens and all the teacher energy which has been poured into the task itself , the results are considerably less than happy when the products of the public schools sit placidly under any sort of boss rule and flock by the millions to the support of any first-class rabble-rouser who appears on the horizon , and when the average American , who has come up through an average series of schoolrooms , thinks he has done his civic duty if he votes once in two years . In some respects even more sobering has been the grim realization , forced often enough by attacks on fellowteachers , that people who had supposedly been trained to live in a Democracy would leap wholeheartedly to throttle the expression of new or different points of view . Every " red " hunt has left an emotional scar upon the better sort of teachers , for it proves their failure to inculcate tolerance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ What makes both the Emery project and the general perception of failure particularly upsetting is that they come at a moment when teachers , like the rest of us , see that the need for creating an intelligent , responsible citizenry is crucial , because great social changes are upon us and our chance to meet them decently is dependent upon the caliber of our citizens . As one high school principal said somberly , " After all our years of prating about training citizens , we 've got to begin doing it ? and in a hurry too . " Naturally then , a new tack is being taken . The profession has begun to swing to the leadership of those who have been preaching the gospel of the Social Studies . And now every teachers ' meeting and every teachers ' journal cries the need for adding more of the social studies to the curriculum as a way of building up in youngsters an understanding of the society in which they live and a desire to improve it . Already the movement has gone far enough to make a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a menace to " Americanism " ? whatever he thought that to be . The thirteen-volume report of the Social Science Commission , appointed in 1929 by the American Historical Association , is now in print and being studied by teachers , orat least by their leaders . It covers many different aspects of the problem and concludes by recommending as " imperative " a program of social studies running from the kindergarten through the junior college , and so closely integrated with the whole school program " that the entire curriculum may constitute a unified attack upon the complicated problem of life in contemporary society . " Some large school systems are already experimenting with curriculum changes based upon a literal acceptance of this educational philosophy . At Cleveland , for instance , little six-year-olds who can barely manage to put on their own galoshes are introduced to the stories of our national holidays , to some of the local governmental services , and to the life of children in other lands . Twelve grades up , the seniors in high school are studying modern history and socio-economic problems , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and why Germany wants back her lost colonies . Other towns all over the country are falling into line . Even a Kansas wheat village , which three years ago was cutting salaries and denouncing " fads and frills in education , " this year put on its first full-time history teacher . Every profession has its swelling and waning enthusiasms . At one swing of the medical pendulum any pain in the middle was apt to be pronounced a case of appendicitis ; at another the gall bladder was practically certain to be involved . Even the staid and not easily perturbed legal profession grows excited when talking about the one thing necessary to cut down crime . Ordinarily the public can afford to wait while its professional groups blow warm and cool ; for in the full cycle there lies a long-time advantage of truth gaining . But this question of bringing up citizens who will understand their world and be able to improve it is so vital just now that we dare not take chances . And so before we embark on a wholesale revamping of the curriculum @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ CAN THE SCHOOLS and teachers . Otherwise we may make the sad discovery that an indefinite amount of history , geography , and economics can be added to the course of study without materially affecting the quality of American citizenship . The danger is that in our new enthusiasm for the neglected social studies we shall assume that all we need to do is to add a batch of new courses and the desired result will automatically follow . It will of course do no such thing . Nothing except a new crop of textbooks ever automatically results from a change in the curriculum . III In the first place we shall need to approach the problem far more seriously than we have been doing . We have never really thought it important . If we had we should long ago have found a way to solve it , just as we have found ways to shorten the distance from New York to Los Angeles . Until very recently who besides teachers talked about the necessity of training citizens ? Editors in their more solemn moods , speakers at celebrations of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ professional patriots who placed great confidence in flag etiquette and familiarity with the national documents . The rest of us were not much bothered . If Johnny became a proctor we were pleased , though we did n't like the idea of his tattling on other children . If Mary became class president , fine ! It reflected credit on the parents who produced her . It was childish stuff of course , but harmless and capable of working off a lot of energy that might find channels we should n't approve . It gave good training in leadership too . God bless the children and the public schools anyway . No society with that sort of an attitude toward its youth will ever make first-rate citizens of them . Primitive peoples are not so stupid . They do not neglect both informal and ceremonial training designed to fit the oncoming generation into its tribal functions . Consequently the youngster comes into maturity with an understanding of tribal necessities and a sense of tribal obligations which he never questions . American society finds it curiously hard to take its younger members @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to gush over them absurdly . We either wash our hands of them as a crude , self-centered lot of brats or we want to keep them young and innocent as long as we can . When someone points to them as a national resource more important than all the ore deposits and waterfalls , we agree politely ; but we do n't really believe it . If we did we should expect adolescents to be interested in something besides sex and athletics . And they would be . The school is only one of the institutions which shape children for their place in the world . Unless some concern about the whole problem can be developed in society at large we should not expect too much from the addition of social studies to the curriculum . In the second place we must at least begin to make up our minds as to what we most want from the public school . We say that we want the school to train citizens . But actually we build our curricula on several objectives . Once upon a time certain subjects were taught @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it supple and fit for attacking the problems of life . The public school has now totally rejected this theory . But most of the subjects which were originally included because of it are still in the course of study . More adolescents are studying algebra , Latin , and formal grammar this winter than in the good old days of disciplining the mind when secondary education was for the privileged classes going into the aristocratic professions instead of the masses going to assembly lines and office machines . Worse still , the subjects are being taught by much the same methods as when they were supposed to discipline the mind . Indeed , the best recipe I know for recapturing the flavor of adolescence is to drop in on a high school Latin class . We also desire that the public schools shall build character and develop the aesthetic sense . The courses supposed to accomplish those ends are carefully included . And being a very practical people , we insist that the schools shall train individuals to earn their living ? enter vocational guidance , domestic science , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leisure and are demanding that the schools shall train for it . Finally and more or less incidentally , we have desired to train citizens ? add the proctor buttons , flag drills , and extra-curricular activities . It is nonsense to suppose that an institution with so many objectives will move satisfactorily toward any of them . The result of such a blurring of aims is that the finished product of the public school knows a little of this and that , but is trained for neither thinking , leisure , livelihood , nor citizenship . If the schools really want to affect the quality of American citizenship they must get down to business about it . It must become their primary objective . Logically it should be the first aim in tax-supported schools . Why otherwise should the State go to all the trouble and expense of maintaining them ? The common man has a notion that the public school is a benevolence intended to give his children " a better chance in life " than he had . The privileged are sometimes inclined to think it a piece @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to keep children off the street and the labor market for a number of years . Mothers occasionally think of it as a colossal nursemaid . None of them arc right . The immense amount of money and human energy which go into the public school can be justified only as a State investment . Henry Adams understood that when he wrote , " All State education is a sort of dynamo machine for polarizing the popular mind ; for turning and holding its lines of force in the direction supposed to be most effective for State purposes . " Professor Thomas H. Briggs of Columbia has said the samething more directly : " The State maintains free public education to perpetuate itself and to promote its own interests . Free public education is a longterm investment that the State may be a better place in which to live and in which to make a living . " According to this theory , if the State does not make its public schools assure its perpetuation and improvement it has squandered its money . If this has an alarmingly Fascist ring , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ democratic States . One is an organism , an end in itself , a supreme value for which the individual exists and towhich he owes implicit obedience . The blinder and more unquestioning the obedience the better the citizens . The other is conceived as the instrument whereby a large group of individuals organize their common life " to promote the general welfare . " The more social intelligence and critical understanding in the electorate the better the State . So long as the State remains a Democracy , even the fiercest individualist can not quarrel with its use of the schools to perpetuate itself ? that is , to preserve freedom and the common interest . Here then is a democratic State pouring some two billion dollars a year into a sort of insurance policy at a crucial moment when the whole theory of democracy is definitely on the defensive . To make the investment still more urgent , the moment is also one when apparently the world has entered one of the breathless eras in which changes come faster than usual , bursting through the traditional dams out into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quieter times . At all such periods in the past the people had much less power than they now have in America . The common man did mostly what individuals or classes used to governing told him to do . Even so the mortality rate of governments has always been high during these periods . In one of them Americans themselves ran through two governments within twenty years . And when they came to CAN THE SCHOOLS set up the third , their fear of the people dictated an elaborate system of checks and balances . History has not yet demonstrated that a Democracy can survive the stresses of a major revolutionary period . IV In spite of all these special hazards faced by a democratic government just now , we approach the function of public education much more timidly and carelessly than do States with other philosophies of government . Thcy do not hesitate to use their schools to build into the - nervous systems of children the views and attitudes the State believes desirable . Communist schools are frankly making communists , Fascist schools diligently making fascists . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ device which can be brought to bear upon it . By analogy and by common sense , it would seem that a Democracy which aims to perpetuate itself through a period of swift change should just as frankly use its schools to make " democrats . " We have used the schools for teaching the structure of the government and something of the national history , but we have taught so little about Democracy that twenty-seven per cent of our high school seniors do not even associate it with the rule of the majority . Their ignorance is shocking of course , but it is not wholly or even mostly the fault of the schools . Americans in general are very vague about Democracy . When we think of it at all we appear to think that it is only the right to vote and to criticize the government We wave the flag and shout ourselves hoarse about " Americanism , " but when we go to define it we sound like kindergartners . The Communist State knows exactly what principles it must inculcate in its children to make good communists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But we have nowhere any agreement as to what constitute our national ideals . We can not very well make democrats when as a people we do not know what we are trying to make . Probably there are no other words in the language over which we grow so emotional as " religion , " " love , " and " Democracy . " Yet it would be hard to select three realms of experience from which we shy away so self-consciously when it comes to instructing our children . " When he grows up he 'll make up his own mind about it " or " Give them the facts and let them make their own inferences " we decree sanctimoniously . And when some educator remarks that we should teach the implications of Democracy for contemporary life , we wither him with the cry " indoctrination . " But we shall never train up a responsible citizenry without some indoctrination . Surely the generation which has now come up without definite religious training is proof of that . In the course of a lifetime they may pick @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ religion rarely becomes a vital force for them . Children can be crammed with statistics about production and consumption ; but unless their elders point out the inferences and economic philosophies which have been and are being built round those statistics the youngsters will never understand them . They can be taught the facts of history ; but unless they are grounded in a definite political philosophy they are not apt to grow up with one , still less to give it the kind of loyalty that Democracy is going to need in the next thirty years . All this is sobering enough to keep us from too easy an assumption that adding some social studies to the school program will give us a better brand of citizenship . But there is a still higher hurdle . To mean anything , the social studies must be taught realistically . If we are to produce democrats who understand their own problems we must allow teachers to approach those problems without too many gloves . No one thinks that small children should be introduced to the graft and political roguery and industrial warfare @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between that and the classroom approach which allows students to graduate from high school with the idea that they live in a sinless city in the best of all possible worlds there is surely some happy middle ground . Any worthwhile teaching of Democracy must present it not as an accomplished fact , but as an ideal toward which we have been slowly and unevenly moving , as a way of life which we are still far from having mastered . This sounds easier than it is . Our prejudices go deep . And our precious private interests make us timorous . Not so long ago a history teacher in the Illinois mining district was reprimanded by her principal for teaching her seniors that the Civil War was an economic struggle as well as a political and moral one . He had not been brought up on that view of the Civil War , and besides the business men on his Board of Education might not think it wholesome for the sons of union miners to be hearing about economic conflict . Realistic teaching means showing young people both the failures @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an honest insight into the realities of politics and business , instead of leaving them open to disillusionment and cynicism , as we have done by the namby-pamby , milk-for-babies teaching of the past . Can this be done in a classroom ? A few superior teachers have always known how . Good teachers everywhere will welcome the freedom to try , for youngsters always respond to it . I once watched a class half-asleep over the events leading up to the French Revolution suddenly wake up as if electrified when the teacher pointed to Necker 's struggle with the tax problem and asked if any other country ever had a spell of worrying over taxes . Similarly , the lean hard years following the panic of 1837 come alive for even a rather ordinary class if they are taught it in connection with the years since 1929 . Here are a few flashes of classroom experience to show how some of the problems they are soon to face can be broughthome to adolescents . A certain teacher of " social problems " occasionally lets her students read different news-stories about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the German occupation of the Rhineland she had them read the text of Secretary Hull 's bulletin , then the stories given it by Hearst and Scripps-Howard newspapers , the New York Times and the Manchester Guardian . After about two such experiences the class is shaken forever from its childlike confidence in what " I see in the papers . " The coloring given the supposedly uncolored news-stories is too obvious . . . . A history teacher made use of the Windsor-Simpson story to teach the English political system . In four days ' time an average high school class lapped up an understanding of the present English political picture and of English ways of acting and thinking which would have ordinarily been beyond the interest of collegians . . . . A teacher of " business principles " suggested that several members of the class take their cars down to loan companies and find out about shortterm loans . They did , and came back to figure the rate of interest they would have to pay on this common type of chattel mortgages ? two hundred per cent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ .. . Someone mentioned the pending Food and Drug Legislation . The teacher assigned him to bring in the original text of the Copeland Bill . When it had been read the fun began . What conditions had called forth the bill ? A sheaf of magazine assignments to get the information . What groups would oppose the bill ? The class began to analyze the special interests involved . Who would back the bill ? Here the class was not so sure , but with help they built the line-up . " Boy , this is going to be a good old fight , " grinned a junior in the back row . " I 'm going to write and find out where our Congressman stands . He 'll be against it though , for he had a wholesale druggist on his campaign committee . " Any decent training of individuals whose citizenship is to extend through most of the twentieth century should include an introduction to the problems of an industrial , rapidly changing civilization ; some notion of the complexity of our machine civilization and the interdependence it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ technology has made in man 's long fight against nature . This too can be done by technics already worked out . No bus load of youngsters ever came in from a " field trip " which included , say , the local shantytown , Gold Coast , and industrial district without some of the children asking questions which get at the heart of our social distress . The stage is set for teaching , for honest help in finding the answers . To be sure that means imposing a great responsibility upon teachers and assuming that they are worthy of it . But it seems to be the lesser risk , because as the children grow up they are perfectly certain to ask why people must live in shanties in a land with an industrial plant like ours . Those who are on the wrong end of the social scale will later find the question so imperative as to make them the inevitable prey of all sorts of quacks with fantastic answers to it unless they have earlier been given a few standards for intelligent thinking . A future citizen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to perpetuate itself dares not deny it to him , to know about the tensions and conflicts and indecisions racking modern society . And he has a right to be introduced to the political and economic philosophies which various countries and individuals are advocating as ways of reducing those tensions and conflicts : yes , to the bogey " isms " which frighten some of his elders half out of their senses . How can we really teach Democracy without explaining its points of difference from Communism and Fascism ? It is outrageous when we create for the future voter a situation wherein if he ? as a member of the sixth-grade class in geography ? suddenly wants to know " how they do things in Russia , " the teacher feels it advisable to hush him up and then run to the principal agitated at the dreadful crisis which has arisen . But that is the situation we do create when we plaster the statute books with teachers ' oath legislation . It happened in my town even without the statute . V This is the barest sketch , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the way of a really worthwhile training in citizenship . Looking at the array , one almost feels them insuperable . Yet as an ex-teacher , a present patron , and a fraction of the American public , I still have the temerity to think the schools can do something , perhaps much , through the proposed liberal use of the social studies . But we need not fool ourselves that it will be easily or cheaply done . Teachers must be willing to pay for the privilege of doing it , and the rest of us must get it into our heads that it is our problem too . Three groups of the public may be counted on to oppose such training : the timid , because it is new and they are afraid of newness ; the ultra-patriotic , because they have a superficial and narrow understanding of American democracy ; and the specially interested , because they have a heavy stake in the status quo . At least the first two of these groups can be won over , for they are only fearful and ill-informed . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a terrific amount of patience and tact both in building up public opinion and in classroom performance . If they are to be successful , teachers must cultivate a feeling of their own importance . In the years past when theirs was looked upon as an inferior occupation , fit only for women until they could get married and for men too weak and gentle for business , teachers naturally tended to think poorly of themselves . That day is practically over . Teachers have begun to cultivate a psychology in tune with the importance of the social function which can be theirs if they have the wisdom and the fortitude to take it . They need also to cultivate an actual position of importance . Whenever a teacher forges up to a chairmanship of a civic enterprise or takes a prominent part in any community effort he has done something for his profession . The average teacher has hitherto been too remote from the community , too sheltered from its stresses . He had a nice , safe job , one at which he could conscientiously spend all his waking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ itself , which would fire him promptly if he got out of his place . So teachers stepped softly and lived remotely . If they now want to bring up citizens fit for facing the problems of the day they will have to forswear some of this remoteness and shelter . At the same time , because to bring about their aims requires cutting to some extent across popular prejudices and timidities , they must move more rapidly toward making their professional associations protect their freedom to teach . The American Association of University Professors is pointing the way . Already it has made life uncomfortable for several boards of regents and communities which interfered with the democratic right to bring the findings of scholarship into the classroom for free discussion . There is no reason why the National and State associations of elementary and secondary teachers should not follow suit . Various technics are already being devised . In one large system , for instance , there is a ruling that any individual or group objecting to material being presented in aclassroom must file the objection in writing ( and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a protection more real than it sounds in the telling , for the people most given to complaint hate to do it formally . Teachers need also to learn to size up shrewdly and without awe the organized groups which will fight them as they try to teach and those which will back them . In the years just ahead the public school seems destined to feel an ever-increasing pressure from all sorts of organized interests . Teachers must learn to understand these pressures and to work with them and in spite of them . Here too a start has been made . A book or two is out and a sprinkling of articles and speeches beginning to appear in the attempt to analyze these interests and suggest methods of dealing with them . In short , no matter what subjects are taught , teachers must , if their talk about training citizens is to be anything but taxjustifying platitudes , become what their name implies , people who know enough and are skilful enough to lead . To do that they must have or acquire the fortitude and the sense @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one would have dismissed this as an impossibility for the American teacher . Now one can not be so sure . The depression has laid hands on them . And the rest of us are beginning to realize that of all the problems looming before us none is more important than the quality of tomorrow 's citizenship .                     