@@493676

The New Technology The Power Age : Its Ouest and Challenge , by Walter N. Polakov . New York : Covici-Friede. 247 pages . $2 . MR . WALTER POLAKOV is a type of engineer far more common in Germany than in America . He is concerned with the social and economic effects of the machine ; he has been aware of the deflection of technics by business enterprise ; and he has endeavored , over a considerable period of years , to grasp the meaning and value for society of the forces with which he works . One naturally turns to his little book on " The Power Age " for an intelligent interpretation of the possibilities of modern technics ; and in the main , one is not disappointed . Mr. Polakov 's thesis is that we have passed during the last generation into a new phase of technics , characterized " by a different kind of machine , conditioning a different kind of production , which results in a different kind of economy and a different kind of social relations . " Thanks to our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no longer proportional to working time . Typically , the new worker is not an active part of the process , but a supervisor of the machine which performs the work : such labor requires intelligence and judgment . Meanwhile , the problem of management has changed : instead of slave .. driving the worker , or reducing him as Taylor did to a more deft automaton , the main concern of efficient management is the correct timing and spacing and ordering of the entire process of production . Because of the more extensive use of the electric motor , even the unit of operation and the arrangement of the necessary machinery has changed . What has been the result ? During the last ten years , the period in which the effects of the new technics began plainly to manifest themselves , an enormous increase of output per man-hour took place in the advanced industries . But because of our failure to distribute purchasing power among the body of consumers ? though during the years 1930 and 1931 industrial dividends and interest had risen even above the level of 1929 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ halt . Mr. Polakov 's special contribution is to show in terms of the internaldevelopment of technics the physical foundations for a new social order based on surplus rather than on scarcity . If the thesis was sound when Carver originally stated it , it is even more pregnant today . Together with Henderson 's " The Economic Consequences of Power Production " and Mr. Stuart Chase 's " The Tragedy of Waste , " Mr. Polakov 's little book forms a most useful guide for the layman on the actual practice and the potential achievements of the new technology . Unfortunately , Mr. Polakov , in order to demonstrate the uniqueness of the present situation , has been driven to make a series of distinctions and to use a vocabulary which obscures rather than illuminates some of the elements of the change . He makes a sharp contrast between the Machine Age , which is dead , and the Power Age , which has supplanted it . But the fact of the matter is , as Ulrich Wendt pointed out a long time ago , that the critical change in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . What Mr. Polakov calls the machine age was equally a power age : the important difference lies less in a quantitative increase in power during the last generation , than in a change in the kind of power . The second weakness in Mr. Polakov 's book lies in the fact that he places too much confidence in the belief that Power Age production eliminates the need for a social structure based on scarcity and " hence on exploitation and special privileges . " Exploitation and special privileges are not necessarily booed on scarcity : they may exist fulsomely , as the salary and status of so many of our financiers disclose , along with a general surplus : or they may be eliminated . even though the scarcity should remain . " The power age , " as a friend of mine has well said , " does not make any promises : it is the human spirit that makes and keeps promises . " Hence there is no automatic salvation in our technology , indeed no salvation at all until we manufacture the means for controlling it in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ To say at the end , as Mr. Polakov says , that " it would be idle to speculate as to what type of control we are destined to develop " is to place a premium upon inertia ; for it is precisely at the point that Mr. Polakov leaves the discussion , with a hopeful nod toward the N.R.A. , that the big problems arise and the weightiest thinking must be done . LEWIS MUM-FORD . Science and Mysticism General Psychology , by Gardner Murphy . New Yorke Harper and Brothers . 657 pages . $3.50 . Modern Man in Sench of a Soul , by C. G. Jung . New York : Harcourt , Brace and Company . 282 Pages . $3 ' . T HESE two books , read one immediately after the other , reopen once more that often debated question : is psychology a science ? Professor Murphy believes emphatically that it is ? an experimental science of the first water , whose " clear and definite results " furnish the only correct approach to " the more complicated facts of social contact and personality . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ us " a simple presentation of those psychological fundamentals regarding which experimental evidence has already given a verdict . " These fundamentals he gathers not only from the psychological laboratory , but from anthropology , endocrinology , neurology , anatomy , sodology and genetics . He also includes quantities of statistics , charts and graphs , and some tasty photographs of such terrifying phenomena as a pretty young lady having her 01 nostrils pierced by an olfactometer and a studious young man being confronted by " the Minnemann exposure apparatus for simpler studies of thinking and related problems . " It is a curious commentary upon all this evidence that only when Professor Murphy leaves his own particular field of experimental psychology , and begins to discuss such things as the effect of heredity and the influence of glands , does his book really come alive . Even the stereotyped diagram of the autonomic nervous systems seems more actual than the two photographs of twenty-one real children holding queer-shaped cones to their eyes so that their experimenter may judge their " sightedness . " As for the more strictly psychological facts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his expectations of the science of psychology . It may seem impressively scientific to the college students for whom this book is primarily intended , and very reassuring to anyone who has seriously doubted such matters , to learn that a person 's breathing becomes irregular when he is badly frightened , that practice helps one in learning to throw a ball , that repeating words aloud is an aid to memorizing them , that we can not always judge a person 's character from his face , and that an inventor needs to reflect a bit on the goal toward which he is aiming . But how do such facts , however clear and definite , aid us in approaching what Professor Murphy calls the more complicated facts of social contact and personality ? Where do they get us in understanding the riddle of human nature ? Dr , Jung apparently believes they get us nowhere , for though reverently included among the approved laboratory methods of " General Psychology " is the " free association test , " which Jung invented years ago , the Zurich professor does not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other experiments which the American professor so patiently describes . Jung , indeed , is unwilling to consider psychology a science . " It is still , " he says , " little more than a chaos of arbitrary opinions , the better part of which seems to have been produced in the study and consulting room by spontaneous generation from the isolated and therefore Jovian brains of learned scholars . " To Jung one of the most " regrettable " traits of many learned scholars is their reluctance to confirm the " actuality of the unconscious . " But almost as distressing to him is the fact that most persons who do accept the unconscious as real , automatically accept Sigmund Freud 's one-sided and altogether vicious interpretation of it . Though Jung believes that Freud , by dedicating himself steadfastly to exposing the muck and slime which lies hidden deep within the human mind , has proved himself one of the true idealists of his time , still he maintains that the Freudian theory of a wholly criminal and incestuous unconscious can not ever be " a psychology of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has had to abandon the technique of both Freud and Adler , because most of the people who have brought their psychic problems to Zurich from " all quarters of the civilized white world " are too old to be still tragically absorbed by sex and too well fixed in life to be ridden by inferiority complexes . They are competent , middle-aged men and women who seek Jung 's advice because their lives seem so barren and the world so meaningless . It is through trying to understand their problems and his own that Jung has derived his concept of the truly modern man ? a man who is superlatively conscious of his own time because he can draw no moral substance from the traditions of the past and no spiritual comfort from contemplating the future . For such a man orthodox Christianity has long ago gone by the boards , and yearly he grows more skeptical of social and political reforms . His only solace lies in turning his thoughts from the outside world and back into the depths of his own psyche . Jung believes that modern man @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ human mind has exulted so proudly in its conscious reason that it has stifled the primordial urges of its unconscious . But metaphysical longings inherited from generations of archaic ancestors will not down ; they now rise up to smite the most " reasonable " product of all civilization , the man of the twentieth century . Not until this man can find within his own buried psyche some god , no matter how unorthodox or how traditionally immoral or unlovely , which he can truly love and trust , can he find peace . For holding such views Jung answers readily to the charge of mysticism , and mystical he certainly seems to this moderately skeptical modern . But can there be no middle ground in psychology ? Are we forced , if we wish to interpret human nature " psychologically , " to choose between the concept of a motivating unconscious , either mystical or vile , and the clear and definite but petty and artificial facts of the textbooks ? 