@@493695

. Security for Americans V : Unemployment Insurance and Relief THE PRIMARY purpose of unemployment insurance is to obtain a better distribution of the risks of unemployment . Through the contributions by or on behalf of the many , funds are accumulated which are then disbursed as benefits to the minority who at any one moment are unemployed . What would otherwise be a crushing burden for those upon whom unemployment falls is , therefore , lightened by being spread over many shoulders . And yet each worker is assured of at least partial protection should he be unlucky enough to lose his job . Unemployment insurance , therefore , is seen to be essentially similar , as Mr. Epstein has pointed out , to other forms of insurance such as that for marine losses , fire and disability . Its primary purpose is protection through the pooling of risks . While other features , such as the reduction of unemployment , are desirable supplements to this purpose , they are not and should not be the primary aim . Since the wider the pooling of risks , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plans which confine the insurance reserves to a particular company or industry are patently inferior from an insurance standpoint to those that cover a state or group of states as a whole . As this principle becomes better understood , informed students of the question are increasingly turning from the plant reserve or Wisconsin system to statewide pools . An excellent example of this is seen in the recent frank reversal of position by Alvin H. Hansen and Merrill G. Murray of Minnesota . There is danger , however , that both the public and the administration will overestimate the amount of protection that unemployment insurance can be expected to give , and that they will therefore disregard other necessary forms of aid to the unemployed . Thus , at various times certain officials in Washington have been credited by the press as declaring that if we once institute unemployment insurance and carry through other programs such as subsistence homesteads and slum clearance , then in a year or so the relief rolls will be wiped clear . This view is a grotesque misunderstanding of the situation and if it comes to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . For it is likely to discourage national and state governments from providing the relief funds that for the moment are needed far more acutely than is unemployment insurance itself . The plain truth of the matter is that in spite of the great worthiness of the projected housing program , it can not absorb more than a fraction of the nine or ten millions who are unemployed today . In spite of the efforts of the administration , there will still be many millions of unemployed next year who , with their reserves further exhausted , will be in worse need than ever . These men and women , in the nature of the case , can not he covered by a system of unemployment insurance as such . For in order to be eligible for benefits under an insurance plan , a worker must have had a prior period of employment during which contributions have been made by or for him . This minimum period has been variously set in the numerous proposals that have been advanced , but in practice if the plan is to conform to insurance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ twenty weeks in the previous year , or thirty-four weeks in the two years preceding . Men who continue to be unemployed throughout this period will , therefore , be unable to acquire eligibility under the act and will not benefit from it . Unless relief is provided for them , they will fall in no-man 's land . It should also be understood that benefit payments for those who acquire eligibility and later lose their jobs can not begin for at least fifteen and perhaps even twenty-one months . For even with the greatest speed by Congress and the states , the collection of premiums under a federal-state plan can hardly start before July 1 of next year , while in all probability the actual date will be appreciably later . Then a subsequent period will follow during December 19 , 1934 THE NEW which contributions will be accumulated and eligibility acquired . This will consume at least another six months and perhaps even a year . Consequently , the actual payment of benefits to those covered by the act can not really be commenced before 1936 , while every @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who expect insurance to remove the need for relief within the next two years are living in a fool 's paradise from which the rude pressure of events will ultimately awaken them . But in the meantime , much damage may be done . For a considerable period to come the federal government will have to make very large appropriations for relief in order to protect those at present out of work . Still more important than this , however , is the fact that even when unemployment insurance is well under way the need for an adequate relief program , in prolonged periods of depression or technological unemployment , while lessened , will still be great . The great merit of insurance is that it does not compel people to use up their individual savings and become virtually destitute before they can receive protection , and it is this that makes it superior to an outright relief system which must necessarily be inadequate and humiliating and is frequently uncertain as well . It is this that makes insurance far preferable to the public maintenance of the unemployed which is now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plan , in view of the present distribution of political power , would mean that relief would only be given to those in need , with the result that the unemployed would be ground down into a condition of mass destitution before aid was given . But insurance , although highly desirable , can only provide an initial cushion , or to vary the analogy , a front-line trench , against the impact of unemployment . For every bona-fide insurance scheme will have to impose some maximum limit upon the length of time during which normal benefits are paid . It is improbable that this maximum period in practice can greatly , if at all , exceed twenty-six weeks in a given year , although those who have built up a long record of contributions should probably be given a proportionately longer period of normal benefits . It was , in fact , the carrying of the unemployed for an indefinite time beyond the standard period of twenty-six weeks a year that was largely responsible for the former big deficits in the British system . If the insurance system is to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the unemployed from normal insurance benefits , as such , once this period has been exhausted . This will exclude from standard ben . efits a considerable percentage of the unemployed . For even in April , 1930 , when the depression was just getting under way , 23 percent of the unemployed had been out of work for over twenty weeks , while the proportion today is , of course , enormously greater . To drop these workers outright and to throw a large proportion of them into destitution or into the arms of our inadequate system of public and private relief would be brutally cruel . It would also arouse such a storm of opposition as might well lead to an amendment of the insurance system that would saddle it with the costs of maintaining the unemployed for indefinitely long periods . This would probably plunge the insurance system heavily into debt during periods of depression and would discredit the insurance features of such a plan . The way out seems to he through the creation of a state-financed system of emergency benefits to carry those in need for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ twenty-six weeks . This is the method now used in Belgium , Switzerland and Germany ( though reversed under the Nazis ) . Thus , in Belgium , where the Ghent system of a subsidized voluntary plan is used , at an early date a National Emergency Fund was set up to pay allowances for the dependents of the unemployed and emergency benefits . Eighty-five percent of th ? se benefits is provided as a government subsidy to the voluntary insurance funds and 15 percent is furnished by the latter . In Switzerland , the federal government pays the cantons proportions ranging from one-third to three-fifths of the amounts that they disburse for emergency benefits . In Germany the original act provided that after the standard benefit of twenty-six weeks was exhausted , there was to be a further period of emergency benefits financed by the government . The length of this emergency period was continually altered , but up until the fall of 1933 four-fifths of this cost was met by the federal government and one-fifth by the municipal authorities . After this emergency period was in turn exhausted , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which was largely , although not wholly , financed by the localities . The British system has developed somewhat similarly through an interesting process of evolution . In 1930 , the Labor government transferred the entire cost of the so-called extended benefit from the insurance fund as such to the national budget . These payments were , however , more or less automatic and were independent of need . Then with the corning of the National or Tory government in the fall of 1931 , the means test was imposed upon those who had exhausted their claims for standard benefit . The determination of needs was , however , decentralized and put in the hands of the local Public Assistance Committees , which were the successors of the old Poor Law Committees . No national standards governing the determination of needs were promulgated and the relative severity or ease of these standards depended primarily upon the political balance of power on these committees . The Unemployment Act of 1934 has made the cost of maintaining all of the needy unemployed who are either outside the scope of the unemployment-insurance system @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon the national government instead of upon the localities . This is a sharp reversal , so far as this class is concerned , of the practice initiated by the Elizabethan poor law . For the principle of the exclusive responsibility of the localities for the poor has meant in practice that the chirges were heaviest upon those communities // that were least able to bear them . An Unemployment Assistance Board has been created to help administer the Act which will set up a national system of administration with local advisory boards and with representatives of the workers sitting on the various local tribunals . The assistance is to be on the basis of need , but the criteria for determining needs are to be laid down through national rulings and hence removed from local whim or prejudice . Some of these criteria are , indeed , quite liberal . Thus , the first $125 ( 25 pounds ) of savings or home ownership is exempted from the consideration of family assets . Furthermore , every additional $125 of savings up to a total of $1,500 will be treated as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Small savings are , therefore , primarily treated in terms of income rather than principal . Moreover , additional facilities for training and voluntary occupation are provided . The lesson for the United States would , therefore , seem to be fairly obvious . ( 1 ) The contributions by the federal , and indeed by the state , governments should he used primarily to establish a system of emergency benefits for those who exhaust their claim to standard benefits . Further protection would thus he offered to those who had terminated their normal benefit period and were still out of work , as well as to those who lost eligibility from the requirement that not more than one week 's benefits should be paid for a given number of weeks ' prior contributions , which might range from three to five . ( 2 ) Approximately three-quarters of the cost of these emergency benefits should be met by the national government and one-quarter by the states and localities . This depression should have taught us that prolonged unemployment is a national responsibility that should not he rolled off upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 60 percent of its population on relief can not carry its burden . Nor can the financially weaker states . The federal government , with its power to get at the large incomes and excess profits received in the metropolitan areas of the country and with its superior credit facilities , should properly bear the major portion of this load . Once governmental responsibility for emergency benefits is recognized , the problem of contributions to pay for the standard benefits becomes simpler . These may be paid either by the employer alone or , in order to make the benefits more adequate and democratic administration more likely , by employer and employee jointly . Incidentally , the provision of the emergency benefits from other than insurance sources should lessen the opposition of certain honest purists who have dreaded to see indefinite burdens heaped upon the insurance system itself . ( 3 ) The emergency benefits should be paid for a limited period of time , which probably should not exceed twenty-six weeks . ( 4 ) The benefits should not be flat sums , but should instead be graduated acDecember 19 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decisions as to need in individual cases will have to be made by local committees , standard rules should be worked out and promulgated by the national authority . The most sensible standard to be followed here would seem to be the standard of income received rather than capital holdings . Thus , if a person had savings equal to $2,000 , from which he drew an annual income of $100 , he should be credited with the latter and not the former . The same standard should be followed in the case of those who owned their homes . The total income from all these other sources would then be credited against the maximum emergency benefits that were payable and the unemployed person would receive the difference . This would remove any necessity for the unemployed worker to exhaust his savings , cash in on his insurance policy or mortgage his home before he could receive emergency benefits . ( 5 ) In return for the emergency benefits , coming as they would from the state , the unemployed should be required to do work of a public nature or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ private or public industry . This would require the-preparation of adequate projects of an improved C.W.A. type , and the placing of the unemployed in them with due regard for their occupational skills . A considerable amount of work could be obtained from this group in the carrying through of a program for slum clearance , housing and the development of parks , playgrounds , etc . The pay for work of this nature should be roughly equal to the going rates , and the unemployed in receipt of emergency benefits would not be required to give more labor at these rates than the amount of their emergency benefits . Thus , if an unskilled person received $6 a week in emergency benefits , and the going rate for this class of labor was 40 cents an hour , he would typically be required to give in return fifteen hours of work a week . When these emergency benefits , in turn , were exhausted , then would come the need for straight relief administered from the relief stations rather than the employment offices . While a goodly share of these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be a great mistake to have them all so met . For if they were , the depressed areas would have to lift themselves by their own bootstraps . A widening of the geographical basis for support through state and federal aid would permit the wealthier localities to aid in meeting what is , after all , a national problem . There is need , therefore , for a thorough overhauling and a greater centralization of our poor-law administration . And this problem can not be shirked or allowed to return to its pre-depression status . It is highly important that some such provisions as these should be included in whatever national and state acts are passed . Unless emergency benefits and ample relief provisions are provided to buttress unemployment insurance , we are likely to blunder into the next depression with inadequate defenses and with an overoptimistic faith in what mere insurance as such can do . In constructing a very essential front-line trench , we should not , therefore , neglect those successive second , third and fourth-line trenches that are almost equally necessary . For the onslaught of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and ample reserves are needed if the standards of life of the people are even partially to be maintained . The wealthy and the prosperous corporations will naturally be opposed to such a frank facing of responsibility , since it will mean heavier taxes for them . But there is every reason for the masses of the people to throw up those breastworks which they are likely to need badly in the future as well as in the present .                     