@@491725

T HE issue of Federal support for education is one of the most important , and one of the most contentious , of our day . It has been before the people in definite form since last February , when the President transmitted to Congress the report of his Advisory Committee on Education . The report precipitated a good deal of name-calling . Otherwise sober educators have referred to one another as Kluxers , Papists , Fascists , Communists , termites , squanderers of the public funds , and enemies of the people . The name-calling has been about evenly divided between the advocates and the opponents of the committee 's reconmiendations. // that I discuss this subject " impartially . " This is difficult for me to do , for I am a partisan , at least to this extent  --  that I suspect that the salvation of democracy lies in better education . If I were in the munitions business , I imagine that I should favor Federal subsidies for it , and if I were in the clothing business , I might suggest that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pants . The reader will be conscious of my professional bias and will appraise what I say in the light of it . I am conscious of it and shall try to support my position with incontrovertible facts . A year and a half ago , Congress passed a bill doubling the amount of Federal aid for vocational education . The Government had been spending 810,000,000 a year for this purpose ; the bill called for $20,000,000 a year . Mr. Roosevelt expressed doubts of the wisdom of the expenditure , and suggested that a lobby was behind it . He signed the bill reluctantly and appointed a committee to study the whole question of vocational education . This committee made a preliminary report .. At the same time , bills calling for the appropriation of more than 81,000 , - 000,000 for education were introduced into Congress . The State of the Three R 's M R. ROOSEVELT concluded , from the fantastic variety of these bills and from the preliminary committee report , that it was not vocational education alone but the whole subject of Federal aid to education @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ committee , drawing on business , on labor and on twenty-five universities . The committee spent six months in investigation and discussion , and submitted its report to the President in February , 1938 . The committee presented an exhaustive  --  and horrifying  --  survey of our educational system . They recommended a six-year program of Federal aid to begin the process of removing the worst blemishes on the educational map . By the sixth year the amount of Federal money would be increased from $53,000,000 , which it is today , to $256,000,000 . The committee recommended that at the end of the sixth year the situation be reviewed before the country decided to continue or expand the program . More than half the proposed expenditure would go to elementary and secondary education , chiefly in rural areas . Smaller amounts would go to adult education , including citizenship training for aliens and the teaching of illiterates ; to school construction managed in such a way as to hasten the reorganization of our 127,000 school districts ; to rural library service-40 per cent of the people have no access to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The committee recommended that the United States Office of Education spend a year in research and planning with state and local school boards before the plau was put into effect . Since we are the richest country in the world and the one which most enthusiastically and often professes its devotion to education , it will come as a shock to many citizens to learn how inadequate our educational system is . Here I am not talking about quality , but merely about the business of putting the children in school . It is true that we have a larger proportion of children in elementary school than any other country except Sweden , Norway , Denmark and , possibly , France and Germany . It is true t hat with high-school attendance to , , , tirwed ee Pager 70 ) rising from 3.8 per cent in 1890 to 80 per cent at present , we have made more rapid progress recently than any country except Russia . But in 1930 there were  --  and I am talking about the United States-810,000 children of elementary-school ago who were not in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ children of high-school age  --  or 5,500,000 ? were not in school . The American Federation of Teachers has estimated that there are 3,300,000 children from five to seventeen who are getting no education in the present year . In Wisconsin , 55,000 children get less than ninety days schooling a year . Almost 40 per cent of the children of Alabama get no schooling at all . Alabama , Mississippi and Arkansas spend less than $30 a year per pupil in the public schools , in contrast to the national average of $74.30 for the whole country and the more than $115 spent by New York , Nevada and California . Of the 2,500,000 physically handicapped children in the country , only 325,000 are receiving an education adapted to their needs . In twelve states , the members of school boards outnumber the teachers . These and similar afflictions prevail in the rural sections of almost every state , in the poor states , and in the Southeast generally . The average expenditure per pupil in rural areas is $67.40 , in contrast with $108.25 for cities . And low @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ instruction without supplementary books , lack of attention to health , and a school term a month shorter than that of the cities . Shall we blame the farmers for indifference to the education of their children ? On the contrary , they bear the heaviest tax load for educational purposes in the country . With only 9 per cent of the national income , they were forced to pay , according to the 1930 census , for the education of 31 per cent of the nation 's children . They are doing the best they can  --  and better . The Southeast 's Burden What is true of the farmers is true of the poorest states . They are spending a larger proportion of their income on education than their richer neighbors . The productive workers of the Southeast carry an educational burden 80 per cent heavier than the productive workers of the Far West . There can be little equality of opportunity between the 4,250,000 children from the farms of the Southeast , whose parents receive 2 per cent of the national income , and the 8,500,000 city children @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is still another reason why the states can not cope with the problem . At the time when education was becoming a public function in this country , the property tax was the chief source of revenue . The ownership of real estate is no longer an index of capacity to pay . Large stockholders , whose dividends may be derived from production in a number of states , frequently establish their residences where they will be least subject to state or local taxation .. Yet three fourths of the cost of public education in America is met by the property tax , by the ability of the owners of real estate to carry the load . No other governmental activity depends so largely on so unsatisfactory a tax base . The states that offer the most meager educational opportunities are Oklahoma , Louisiana , Kentucky , Virginia , Tennessee , South Carolina , North Carolina , Georgia , Alabama , Mississippi and Arkansas . We must sympathize with them because the total resources they have available for education are not sufficient to enable them to do a good educational job @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the way in which they distribute the resources they have . They spend only half as much on their schools for Negroes as they do on their schools for whites ; and their schools for whites are , as we have seen , well below the average . The treatment of Negro children in these states is characterized , according to the President 's committee , by " wasteful neglect . " The committee recommends that if and when Federal grants are made , the states be compelled to agree not to discriminate between whites and Negroes in the use of them . The Purpose of Federal Aid What we are interested in here is the equalization of educational opportunity . The Federal aid proposed by the President 's committee is designed solely to equalize opportunity among the states ; the money granted to the states is to be allocated with that single purpose in mind , and the states may receive it only on condition that they use it to raise the educational level of their blighted districts . The President 's committee also contemplates state-wide programs equalizing opportunity within @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ separately , and since the child population of a district is not related to its wealth , inequality is inevitable . The most prosperous school district in Iowa , for example , has 275 times as much wealth per child as the poorest . We see , then , that there are gross inequities between states and between parts of the same state . We see that these inequities in the opportunities of American children depend on the accident of the resources of the state in which they happen to be living , on the tax system it has , and on their race or color . You may say , if you are a Yankee , that inequities based on race or color must be corrected . But you may add that inequities based on economic conditions are not undemocratic . You may go farther and suggest that money should not be taken away from the taxpayer in New York , which might go to make the New York schools better still , to be spent bringing the schools of Alabama up to the average . But you can defend @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and say that America is not a nation . You must maintain that what happens in Alabama is of no consequence to New York and that New Yorkers may remain as indifferent to the educational condition . of Alabama as to that of Poland or Turkey . Unfortunately , our political unity , our economic interdependence and the mobility of our population mean that one part of the country must suffer for the ignorance of another . The election of congressmen and senators and the ratification of constitutional amendments are merely the most obvious or the political activities by which all the states affect one another . The backwardness of one state is likely to be reflected in the labor standards and the distributing power of all the rest . The children of Georgia and Arkansas , white and black , are quite as likely to move to Chicago or Los Angeles as they are to stay at home . If the farm-to-city movement continues unabated , more than 40 per cent of the children now living in the country will live in the city when they are adults . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most a state problem , has never been justified , for our people have always been migratory . With the development of modern industry , transportation and communication it has not the faintest justification today . Another notion is equally widespread and equally unfounded , and that is that Federal participation in education is something new , unprecedented and revolutionary . Nothing is farther from the truth . The custom of makinggrants of public lands for the support of education in the states and territories is older than the Constitution . Public schools in some states today receive income annually from funds derived from grants of land made by the National Government . Grants of money to the states for education date from 1887 , when the Federal Government began supporting the agricultural-experiment stations . Federal contributions to land-grant colleges began in 1890 , to home-economics and agricultural-extension services in 1914 , and to vocational education in the public schools in 1917 . At the bottom of the depression . Federal funds kept the schools open in seven states . In the emergency of the past five years the Federal Government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , WPA , CCC and NYA . In some of these activities grants were made directly to states or municipalities . In others , like those of the CCC and the National Youth Administration , the money went to individuals . The NYA , for example , has been paying an average of $4.50 a month to high-school students , and an average of $1.5 a month to college students who could not otherwise continue their education . The total expenditures for student aid by the NYA alone have been $75,000,000 . Thus the National Government has been supporting education for many years and at an increasingly rapid rate . The President 's committee proposes that this program shall be continued and co-ordinated . -1 do not see how any citizen who loves his country can fail to agree with John Dewey when he says , " If Federal funds are made available for physical highways , only a neglect that is next to criminal can account for failure to employ these funds for the public schools that are our social highways . " The principal issue around which the discussion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of control . Much of what will be said on this topic will he mere political flag-waving . As the president of the National Education Association has remarked , " The argument that aid to education would be followed by con-trol is not a new argument , It has been worn threadbare to the point of translucence.The firsteommunity-supported school was the signal for a cry that parents were no longer to have control of their children . Proposals to consolidate community schools into units that could he administered with consideration for financial economy and educational effectiveness have always met the objection that local school boards would lose their power and importance . The organization of every state system of schools in this union was accomplished over the opposition of those who saw the evil spirits of a standardized curriculum and regimented administration hovering over the state perfect tool for Fascism , Communism , or any extremism , or a perfect support for any sorely tried political party in power seeking to perpetuate itself . " Yet the fact is that we have had 153 years of Federal aid to education ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Federal domination , and Federal domination has not yet materialized . The WPA emergency education program has employed 44 , - 000 teachers and conducted classes for 1,725,000 citizens , and I do not believe that Mr. Hopkins was filling his pupils with New Deal propaganda . That , I concede , does not necessarily mean it ca n't happen here . We must try to protect ourselves and our children against the day when violent , dictatorial men may seek to exploit the educational system for their own ends . The President 's committee has not been unaware of this danger and has proposed numerous safeguards against it . They have suggested that " the Federal Government record its purposes broadly , leaving the widest discrimination within these purposes to the states " ; that " the Federal Government should in no case attempt to control the curriculums of the schools or the methods of teaching " ; that . " specification of particular phases of elementary and secondary education to be supported from such a fund should be avoided " ; that " no Federal agency shall sponsor national @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; that the Federal Office of Education " should not engage directly in the administration of schools " ; that the state departments of education should select their employees , below t lie rank of policy-making officers , on the basis of merit and that the Federal Government shall have no power to review such appointments . The Question of Control These measures would seem to offer protection against the abuse of Federal con trol . Nevertheless , there must be sonic Federal control of the expenditure of Federal money . The states most in need of help are those least prepared to use the help wisely . For that matter , there is not a single state in the Union that has a unified department of education responsible for and familiar with all the school systems of the state . Since the purpose of the program is the equalization of educational opportunity , the Federal Government must follow Federal money into the states to see that it is spent for that purpose and that it is spent legally and not too inefficiently . The Federal taxpayers would not long submit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to school boards in any state and poured down the drain . The mismanagement and dissipation of many of the early land grants are evidence that there can be too little Federal control . We may as well face it ; there is no 100 per cent , guaranteed , automatic political device that can protect education against the whims of the party in power . Any school board can legally do almost anything to the schools in its charge . Why do they behave themselves as well as they do ? The answer is that the schools are dear to the voters and hence a tradition has grown up that they are not to be a political football . The Chicago schools are an exception that proves the rule ; the actions of the school board of that city would not have attracted such wide and unfavorable notice if they had been in the American tradition of educational management . ? ORMary 28.193P Why do not largo donors to endowed universities attempt to dictate their policies ? John D. Rockefeller founded the University of Chicago and gave it $35,000,000 in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had withdrawn his support , the university would have probably had to close . Yet Mr. Rockefeller at no time showed the slightest inclination even to suggest what the university 's professors should teach , investigate , or say . The tradition in this country is that those who give money to a university do not gain by their gifts any control over the institution . They may insist on good housekeeping ; they may see to it that the money is used for the purpose for which it was given , but they can not , because they gave it , acquire a voice in the management of the university . The Heart of Democracy In England the same tradition protects higher education against abuses of the power that might be exercised through grants of public money . The University Grants Committee advises the Treasury how to spend more than $10,000,000 a year that the British Government gives to the endowed and municipal universities . The committee is composed of eminent men who have no political connections . They are chosen because they know education and command public confidence . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recommendations of this committee , it has always accepted them . It is unthinkable that the government would cast aside the suggestions of this group and devote the money to seeing to it that every university student in England became a follower of Mr. Chamberlain . On the other hand , if England ever goes Fascist or Communist , we can not expect that education will be any freer there than it is in Germany , Italy or Russia . In order to go Fascist or Communist , England would first have to abandon the tradition that keeps education free . This tradition is the heart of democracy . Our faith in American democracy determines whether education can be free . If we lose faith in democracy , then nothing can keep education free . IC we keep our faith in democracy , then we may be confident that a democratic method of getting a decent education for our children will not lead to dictatorship . I have no doubt the American democracy is in greater danger from the present horrible inequalities in educational opportunity than it ever will be from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ constitutional means . The other issue emerging from the committee 's recommendations , which has already raised the blood pressure of certain educators , is whether Federal funds shall be used for the support of Catholic schools . This is the way the issue will be phrased , though the committee 's report . is much more general . It suggests that where Federal funds are allocated for reading materials , transportation or scholarships , the states be allowed , if they wish , to make part of these funds available to pupils in nonpublic schools . Some of the remarks which this proposal have produced are reminiscent of the days when Al Smith was running for President and it was widely charged that if he were elected , the Pope would manage America by long-distance telephone . Prof. George D. Strayer , of Teachers ' College , Columbia , sees the suggestion as " an entering wedge " which will result in the abandonment of our fundamental principles . Prof. Harold Hand , of Stanford , calls it " vicious and un-American . " Dean Ned Dearborn , of New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the spirit of the Ku Klux Klan to ride again . " Now , when these gentlemen get excited , we may expect certain sections of the Catholic Church to get excited , and , sure enough , the magazine Columbia is gnashing its teeth at " educational racketeers " and " Doctor Strayer and his fellow termites . " Now , almost every state in the Union has subsidized private schools , colleges and universities by granting them tax exemption . This has been going on for years . When , therefore , Prof. William H. Kilpatrick , of Northwestern , attacks the proposal on the ground that " public money must be reserved for public institutions only , " he overlooks the fact that his salary , like mine , has always been paid in part with public funds because the private institutions we work for enjoy tax exemption . The same is true of the salaries of most of the editors of the educational magazine Social Frontier , which has condemned this section of the report because it " means that public money will be made available to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is good precedent for the out right expenditure of state money , in addition to tax exemption on private schools . - Certain states now furnish books and transportation to the pupils of nonpublic schools . The Constitutional Convention of the State of New York on July twenty-seventh adopted , by a vote of 134 to 9 , a measure permitting the legislature to provide free transportation to children attending denominational schools . There is good precedent , too , for the expenditure of Federal money on education in private institutions . WPA is now subsidizing research projects in endowed colleges and universities . NYA is assisting students in these institutions . It is true that this money is paid to WPA workers and NYA students , and not to the endowed institutions directly . But it is also true that the WPA projects are of direct benefit to the colleges and the universities in which they are being conducted and that the NYA students take part of the Federal money they receive and pay it to the endowed institutions in the form of tuition fees . One basic principle that may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an educational enterprise in this country is entitled to public assistance . The public wants as much education as it can get . If private citizens undertake to participate in meeting this need , the community will help out , at least by refraining from taxing them on assets used for educational purposes . Another basic principle that may be gathered from these precedents is that pupils may be aided in going to the educational institution of their choice . NYA students , for example , are not compelled to attend state universities ; they may go to Yale or Dartmouth and use Federal money to pay as high tuition charges as there are in the country . If we put these two principles together we see why the timeworn cry " No popery " is ridiculous when raised in connection with the proposals of the President 's committee . The states may . if they choose , assist pupils to attend the schools of their choice . Since we want all American children to get as good an education as they can , since we know some children will not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prepared to compel them to do so , it is in the public interest to give the states permission to use Federal grants to help them to go to the schools they will attend and to help make those schools ' as good as possible . I say this despite my opinion that the parochial schools the country over are not as good as the public schools in the same communities . The real issue before the people is neither Federal control nor denominational support . The real issue is whether we mean what we say when we talk about equality of opportunity . Beside this great question the specters of regimentation of our children and of financing a foreign potentate with American dollars seem fantastic and remote . They seem , indeed , the creation of frenzied imaginations working overtime to concoct some reasons for apposing proposals against which no good reasons can be found . I believe that we shall someday look bark on the report . of the President 's committee as the most . important in the history of American education since the Northwest Ordinance , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ morality and knowledge being necessary to good government and the happiness of mankind , schools and the means of education shall forever be encouraged . " A coyote 's quavering cry came down the dark wind that flowed about him like cold black water . Big Joe shivered and went into the house . The kids had gone to bed and Babe had fallen asleep without . Big Joe hearing her prayers . On one side of her pillow she had her bandaged doll , and on the other side , with her cheek against it , was Emmy 's fancywork bag . Sometimes Babe looked so much like Emmy it took Big Joe 's breath away . The very next Sunday they drove ten miles to Sunday school in Sanford . Big Joe and the kids , conspicuous in new clothes , sat on the front seat of the rickety democrat . Little Joe had new overalls and a new , dollar-and-five-cent windbreaker which , conceivably , he Might someday grow into if it did not wear out first . Miss Hans had made Babe a new coat out of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dark-blue chinchilla , and she had made a little bat of the same material that snuggled down over Babe 's head and framed her yellow hair . Remembering her as she had been before Miss Hans came  --  a neglected little waif , swathed in Little Joe 's outgrown and ragged overalls ? BigJoe was astounded at the miracle Miss Hans had wrought . Big Joe had a new blue suit himself . Utterly indifferent to what was the vogue in men 's clothes , it mattered not to him that the Benson storekeeper had had the suit in stock since long before the drought , that it had been tailored in the era of narrow-shouldered coats and pants molded tight to the leg . " I would n't want them folks at Sunday school to think your Pop looked like a tramp , " he told the kids . " It would n't give you a fair start . " The kids , who had never before seen their father in anything but overalls , thought he looked grand , and said so . Y OU may have your choice @ @ @ 