@@165819

The Belgian people saw their handsome young King Leopold III emerge decisively last week from his grief-stricken brooding over the death of his beloved Queen Astrid ( TIME . Sept. 9 , 1935 ) and strike a heavy blow of statecraft which resounded from one end of Europe to the other . To the neat , bright Royal Palace in Brussels were summoned Premier-Professor Paul van Zeeland and Cabinet to hear an historic declaration reversing the post-War foreign policy of Belgium . By boldly assuming full responsibility for what he said , His Majesty raised his declaration above the cockpit of party politics , placed it on the aloof pedestal of a Throne which every Belgian deeply respects . It was significant that next day newsorgans of all Belgian parties except the Communist echoed warm approval , and the harassed Europe of 1936 received a striking example of how leadership can be exercised by a genuinely popular King . <P> Since the Treaty of Versailles was signed , the Kingdom of the Belgians has relied not on its ancient neutrality but upon the League of Nations , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ French for protection against an other onslaught . In recent months the British have not only winked at German violations of the Treaty of Versailles but have compounded with Adolf Hitler by signing an Anglo-German Treaty authorizing Berlin to build a potent Reich Navy ( TIME , June 24 , 1935 ) . Neither the British nor the French replied with force - the only language the Nazis under stand - when the Rhineland was remilitarized by Dictator Hitler in flagrant violation of the particularly sacred " Spirit of Locarno " ( TIME , March 16 ) . Finally Catholic King Leopold , whose sister may one day be the Queen of Catholic Italy , has found that the Franco-Belgian Alliance of 1920 has now become an alliance of Belgium with a French Government composed of radicals , led by a Jewish Premier and bound by a treaty of alliance with Soviet Russia . This array of ominous facts was in the back of every Belgian subject 's mind as he read the words of his King . <P> Outside Quarrels . Plainly referring to the Franco-Belgian alliance which his royal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said : " Any unilateral policy weakens our position abroad and excites , rightly or wrongly , a division at home . An alliance , even if it is purely defensive , does not achieve its purpose because , however prompt might be the aid from our ally , it would come only after an onslaught by an invading army which would be devastating . In any event , we should have to struggle single-handed against that onslaught . <P> " That is why we must follow a policy exclusively and entirely Belgian . The policy must aim solely at placing us outside the quarrels of our neighbors . It corresponds to our national ideal . It can be maintained by a reasonable military and financial effort , and it would command the support of all the Belgians , who are inspired by an intense and basic desire for peace .                     