@@469044

NOTHING , perhaps , is so pointless , so utterly wasteful of time , energy , and patience as an argument about religion or any of the subjects associated with it . I doubt that anyone has ever been converted to rationalism by reading the works of Robert J. Ingersoll or by listening to the latter-day saints of the atheist pantheon ; or that a materialist could become enamored of mysticism by perusing the words of Saint Francis , Blake , Swedenborg , or Ouspenski unless the foundation of his faith were already tottering and he was in need of some new form of conviction . What we believe in such matters ? that is what we really believe , not what we merely accept as part of a family or social tradition ? is so much more a matter of temperament , of feeling , of private inner need than of intellectual conversion that it is buried much too deep in our beings for logic or precept to disturb . Those who have strayed from the faiths of their fathers to become either indifferent skeptics or active @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or spoken word of rationalism found sufficient validity in their experience to be acceptable . So it is with those rarer converts to religious faith ? the freethinker who , tiring of uncertainty , seeks rest for his spirit in some creed which precludes the need for thinking ; the materialist who succumbs to the beauty of the Anglo- or Roman Catholic ritual ; or the agnostic who seeks a final answer to the riddle of life in psychic research and table tappings . Like the young hero of Sigrid Undset 's recent novel to whom the air of free thought was too rarefied or too sterile for breath and who sought to escape the burden of freedom in the arms of an authoritarian religion , their conversion is not of the mind but of the sensibilities . And while these may be subject to psychoanalysis , they are not subject to argument . The purely intellectual convictions of the intellectually honest may be open to the winds of pure reason , but few of our convictions are purely intellectual . In most matters we believe what we feel the need @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any desire to convert anyone to anything . One must have a definite doctrine of one 's own in order to give force and point to an argument , and in the matter of the nature of life and death and of man 's relation to the universe , I have no positive convictions to offer as a substitute for any faith . Nor do I feel the need for any . The atheist bigot is as obnoxious to me as the Christian or Jewish bigot because I am sure that he has no more means than they of knowing the ultimate truth . I merely suspect that in general he may guess more correctly than they do . As a non-believer in any formal religion , or in any of those nebulous substitutes which become the fashion from time to time , I am admittedly in no position to be a sympathetic spokesman for the orthodox . But if these observations on the relation between conduct and belief or lack of belief are unfair to the believer , he does not lack for able and eloquent defenders . Indeed his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ court . Such matters are not , of course , serious issues with the great majority of people in the ordinary course of events to-day . These go through life without giving thought to life , death , or the meaning of either except on those rare occasions when they are confronted by the death of someone they love , or when they are themselves threatened , or when some other serious emotional crisis brings an almost spontaneous cry for help or consolation . Normally , however , they would , if questioned , assert a rather vague acquiescence to a belief in God ( " some kind of a God , or Supreme Being , or something " ) and in a " hereafter . " They take for granted that almost everyone , except perhaps a few atheists and such queer fish , harbors somewhat similar convictions . They may not go to church and may have very little use for preachers , but they are inclined to think that without the restraining influence of some sort of religion the world would go to the dogs . They may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been careful to have them baptized , and their dead are rarely buried without benefit of clergy . The average man may be called , at least , a passive believer . Because disbelief has achieved toleration and even a certain degree of respectability in the civilized world , we are apt to forget that associations of ideas which have existed in the human mind for centuries persist in coloring both our conscious and unconscious attitudes long after the world has ceased to do battle about them . Civilized society in the larger centers , at least , no longer ostracizes the unbeliever . But should he be popular and respected , the average man suspects that in his heart he harbors secret convictions of God and immortality . If unpopular or mistrusted , his lack of religious faith is often made synonymous with a lack of integrity . Because he does not believe in the possibility of eternal punishment it is supposed that he may have no deep incentive to virtue . In some of our States the sworn word of an unbeliever may not be accepted as testimony @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his reputation for honesty . We have become so accustomed to associating greatness , fearlessness , spirituality , and altruism with some type of religious conviction that a famous and respected unbeliever can not die without wholesale rumors of a deathbed conversion and platitudinous last remarks about the Beautiful Beyond . It is conceivable to the popular mind , which accepts vaguely what it has been told , that he may have met the vicissitudes and major tragedies of life without divine aid and consolation ; but that he could meet the minor tragedy of death in the same spirit does violence to all popular preconceptions , to our demand for the happy ending . The more puerile a man 's personality the less calmly can he contemplate its extinction . To look upon death as extinction and still to meet it philosophically is a state of mind he can scarcely credit . To most men and women whose universe is predicated upon divine whim death is the final chastisement which a just God inflicts upon them ; and they meet it , as a rule , with appropriate lamentation . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of divine whim but is either one of those inevitable processes of nature to which he , like all other forms of life , is subject , or else an accident as devoid of meaning as the destruction of a tree by lightning , can accept the finality of death with less inner rebellion and outer distress than those who would cajole a Heavenly Father to let them stay up just a little longer . From personal observation , I should say that they can ? both those who die and those who survive them . Certainly nothing testifies so eloquently to the believer 's unconscious horror of the Unknown as a conventionally barbaric Christian funeral . These are dying out perhaps , or at least their worst features are being mitigated , but the mitigation is usually in inverse ratio to the orthodoxy of the survivors . It is impossible , of course , for the individual to base any conclusions in such matters upon a personal knowledge of those emotions which sway the individual human heart in a crisis , but where those emotions have crystallized into social attitudes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conventional conduct , even among those who never think about their origin , are based largely upon religious attitudes and were formulated at a time when the world took the Church more seriously than it does now . And the conduct of the conventionally religious ( which has been very largely the socially accepted conduct ) in the presence of death ? the mourning , the funereal agonies , all the expensive display that has so little relationship to the dignity of the human spirit ? seem to me inconsistent with a belief in personal immortality . Yet in some form or other , they have become so deeply rooted in our consciousness that it is almost impossible for even the unbeliever who may accept death with a certain degree of nonchalance to escape them . There was an evening not so long ago , when a friend of mine was certain that she could not survive an operation that was to take place the following morning ? an operation which even her doctors admitted was a serious risk . She hastily scribbled on a sheet of paper her instructions as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . She was to be cremated , with no funeral , no fuss , no flowers , no harrowing last views , no eulogy by someone who had never known her , and as a result , no huge and unnecessary funeral bills left for her relatives to pay ? a , minimum of emotional and financial expense . I do not know that this is the sort of end the average unbeliever would desire , but it was what she desired . Two weeks later the close friend to whom she had handed her note gave it back to her . " Do you think I could have got away with that ? " she asked . " Not unless you had died of smallpox . Even if the undertakers ' union would have permitted ? and they would n't ? I could never have withstood the social pressure to give you a proper Christian burial . Some of your relatives would have written denunciations . Your friends would have ostracized me . Your little testament would have been considered the last delirium of the dying . No one will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They take death too seriously for that . Give that note to someone more hard-boiled the next time you expect to die . There are too many remnants of a pious up-bringing in my soul . " If death is not extinction ( and upon this point I have , as I have said , no positive conviction but merely a suspicion that it is ) ; if death is , as the religious of all faiths believe , merely a doorway into more abundant life for those who have loved their God and believed in his mercy , why should the orthodox make so much fuss about it -- a fuss that might be made more appropriately , one might think , by those who believe it spells oblivion ? Suffering caused by the separation which death inflicts is inevitable for the unbeliever as for the believer . Any separation from those we love , whether by life or death , can he a source of pain the degree of which depends upon our individual emotional natures . But personal suffering that is the fruit of separation is not necessarily the same @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ honest believers in the presence of death . Perhaps the suffering which accepts its loss as a product of that blind Chance which rules the universe , without regard to justice and deaf to human prayer , is less intolerable , less bitter , than that which sees in its misfortune the will of a supposedly just and merciful God . I think that if I were a believer and had lost a beloved and healthy child in a world in which so many unwanted , pain-racked , and imbecile children are permitted to survive , I should think God a fool and refuse to accept His universe on His terms . For it is the painfully deformed and the imbecile child who needs that rebirth into a better life which is the Christian conception of Heaven for the innocent ; and it is this world which needs so badly the ministrations of intelligent and unhandicapped human beings . it is deliberate injustice rather than blind accident that scars the human spirit . In our inmost souls we must resent it no matter how piously we murmur an acceptance of inscrutable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the West who had lost her young son ? a child of unusual promise ? about a year ago . I should like to quote from it because it illustrates so well the point I have been trying to convey . She writes : After George 's death I received from several devout friends of the older generation letters which said or implied that the writers were sure of personal immortality . They assured me that my loss was only temporary and hoped that I , too , had this faith ; for if one did not have it , they believed , the future would seem altogether black and life intolerable . I was trying to tolerate it then on an unbeliever 's terms , and thus I did not find their letters very cheering . But I was struck with the fact that they showed plenty of fear between the lines . My husband had , at that time , no formal religious convictions but he had been grounded in childhood in the doctrine of a living God who protected those who did His will , and it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ boy 's death this doctrine was still in his system . It made the loss much harder for him to bear than for me , because it gave him the feeling that somehow he must have failed , have made a mistake , that otherwise it could n't hate happened . I tried to tell him , over and over again , that such things came like lightning out of the sky , that the world was full of blind chance . Rationally he would agree , but emotionally he could n't help thinking himself somehow guilty , that he must have done something to deserve such punishmeat . I could n't help cursing the teaching that made the thing so cruel for him . It may be that he had simply more capacity for suffering than I , or a less stoic temperament . But I feel sure that it is harder for one who has been adjusted to a belief in an omnipotent and merciful God to stand the dirty tricks played by fate than for one who has become adjusted to an indifferent order of nature . If @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for himself and for those he loves somewhat more philosophically because he sees in it neither justice nor injustice , neither punishment nor a whim which he might possibly have dodged in some fashion , he can also , perhaps , regard it as not the worst possible alternative to life ? that is , to life under any circumstance . He need not look upon suicide , even , as either cowardice or sin . I am inclined to think that a people 's sense of human dignity may be measured fairly accurately by their attitude to this subject . Those who consider this world a spiritual gymnasium for the development of the sinner 's moral muscle must necessarily look upon self-destruction , under any condition , as a cowardly desertion of the task assigned , as the flouting of the purposes of the Divine Father . But if we are really immortal spirit made in a divine image , then life is a gift which we must have the right to reject if its terms are incompatible with our conception of human dignity . For there are conditions of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ death must he a terrifying thing indeed to the believer if it can be any worse than life can be under some circumstances . Death may destroy one 's identity but life can destroy one 's self-respect . To the unbeliever death can offer the appeal of everlasting peace from a world that has become intolerable to his spirit . To leave life when it becomes intolerable , rather than tolive on in fruitless suffering , helplessness , or indignity may , on occasion , be the only decent thing to do . Nothing , I think , is so utterly destructive of one 's faith in the essential decency of human nature as the tenacity with which people cling to life under the most degrading and hideous conditions . There is a purely instinctive will-to-live in all forms of animal life , including ourselves , which has nothing to do with religious or anti-religious concepts . Without it , perhaps , the race would have perished long since . But this purely animal instinct to survive ( although even animals have been known to court destruction ) is not the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reasoning being to live when death would be kinder both to himself and to those about him ; or as social and religious ethics which forbid a physician to help out of life in some humane fashion human beings suffering from painful and incurable diseases ? a kindness which we display so readily to suffering animals . But it is not in the rejection of deliberate action alone that even intelligent people seem so frequently subhuman . Natural death is usually fought off with desperation by those for whom life holds nothing but pain and horror . The Church and the believer applaud this as courage , as Christian fortitude . It seems to inc something much less flattering . Occasionally the believer is tormented beyond his strength to endure and refuses to wait for his exit upon the whim of his Creator . But only the unbeliever will find for him any intellectual justification . One 's love of life probably depends much more upon one 's temperament than upon any kind of conviction . But the will-to-live of the intelligent person must be influenced , at least , by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for others . Possibly the unbeliever who is unwilling to grant that immediate suffering and injustice may be the inscrutable will of God intent upon our ultimate perfection may expect more from life and be more ready to change it or to reject it when it fails to measure up to his satisfaction . If so , these words of George Santayana 's might be accepted as his gospel : " Nothing is meaner than the anxiety to live on , to live on anyhow and in any shape ; a spirit with any honor is not willing to live except in its own way , and a spirit with any wisdom is not over-eager to live at all . " Santayana wrote this in his Winds of Doctrine when he was speaking of the youthful vigor of Homeric times when " life was like the light of day , something to use , to waste or to enjoy . " " Life indeed was loved , " he continues , " and the beauty and pathos of it were felt exquisitely ; but its beauty and pathos lay in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " It is this sense of the fragility of life ? a sense more poignant , I think , in those who suspect that this life may be all there is than in those who feel that they are to live on in some form forever ? that may create a greater concern in the former for the character of the here and now than is felt by the latter . It is possible that the unbeliever may be able not only to meet death with more dignity but life with more respect and social responsibility than those who are convinced of their personal immortality . This may be a purely personal opinion which is valueless because proof in such matters is so difficult to adduce . Nevertheless , there seems to me sufficient evidence in our public and social life to bear it out in a general way , at least . Even within the circle of my own acquaintances , I can , of course , think of striking exceptions to both aspects of the statement . The unbeliever is not necessarily a tolerantand generous person , a believer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ oblivion . And there are believers with social vision , who are concerned with making life fit to live , who are unimpressed by death . It should be remembered that I am speaking in only the most general terms . Nor am I speaking of the purely personal virtues , or of individual kindliness of disposition . These are matters more of temperament than of belief . The most striking saintliness , the utmost consecration to God are usually found among the most devoutly orthodox . But individual saintliness practiced in a vacuum is a virtue of which the modern world has little need . St. Simeon on his pillar and the yogi wrapped in contemplation under a tree may be merely indulging in a sort of spiritual onanism which bears no fruit in human happiness and understanding . One does not begrudge them their individual satisfactions , but they are no more to be worshiped for pursuing them than those who seek exaltation in some illegal fashion . This is not to say that the only virtues are the social virtues , but it is to say , emphatically @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a passion for justice , a. hatred for all those things which limit and cripple the human spirit , and a willingness to apply one 's energy and intelligence toward making the world a kinder , more intelligent , more healthful place to live in ? are of more value than mere personal rectitude . Perhaps in the sight of a really loving Heavenly Father it would be better that a man should get drunk , be profane , or commit adultery than that he should live his life indifferent to the misery of others , antagonistic to all efforts for change , and lending his support to the forces of ignorance and obscurantism . General trends are not nullified by individual exceptions , and organized practice may be taken as some indication of individual belief . If this is true , then it would seem that it is the attitude of the believer toward birth , as toward death , that denies a God of Love . It has been the unbeliever , on the whole , who has shown too much respect for human life to wish it to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ignorance . It is the unbeliever , as a rule , who would permit the responsible physician or group of physicians to snuff out painlessly at birth the life of monstrously deformed children . Surely life is too sacred to be thrust upon those who can never have any consciousness of it or to whom it can only be a consciousness of pain . It is the unbeliever , as a rule , who has shown the most anxiety to insist mercifully that motherhood should not be thrust upon every mentally defective girl who accidentally becomes impregnated . The most devout believers who oppose birth control and , more vigorously still , even such therapeutic abortions as are condoned by the intelligent physician , does so , usually , on the ground that human life is sacred under all circumstances , and that we have no right to destroy what we have no power to create . Ignoring , for the moment , the fact that life that is not conceived can not be destroyed , I have noted that the most passionate and religious opponents of birth control are often @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ frequently of war . The priest or minister accompanies the condemned man to the scaffold and condones by his presence the act perpetrated upon him . He acts as chaplain and as moral recruiting sergeant to both invading and defensive armies . And yet , most of us can remember the wave of horror and indignation which arose from pulpits and congregations throughout the country when a Chicago physician merely refused to perform an operation which would keep alive a new-born , horribly deformed little monster to whom every breath of life would be like a knife-thrust . The more advanced sections of the religious world are gradually coming around to a position in such matters that the unbeliever has always occupied , but only after long and stubborn struggle and perhaps for reasons to which I will refer later . Our legal codes are predicated , as a rule , upon the conceptions of the most orthodox believers , and this is particularly true of the less enlightened ones ; but even when an occasional law is abreast of modern scientific and medical thought , its humanity may be defeated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ live , a girl of twenty , the wife of an impoverished young farmer , recently died while giving birth to a third child , who also died . One of the children was two years old , and the other eleven months old . The mother was very frail and small and after the birth of her second child , the country doctor who had attended her had warned her that under no circumstances must she have another baby . But when the third accident occurred this doctor , who was a devout and righteous man , believed that he had no right to interfere once conception had taken place . The girl was too ignorant to know that in the city she might find reputable physicians who after consultation might feel justified in helping her , and that the law permitted such action under such circumstances . The result was death . I doubt if this would have happened had her doctor been an unbeliever . It is not only in his attitude toward both birth and death that the unbeliever may show more faith in the essential sanity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inclined to think that in the ranks of those who are trying to make this life the kind of gift that any sane God would give to his children , rather than the bad joke of some sadistic Despot , the unbeliever may be found to be more numerous than the believer . In this group I would include all those social protestants of various kinds , battling in various ways ( some of them foolish ) against the injustices and limitations of our social and economic order ( for it is better to be mistaken about a remedy than to be acquiescent about a wrong ) ; those satirists of brush or pen tilting hilariously or savagely at the windmills of social hypocrisy and outgrown ways of life ; those educators with the intelligence and courage to understand and to teach the implications of history , of science , of genuine culture and their relation to the life we live ; those physical and mathematical scientists of social vision as well as mere professional expertness , striving in laboratories and observatories to ease mankind 's burden of pain and danger @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such men and women are not necessarily materialists , but I think they are rarely convinced of personal survival and the direction of the world by an All-Wise God . I have no statistics to offer on the subject , but the very glee with which the orthodox world ( or that portion of it which would reconcile the scientific attitude with Christian theology ) seizes upon the most nebulous and vaguely metaphysical speculation of an isolated scientist shows how rare is the combination of the genuinely inquiring and the genuinely believing mind . I think that the most such men and women would grant to the claims of the believer is that " it may he so . " To some temperaments among them it may seem somewhat more reasonable to believe that death is not the end . To others immortality may seem altogether unreasonable and even undesirable . ( There are people who do not wish to live forever . ) They may want to believe one thing or the other . But most of them will admit that they do not know . When I say that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this world safe for humanity than with making humanity safe for Heaven are composed largely of skeptics and nonconformists , I do not mean to intimate that the orthodox believer is less concerned with " doing good " now than with making good his hereafter . He is frequently a much more charitable person , a much more persistent doer of good than the more hard-headed , and perhaps more hard-boiled , agnostic . He is responsible for most of the philanthropy , the relief work , the neighborly kindness that help to make our social system at all tolerable to the masses , as well as for that simple humanitarianism and mercy which helps on occasion to temper the blind justice meted out to the weak and the wrongdoer . In a survey of unemployment conditions made in small industrial communities about a year ago , I frequently discovered that some local priest or minister was the sole leader and most effective worker in the effort to save that community from starvation and despair . The Christian believes it is his duty to relieve suffering , to approximate as closely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ himself . In a moment of purely personal need I might turn to him more readily for help than to an atheist neighbor . But he probably feels less justified in tinkering with " the whole sorry scheme of things entire " than would the latter , because the order of the universe is , after all , God 's order , and to seek a more perfect physical world may be like tearing down and rebuilding a house one 's Father has just given one to live in . For such a task it would be more logical to turn to those who have already broken with tradition in at least one field of human thought . Our mental and emotional processes are by no means consistent in their operation , but the temperament which rejects authoritarianism in matters of the spirit is more likely , at least , to reject it in other matters . It may be true that in making these observations I have contrasted the conduct and theories of the unbeliever with those of only the more conservative elements of the religious world and have ignored @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ social programs of the more modernist individuals and groups . If I have done so it is not because I am unaware of them nor of the value of much of their activity . A number of such individuals are my friends , and I respect their integrity even while I suspect , like their orthodox critics , that their faith in God is too tenuous to be classed as conviction , that it is little more than a slightly mystical and poetically figurative unbelief . One does not pray to a First Great Cause , or look to a Life Force , a Cosmic Intelligence , or a Spirit of Good for justice , mercy , or a personal interest in one 's problems . Some organized religions have , in these later days , developed programs of social action that are frequently liberal and occasionally radical . But to those who have studied the history of such developments it is obvious that they have arisen , very largely out of the Church 's realization and fear that its purely spiritual preoccupations were resulting in the growing emptiness of its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people to its teachings ? as well as out of a necessity to answer by action the growing criticism ( somewhat unfair or exaggerated perhaps ) of the unbelievers in the matter of its other-worldliness . The Church has found it necessary to prove to the radical agitator , the atheist propagandist , and the cynical skeptic its interest in social justice and peace on earth . It is not necessary to accept the word of an unbeliever for this fact . The sermons , the articles , the soul-searching criticism of dozens of more liberal clergymen and laymen testify to its truth . Perhaps to the unbeliever will go the credit for eventually Christianizing the Christian church . The fact remains , of course , that the ranks of the unbelievers , or at least of those with no active belief in either an Omnipotent God or personal immortality , are growing steadily , notwithstanding such little counter-eddies as are represented by the conversion of a G. K. Chesterton or a T. S. Eliot . And they are growing , not because of propaganda but because of man 's increasing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eventual maturity , his decreasing need for a Heavenly Father . This is not inconsistent with his growing conception of the world and of himself as the product of natural forces over which he has little control . He can at least attempt to understand them , and if he inclines to believe that men do right or wrong largely because of a conditioning for which they are not responsible , he is more confident of his power and right to transform that conditioning for others . If he need not fear hell fire or even Fatherly disapproval , his observation of the natural world may teach him the relation between cause and effect . I have a friend who , while quite unorthodox as to theology , nevertheless believes that without a deep conviction of Free Will and his absolute personal responsibility in all matters of choice and conduct , man would run wild in an orgy of irresponsibility , blaming his shortcomings upon his glands , his complexes , fate , or his environment . It is obvious , however , that the conduct of the mechanist , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ antisocial than that of those who believe that evil is a deliberate choice man makes in defiance of good . Judging by our prison statistics , it is less so . Most men are as good as life permits them to be . Life as it is organized has never given the virtues half a chance . Certainly the world can be made beautiful enough and life satisfactory enough for us to need no sequel hereafter as compensation . If not , why should we hesitate to pass on and leave them behind ? Life goes on , if not in ourselves , then in others ; and in a universe so amazingly intricate , so marvellously vast beyond our powers of comprehension , what does it matter that an infinitesimal speck of ego loses itself in the dark ? It should have served its day and made its contribution to whatever purpose may be inherent in Life itself . What more dignified role should the ego wish to play ? The purpose inherent in Life itself may possibly be glimpsed intuitively by mystics and sages and may some day be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meanwhile Life is as mysterious as Death , and if we have not been frightened by the one , there is no need to be frightened by the other . Oblivion is not the worst thing that could happen to the human soul . To " the spirit with any wisdom " it may he preferable to renewed struggle and the promise of everlasting life .                     