@@143745

Most popular U. S. adult educational radio program is NBC 's America 's Town Meeting of the Air . Its weekly Thursday audience is estimated at some 3,000,000 . Last week it hit a new high when Utilities Man Wendell L. Wilkie and Assistant U. S. Attorney General Robert H. Jackson debated " How Can Government and Business Work Together ? " With-in 36 hours 1,300 letters , six times any previous response , had poured into Manhattan 's Town Hall , where the program originates . <P> Responsible for the phenomenal growth of this program in three years is George V. Denny Jr. , director of the League for Political Education which founded Town Hall and the Town Meeting of the Air . Showman Denny had managed the Carolina Playmakers at University of North Carolina , been an actor on Broadway , managed a lecture bureau and directed Columbia University 's Institute of Arts and Sciences before he arrived at Town Hall in 1930 . The League , founded by a group of women suffragists , had for 40 years provided a platform for civic reformers , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and music concerts . But George Denny conceived a bigger mission for Town Hall . With a zealot 's belief that revival of the old New England town meeting was needed to make democracy work , he began in 1935 to put on a weekly town meeting demonstration in Town Hall for a nation-wide radio audience . Soon a good part of the U. S. population was listening to his verbal prize fights and Town Hall had overflow audiences . Some 700 groups have been formed in many a U. S. town to listen to Town Hall 's programs and discuss them afterwards . To foster local town meetings all over the U. S .. the League for Political Education , changing its name to Town Hall , Inc. , with Denny as its president , last week established an extension division under Chester DeForest Snell , formerly head of the University of Wisconsin Extension Division . <P> Denny 's programs consist of talks on controversial topics by provocative speakers and questions from the audience . What makes them exciting is uninhibited heckling . The speakers heckle each other and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are made up of the rich and poor , the well-informed and the ignorant . Once a questioner shouted : " I do n't object to President Roosevelt 's using the radio to inform the country on the state of the nation but I do object to his using it to propagate . " <P> Spectacled , wide-mouthed George Denny , who acknowledges as his chief inspiration Nicholas Murray Butler , says he bars stuffed shirts and academicians from his programs . He also says he would rather put on Author Will Durant than Philosopher John Dewey . He admits his debates supply listeners with little information but conceives his role as that of stimulator . Mr. Denny wants his 3,000,000 auditors to be open-minded above all . An indefatigable user of hair tonics , bald Mr. Denny is , too .                     