@@487335

RESPONSIBILITY for the raising and spending of taxes in the United States is divided among no fewer than 180,000 independent and semi-independent political units . Yet however badly we may need to coordinate federal , State , and local finance in certain particular respects , the present predilection for coordination as an abstract principle represents a distinct danger . There is of course no more virtue in coordination per se than there is in decentralization per se . Coordinating devices are merely means for obtaining certain ends . Their value can be judged only in terms of the objectives they are designed to achieve . One recent proposal for obtaining a greater degree of coordination between federal and State finance , for instance , would have the effect of firmly fastening the sales tax on us as a permanent part of our revenue system . It is beginning to dawn on us that governments , through their taxing and spending programs , exercise , willy-nilly , a profound influence upon the course of private business . We are beginning to see that fiscal policies may be deliberately framed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tax policy for recovery , or for any other purpose , can not be made effective in the United States as long as tax-raising and tax-spending functions are distributed among 180,000 political units which are grandly left to shift for themselves . Only the federal government has made any attempt in the last two fiscal years to adapt its fiscal program to the requirements of recovery . During that time it has expended some three billion dollars ' on emergency public works and unemployment relief . Very properly it has financed these expenditures by means of credit rather than increased taxation . Unfortunately , the recovery efforts of the federal government have been largely nullified by efforts in an opposite direction on the part of States and localities . During the seven years ending in 1930 the net long-term borrowings of State and local governments , after allowance is made for refunding and retirements , averaged very close to a billion dollars per annum . These borrowings were spent for the most part on permanent capital improvements , became income to someone , and helped swell the stream of current purchasing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Financial Chronicle , the net long-term borrowings of States and municipalities for purposes other than refunding dropped to about two hundred million dollars . In 1933 net borrowings disappeared altogether , the volume of bonds retired exceeding the volume of new issues . This is , of , course , only part of the story of deflation as practiced by State and local governments during the current depression . State and local budgets have been everywhere cruelly slashed . Educational expenditures were reduced by half a billion dollars between 1930 and 1934 . School expenditures per child enrolled declined from a national average of $90 in 1930 to $67 in 1934 . Had State and local governments adapted their fiscal policies to the requirements of recovery , they would have refrained as far as possible from levying new taxes or increasing the rates of old ones . To the extent that new taxes were unavoidable , they would have selected such taxes as were likely to trench on savings rather than on necessary consumption . Actually , as we all know , the outstanding fiscal invention of the depression period was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pondering that more money was raised through State sales taxes during the fiscal year just closed than was raised through State income taxes . The States and their subdivisions carry the responsibility of financing a major share of the normal costs of government . But only the federal government possesses the credit resources and is capable of adequately exploiting the types of taxes needed to execute a fiscal program for recovery . It is clear , then , that there must be a considerable degree of financial cooperation between federal , State , and local governments if a fiscal program for recovery is to succeed . Economic stability will of course be only one of the objectives toward which the fiscal policy of the new social state will be directed . Since the importance of other objectives is more generally recognized , they may be passed over rather hurriedly . It goes without saying that the new social state will seek to distribute the burden of taxation in an equitable manner . It will endeavor to distribute the services and benefits of government in accordance with social needs . In the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which are of vital interest to the nation as a whole , it will assure to all of its citizens , in whatever part of the country they may reside , a national minimum of services . It will budget the total tax funds of the country among various functions with due regard to the relative social importance of each function . Finally , it will seek to secure as much economy and efficiency in tax administration as is compatible with its other aims . It is easy to understand why we can not hope to come within reaching distance of any of the objectives mentioned under our present scheme of intergovernmental fiscal relations . Under this scheme the functions of government are parceled out among a multitude of more or less independent jurisdictions . The range of taxes which the various jurisdictions are in a position to administer effectively is largely conditioned by their territorial extent . Altogether apart from legal restrictions , the only form of taxation from which local governments are likely to secure much revenue is the general property tax , or more correctly the tax on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In an extremely mobile world most other subjects of taxation are too active and elusive to be caught in the small tax nets which municipalities , counties , and districts are able to spread . State governments , because of their wider areas , have a broader range of taxes at their disposal , but even they are subject to handicaps which the federal government escapes . Lack of uniformity in the taxing systems of the various States stimulates tax avoidance and evasion . The avenue of escape opened up by the interstate commerce clause makes certain forms of State taxation inequitable . Interstate tax competition makes it difficult for any State to depart too widely from the pattern of taxation set by its neighbors . No single State , for instance , could proceed very far with a program of steeply progressive income and inheritance taxes . There are too many other States in which less democratic ideas on taxation prevail . Modern economic life is closely integrated . Wealth and income are to an increasing extent the result of processes to which all sections of the country contribute @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ founded on any ultimate inquiry into economic origins . They depend on such criteria as the location of physical property , the domicile of owners and income recipients , and the presumed situs of business operations . Since these criteria tend to be concentrated in a few urban areas , there are wide variations in the capacity of both localities and States to support public services . Notwithstanding these differences in ability , certain functions which are affected , to a degree at least , with a national interest are now supported almost entirely on a State and local basis . This makes for gross regional inequalities in respect of services which ought to be subject to nation-wide standards . Another serious shortcoming of our present fiscal order is that it militates against a rational budgeting of the total tax funds of the country . The relative amount of support accorded any particular function is now determined to no small extent , not by the relative importance of the function itself , but by the relative efficiency as a tax-raising unit of the level of government to which the function has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wastes and duplications which are inevitable under a regime of fiscal separatism . The dual administration of the same types of taxes by both the federal government and the States is naturally a source of annoyance and expense to the taxpayer . When States attempt to administer types of taxes which they are not capable of administering as effectively as is the federal government , taxable assets are wastefully dissipated . When federal , State , and local governments vie with one another in the competitive exploitation of the same tax sources , the result may be a net loss to the country at large . The current situation in the matter of liquor taxation supplies an excellent case in point . It is clear that some form of coordination of federal , State , and local finance is needed , but what kind of coordination shall it be ? One proposal is that the device of federal credit for State taxes , which has been used for a number of years in the field of inheritance taxation , be extended to other taxes , specifically income taxes on individuals and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is that it effectually eliminates intergovernmental tax competition . Its extension to the field of income taxation would force all States to levy income taxes at rates high enough to absorb the federal credit . The crediting device , however , would contribute very little toward the attainment of the major objectives set up for the new social state . Its chief beneficiaries would be the wealthy industrial and commercial States . It would not solve the problem of regional inequalities in taxable capacity , nor would it do away with duplicate tax administration . Other proposals contemplate the exclusive collection of certain taxes by the federal government and a sharing of their proceeds with the States . From the standpoint of efficiency it is certainly desirable to give the federal government a monopoly of all taxes in respect of which it enjoys a marked administrative advantage . The difficulty comes in agreeing upon a formula for distributing the proceeds of such taxes among the States . State-shared federal taxes raise other questions , too , which can not be pushed aside . As long as the States and localities remain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they afford to jeopardize those services by accepting a fixed percentage share of specified federal taxes in return for a partial surrender of their present taxing powers ? Is it wise to divoice the raising of taxes from control over their expenditure ? Ought the proceeds of national taxes to be expended for any functions or services which are not invested with some degree of national interest ? If one answers any or all of these questions in the negative , another plan of coordination which retains the advantages of centralized tax administration is still open . According to this plan the federal government would be given exclusive jurisdiction over income , inheritance , liquor , tobacco , and all other taxes which it is in a position to administer more effectively than the States . In return for this addition to its taxing power , and to compensate the States for their loss , the federal government would assume financial responsibility for the maintenance of minimum national standards in respect of such State and local functions as education , health , and welfare , which are of more than purely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ remain with the States and localities , but the federal government would see to it that its standards were enforced . This is , of course , merely an application of the familiar subsidy principle and is no novelty in federal and State finance . It would appear to come closer to achieving the objectives set up for the new social state than any other plan currently suggested . But genuine fiscal coordination will not be achieved through piecemeal expedients directed at one or more specific abuses which happen to afflict us at the present moment . - In a highly dynamic age intergovernmental arrangements such as tax credits , nationally administered State-shared taxes , or federal subsidies will have to be constantly readjusted to meet changing conditions . We can not expect to navigate the tortuous financial channels of the future by setting our ship on a predetermined course with the tiller firmly lashed . What we need above everything else is intelligent pilots , and at present such pilots are lacking . This lack may easily be remedied through the creation of a federal-State commission on fiscal coordination . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any sense constitute a super-government . Its duties would be purely planning and advisory . It would perform much the same function for the country at large as federal , State , and municipal budget-making bodies now perform for their respective governments . The commission would , first of all , schedule the financial requirements for all essential governmental activities and services , whether federal , State , or local , with regard to their relative importance for the country as a whole . It would then formulate a master plan of federal , State , and local taxation which would raise the needed revenue in an equitable and rational manner . On the basis of its financial plan the commission would submit recommendations for specific legislation to the Congress and to the legislatures of the several States . For the purpose of coordinating the credit operations of the various levels of government , it would , when necessary , act as a go-between in arranging for advances of federal credit to the States and localities . A coordinating body of the type proposed might be set up on the initiative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ character , however , it might be expedient to establish it through reciprocal federal-State legislation , or even on the basis of an interstate compact to which the federal government became a party by virtue ofthe terms of the initial consenting act . Whatever the procedure used , the establishment of a central commission on intergovernmental fiscal relations represents a necessary first step toward coordinating federal , State , and local finances . This is the seventh of a series of ten articles on taxation planned and edited by Professor Paul Studenski . The eighth , European Public Finance in the World Crisis , by Gerhard Colm , will appear in an early issue.                     