@@141042

Last week Editor Morris Fishbein , who is particularly interested in purpura , published in his Journal of the American Medical Association two ways of treating that blood disease . The methods were equally inexplicable , equally poisonous . In purpura blood escapes from capillaries and collects under the skin or mucous membranes in spots which range in size from pinpoints to silver dollars , in color from flaming red to black &; blue . Bruises cause transient purpuric blotches called ecchymoses . Typhus fever causes dotty purpura or petechiae . The kind of purpura which interested Dr. Fishbein last week was thrombocyto-penic purpura . Victims of this condition are constantly in danger of suffering a gush of blood from any of the orifices of the body . Without apparent cause or warning blood is likely to accumulate in a puddle somewhere under their skin , in the brain , in the adrenal glands . Disease renders capillary walls abnormally permeable to blood by simultaneously thinning the blood and capillary walls . Hemorrhage is due to wholesale escape of blood through the walls of those capillaries . According @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ week , one treatment for thrombocytopenic purpura is the injection of water moccasin venom . The developers of this remedy , Manhattan 's Drs . Samuel M. Peck , Nathan Rosenthal and Lowell A. Erf , advise a long series of hypodermic injections of dilute venom into the loose space between the skin and muscles . They admittedly do not understand the why or wherefore of their treatment . They do know that " it apparently has been of value in 22 of the 34 cases in which it has been used . " Just as inexplicable but more successful were the results which Philadelphia 's Drs . Harry Lowenburg and Theodore M. Ginsburg attained by poisoning two purpuric little boys with parathyroid hormone . That hormone increased the amount of calcium in the children 's blood to such an extent that they vomited persistently , became listless . When the children were on the verge of dying from hypercalcemia. the doctors stopped the parathyroid injections . At once the victims perked up , ceased vomiting-and ceased purpuric bleeding . Last week Drs . Lowenburg and Ginsburg ventured : " A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cures is suggested , although there appear to be no sound theoretical grounds for such a conclusion . "                     