@@493197

tee has staged frequent demonstrations in front of relief centers ; it has grievance committees in each branch which inspect the work of the relief centers , and make the lives of the commissioners miserable . If a grievance committee does not receive a satis factory answer , it returns later in the day in greater numbers . If this is ineffective , demonstrations are held . Mass delegations of unemployed workers have managed to induce the radio stations to give them time on the air . They have broadcast the work of the committee , and made Chicago familiar with it . The committee likewise has a self-help program . Workers go to the farms and exchange their labor for wood , apples and other farm products . A barter system has sprung up based on the 1927 price level . The Socialists are also active in Iowa , Oklahoma City , South Bend and other localities . The tactics of the Iowa organization involve a direct-action program against evictions and the shutting off of electricity and gas . Individual Socialists encourage the leagues to enlist unemployed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against the companies which have discharged them ) to tap gas and electric lines for the unemployed . Socialist unemployed leagues also picket the homes of the most notorious evictors . This tends to break down the morale of sections of the upper class and to impair their enthusiasm for economies at the expense of the hungry . In Des Moines , the Unemployed League asked for free transportation on the street cars , and did n't get it . As a result , workers in groups of ten or twenty boarded the trams and invited the frightened conductor to " charge the fares to the mayor . " This is analogous to the practice in Detroit , where unemployed workers enter self-service grocery stores in groups , fill their baskets with provisions and leave openly without paying . These seem to be the main lines of development of the militant unemployed organizations . The differences in program and tactics among these three main groups rest on the degree to which they accept the major premise that the jobless can win the right to livelihood only through struggle . In this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to this development is the growth of pure self-help organizations and " company unions " of the jobless . Here also there is a continuous line of gradation . At their worst , these latter organizations arise not as a part of the unemployed movement , but in opposition to it . They are the counter-actives which the city , the Chamber of Commerce and relief agencies employ to deflect the unemployed from a program of struggle . In the development of the unemployed movement , these groups will be significant primarily as obstacles which must be transformed or overcome . What is the ultimate significance of the militant unemployed organization ? First , in the present stage of American capitalism , it is a necessity if starvation and destitution are to be lessened . It produces a definite radicalization of the masses which come within its compass , and trains them in the meaning and necessity of the class struggle . A business revival should mean that large groups from the unemployed organizations will step into the trade unions and push them toward a more militant policy . If , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ displacement will produce such a large " industrial reserve army " that the unemployed organizations will become a permanent feature of American capitalism , then , on the basis of the experiences of the last two years , we maY infer that the jobless will constitute a decisive face for in the labor movement and a potentional MVO ' lutionary engine which can not be ignored . 