@@491060

I. The Meaning of Morality I T IS difficult to speak of morals without giving offense . For the subject concerns the most intimate privacies of our lives , and lends itself at every phrase to a distasteful moralizing in which the immorality of the audience and the perfection of the speaker are assumed . It should be understood at the outset that the present preacher has broken nearly every commandment , violated a volume of laws , and made most of the mistakes which he here proposes to denounce . He is now old and tired , and fit to take a philosophical view of morality . Morals , like laws , were invented for our neighbors , and it is our secret conviction that we ourselves could get along very well without them . Just as some lovers of liberty , like Kropotkin , wished to have all laws repealed , so some idolaters of power , like Nietzsche , longed for a moratorium on morality and dreamed of a society in which conscience would be left to cowards , and the strong man would allow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ centuries ago  --  so old are the most advanced ideas  --  the Greek Sophist Thrasymachus , as reported or invented by Plato , laid it down that " might is right , and justice is the interest of the stronger ; . . . injustice is censured because those who censure it are afraid of suffering , and not from any scruple they might have of doing injustice themselves " ; and about the same time the Chinese philosopher Yang Chu argued at some length that wickedness is much wiser than virtue , and is more likely to be rewarded with honor and wealth . Why is it that such poses , though repeatedly taken by men like Kautilya in India , Machiavelli in Italy , and Stendhal in France , have never been quite sincere , and have never been accepted by the mute wisdom of unlettered humanity ? Probably because they misconceived the very meaning and function of morality  --  which is not to bring material emoluments to virtue , but to organize individual character and social order into that unity , coherence and strength without which neither the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from which the citizen derives a rich heritage of security , opportunity and culture , is poised precariously upon a volcano of self-seeking instincts in the individual soul . It is true that we have social as well as selfish impulses  --  that instinct lends some aid to order by disposing us to a protective association with our fellows , and a , wholesome hunger for their praise . But the individualistic instincts , of acquisition , pugnacity and power , are older and stronger than the impulses to co-operation ; and the racial instincts of mate hunger and parental care , though they may be turned to the support of social order , contain in themselves the roots of disorderly passion , and that familial selfishness which makes the average parent ready to sacrifice the universe for his child . The primary task of a society is to organize a reliable supply of water and food , but in the long run its basic problem is to find some means of strengthening the social , and controlling the individualistic , instincts of its members , lest it disintegrate into chaos @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ therefore a biological necessity to a group , an indispensable organ of survival . Slowly and naturally , by the trial and error of a long communal experience which can never be fully communicated to any individual in one lifetime , a set of rules takes form which limits the citizen in his greed , polishes his pugnacity with manners , and subtly lures him , through praise and censure , to co-operation . To transmute greed into thrift , violence into argument , murder into litigation , and suicide into philosophy , has been part of the task of civilization . It must be conceded that morals vary from place to place , that the definition of good may alter scandalously across frontiers , and that , as Anacharsic put it among the Greeks , if we were to bring together all customs considered moral and sacred by some group , and were then to take away all customs considered immoral or profane by some group , nothing would remain . But this hardly proves , except to the pubescent mind , the worthlessness of morals ; it only shows @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Social order is none the less necessary ; the game of life must still have rules in order to he played ; there must be some regulation of the relations between the sexes and between man and man ; the friction of individual strife must be reduced by the rules of courtesy and fair play ; men must be enabled to know , by and large , what to expect of one another in the myriad contacts of every day ; a society must teach its members some measure of co-operation if it , is to have the unity and strength necessary for that inevitable group competition which is now the mechanism and test of survival . Our heroic rejection of the morals and customs of our tribe , upon our adolescent discovery of their relativity , betrays the brilliant immaturity of our minds ; a little anthropology is a dangerous thing . Given another decade or two , and we begin to understand that there may be more wisdom in the moral code of our community  --  in the formulated experience of generations of our race  --  than can be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disturbing realization comes to us that even that which we can not understand may be true . II . The Sanctions of Morality The great historic societies have used chiefly three instruments for strengthening the social instincts and building a moral code : The family , the church and the school . The family is the only moral institution recognized by nature  --  that is to say , it is the only means of training and restraining the individual which has an instinctive and biological base . For if morality is essentially the co-operation of the part with the whole for common survival , it learns its first lesson in the family  --  that co-operative isle in an individualistic sea . No other morality sinks so deeply into the soul , or lingers so patiently in memory and deed . The Chinese , who have been , all in all , the wisest and most moral people in history , considered the family far mire important than the state , and thought little of revolutions and changing dynasties so long as parental authority and mutual aid still flourished in the home @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ centuries before our era , expressed the matter pithily in one of the most instructive paragraphs to be found in any litera-ture : The ancients who wished to illustrate the highest virtues throughout the empire first ordered well their own states . Wishing to order well their states . they first regulated their families . Wishing to regulate their families , they first cultivated their own selves . Wishing to cultivate their own selves , they first rectified their hearts . Wishing to rectify their hearts , they first sought to be sincere in their thoughts . Wishing to be sincere in their thoughts , they first extended to the utmost their knowledge . Such extension of knowledge lay in the investigation of things . Things being investigated , knowledge became complete . Their knowledge being complete , their thoughts wore sincere . Their thoughts being sincere , their hearts were then rectified . Their hearts being rectified , their own solves were cultivated . Their own selves being cultivated , their families were regulated . Their families being regulated , their states were rightly governed . Their states being rightly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . One might forget all other words of the ancient sage and yet carry away with these a wholesome guide to life . The world is at war , says Confucius , because its constituent states are improperly governed ; these are improperly governed because no amount of legislation can take the place of the natural social order provided by the family ; the family is in disorder , and fails to provide this natural social order , because men forget that they can not regulate their families if they do not regulate themselves ; they fail to regulate themselves because they have not rectified their hearts  --  that is , they have not cleansed their own souls of the disorderly desires that beget the chaos and corruption of society ; their hearts are not rectified because their thinking is insincere , doing scant justice to reality ; their thinking is insincere because they have not welcomed the facts of the matter impartially . Let them welcome the facts and their thinking will become sincere ; let their thoughts be sincere and their hearts will be cleansed ; let their hearts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ let their own selves be regulated , and their families will automatically be regulated  --  not by virtuous THE SATURDAY oratory or passionate punishments , but by the silent power of example itself . Let the family be so regulated , and it will give forth such spontaneous morality that no multitude of artificial laws will any longer be required to keep the state in proper order ; let the state be in such natural and proper order , and all the world will be peaceful and happy . It is a counsel of perfection , and forgets that man is a beast of prey ; but like Christianity , it offers us a goal to strike at , and a ladder to climb . Next to the family , the most powerful prop of morality has been religion . In our youth we think of religion as an assemblage of ideas ; in our old age we perceive how subordinate these ideas are to the functions that religion fulfills in the individual and the state . To the individual it offers , first of all , an answer to his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by enabling him to complete , through hypothesis and belief , a world picture left irritatingly uncertain , fragmentary and uncomforting by science and philosophy . It solaces his solitude , and reassures him in his fear of the unknown ; it enlists the universe on his side , and satisfies his mystical longing for union with the ultimate force and meaning of the world . It redeems the hard prose and dull routine of his earthly existence with the drama of ritual and the poetry of faith ; it conceives a divine epic of creation and salvation , through which the individual career , otherwise so trivial and so brief , takes on cosmic proportions and endless significance ; it gives to life a meaning that can survive death , and takes from death and poverty some share of their terror and their sting . But more than that ; it deepens conscience by giving to morals an emotional and supernatural basis of divine surveillance and solicitude ; it strengthens , by threats of punishment and promises of reward , the social instincts against those individualistic impulses which , unhindered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ given to nations  --  sometimes , as in the Middle Ages , to continents  --  the social unity of a common creed and a common moral code . Hence statesmen have courted and favored it , lavishing wealth upon it like Rameses , attributing their victories to it like Ashurbanipal , building perfect temples for it like Pericles , allying themselves with it like Charlemagne ; and even proud rebels like Ashoka and Akbar , Constantine and Peter , Napoleon and Mussolini , have made their peace with it , lest the order forged by their arms should be undone by the loosening of morals and the clash of faiths . Until our own generation , the school , or rather the teacher , was also a vital aid to the moral life . For education , before our time , was not conceived in purely intellectual terms ; it was a transmission not merely of knowledge but of morals , and the teacher was valued for his inspiration to character as well as for his service to the mind . Boys were sent to Eton or Harrow , not to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into decency , to be equipped with disciplined as well as furnished minds ; and when they were passed on to Oxford , Canihridge or Edinburgh , it was in the hope that they would become not merely scholars but gentlemen . The men who came out of these institutions knew the difference between a wish and a fact , and were prepared for the hardships , realities and compromises of life . They made mistakes and enemies , but they EVENING POST conquered half the world ; and oven those who hated them envied their strength of character , the maturity of their manners , and the clarity of their minds . Those old schools produced not merely minds but men ; they gave self-'control and courage to the individual , and they created statesmen for the state . Let us not be too sure of the ignorance of our ancestors . III . The Economics of Morality All these traditional sanctions or aides of the moral code have been weakened by that Mississippi of inventions which we call the Industrial Revolution . The passage from the farm to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the family its ancient economic basis as the most convenient organization for the husbandry of the fields ; it has emptied the home of economic significance by scattering into shops and factories the varied work that once filled the home with busyness and meaning ; it has destroyed the economic foundations of matrimony by making woman less and less of an economic asset in marriage ; it has undermined parental authority by making not the family but the individual the unit of production , enthroned upon a pay envelope bearing his proud name . The power of the father , shorn of its economic source , visibly declines ; and the ability of the family to discipline will into character and greed into co-operation has been so reduced that morality may be said to have lost its instinctive and biological base . Legislation multiplies in a hasty effort to replace with a calculus of legal expediency the once spontaneous order of the family . But laws reach only the ready reckoner within us , not the soul ; and half our people , morally , are in the position of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ walking , and can move only by the halting intellectual guidance of every implicated muscle , tendon , sense and nerve . Again , the passage of industry has made man more earth-minded than before , and has weakened the inspiration that faith gave to conscience and morality . The countryside nourished belief by revealing , every day , the miracle of growth and the resurrection of the soil ; the city withers it by surrounding man with machines that press him to conceive all the world in terms of mechanical cause and effect , and himself as only another machine . And just at the time when all the power of the educator as a former of disciplined character is needed to balance this enfeeblement of an ancient support to morality , our schools , under the stimulus of industrialism , go in for knowledge as power , mistake intellect for intelligence , abandon discipline for a degenerative chaos , and entirely forget that a civilization is based upon human character as well as upon the fertility and minerals of the soil . We build the most expensive educational equipment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sharpening the acquisitive wits of men ; we provide a college in every town , but only two or three of them seem able to form educated gentlemen . One by one the ancestral sanctions lose their hold , and morality finds itself torn from all moorings of tradition and belief , adrift from all wonted certainties of right and wrong , helpless to restore order to a corrupt society , or peace and unity to disordered souls . Not only has the Industrial Revolution loosened the props that held up January 26 , 5523 our moral life ; it has generated conditions that . actively disintegrate the inherited moral code . Agriculture promoted early marriage by making women and children economic assets on the farm ; therefore marriage came early , and families were large ; premarital problems were few , and divorce was rare ; the prosperity of the family demanded and produced moral stability and disciplined unity in the home . In this subtle economic way the life of the fields created that Puritan code which formed the strongest characters in American history . When men moved from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to an unsettling multiplicity of contacts and stimuli ; from the restraints of home , neighborhood and church to the anonymity , the freedom and the skepticism of the city ; from poverty , labor and fatigue to leisure , opportunity and wealth ; from stoic self-control and capacity for hardship to Epicurean flabbiness and ease ; from early and permanent marriage to marriage delayed by the lengthening of economic immaturity , and repeatedly disrupted by the functionless emptiness of the urban apartment or home . Behind and beyond the city still flows the strong and steady life of the countryside ; but within the great engulfing centers the picture is one of mingled vitality and decay . Intellect flourishes there , for though the city does not encourage thinking , it multiplies thoughts ; every sense is stimulated into fever , and every head becomes a wind tunnel of ideals in unstable flight . The brain is made into a subtle and marvelous instrument of quick and varied adaptation and response . Feeling , no longer dulled by rural monotony of work and scene , is roused at every turn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ billboards stab the spirit with suggestions , and the shrieking signs of the air blot out the quiet and constant stars . Life is interesting in the city . What does such life do to morals ? It liberates the child rapidly from parental supervision , flings him into the promiscuity of the streets , and stimulates him into precocity . Physical maturity comes soon in the city ; economic and mental maturity comes late . Marriage is delayed , and a thousand problems arise that only transiently disturbed the farm . Coarsening contacts destroy modesty in the girl and chivalry in the man ; the two virtues go hand in hand , and neither long survives the other . Literature , the film and the stage adapt themselves to the needs of the unmarried , the unstable and the immature . Virtue is not news ; and the moral man , like the happy nation , has no history ; writers and producers find it hard , they say , to make fortunes by portraying the regularities and sobrieties of life. * The film and the stage , the adult @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and infidelity ; crime may threaten every home , kidnapers may drive families to seek security in Europe , venality and extravagance may bankrupt every city and every state ; but to the common man it is only an interesting bit of news , and to the exceptional man it is merely a reminder that he must get his share . When at last the city-zen marries , it is , as often as not , in the basement of the city hall , where he stands humbly in line as if applying for a license to drive a car ; he is no longer taking a 64 THE SflTLIRDAY EVENING POST January Sc , 5035 vow of honor , as his parents did , ho is making a contract of convenience ; and according to all that he has read or seen he must be left free to abandon the lady as soon as difficulties arise or a pretty face appeals to his whim . For is this not the age of liberty , and have not the most brilliant philosophers made it clear that marriage must be only pro @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but they live most of their lives outside , returning to it only to sleep ; they change it frequently , and never give it time to take on the living personality and welcoming friendliness of a permanent home . They have no children , for these will raise the rent , spoil the figure , and require a long and expensive education . If she belongs to the middle class the woman is left empty-handed in an empty dormitory , and frets herself into adventure for lack of the functions that once gave work to her hands and meaning to her life . She joins movements for social reform and never dreams that she herself  --  the idle and childless middle-class wife  --  is one of the pernicious factors in moral decay . Her husband discovers her fatuity , tires of the unchanging attraction which is all that she offers him , misses unconsciously the new meaning and beauty that motherhood might give her , wanders from her , and seeks in variety that depth of being which only unity and stability can create . The function of marriage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the race , and to regulate the relations of men and women . The function of morality is twofold : To give order and strength to character , and to give order and strength to the group . Have all these functions broken down ? Not quite ; the majority of Americans , even in the cities , still honor decency , hear with their wives and husbands , and spend themselves generously on their children . If this surviving sanity of life is a product of early rearing in the old morality and faith , in an old-style home and school , we can not be sure that it will pass down to children living in an urban environment , which , by the whips of its stimuli , almost flagellates the soul into instability . We can not be sure of the courage and hardihood of generations that are being trained by epicurean cities for the stoic trials of inevitable war . Already some weakening of the American fiber shows in the growing dependence of every phase of our lives upon aid and comfort from the Government . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our conduct and our character have undergone some deterioration in the last thirty years , and that the time may soon be at hand when every effort of statesmanship will be needed to turn the tide . In the great tests that our children will have to face , on economic , political and military battlefields , they may look back upon us with scorn and anger for having prepared them with luxury , idleness , promiscuity and crime . IV . The Strengthening of Morality To turn the tide will be difficult , perhaps impossible . The problem is made more complex by the fact that we are not so much immoral today as unmoral ; we hover unsteadily in a moral interregnum between the agricultural-rural moral code of our forefathers and the industrial-urban moral code of our grandchildren . Furthermore , morals are ordinarily formed not through the meditations and resolutions of philosophers but through the trial-and-error experience of communities ; and this ancient method of learning may mold a new morality too late to avert tuitional weakening and defeat , Let the statesman console himself with the example @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reasonable code , accepted by the enlightened rulers of the Han Dynasty , and made the text even of intellectual education in every Chinese home and school . We are not certain that this policy was the chief agent in the historical result ; we only know that the chaotic and epicurean China of Confucius ' day became the orderly and stoic China that for two thousand years has produced culture and character unsurpassed in human history . Possibly the stimulus of conscious national need must be combined with the wisdom of statesmanship ; but when the two factors meet , a nation may be reborn . Today we can only guess at the morality which our children must forge for their future ; and if we venture to discuss that code before it is born , we had better remember that our ideals are a product of our rearing and may be the voice of the past rather than the form and guidance of tomorrow . But we may each of us frankly expose our prejudices and our hopes , trusting that here and there some fragment of our dream @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ govern states , and who bear the double responsibility of action as well as thought . How might morality be strengthened in the individual ? Above all , by strengthening courage ; therefore , proximately , by developing hardiness and health ; a fit and ready body is a sturdy prop to self-respect , confidence and fortitude . How admirable it would be if the Civilian Conservation Corps would raise its remuneration , widen its purposes and draw every American youth for a year into its character-forming discipline , its wholesome friendship with forest , stream and sky ! Education and training in health , morals and manners might be made a required course in every year of schooling . We might again select teachers for character - as well as for scholarship , and beg them to give less attention to dead languages and passing frills and more to training the child , by example and practice rather than by precept or word , in concentration , perseverance , loyalty , cleanliness , considerateness and courtesy ; and we who are parents , on however small a scale , might turn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by neglect and bad manners in our homes , the constructive work of the schools . Perhaps a code of honor , embodying the principles of morality and decency needed in modern industrial life , drawn up and periodically revised by the leading educators , clergymen , physicians and heretics of the coMmunity , might be taught in every year from kindergarten to Ph.D. , engraved upon every diploma , and sworn to in public detail at every graduation ; the granting of a degree should depend not merely upon a little knowledge memorized but upon some habits of honor and courtesy visibly formed .. If morality in society is to be strengthened , it may be necessary to mitigate our acceptance of corruption and our admiration for violence . The churches have been too timid here ; let them speak out and take the lead , as they have done so constructively in the matter of films . Perhaps the establishment of such schools for government as existed in ancient Egypt would raise the tone of our political life ; and the rising war on slums may reduce the birth-rate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ police corps out of the hands of local or municipal officials and have merely a system of state police , headed by a high officer of the United States Army , appointed by the governor for six years and removable at any time on proved charges of venality or incompetence . Possibly alt judges in a state should be appointed by the Appellate Court of the state from lists of candidates recommended by the bar association . An educational qualification might be required for jury service , except where the defendant is without education and prefers to be tried by a jury of his peers . If morality between the sexes is to be strengthened , marriage will have to be restored more nearly to its natural age . We may retard urban precocity for a while by a return to the old policy of reserve in the matter of sex , and by the establishment of censored theater hours for children . But these measures will not reach the core of the problem , which is the excessive gap between physical andeconomic maturity , between the natural and the financial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by restoring the old institution of the dowry , and applying it to sons and daughters alike . Lest such aid encourage hasty mating , the dowry might reasonably be made dependent upon parental approval of the marriage , and might serve  --  to the horror of advanced thinkers  --  as a subtle device for reinvigorating parental authority ; and lest the dowry encourage sloth , it might be made available at its repository in annual allotments , decreasing with each year and ending with the fifth . It may be that further aid could be given to earlier marriage by a discriminatory use of the income tax . These proposals would hardly affect the wage-earning classes ; brit in these groups marriage still comes early , and fertility is at least as much as can be desired . To strengthen morals in marriage one might begin with the wedding itself , and build up about it once more a solemn ceremony that would burn the event emotionally into the memory of the couple , and make them feel their troth as no longer a contract but again a vow . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ power or speedy transportation might in some measure restore the individual home , and lead life back from the congestion of our cities to a healing comradeship with woods and fields . The multiplication of electric power may return to the home some of the minor industries that once gave it an economic as well as a biological significance and vitality . In any case , it should be laid down as a basic principle that marriage will not recapture its health until woman is again an economic asset to her mate . The functionless wife is the greatest enemy of marriage ; it is the sight of her expensive idleness that consoles the bachelor in his dreary solitude . It is true that there are some women of such grace and charm that they deserve to be supported merely for the beauty and kindliness which they shed upon our lives ; but no woman should rank herself too readily in such a class . Biologists have not yet found any escape from the alternative of work or degeneration . ( Continued from Page 64 ) The bride , then , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for mutherhood . It is not an ideal solution ; and perhaps in these days of power and machinery , we might dispense with the labor of women in factories , and " emancipate " them for the tasks of the resurrected home . Too much work is sent out of the house today , leaving the middle-class woman bored and discontented , and laying unwonted burdens upon the income of the man . The management of a home should be considered an art as difficult and honorable as typing letters or connecting telephones ; the woman who can cook and iron and sew , and knows how to make her home cozy and neat , is an ornament to life , and should be ranked high in society . If , in addition , she can bear healthy children and rear them into decent citizens , she deserves a. degree as exalted as any in the land . The normal woman is inclined to motherhood , though she does not wish it to be the sole concern of her life ; she rightly insists upon sufficient leisure and education to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . If , in the city , many women hesitate to give themselves to this ancient task , it may be our own fault . We have allowed the medical and other costs of maternity to rise to so ridiculous a height that a child seems to be a luxury which only the poor can afford . Every Amer-jean state should offer , to parents who have secured from its appointed physicians a certificate of fitness for parentage , absolutely free and competent care of the mother in childbirth . Once they have arrived , and before the age of football and bridge , children are not so expensive as immature sophisticates suppose . They cost less than cabarets ; as Balzac put it , " a vice is more expensive than a family . " They fill the home and the heart with a normal and natural interest that saves us from the thousand artificial amusements with which we try to beguile our childless years . They are , of course , the stimuli that nature uses to stir us to ambition and achievement. ; they " give to every @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to love . In the long run , it is their hands that make the economic world go ' round ; we labor not quite because we are acquisitive , but because we are generous . Given such biological marriage  --  the union of mates to make children finer than themselves  --  and all the myriad difficulties of matrimony become merely the problems and irritations that naturally accompany any vital enterprise . We are weaklings if we take to our heels at the first sign of war ; let us stay and fight it out . It would be still wiser to bear it out ; for the battle  --  not against one 's mato but against the problem  --  is half won when the other side has been completely heard . Just as Shakespeare thought that many a good hanging had prevented a bad marriage , so a good hearing has prevented many a bad divorce . Not until all doubt of unity is gone do we really fathom love . V. The Consolations of Chaos Now that the sermon is over , the preacher comes down from the pulpit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not such a bad lot after all . Even those who have not come to hear him , and those who justly consider him a reactionary in these matters , may be something less than criminals . These youngsters , who seem so hectically reckless to our graying hairs , are full of a fine vigor and audacity ; idealism shines in their eyes and hides behind their pretentiously cynical speech . These rough-and-ready boys , so engrossed in sport . and timid amours , and so careless of Latin and philosophy  --  how right they are , after all , and how subtly nature hardens them with games and lures them through every sense into racial continuance ! These jolly , giddy maids  --  well , were not maidens always giddy , even though seldom so jolly , and never so fair ? Is there anything in the world more pleasant to the eye or the spirit than these high-school girls who pass by the window in the early sun , so proudly pretty and so wisely gay ? Many of them , strange to say , are modest . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ again ? It is well that youth should be happy , and not overcast with our prohibitions and profundities . It is out of our unhappiness that our vices grow ; out of our fear , our cruelty ; out of our doubts , our intolerance ; out of our weakness , our conceit ; out of our hunger , our greed . Every vice was once a virtue , necessary in the struggle for existence ; we chase , and strike , and kill , and tear apart , and gorge ourselves , and occasionally lust for violence and blood , because men once had to chase and kill in order to live , and had to gorge themselves when food came to their hands , not knowing when they might eat again . For generations yet we shall be fearfully acquisitive because for ages onr ancestors were insecure . A vice is not an advanced form of behavior ; it is an atavistic throwback to ancient and superseded ways . Even in our insecurity this age has seen unprecedented giving ; consider how generous we might become if we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as insurance has socialized part of the economic hazards of death . Less wealth and more security would make us a happier people . Meanwhile our race may he taking an epochal step upward in the very midst of its chaos and uncertainty . What raised man above the animal was , in large part , the longer adolescence made possible by the better organization of the human clan or family for the protection of the young . In that longer adolescence maturity could come more slowly and snore soundly , and the lore of the tribe in skills and arts , in manners and morals , could be transmitted more completely to the child . What if a similar extension of youth were taking place today ? While we strive to quicken economic maturity by helping our children to finance the early years of marriage , we might at the same time seek to retard physical maturity by reducing the stimuli to precocity as much as may accord with a healthy freedom of mental development . If , while hardly knowing it , we are engaged in this process @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ step higher in the advancement of mankind . Our industrial system , equipped with machinery and accumulated technology , may soon dispense with the labor not only of women but of youth ; the family may be freed for the better rearing of desired children , and the children may be freed for an education that will pass on to them more fully that heritage of artistry and decency , of technique and understanding , through which we are lifted up , generation after generation , from savages to semi-civilized men . Let us take advantage of our broken life to mpiece its fragments into a finer harmony than before . Nothing is lost ; everything may yet be won .                     