@@165339

When an amateur astronomer , sitting in his cornfield observatory and sweeping the skies with his little telescope , discovers a comet or a nova ( exploding star ) , he telegraphs his find to Harvard Observatory , which checks it if possible and then notifies the big Western Hemisphere observatories . Professional astronomers do the same , but , concentrating on fixed research programs , they are less likely to make lucky discoveries than the sky-roving freelancers . Harvard not only notifies Western Hemisphere astronomical centres of new finds , but cables to Copenhagen , which performs the same service for observatories in the Eastern Hemisphere . Harvard has been relaying celestial news since 1883 , derives considerable prestige and publicity from this function . But there is also a seamy side to the astronomical clearinghouse business , Harvard Observatory 's magazine , The Telescope , frankly told its readers last week . <P> Not long ago Professor Joseph M. Baldwin of Melbourne Observatory , onetime president of the Royal Society of Victoria , cabled Copenhagen that a comet had been discovered by a well-known , usually @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Copenhagen cabled Harvard . Harvard would have liked to check the find , but the sky was overcast and so , hoping that everything was all right , the bureau notified the U. S. observatories . Indignant complaints soon poured in . No one could find the new comet . There was none . Mr. Gale had seen the ghost of Mars in his telescope . <P> " Ghosts " are reflections of bright heavenly bodies in telescope lenses . Professionals recognize them for what they are , but amateurs , seeing ghosts of Jupiter , Vega and Sirius , have reported them as new comets time &; again . Mars and Venus have been reported as novae . Few weeks ago one observer discovered the planet Mercury . Even lights on high airplanes and meteorological balloons have sent amateurs scuttling to the telegraph office . The Telescope was happy to say that at least three-fourths of the spurious discoveries were detected and smothered at Harvard .                     