@@487405

WHEN THE STATE DEPARTMENT STOOD UP on its hind legs last week and told the Nazi charge d'affaires that the United States government agrees with the opinions of the Nazi dictatorship expressed by Secre-tary Ickes , it spoke directly for the American people for the first time in many a month . The incomparable impudence of the Nazis in asking for apologies from offi cials whom their parrot press has slandered in the vilest terms has at last been countered with an expression of the anger and disgust that every decent American feels for a regime which lives by cruelty and terror . As for Secretary Ickes , who has carried on a one-man anti-Nazi campaign for months , he deserves a Congressional medal . The Nazis , in the manner of bullies , have dropped the issue as if it were a hot potato , out of deference , they say , to the " Christmas spirit " ! And they have been very careful to hide from the German people the true significance of the incident . qwq this opinion , however , will not remain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war inevitably involving this country . Anti-fascist emotions need to be harnessed to a program of checking the dictators here and now , of short-circuiting their ability to make war . America has the economic weapons and can use them without serious risk . The first steps must be the lifting of the embargo against shipments to Spain and the cutting off of supplies to Japan . There is no question that a victory of the Spanish Republic and a check to Japan in China would turn the tide of fascist triumph ; they would also offset the pessimistic resignation to a tragic conflict which now apparently prevails . 2 AFTER COOLING HIS HEELS IN LONDON FOR several months , vainly attempting to get into touch with the German government , George Rublee , director of the Intergovernmental Committee on Refugees , has received an invitation to Berlin . The Nazis ' sudden politeness springs from their hope of obtaining his cooperation in putting over their scheme for using the plight of the Jews to extort trade concessions . In its last issue The Nation exposed this plan as a thinly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been cabled from Berlin by Otto D. Tolischus to the New York Times more than justifies this description . We now learn that the Nazis will not be content with permitting the refugees to exchange the meager remnants of their wealth for additional exports of German goods . Such exports , it is planned , will be paid for by blocked refugee marks to the extent of only 50 to 60 per cent ; the balance is to be met in free foreign exchange , thus replenishing Germany 's gravely diminished resources . As Mr. Tolischus says : " In that way not only German Jews but the world 's entire Jewry , which is expected to put up the money , would be impressed into Germany 's export drive . They would thus subsidize German exports , help break down any boycott against German goods , help parry any such counter trade drives as the British have suggested , and indirectly finance Germany 's imports of raw materials essential for her armaments . " This brazen attempt to cash in on persecution must not be allowed to succeed We hope @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Rublee and their governments their unshakable opposition to any proposals serving to underwrite Nazi aggression . * THE ABILITY OF THE AMERICAN NATIONS TO agree on a declaration of solidarity involving provision for consultation in case of a threat to American liberties marks the outstanding achievement of the Lima conference . Although the " Declaration of Lima " is disappointing in its failure to make specific reference to the threatened penetration of ideas and dogmas , it provides machinery for consultation in case any country is prepared to utilize it . Whether it will be used depends , as does the value of Hull 's declaration of American principles , on the degree of real solidarity that was achieved behind the conference scenes . That this was less than had been hoped for is evident from Argentina 's refusal to assent to a more vigorous declaration , and the consequent failure of the conference to provide for periodic consultations between the American governments . It is evident that suspicion of American policy has not been wholly allayed by the Good Neighbor doctrine . As long as this suspicion remains , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of declarations of continental solidarity . But while we should not fool ourselves into overestimating the achievements at Lima , The NATION neither should they be discounted altogether . New territory has been won in the struggle to safeguard democracy in the Western Hemisphere . Whether this ground can be held will depend on the concrete manifestations of the Good Neighbor policy in the months to come . STIMULATION OF LATIN AMERICAN TRADE through a revival of foreign lending under federal auspices is reported to be the subject of study in Washington . The proposed instrument is the Export-Import Bank , through which $25,000,000 was recently made available to China . This , however , is an " emergency " institution whose charter expires next June . According to plans now being discussed , Congress will be asked to authorize the reorganization of this bank on a permanent basis . We hope that prejudice against foreign loans will not be allowed to stand in the way of this proposal . A strong case can be made out , on both political and economic grounds , for carefully directing a stream of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of us cries out for capital and offers enormous opportunities for wise development . We , on the other hand , are plagued with the problem of finding an outlet for surplus capital . We have piled up in Kentucky a fantastic amount of gold-60 per cent of the world 's monetary supply  --  which is far beyond the requirements of our internal credit system . If even a small part of this gold could be siphoned into Latin American economy it would do much to assist recovery there and lead to an important demand for capital goods which this country alone is in a position to supply . Financial interests will probably object that new loans ought not to be granted while old ones made by private investors remain in default . But that condition is much more likely to be remedied if constructive steps are taken to revive trade . FOR THE FIRST TIME JAPAN HAS SET FORTH officially its immediate aims on the Asiatic mainland . The " conditions for peace " as announced by Premier Konoye parallel almost exactly the conditions imposed on the puppet state of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ various points throughout China " as an anti-Communist measure " ; that Japanese merchants be given the rights of freedom of residence and trade which have traditionally been denied other foreigners ; that Japan receive a free hand in the economic exploitation of China ; and that the puppet government of China align itself politically with the Berlin-RomeTokyo axis . At the same time the Japanese press has launched a campaign for the " return " ? to the Japanese puppet state  --  of all concessions held by the Western powers , together with the /British crown colony of Hongkong . There are reports that Wang Ching-wei , leader of the former pro-Japanese wing of the Kuomintang , has flown to Hongkong to enter into negotiations with the Japanese . The likelihood that the Chinese government would discuss peace on the terms laid down by Konoye remains , however , extremely slight  --  particularly at a moment when the United States and Great Britain are showing signs of awakening from their long sleep . Recent confidential reports from China indicate that morale is higher than ever , and the forty-mile Chinese @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most spectacular military successes of the war . A China which has endured a year and a half of reverses without the least sign of weakening is not going to give way now when the tide is turning . HARRY L. HOPKINS SEEMS TO HAVE BEEN chosen as the heir apparent of the New Deal for 1940 . His appointment as Secretary of Commerce is regarded as an attempt to groom him for the nomination by giving him a chance to show business that he is no " radical . " The Department of Commerce 's gain is WPA 's loss , for Mr. Hopkins proved both his administrative ability and his liberalism in handling the huge job of relief . It is to be regretted that the President passed over Hopkins 's courageous and efficient assistant , Aubrey Williams , in picking a successor as WPA Administrator . Colonel Francis C. Harrington 's principal recommendation is his long and useful association with Mr. Hopkins as Chief Engineer of WPA . Mr. Williams is to be consoled with a position as head of an enlarged National Youth Ad -- ministration . It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ addition to making himself persona non grata with Southern Bourbons by his attitude toward the Negro , also got under the President 's skin by his insistence on greater WPA appropriations . Mr. Williams ended his services on WPA with an appeal to Congress for an immediate emergency appropriation , warning that otherwise funds will be exhausted by February 7 , and WPA will have to be suspended . That must be Congress 's first move , for the ending of WPA would be a human calamity and economically disastrous . WE RISE TO APPLAUD THE COMMITTEE ON the Bill of Rights of the American Bar Association for the splendid action it has taken in the Hague case . The committee , formed last August , made Jersey City its first order of business and has now filed a brief anncus curiae in the Third Circuit Court of Appeals , Philadelphia , in defense of the C. I. 0 . ' s right to hold- street meetings in Jersey City . Frank J. Hogan , president of the Bar Association , said that the committee would defend the civil liberties " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made good that pledge . The committee 's stand is made the more striking and effective by the character of its membership . Only one of the men on it , Zechariah Chafee , Jr. , is identified with liberal causes . Grenville Clark , the chairman , is an outstanding corporation lawyer , a partner in the firm of the late Eau Root . Joseph A. Padway , of Wisconsin , appeared against the C. I. 0 . as counsel for the A. F. of L. only a few weeks ago when the Consolidated Edison case was before the Supreme Court . John Francis Neylan is a Hearst lawyer ; Osmer C. Fitts is a partner of Coolidge 's Attorney General , John G. Sargent . Two , Douglas Arant of Alabama and Monte M. Leman of New Orleans , are Southern conservatives . The position they have taken is encouraging indication of an awakening on the right to the menace that Hagueism represents in American life . THE NAZIS CELEBRATED CHRISTMAS BY reviving the rites of the early barbarians who lived and killed by barbarian rules . " This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " belongs to us . " They forgot to mention that according to the laws of nature , which the Nazis have invoked in all their most brutal acts , day always follows night . We give you " Der Tag ! "                     