@@491797

G ERMANY has all the airplanes she needs at the moment , " said my host . " Now we are putting all our effort into improving the performance of our production machines . " We were standing on the aerodrome of the newest German airplane-producing plant , the Heinkel works at Oranienburg . The speaker was one of Heinkers top officials . It was mid-November , six weeks after Munich . I was in Germany  --  my second visit in two years  --  at the invitation of Doctor Adolf Baeumker , president of the Lilienthal Society , Germany 's great institute of aeronautical sciences , to see something of the country 's recent progress in aviation . I was at i Oranienburg with the permission of the Air Ministry . Behind us , well concealed in a large pine wood , was one of the most remarkable manufacturing plants I had ever seen . In view before us were some fifty-odd Heinkel twin-engined bombers  --  as slick and as efficient fighting machines as any air force in the world could put up . Some were in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tarmac , warming up for test . Some were in the air . Most of them , however , were staked out in precise rows along one side of the field , with engines and cockpits carefully protected against the weather by snug-fitting canvas covers . All were brand-new , all fully armed . Each was well camouflaged in a coat . of varicolored war paint . Here in the flesh was the bogy that had risen up to haunt Chamberlain six weeks before . Here was one clue , at least , to the Peace of Munich . Although it is " streng verboten " for visiting firemen to ask any questions about production rates or numbers of men at work in any German factory  --  and even more strictly forbidden for anyone to answer any such indiscreet questions  --  I had been doing a certain amount of mental arithmetic during my tour of the plant and was able to hazard a guess  --  also mental  --  that this group of finished airplanes represented about one month 's output . I believe , however , that the actual rate of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the fifteen planes a week that these figures might indicate . As I saw it , work in the plant had been tapered off since the crisis to a leisurely pace of one shift per day  --  eight hours  --  and my guess was that one finished plane per day was rolling out of the assembly-plant doors . But simply by adding two other shifts , it would seem easy to boost the rate to three machines a day ; and by putting on a little heat , four or five a day or better might be quite possible . Although these particular observations are not in themselves conclusive , added in with other evidence in sight and in circulation , they point unmistakably to the real reasons for Germany 's present . dominating position as a world air power . They confirmed opinions that I had developed in the fall of 1935 , when I made my first survey of European military aviation . At that time I visited many of the important manufacturing and research centers in England , France and Holland , as well as in Germany . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on a huge building program while England and France were simply pawing the air over preliminary plans for shadow schemes and nationalizing manufacturing plants . By the end of 1035 , after I had revisited the aeronautical industries of these same countries and had also had a look at conditions in Italy , the contrast was still more striking . England , in spite of the expenditure of two years ' effort and of huge sums of money , is still muddling along , far behind in her aircraft-production and pilot-training programs . She was obviously caught far off base by the September crisis . France , in the midst of social difficulties and under extreme economic pressure , has slipped from first to last place in the ranks of the great air powers of Europe . Actually , Italy seems better off , aviation-wise , than either England or France . But Germany stands head and shoulders above all of them . Germany is the only country in the world whose military aviation combines both quality and quantity in proper proportions . Germany is the only country in the world @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shelves , ready to be drawn upon at a moment 's notice . Germany is the only country in the world that . has an established manufacturing industry with a capacity far and away in excess of its current demands , an industry that is now ticking along smoothly under no pressure and outprodueing that of any other country in the world by a comfortable margin . And Germany has probably made more real progress than any other power in training competent personnel to man her air fleets and her factories . Al though two years ago there were reasons to suspect that her materiel production had outrun her training programs , today all signs point to the probability that . she has caught up with herself in that respect . On the question of the quality of Germany 's aircraft there can be little doubt . In the course of two visits into aeronautical Germany in the past two years , I have had opportunity to look over a large number of her airplanes at close range , and to fly in a number of them . I have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and accessories in the process of manufacture . I have been in representative test laboratories at manufacturing plants , and I have visited several of the great research laboratories operated by the Air Ministry . Only one conclusion is possible . New German Eagles I TN RESEARCH , in the appli- cation of theory to design , and in the translation of design into production , Germany 's work is certainly on a par with that of the rest of the world , and there is reason to believe that in some fields she is definitely out in the lead . Any number of completely fantastic ideas on the number of military airplanes of the Third Reich are in circulation . They range all the way from statements that Germany had 10,000 ? or even 20,000 ? super machines on leash , ready to take off at a moment 's notice to bomb London or Paris , down to equally ridiculous claims that she ca n't possibly have more than 1250 first-line machines , or a total of under 3000 units , including reserves . As a matter of fact , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crosses and swastika , of the Luftwaffe . There are no official figures with which to work . As is the case in dealing with the problem of air power in any country in the world today , the best that can be done is to add up all the bits of scattered evidence obtainable , weighing this probability against that , balancing this factor against that , then to make the most reasonable sort of guess possible under the circumstances . On that basis , then , my own guess is that the German Air Force probably has available between 10,000 and 11,000 military airplanes of all typesexelusive of purely primary trainers  --  but the probabilities are that only about one third of that number  --  say 3000 to 3500 machines  --  are organized in first-line squadrons available for instant use . Another third of the total probably constitutes what might be called the " first-line reserve , " machines of similar quality and performance to the ships in the active squadrons , but simply in stock on the shelves and available as immediate replacements in the line . Such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were the Heinkel bombers mentioned previously  --  or are assigned to great storage depots  --  some of them possibly underground  --  located in remote and well-protected areas of the country . They constitute the cushion to take up the slack between the outbreak of a sudden emergency and the time when production for replacement could be geared up to a full wartime out put . Their availability is one of the most important fact ors in Germany 's air strength . The final third of the roster carries the second-string reserves , made up largely of the obsolescent and semi-obsolescent types that were produced in quantity during the early period  --  only three and four years ago , at that  --  of Germany 's push toward air supremacy . Although somewhat old-fashioned by 1939 military standards , their effectiveness must not be discounted too heavily . For a war in Europe , where distances to British and French industrial areas are short , it takes little imagination to foresee wave after wave of such machines coming over at night or in bad weather , carrying tons of explosives . It seems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ matariel  --  just as sixteen-inch shells or naval torpedoes are considered  --  with the results obtainable justifying the expenditure . There are also secondary military uses to which meanies in the third category may be put . For example , they are very valuable as training airplanes for both the active air force and the reserves , to cover the transition stage between flying small single-seaters and handling the larger multi-engined fighters and bombei.s . I know a number of young German reserve pilots who seem to be able to put in their week-end flying time on the big three-engined Junkers Ju. 52 's , a machine of a type usually well beyond the reach of reserve pilots of the same class in many countries . Then , too , these machines may serve as military transports in mass , as is illustrated by a story in circulation of an incident in the recent occupation of the Sudetenland . A certain infantry regiment had been detailed to occupy a given area on a predetermined schedule . On advancing , however , they found that a number of roads and bridges had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ waiting to rebuild the bridges , a group of 300 bomber transports was whistled up . Allegedly , they were landed in unprepared fields adjacent to the stalled troops , the men and all their field equipment loaded aboard , and flown into unprepared fields near the objective . The occupation was completed on schedule at a , cost of only five or six damaged landing gears . An unconfirmed story , of course , but one well within the bounds of probability . Most significant indicator of Germany 's strength in aviation lies , however , in the contrast between conditions in her manufacturing plants and those of the powers on the other side of the fence . Where , in England and in France , the governments and the manufacturers are stumbling over one another 's feet with shadow schemes and nationalization , in a desperate effort to get something done before it is too late  --  and achieving only indifferent results  --  Germany 's Air Ministry has at its disposal a completely integrated manufacturing industry that has long since passed beyond the pressure stage for produet ion . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in excess of current demands by ( Continu  --  d - rem Pas . 7 ) and in 1938 ? I was privileged to see , among others , the two great Ileinkel plants at Rostock-Warnemilnde and at Oranienburg , Henschel 's works at Sehanefeld , and the huge group of Junkers factories at Dessau . And , although I did not actually see them , I have had access to reliable firsthand reports on other producers , including Messersch mitt , Dornier , Focke-Wulf , Arado , and others . Adding up the score , and taking account of such things as a probable pay roll of well over 30,000 employees in the Junkers operations at Dessau alone , it seems very likely that at least 200,000 people are engaged in aeronautical manufacturing activities in Germany . Some observers have put the figure at twice that number , although under present conditions I 'm inclined to think the latter is excessive . But even at the 200,000 level , it stacks up pretty well with the 36,000 engaged in similar pursuits in the United States today . Undoubtedly the show place @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ factory at Oranienburg . It embodies practically everything that has been learned about plants and production during the past few years . It illustrates the lengths to which Germany has gone to build up an efficient aviation industry , both in equipment and in personnel , and the means that have been adopted to protect plants and people against aerial attack . I am told that the same principles of layout and construction have been applied to all modern plants in other essential industries . Factory in the Pines To begin with , German plant designers are thoroughly bomb-conscious . One of the primary requisites of all new plant construction is that it shall be as nearly bombproof as possible . This means , first , that the buildings shall be well concealed , both from the ground and from the air ; and , second , that buildings shall be widely scattered over a large area and so arranged . that a direct hit on one will do minimum damage to adjacent units . The Oranienburg plant has been built out in the country , far from any industrial centers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ location . Its main manufacturing departments are housed in a group of low-lying buildings scattered through a large patch of pine wood . The trees are all of about the same height , and their tops come to practically a dead level above the gently rolling ground . The roofs of the buildings come to exactly the same level  --  not a stack , a water tank , or a roof top projects above the treetops . Roofs are painted to blend perfectly with the evergreen foliage . Side walls are mostly a dull-finished , nonreflecting glass combined with hit-or-miss tapestried brink that matches the sandy , grass-covered ground . Windows are shaded against the passage of light at night . You might pass along roads less than a kilometer away and never suspect the existence of the plant . It should also he extremely difficult to pick up from the air . But the German designers did n't stop with the assumption that their camouflage was so good that the plant would never be found by hostile bombers . They have looked ahead to that possibility and have made plans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whistling earthward over Oranienburg . It is quite probable that Lf4fischutzair-raid precautions  --  have reached the highest level of perfection at the new Heinkel plant . I had seen somewhat similar arrangements at several of the other German plants in 1936 , and only a week before I had seen a number of the hastily planned and more hastily executed sandbag-and-dirt dugouts that were being provided at British factories since the September crisis , but an inspection of the Oranienburg installations left me practically hanging on the ropes . By contrast , everything I had seen previously seemed almost pathetic . As a general footnote for anyone interested in providing air-raid shelters for themselves or their friends , European students of the art have long since given up any idea of protection against direct hits . Weighing the chances of being a bull's-eye for a one-ton bomb falling from an elevation of 12,000 feet , against the economies of digging yourself a hole thirty or forty feet underground , with plenty of concrete and steel thrown in on top , the practical solution seems to be to get only far enough @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ debris , shell splinters and blast pressure , with just enough reinforcement over your head to prevent your being crushed by any building or what not that may collapse on top . And , of course , you must n't forget to make your little dugout gastight , and equipped with some sort of ventilating system . The Luft , schutz shelters at Oranieuburg certainly conform to these relatively simple specifications in a super de luxe fashion . Under each manufacturing unit , readily accessible by wide , well-marked stairways , is a series of rooms large enough in the aggregate to house every worker in the building , with a comfortable margin . The rooms are well lighted , spiek-and-span clean . Ordinarily , they serve as locker and washrooms . The casual visitor would not see much unusual about them . But looking closely , one can see that they are divided into relatively small units , with solid walls and gastight doors between . Steel shutters are available to he clamped over the small glass windows that give into small areaways along the sides . Off in corners @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ driven , for emergencies . Each man in the plant has a definite assignment to a numhered section , and knows exactly where to go and how to act in case of a sudden alarm . Periodically , air-raid drills are held , just as we have fire drills or Lifeboat drills . But the really impressive equipment is under the main administration building . Here is not only shelter for the hundreds of engineers , executives and women clerks and secretaries but the nerve center , the headquarters from which the whole protective system of the vast works is controlled in case of attack . Again , broad , well-marked stairways , both inside and outside the building , give access to the Laftselintz &Nate; below . They lead into wide , well-lighted corridors reminiscent of our best hospitals . Along these passages is a series of steel doors , each fitted with rubber gaskets and sets of clamps somewhat like  --  although not so massive  --  the fittings on doors through watertight bulkheads in ships . These lead to the shelter rooms proper . Two classes of shelter are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aktiv . The names are almost self-explanatory . The pa.wir rooms are most numerous , are intended for the hulk of the employees , who simply move in and remain there until the storm blows over . They are fitted only with benches and some very simple first-aid equipment . Each is provided with an electrically driven blower for normal ventilation , but a hand-operated air pump is also as hand for use in case of electric-power failure . A loud-speaker system is installed over which orders may he given or morale-building entertainment dished up . The aktip rooms are scattered through the groups of pa.sKiv shelters . To each is assigned a squad of trained workers whose job it is to conduct the protective and rescue work during emergencies . The equipment kept in readiness in each is quite elaborate and very complete . Ready for the Worst Hanging in racks , ready for instant use , is each man 's protective clothing , consisting of steel helmet , gas mask , chemically treated coveralls , rubber boots and rubber gloves . Close at hand , in racks with a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , portable fire extinguishers of various kinds , heavy cutting tools for wood and metal , and a full assortment of picks , shovels , sledge hammers and crowbars  --  everything necessary for effecting rescue work under collapsed buildings or caved-in shelters . Telephone and radio sets provide Communication to the pa.4siv rooms , and connect each squad room with control headquarters . Near the center of this vast underground system , close to the headquarters room , is the emergency dressing station and hospital . There are probably hundreds of small hospitals in small towns in these United States whose equipment will not equal that which is on hand at the Oranienburg plant , standing by for use in case of air raids  --  and all quite apart from the ordinary first-aid-and-health clinic at the plant , which is housed in another building . Walls and floors are of gleaming white tile ; operating tables and other surgical equipment are of white enamel and polished chromium ; stocks of disinfectants and bandages line the shelves ; cases of sterile surgical instruments are at hand . Everything is ready for use @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rooms is a series of gasproofed wards . Each contains four beds , two double-deckers . A central oxygen supply , or rebreather apparatus , is installed in each ward , with long flexible tubes connected to individual masks for each patient . When I looked into these rooms I noticed that all the beds were made up with blankets and linen , with the corners tucked back hospital-fashion , ready for the first customers . The headquarters department topped off the whole show . From a single room in the heart of the catacombs system all the protective measures for the plant and all the movements of the 86 THE SATURDAY EVENING POST February itw , 939 personnel can be controlled . Here at a. desk will sit the commanding officer , with his several aides at smaller desks near by . At one side are the posts of the communications officers in front of the control and distribution panels for the outside radio and telephone connections  --  for air-raid warning , and so on  --  as well as the controls For all the internal telephone and loud-speaker systems . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a detailed map of the entire plant. , with all the power and telephone lines and other interconnecting services marked on it in distinguishing colors . In racks along the front of the table are a number of checkerlike blocks , each painted in colors and symbols to represent the various aktiv units on duty in the plant . In action , these markers can be placed on the map to show the disposition of all the units at any given time . Thus the C.O. can always have in front of him a detailed picture of any situation , and make his plans accordingly . But what finally got me was a very small thing , the final straw that strained the back of my credulity almost to the breaking point . On top of each empty waiting desk a fresh green blotter pad ; on each green blotter , arranged precisely in the northeast corner , a pad of clean white paper . And just beyond each green blotter a small wooden tray in which were laid in mathematically exact alignment three freshly sharpened pencils . Those ready @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Thus Heinkel , of Oranienburg , and thus Germany . There are many more examples that might be cited out of my observations at this one plant alone  --  the story or the magnificent sports and health facilities that have been provided for the workers , the comfortable houses and the co-operative laundries and community centers available near by ; or the story of the great apprentice-training schools which are turning out trained men for the factories , but enough has been said already to yield the clue to Germany 's outstanding position in the world of air power . , Rip Power From the day she decided to cast off the restrictions of Versailles with respect to aircraft she has laid her plans for an air force on a. truly heroic scale , and , with characteristic thoroughness , has planned for everything , down to ' the last sharpened pencil . There is little real doubt that Germany holds the balance of air power in the world today . Her military aviation is the yardstick against which the air forces of all other nations , including the United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 1939I have made a study of the available facts on the aviation situations in the major European countries and have evolved a sort of score sheet of relative air power . The scoring is not above criticism , for no accurate or extensive statistics on the subject exist . The best that can he done under the circumstances is to collect and to add up all the scattered and sketchy evidence that can be obtained on the several elements that go into air power as a whole  --  number of planes on hand , quality of planes and engines , probable production rates , probable productive capacity , personnel available , and national and industrial morale  --  and make the best possible " educated guess . " On this basis , the standing of the clubs comes out about as follows : Giving Germany a full-scale 10 , Italy gets Gt.4 , England 5 , France 21 , /i ' . Russia is a complete enigma , for little firsthand evidence of her present situation can be uncovered , but weighing up the admittedly thin evidence that has come to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at about 7 ? on the same scale . For comparative purposes , our own rating would fall at 4 or 41/2 . And so what ? Does that mean that we must join the mad scramble to meta the Third Reich plane for plane , plant for plant , man for man ? Mast we be willing to fare the immediate prospect of putting 10 or 15 per cent of our national wealth into armament ? I think not , for it will be many years before we will be in any real danger of sudden mass attack by hostile bombers . No conceivable potential enemy is within three hours of striking distance of our capital , or of any of our major industrial centers , as is the case for every European power . The ocean barriers to the east and to the west are still our most effective protection . Oa the other hand , we can not afford to sit back and be too complacent about it . Technical advances are in the wind that sooner or later may put our shores within range of bombing fleets @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ face the possibility of military operations launched against us from bases laid down somewhere on the American continent , either in the far north or in the territory south of the Equator . Fortunately , however , such contiugeneies are not immediate . Our greatest asset at the moment is the fact that we still have ample time to make a thoroughly rational study of our peculiar and particular land , sea and air defense problems , and to work out sensible and economic solutions without putting ourselves unnecessarily under wartime pressure , with its inevitable waste and inefficiency . It is sheer futility for laymen  --  including congressmen and newspaper writers  --  to waste breath arguing whether we should have 1500 or 15,000 airplanes just because this or that country has so many . Air power is not to be measured in terms of mere numbers . The really important thing that we must do is to develop a highly efficient air force that is properly balanced as to types of machines and quantities of machines to meet our special problem . it is equally important that the active forces @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , able to handle our peacetime needs efficiently and at the same time capable of sudden and tremendous emergency expansion . The greatest problem that has faced our manufacturing industry during the past ten years has been the feast-orfamine conditions that have characterized it because of the leek of any clear-cut and co-ordinated procurement policy by the Army and the Navy . Funds have been limited . Orders have been small . Allocation of orders among manufacturers has been spotty . No manufacturer could predict , from one year to the next , his requirements in plant or personnel or in materials . Untie Sam 's Task The first and most important move to be made in building up our air defenses under the President 's new program will be to overhaul completely our procurement policies , so that our manufacturers will be able to make their plans far enough ahead to be able to operate their plants with the maximum efficiency and economy . Actually , we possess quite a reserve of manufacturing capacity without much expansion of existing plant facilities , if only some degree of sense is used @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But we must resist all efforts to stampede us into adopting hasty or ill-advised schemes for boosting the output of airplanes to emergency levels overnight . We must not allow ourselves to be panicked by political pressures into a badly organized expansion program that we may live to regret . The effects of such behavior are all too evident in England and in Franco today . We must work out for ourselves a long-range plan of procurement for machines and materiel , geared to a workable program for the training of pilot and mechanical personnel that will , within a reasonable time , bring our combined air forces up to a level consistent with national safety under present world conditions as determined by our tactical experts . Only after we have reached that minimum level  --  and we are far below it today  --  can we afford to sit back and be complacent about it . Whether we like it or not , our hand has been forced . Germany has led the way toward aerial rearmament on a largo scale , and we must , of necessity , follow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dictatorship , we must find other methods , for dictatorship is not in the American scheme of things .                     