@@487786

THE United States in recent decades appears to have last its once lively interest in politics . The general run of candidates for public office has in these later years been noticeably declining in quality . Most of the men and women asking to be sent to Congress or to be placed in high State offices at the coming elections show no deviation from this general downward tendency . Studying the current list of more than a thousand candidates is enough to make honest men break down and weep . Here and there are outstanding exceptions , candidates of independence and courage , of genuinely liberal tendencies , but these exceptions are few in number . Public apathy is at least partly responsible for the overwhelming proportion of nondescript candidates offering themselves for fat political jobs at the Tuesday elections . There was a time when the United States was one vast political forum . The average adult American could name offhand a ' dozen Senators- , a dozen governors , and perhaps a score of Congressmen . He knew about their records and what they stood for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ degree intelligently . Today he evidently no longer cares . There are few Americans who even know the names of the Congressmen from their districts . Political interest is alive throughout the nation but once every four years , when it comes time to elect a President , and then the interest is only superficial and certainly not remarkably intelligent . What has happened is difficult to say . Perhaps the never ceasing concentration of power and influence in the White House is to blame . Perhaps the fault lies with the increasing revelations of corruption in high office , which tend to make cynics of potential voters . There is still another factor , which appears to us to be the most likely explanation for the widespread apathy toward political activity . That is the complete lack of political issues . Between them the two major parties can not find a single genuine issue over which to quarrel with sufficient sincerity to arouse enthusiasm and discussion among the voters . There are wets and drys , protectionists and low-tariff men , industrialists and agrarians , capitalists and workers , militarists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gone are the days when the country was readily divided along clear-cut political lines on such questions as slavery , free silver , or the tariff . Whenever a likely-looking issue appears the politicians in both parties cry it down again for the sake of party harmony . We need a new political alignment on the basis of the issues of today , not those of 1860 . Whatever may be the cause , it is clear that there can be no revival of popular political activity , let alone any hope of a genuine liberal movement on a national scale , until the voters again take a serious interest in politics . Candidates and their records should be closely examined and studied . Remembering Calvin Coolidge 's warning as to office-seekers that " the best we can get will be none too good , " intelligent voters will in every case cast their ballots for the best candidates , that is , for those who are well informed , honest , and progressive , rather than vote for inferior candidates simply because the best man has no visible chance of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the type of candidate it will feel greatly encouraged to see not only well supported , but safely elected on November 4 : GEORGE W. NORRIS , Republican , for Senator from Nebraska , because of his complete incorruptibility , his lifelong support of progressive principles , his unyielding opposition to the power trust ; GIFFORD PINCHOT , Republican and Progressive , for Governor of Pennsylvania , because of his outstanding liberalism and his fight for conservation and against special privilege , particularly in the power field ; EDWARD P. COSTIGAN , Democrat , for Senator from Colorado , because of his consistently progressive record and his notable service in fighting against the prostitution of the Tariff Commission to purposes of private plunder ; PHILIP LA FOLLETTE , Republican , for Governor of Wisconsin , because of his championship of the high ideals for which his father fought ; WILBUR L. CROSS , Democrat , for Governor of Connecticut , because of his independent spirit and his liberalism ; CORDELL HULL , Democrat , for Senator from Tennessee , because of his uncompromising fight against the protective tariff ; JAMES @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of his completely independent position in politics and his campaign to increase government control of the radio trust and related power interests ; JAMES ROLPH , Republican , for Governor of California , because of his marked liberal leanings and because of our strong hope that he will see justice done Mooney and Bil-lings ; R. A. COLLINS , Democrat , for Representative from the Fifth Mississippi District , because of his peilsistent and unwavering fight against the militarists in Congress ; NORMAN THOMAS , Socialist , for Representative from the Sixth New York District , because of his demonstrated ability to master the details of governmental problems and to use them effectively in popular education , and because of his intelligent and forward-looking political views ; HEYWOOD BROUN , Socialist , for Representative from the Seventeenth New York District , because of his sincere desire to promote the welfare of the working classes , his refreshing and original attitude toward politics , and his promise of making Congress interesting ; F. M. DAVENPORT , Republican , for Representative from the Thirty-third New York District , because of his notably progressive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because of his efforts to improve the standards of American diplomacy through reorganization of the State Department . There are others who could be mentioned here and it is the duty of liberal and progressive voters to seek them out and give them whole-hearted support . The Nation 's list is necessarily incomplete , but we believe it presents the sort of candidates who may be counted upon to bring the country closer to intelligent and honest government . Heckling Free Trade N OT for many years has British trade policy been subjected to such a vigorous attack as the meeting of the Imperial Conference has precipitated , nor to one whose outcome could with less confidence be predicted . There was a general expectation , especially after the Conservative victory in Canada , that the question of imperial trade would prove to be the most important item in the agenda of the conference , and that the demand of the British Conservatives , led by Stanley Baldwin , for protective duties on British imports , joined to the spectacular championship by Lord Rothermere and Lord Beaverbrook of free trade within @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , would have at least the tactical effect of putting the historic policy of free trade for Great Britain on the defensive . It is not wholly surprising , however , that the ambitions and rivalries of domestic politics in the United Kingdom should be dragged in to complicate a consideration of imperial interests , or that the conference , confronted with an array of projects and counter-projects , should find that any course except delay is beset with difficulties . The two problems before the conference are , first , how to revive the declining trade of Great Britain and check the growth of unemployment without raising the cost of food and materials , and , second , how to insure imperial trade preference without impeding the industrial development of the dominions or restricting their trade with foreign countries . None of the proposals thus far brought forward goes to the bottom of either of these questions . The plan outlined by R. B. Bennett , Prime Minister of Canada , for imperial preference based upon a 10 per cent increase in present or future British or dominion tariffs on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ imports , since without a general tariff that could be raised there could be no preference . The invincible opposition of Philip Snowden , Chancellor of the Exchequer , to protection in any form makes it reasonably certain that there will be no protective tariff for Great Britain as long as Mr. Snowden remains in office , at the same time that his optimistic prediction of a coming trade revival on a great scale , if - borne out , would rob the demand for protection of much of its force . On the other hand , Prime Minister MacDonald , who a short time ago was believed to be leaning toward a 10 per cent general tariff so contrived as not to add to the cost of food , has not only declared against protection as a remedy for unemployment , but has espoused a policy of " back to the land " as the remedy which the Labor Government would bring forward at the next session of Parliament . Pending the submission of the land program the Labor Government , in the person of " William Graham , president of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a quota system under which the British imports of wheat and other designated commodities would be apportioned among the dominions and purchases from the dominions materially increased . The plan , it is said , does not contemplate price fixing , but private trading in the quota articles would of course have to be subjected to government regulation in order to assure the maintenance of the quotas . A systemanalogous in principle to that which was enforced during the World War would thus be set up in time of peace . Mr. Baldwin , who has previously favored the quota arrangement , has gone the government several points better by promising that if the Conservatives are returned to power , the protective policy of " safeguarding " shall be thoroughly applied , home-grown wheat shall have the benefit of a guaranteed price , the dumping of bounty-fed oats shall be stopped together with that of foreign fruits and vegetables , and foreign barley shall be taxed . A wheat tax , he added , could be avoided by requiring a prescribed percentage of domestic wheat to be used in all flour @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the matter rests . No one has yet been able to show how protective duties , guaranteed prices , or obligatory use of domestic products could avoid enhancing food costs in Great Britain , or how Canada , Australia , New Zealand , or South Africa are to be induced to buy larger quantities of British goods in return for increased British takings from them . The quota scheme would of course necessitate an apportionment of the quota commodities among the dominions producing them , with abundant opportunity for charges of unfair discrimination , and the most-favored-nation privilege accorded by commercial treaties might become an issue if foreign importations were systematically barred . It is to be hoped that Mr. MacDonald , who has been a disappointing leader in the great debate , may back Mr. Snowden without reservation , and that between them the protectionist assault may be stayed . The least concession to protection by Great Britain would bolster the evils of protection throughout the world . Who Was Extravagant ? 0 UR extravagance is the latest-discovered cause of the present business distress . According to Eugene R. Black @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the investment bankers at New Orleans : We have been living in an automobile , a Frigidaire , a radio era , and we have been sitting in an atmosphere of a Corona-Corona . We can not pay our debts and continue to live in that atmosphere . Let us not fool ourselves . . . . I do not agree with those men who pay that in America there must be no retrogression from the present high grade of living . We can not have any permanent prosperity when there is a load of debt around our necks . Mr. Black politely named no names , but it needs no Solomon to discern that he was thinking of President Hoover 's remarks at Cleveland : It appears from the press that someone suggested in your discussion that our American standards of living should be lowered . To that I emphatically disagree . . . . Any retreat from our American philosophy of constantly increasing standards of living becomes a retreat into perpetual unemployment and the acceptance of a cesspool of poverty for some large part of our people . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wants living standards lowered , of course , but when production slows down , incomes decline with it , either through lowered wages and salaries , or , as more largely during the past year , through short time or unemployment . Then people who habitually live up to their income , as most people do , have got to live more poorly , just as millions are doing today , and our sacred American standards of living are lowered in fact , just as is happening today , no matter what our oratorical refusal to make a " retreat from our American philosophy " into a " cesspool of poverty . " That is the stubborn fact . Then what about Mr. Black 's contention that life in a " Corona-Corona atmosphere " has landed and is keeping us in our present slough of despond ? Let Mr. Black 's homely remarks about the evils of debt be given full weight by a people not devoted to thrift . His explanation , however , does not take us far . True , during the mad times ending in 1929 people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Frigidaires and radios far beyond their ability to pay out of current income . During those years the instalment system swelled our credit capacity by some billions of dollars , and everyday people , given the opportunity , lived up to it . But who devised the instalment system ? To take only the most prominent example , it was the automobile manufacturers , who wanted to make and sell more machines than the public could and would buy out of their current income . To get them to buy , the manufacturers then induced the people , who doubtless ought to have been more strong-minded , to mortgage their future income . As a result of the success of this maneuver the manufacturers have built perhaps three-quarters more automobile plants than we can keep fully at work . Who has devised every modern expansion of credit that has taken place in times of peace ? It has been the banker and the business man , who have found a profit in giving people ( including business men ) credit so that they could buy more goods than their current income @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ brought the inevitable smash , then , was not our " extravagance " or the artificially high " American standard of living " made temporarily possible by the rash use of credit thrust upon people . Underneath these phenomena lie the imperfections of a business and credit system that offers bankers and business men profits from affording people facilities for being " extravagant . " Even if extravagance were the root cause of our trouble , there would be no use exhorting people now to stop being extravagant ; for about the only ones living in a Corona-Corona atmosphere today are perhaps some of Mr. Black 's banking and big-business friends . His homily , we take it , is addressed not to them but to the silk-shirt brigades  --  of1919 and the two-car white-collar-worker families of 1929 . As these groups are already flat on their backs if they are not on the street , there is little need today to urge them to quit their extravagance . By all means let those who live on wages and salaries live within their means if they can , but let them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of business and production . Instead , let us all , bankers and business men and farmers and workers together , see if we can not work out a system of credit and business control that will not encourage an unconscious conspiracy between bankers and business men whereby the former loosen their purse strings to us all while the latter break down our sales resistance with all the arts of modern advertising and high-powered salesmanship . That was the " extravagance " that brought the boom that brought the smash . Let us look in the right direction for its correction . The American Hotel FORTY-SIX-STORY palace skyscraper hotel is ris-ing on Park Avenue today and exactly 101 years ago the old Tremont House in Boston opened its doors , America 's first " modern " hotel . Between these extremes a century of mechanical miracles stretches its length . The new Waldorf-Astoria will be equipped with all the baths and radio sets and running ice water and uniformed lackeys and private garages that New Yorkers have come to expect of the hotel of today . The old Tremont House , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " as a tre-mendous innovation lighted its public rooms with the new-fangled gaslight , although the bedrooms  --  private bedrooms , mind you , instead of the dormitory effect that inns usually provided  --  were furnished with candles . The plumbing , of the very latest variety , consisted of cold water laid on in the kitchen , laundry , and basement " bathing-rooms . " And most novel of all , every bedroom was supplied with its own cake of yellow soap . Yet the Tremont House by no means lacked splendor . Built at the then tremendous cost of $300 , - 000 , its architecture was dignified and imposing , its office ? which began to be called the lobby about 1850 ? had a marble floor , its main dining-room was seventy feet long and deco-rated to the hilt , and its manager for the first time in Ameri-can hotel history was filled with zeal for his guest 's comfort . The history of the American hotel is in miniature the social history of the country . The tavern , whose guest demanded no more than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the frontier as it proceeded westward . In the effete East the frontier was going out of fashion as quickly as possible . America , the young democracy , built its hotels in lieu of the palaces it might not have ; the hotel guests were the kings , each a monarch in his own right . And , like monarchs , they behaved royally , demanding the best and getting it . In the fifty years that followed the opening of the Tremont House the gaslight began to give way to electric light , the cold water in the basement was replaced by elegant bathrooms with **28;82;TOOLONG plumbing , guests who had toiled up six flights of stairs now rode airily in an elevator , and steam heat , the telephone , and meals a la carte at all hours made the hotel guest 's life worth living . Nothing in the evolution of the modern hotel is more interesting than the rise  --  and fall  --  of the hotel clerk . At first the first assistant to the host , the man who received guests , dispensed room keys @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meal , he speedily advanced , as the elegance of the lobby around him increased , to a position of influence and splendor surpassed by few public men . He was , by tradition , the possessor and the proud wearer of as many diamonds as his shirt-front would hold ; he could quell a temerarious guest with a look ; he was a man of affairs , an authority on the life of the city . Those persons who today still admit a timidity in the presence of the hotel clerk  --  pale descendant as he is of his proud ancestor  --  come honestly enough by their fears . Even in a democratic puddle , there may be a biggest frog . And in his lucrative dealing in diamonds , which he lavishly bought and sold , the hotel clerk was the forerunner of the racketeer. 