@@494099

THE NEW REPUBLIC A Journal of Opinion The War of Nerves ( Cont 'd ) The war of nerves goes on , but begins to look a little less one-sided than before . Several reports from inside Germany suggest that Hitler is beginning to feel the strain as much as , or more than , the Allies . Meanwhile , he continued to announce that a terrible attack is just about to begin . Soviet Russia scolds Finland on the approved formula that 3,500,000 Finns are threatening war against 170,000,000 Russians . Italy has told Stalin , not too politely , to keep out of the Balkans . Although the imminent danger that Belgium and the Netherlands will be attacked seems averted , it may of course reappear at any moment . The diplomatic phase of the war , which continues to be the most important , extends to the Far East . Many people believe the withdrawal of British garrisons from North China is proof that Great Britain and Japan have come to an understanding which bodes extremely ill for China . There are other reports , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which goes far beyond the questions of trade and fisheries . These two rumors may simply be evidence of Japan 's game in playing Britain and the Soviet Union against each other . An important clue will come if England and Russia , or either of them , is quick to recognize the puppet Chinese government Japan is setting up in Shanghai . Frightfulness at Sea The warfare at sea has taken a sudden and ugly turn . Over the week-end of November 19 nine ships were sunk in the North Sea , with a serious loss of life ; fromone of them , the " Simon Bolivar , " too persons are missing . These ships , a majority neutral and unarmed , were all sunk by mines , which are attributed to Germany by everyone except the Germans . Many mines , torn loose by stormy weather , have washed ashore and exploded against rocks or breakwaters . International law forbids floating mines except those which become harmless in one hour . It forbids anchored mines which remain effective after they have gone adrift . No country is supposed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been done . Germany has apparently violated the last two of these regulations and perhaps all three . Berlin 's reply to these accusations is that the British laid the mines themselves , in order presumably to cut off food from their own population . Submarine activity has been noticeably lessened for the past few weeks , and some people believe the measures taken against it have proved to good that it is becoming unprofitable because of heavy losses . Indiscriminate secret mine-laying may be an alternative and it is even suggested that this may be the terrible new weapon Hider promised . In any case , the British are planning wholesale mine sweeping , and the experience of the last war suggests it should be effective . The Court Unpacked The death of Mr. Justice Butler removes from the Supreme Court one of its most stubborn economic conservatives ? a man who before his appointment was a railroad attorney and after it saw every economic issue with the bias of protecting and even of extending corporate property rights . This gives the President a 152 chance to make his fifth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ majority for a more liberal interpretation of the Constitution . It is commonly expected that he will appoint Attorney General Frank Murphy , who combines in a miraculous degree the neeesssry political qualifications , both irrelevant and relevant . Mr. Butler was a Catholic and a Midwesterner and so is Mr. Murphy ; it is hard to see why these circumstances should make either a good Judge . But Mr. Murphy is as liberally inclined as Mr. Butler was conservative ; that makes him available under a New Deal President . Editorial commentators who fought the Court-reorganization plan are now asking what good it did for the President to be so impatient ; he now has his Court majority without altering the law . They overlook the fact that the Court , largely under stimulus of the criticism which gave rise to the Court plan , already has reversed its previous tendency . The question should rather be directed to these commentators . If Mr. Roosevelt 's appointments of five members of a nine-man Court are approved in 1939 , why was he accused of wanting to " pack " the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Unions and the Anti-Trust Law Are labor unions to be exempt from prosecution under the anti-trust laws ? Thurman Arnold , Assistant Attorney General , says they are not . In an important letter to the Central Labor Union of Indianapolis , he has outlined the conditions under which prosecutions may be expected . He makes it clear first of all that the government will not proceed against unions for actions reasonably connected with wages , hours , health , safety , preventing the speed-up or establishing and maintaining collective bargaining . It will not act , though repeatedly asked to do so , in regard to secondary boycotts . It will , however , move when the unions are engaged in operations that are clearly against the public interest and not connected with their legitimate function . Mr. Arnold mentions five of these , some of which are drawn from the building trades . Uncle Sam objects to unions which deliberately prevent , rather than regulating , the introduction of more economical materials or methods . He objects to the requirement of useless labor , such as the demand that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a city . He is opposed to racketeering , to restraints on prices through union conspiracy with employers , and to jurisdictional strikes where an employer is harassed in order to attack , through him , a rival union . It is obvious that great care is necessary to prevent unjust restrictions on unions ; our past history is studded with them . With that reservation , however , we think sensible people will agree with Mr. Arnold 's plan of attack . The evils he enumerates have been most conspicuous in the building trades , where they have operated , according to reliable evidence , not only to THE NEW REPUBLIC prevent large numbers of houses from being erected but to reduce the annual income of the union members in a marked degree . Many of these unions have been arrogant and scornful of public opinion , building up a needless animosity toward themselves . Cleaning up the evils Mr. Arnold talks about should prove labor 's best protection against unfair use of the anti-trust laws . Labor Party Results The American Labor Party did not do so well in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , this was an off-year , which is always good for the regular political machines , with their professional methods of getting out the vote . But , as we understand it , the purpose of having a labor party is to beat the political machines at their own game . A well led , enthusiastic party ought to get out its own vote . In its first election , in 1936 , the ALP cast 218,00o votes . When Mayor LaGuardia ran in 5937 with its support , it reached the crest , with 482,790 . In 1938 it fell to 340,749 , and this year to 238,737 . The Democrats now have firm control of the City Council . Alex Rose , the secretary of the party , comforts himself with the calculation that it cast a fractionally larger percentage of the total registration than it did in 1938 . But this year it had only 15.4 percent of that total , against 2t.6 in 1937 . Obviously , the action of the party officials in ousting the popular head of the Transport Workers ' Union did it no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under the thumb of a narrow-minded sect of right-wing Socialists , who have contributed to the political ruin of every other movement in which they have been influential . Unless that impression is removed , the party is in clan ger of stagnation or extinction . Doing Dies 's Job The Communists have put something over on Mar tin Dies . Though he was authorized by Congress to investigate un-American activities , he has devoted his attention mainly to the Left , leaving virtually untouched the dangerous activities of the Reverend Charles E. Coughlin . Now The New Masses , Communist weekly , appears with a series of heavily documented articles by its own reporter , John L. Spivak , to tell us in detail what the good Father has been up to . The New Masses believes that its charges lay a basis for federal investigation of law violation such as use of the mails to defraud and income-tax evasion . Naturally , we can not vouch for the accuracy of these charges and the supporting evidence , but it 's a two-toone shot that they are more reliable than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ front pages of the country . More Money for the Navy In the next session of Congress , the Navy Department will ask an additional billion and a third for new NOVEMBER 29 , 1939 ships . In spite of the vast program already under way , the navy feels that it needs three more aircraft Can riers , eight cruisers , fifty-two destroyers and thirty-two submarines . Already six battleships of 35,000 tons are under construction and two of 45,000 . The airplane program calls for 6,000 . The old rule that work will be divided equally between government and private shipyards is to be dropped ; the Treasury will put up 30 percent of the cash in advance . Competitive bidding will be laid aside and contractors will work for cost plus to percent , a system which during the last war resulted in an orgy of padded expenses and vast hidden profits . In normal times , these proposals would produce roars of protest from all over the country . There is not the slightest reasonable need for such a navy , unless we fear that Britain will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intact , will be directed against us . Congress should insist on a careful inquiry before authorizing a measure of this kind . The Nearly Perfect State A threat of drastic censorship hangs over the West Virginia Guide compiled by the WPA Writers ' Project . Governor Holt won control over the unpublished manuscript through a threat that the state would cease to coSperate with any WPA project unless he were allowed to delete matter in the Guide that he deemed " scurrilous , discreditable and detrimental to our state . " The nature of this matter was revealed when a local historian delegated to read the manuscript publicly urged that all mention of strikes be eliminated . Publication is now stalemated , with a promise of vigorous protests from federal , state and labor officials if the Governor 's blue pencil goes into action . Any book on West Virginia that failed to mention Mother Jones , the Logan Armed March and the Weirton strikes would not be a guide but a fairy story . Mr. Wells Wo n't See It Through When the war began the British announced with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , that their cause spoke for itself . Whether they are adhering to this pious resolution , we do not know ; a lengthening list of prominent British figures are turning up in this country for lecture tours and are saying precisely the things a propagandist would be expected to say . Mr. H. G. Wells has revealed the fact that he was invited " more or less officially , to do propaganda in Europe or America . " But Mr. Wells declined with vigor , as he explained in a recent issue of The New Statesman . He did propaganda in the last war , and he feels that the politicians whom he served betrayed him . We who lent ourselves to propaganda , were made fools of and ultimately let down by the traditional tricks of the Foreign Office . . . . The evil state of Europe today is traceable almost directly to the want of imagination , the self-protective cunning and the deliberate breaches of faith153 made by British politicians and officials during those eventful years that immediately followed the Great War . Well , once bit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a stalking horse for the British Foreign Office again .... If I lend myself to any propaganda , then by all my standards I shall be damned . And I will be damned if I lend myself to any propaganda . This is a statement as courageous as it is explicit . There must be many other men who feel as Mr. Wells does about the lesson of the last war and its relation to the present one . When Britain comes to state her war aims , her first task will be to convince public opinion at home and abroad that she does n't again intend to sell out the men of good will by a group of secret treaties incompatible with any pretension to decency and justice . Orchids for The Times We do n't want the editors of The New York Times to think that we have been nagging them . On the contrary , we send them hearty congratulations for their dispatches from Moscow , by G. E. R. Gedye , and from Berlin , by Otto D. Tolischus , which belong in the top rank of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , considering how hard it is to get news in Moscow that is based neither on unverified gossip nor on official hand-outs . In the past we have had a great deal to say about the Times correspondents in Paris , in Franco Spain and in Mexico City . But when we attacked the work of men like P. J. Philip , William J. Carney and Arnaldo Cortesi , it was n't because they fell below an impossible standard set by ourselves . It was because they fell so far below the best standards of The New York Times . Census Time Again It is time for the census again . In April , 1940 , about 120,000 enumerators will start out to gather the facts for the sixteenth decennial inquiry into the American population . Earlier than that , beginning January 1 , a much smaller number of 12,000 will have begun a comprehensive study of American business , trade , manufacturing , etc. , designed to bring out large numbers of facts never gathered before . Agriculture will be investigated separately . The general census will also collect several @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ example , study housing in the United States so that we may know under what conditions our people live ? how many rooms per family , how old the house is , whether there are electricity , gas , water and other conveniences , whether the house is rented , owned or mortgaged . The citizen will be asked to tell how much formal education he has and where he lived five years ago so that we may know the facts about national and international migration . Everyone 's status during a given week , whether publicly or privately employed or idle , will be noted . All this information will then 154 be put on specially punched cards ? last time it took a third of a billion of them ? and tabulated . The results ought to be the most important group of facts about the American people ever assembled , and a valuable basis for future plans for the improvement of our economy . Floating Hotel When the United States Lines ' " President Harding " was thrown on her beam ends by a hundred-foot wave in hurricane @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ r2o-odd injured and pictures of stretcher cases . They asked no embarrassing questions and assumed the thing to be an act of God ? in which the United States Lines did not discourage them . The company , in fact , discovered that if there was any human fault it was that of the passengers , who had been warned to hold tight . But one of these came into the office the other day , with questions . How were the passengers warned ? Why were pianos , tables , heavy chairs and radio consoles banging down the decks into tangled heaps of people ? Why were n't there any serious injuries in the third class ? Why was a Coast Guard cutter the first to radio news of the accident , and why was a news reporter who happened to be on board not permitted to radio an eye-witness account until it had been considerably edited ? Our man says that aside from a notice on the bulletin board , the first-class passengers had no warning ; it was only the third class which was made to keep to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , that in spite of hurricane weather , the loose and potentially vicious furniture in the crowded public rooms was not lashed down . It is one thing for paying guests and shoregoing company officials to forget that a ship is not the Waldorf and that its captain should be free to keep even first-class passengers where it 's good for them without being sent to the banana fleet when they squawk . The passengers ask for just what they get in such cases . But it is a little curious when ship 's officers themselves fall into this habit of mind , and get so courteous about first-class feelings that they neglect seamanship and crack a lot of first-rlasa heads in a seaway . Torpedoes with Wings A great many terrible new weapons have been announced in the daily press in the last few years , nearly all of which have disappeared after a little flutter of publicity . This fact engenders a healthy skepticism regarding additional announcements . Nevertheless , there will be much public interest in the report from the chief of staff of the American Television Institute @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aid of television . The inventor , who conducts the Institute with Dr. Lee De Forest , the " father of radio , " describes his device as simply a radio-controlled bombcarrying small airplane which has a television trans- mitter in its prow . Control of airplanes by radio is an accomplished fact and the device is in use in several countries . Television is also an accomplished fact . Heretofore , the great weakness of a radio-controlled " flying torpedo " was that the man operating the control was too far away to see what was happening and make the necessary changes . If , however , a television screen at the home base ? or in another airplane with people on board ? can show the operator exactly what he would see if he were looking straight ahead from the flying torpedo , there is no reason why , theoretically at least , he should not be able to guide its movements accurately . Such a weapon would bring new peril to big battleships at sea and perhaps increase the effectiveness in the bombing of military objectives on land @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to an unlimited supply of suicide-squad aviators willing to be killed to increase the effectiveness of their attack . News Notes of a Week Any German merchant ships transferred to Russia in an attempt to defeat the blockade will be treated as enemy craft by the Allies , it was announced in Paris following Scandinavian reports that the " Bremen " and other German ships had been sold to Russia in exchange for war materials . . . . Widespread protests against the execution of Czech students who took part in demonstrations were met with drastic measures by the Nazis , who declared martial law and made hundreds of arrests in Prague .... Foreign Minister von Ribbentrop informed Belgian and Netherlands envoys that " after the brusque rejection of the peace move of the Belgian King and the Dutch Queen by the English ' and French governments the German government also considers the matter closed . " . . . Three bomb explosions in blacked-out London were charged to terrorists of the Irish Republican Army . The two-week strike of 5,000 New York longshoremen was called off after conciliation by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the International Longshoremen 's Union . . . . To take care of ro , 000 seamen thrown out of work by the embargo repeal , the WPA prepared to employ 5,000 on waterfront-improvement projects , while others were promised subsistence in the nautical-training schools operated by the Coast Guard . . . . A Brooklyn federation of Protestant churches condemned the Coughlin-inspired Christian Front for " spreading racial and religious prejudices , " inciting violence and practising " inexcusable hypocrisy . " The Greater New York Federation of Churches was said to be planning a similar announcement . . . . A visiting British poet told ship-news reporters that Unity Freeman-Mitford " is just crazy in love with Hitler " and that he ( the poet ) had told her she was " making an international ass of herself . "                     