@@141048

On the well-cared-for grounds of the British Embassy in Washington one day last week a gardener noticed a great number of odd insects among the flowers and shrubs . He had never seen any creatures like these in England . They were a dingy brownish black , with spiny forelegs and large , staring eyes . Their legs were orange and their wings , which spread three inches when open , bore dark markings resembling the letter " W. " The gardener took news of his discovery to plump , grey-haired Lady Lindsay , wife of moose-tall Ambassador Sir Ronald Lindsay . Lady Lindsay suggested telephoning to the Department of Agriculture . One of the Department 's entomologists told the worried gardener that the insects were part of a huge and famed brood-Brood X-of periodical cicadas known scientifically as Tibicina septendecim and popularly as " 17-year-locusts . " The entomologist said that the insects would do little or no harm to flowers and shrubs , would make a fearful racket later on when they began to mate . Meanwhile there was nothing to do . If the gardener @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he could spread mosquito netting over the beds . Periodical cicadas are not locusts at all . When pious New England pioneers found them in enormous numbers , they thought of the locust plagues of the Bible , called the cicadas " locusts . " The 17-year cicada is the longest lived of any known insect . One or more broods appear in the eastern U. S. every year . Brood IX , which appeared on schedule last year in its usual region , has a small range-parts of West Virginia , Virginia and North Carolina . This year 's Brood X , hatching from eggs laid in 1919 , is among the largest . It ranges from Michigan to Georgia , from eastern Missouri to Long Island . Tibicina septendecim is a toothless insect , does not eat plants but simply sucks at them . It makes no attempt to escape from sparrows , its greatest enemy . The female damages orchards and vineyards by using her sawtooth appendage to carve grooves in which to lay her eggs . When the larvae hatch from the eggs , they fall to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ root at which they suck for 17 years . When the proper time arrives , they come out at dusk , climb a tree . In order to get out of the old shell in which it passed its infancy , the insect takes a firm toehold on the bark , arches its back . The shell splits and the cicada slowly works out of it . At this stage the insect is whitish , has red eyes . The frail , crumpled wings spread out and grow strong with incredible rapidity . By morning the cicadas have grown dark , are ready to fly . For four or five weeks they frolic in the sunshine . After mating and egg-laying they die . The males have two drums of cartilage beneath their wings and muscles which vibrate them rapidly . With this apparatus they set up an ear-splitting racket . As a mating call , this is wasted effort , because the females seem to have no auditory organ whatever . It is possible , however , that as snakes perceive the vibrations of sound with their tongues , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with her antennae or some other organ . To clarify this situation a program of re-search was last week reported to be on foot at the University of Maryland . The call of the male will be transmitted by microphone to a loudspeaker in another room . The female will be placed in front of the loudspeaker , while the                     