@@431171

FROM somewhere behind us came the high-pitched whine of the engines of fast-flying aircraft . A few yards ahead of the army truck on whose roof we were riding , a platoon of infantry was marching briskly down the dusty road . The young officer in command turned and stared hard toward the menacing sound of the approaching planes . Then he shouted one word : " Airplane ! " The infantrymen scattered like a covey of startled quail . Some of them darted out of sight in the underbrush ; others dived headlong into the roadside ditches . Now three hedge-hopping attack planes were low over our heads , knifing through the air at over 200 miles an hour with their machine guns chattering viciously . The road ahead was as deserted as a graveyard at midnight , but as the planes roared over the place where the infantrymen had taken cover there was a burst of fire from unseen Garand automatic rifles and Colt pistols . And then , before you could light a cigarette , the planes were dim smudges in the distance . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the man who had been cranking away industriously at a movie  | camera . " That should turn out to be a real good shot , " he remarked . Then he turned toward the doughboys who were emerging grinning from the underbrush and ditches . That was fine , Lieutenant , " he called to their leader . " It 'll be enough for this morn ing . " Hollywood ? No . Just the U. S. Army shooting one of the scenes of its newest motion pictures , entitled " Infantry Antiaircraft Defense . " Our army has gone into motion-picture production in a big way ? but in a way very different from that followed by the Hollywood movie makers . Glamour girls are conspicuous by their absence . The actors are officers and enlisted men who take a movie-making assignment as part of the day 's work . Army movies skip the romantic and play down the spec tacular . Entertain ment is n't their ob ject . The Army makes them with the same purpose that it does everything else ? to increase its fighting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1917 , when our small Regular Army tackled the big problem of taking a million or so of young men out of civil life and turning them into soldiers in a hurry . Many World War recruits mastered the intrica cies of close-order infantry drill with the aid of a crude silent movie titled " School of the Squad . " Before the end of the World War , a few other films were made , covering some of the fundamentals of soldiering , and played an important part in the military education of thousands . Training films had proved their value , and the Army decided to go ahem ' making them ? for current use , and , more impor tant , for the purpose of building up a graphic , up-to-the-minute library on the  | science of modern warfare which in time of need would provide a quick , standardized and alwaysready system of making soldiers out of raw recruits as quickly as possible to meet any requirement for defense . Early in the game the officers in charge of the making of training films realized that if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have to be the technical equals of the output of the Hollywood studios . Knowing that pictures of the necessary high quality could be made only under skilled direction , the Army began sending officers to school in Hollywood to learn the movie-making trade . There they are given a year of practical experience in all the phases of motion-picture production , and are let in on some of the most closely guarded trade secrets of the big producers . Nearly all of the training films are " shot " at the various service schools , such as the Infantry School at Fort Henning , Ga. , and the Cavalry School at Fort Leavenworth , Kans . Two field units , one based at Fort Monmouth in New Jersey and the other at Wright Field in Ohio , are kept busy with this part of the work . But the headquarters of the Army 's movie-making industry is the Signal Corps Photographic Laboratory at Fort Humphreys , in Washington , D. C. There , with the aid of the most modern equipment , the film is developed , edited , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ military and some civilian , working under the general direction of Major R. T. Schlossberg , the officer in command of the Photographic Division . Up to date forty-two training films have been produced . Their subjects range all the way from what to do if you are unlucky enough to get wounded , to the throwing u of hasty field fortifications and the tactica. employment of artillery . Production has been speeded up recently , and the schedule for the current fiscal year calls for the making of forty-three 1,000-foot reels . Among the subjects are the use of antiaircraft machine guns , the control of venereal diseases , and the extensive meteorological work that is done by the Army . Much of this year 's increased production will be for the greatly expanded Air Corps . Sound has been used in one way or another in all of the training films which have been produced since 1932 . Usually it is in the form of an explanatory monologue accompanying the action . The Army movie makers use all the tricks of the Hollywood trade to emphasize important points . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ screen . Slow motion gives detailed instruction when it is necessary . Animated drawings make essential points clear . In a few of the pictures , cameras operated by remote control have been used to take the students into spots too dangerous for even a dare-devil movie cameraman . Sound amplification makes it possible to listen in on telephone conversations and to hear whispered commands . In the training films as little as possible is left to the imagination , and no essential action ever is left out . In the film on hasty field fortifications , for example , as much emphasis is placed on the correct way to grip an entrenching tool as on the advance  | of a skirmish line under fire . When desirable the picture can be stopped and parts of it run over and over again until the students thoroughly understand the points involved . Lengthy subjects are covered in separate 1,000-foot reels , breakng the instruction up into fifteen or twenty-minute lessons which are not too severe a tax n the attention . Training films are made in both the standard thirty-five-millimeter and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the signal officers of the nine corps areas and our foriegn departments . early all Regular Army nits , and many NationI Guard outfits , are equipped with thirty-five-millimeter projectors . The sixteen-millimeter films are used mostly for the instruction of Reserve Officers ' Training Corps students in colleges , and of Reserve officers . While the training films are being exhibited constantly as a part of the Army 's regular training program , their greatest value lies in their availability as a standardized method of training recruits quickly . In modern war , days saved mean both lives and dollars saved to the country .  |                     