@@152556

Cinema Tsar Will Hays and his Motion Picture Producers &; Distributors of America , Inc. have such a hard time controlling the lubricity of the cinema that to expect them to control the lubricity of anything else would seem too much . Yet the Hays organization sometimes attempts it . Last year , regulations against salacious cinemadvertising were added to the industry 's code . Last week came another incident to heat and bother the upright Presbyterian soul of Tsar Hays . In Motion Picture Magazine appeared an interview with decadent-looking Tallulah Bankhead ( daughter of Alabama 's onetime Representative William Brockman Bankhead ) . written by one Gladys Hall . Reported Miss Hall : " I am told that Tallul ' is never decently hypocritical . . . . She reveals All- and more than all . . . . She gives to all functions of living and loving , of body and soul , their round Rabelaisian , biological names . ... It is said that she speaks of her love affairs with equal frankness . She has a romantic interlude and afterwards , discusses it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recipient of her favors happens to be among those present or not . . . she is said to dilate upon his ways and wiles , his abilities and disabilities , his prowess or his lack of prowess with . . . consummate abandon . . . . " Miss Hall provided direct quotations from Miss Bankhead 's amorous philosophy : " I 'm serious about love . I 'm damned serious about it now , of all times . I have n't had an affaire for six months . Six months ! Too long . I am not promiscuous , you know . Promiscuity implies that attraction is not necessary . ... I may lay my eyes on a man and have an affaire with him the next hour . . . . " I am serious about marriage - too serious to indulge in it . ... I know that once I get a thing - or a man - I 'll tire of it and of him . . . . " I go to the movies . Garbo is a very great genius . I 'm mad @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rule , " very fond of women . . . . " If there 's anything the matter with me now , it 's certainly not Hollywood or Hollywood 's state of mind . . . . The matter with me is , I WANT A MAN ! . . . Six months is a long , long while . I want a man . " After inquiring into who was responsible for the interview ( the accuracy of which Miss Bankhead denied ) the Hays organization reprimanded Authoress Hall , Motion Picture Magazine and the Para mount publicity bureau , then considered adding to its celebrated code a regulation against " verbal moral turpitude " on the part of cinema celebrities .                     