@@152976

To U. S. theatre folk who go to Russia to profit artistically rather than financially , the U. S. S. R. seems to be indeed the millennium of the show business . Audiences seem to like everything they get . The spirit of experimentation is vigorous and widespread . And what puts the golden cap of perfection on the whole situation is that the State pays all the bills . <P> Of the countless U. S. theatricians who have reported on the dramatic wonders in the Soviet Union , none has brought back a more thoroughgoing account of what goes on behind the footlights of Russia 's dramatic capital than Morris Houghton , who last week published his findings in Moscow Rehearsals* Mr. Houghton was one of that group of stage-struck youngsters , whom in the early 1930 's Princeton sent into show business by way of the Triangle Club and Theatre Intime . He set Carrie Nation , stage-managed the Guild 's Both Your Houses and in 1934 landed a Guggenheim Fellowship to investigate the Russian theatre . To prepare himself for his observations he learned Russian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 40 Moscow theatres , each of which has its own technical establishments and all of which perform a repertory of from four to 15 plays , Observer Houghton determined to study four thoroughly : the Vakhtangov Theatre , the Moscow Art Theatre , the Krasnaya Presnaya or Realistic Theatre , the Meier-hold Theatre . At each of these institutions he spent conscientious days backstage at schools and rehearsals . But Mr. Houghton 's impressions , like a cat 's eyes , become most vivid at night when he is sitting out front . <P> Intervention was the first play he saw at " the Vakhtangov Theatre . It was a spy story laid at Odessa in 1920 , when the Reds were fighting the Whites and practically everybody else in Europe . Every Moscow theatre group has its own hallmark . At the Vakhtangov the hall-mark is a slight caricature of impersonation . " Men with long noses have very long noses , women with large hats have very large hats , thin men are very thin , fat ladies are very fat . They are a little like characters of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Though the great Stanislavski now nurses ill health behind the calcimined walls of a bourgeois mansion , his Moscow Art Theatre , with the famed sea gull from Chekhov 's play on its curtain , remains " a spot sacred and awesome to the man of the theatre . . . . The audience seems to talk in lower tones here ; their hair is combed more carefully . Their shirts are cleaner than in other theatres . " The Days of the Tnrbins provided Observer Houghton 's first impression . The play was an extremely sympathetic treatment of a White family during the horrors of the 1917-22 civil war . First presented eight years ago , it was promptly banned by Soviet censors . Moscow now regards it as one of its most popular plays . Mood and rhythm are the big contributions of the Art Theatre . Observer Houghton properly registered on both .                     