@@469483

No VISITOR to London these days can withstand its comfortable good cheer or be unaware that here , at last , is a city not beset by fears and tormented by phantoms . London is the most prosperous metropolis in the world . The statistician can prove it with figures on wealth , employment , and consumption , but the foreign visitor needs no such proof . The mood of London gives him mental re pose . If he has come from a long stay in Berlin he relaxes his tense nerves and speaks of controversial matters with a normal voice ; if from Paris , he forgets the riots and parliamentary scandals and the shadow of danger over the Chamber of Deputies ; if from America , he experiences what he may have forgotten ? a great community imbued with quiet confidence . To be sure , London is not typical of Great Britain , for in the north and in Wales are areas of desolation unvisited by tourists where despair is as rife as confidence is in London . But , on the whole , Great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has enjoyed more than its share . The revival may not be quite so complete as is widely believed . The depression in Great Britain is not over , for the normal level of production has not been reached . But even if it is a revival and not a recovery it is not to be belittled . It has brought work and courage to great numbers . Moreover , it is one of the few outstanding achievements of leadership in an era of failure . The revival is due to a combination of good fortune and a series of drastic national actions which demonstrate how a modern democracy can co-operate with destiny in times of danger . A myth is current , particularly in America , that the British have recovered by " letting nature take its course . " No one , of course , can say that the results would not have been still better if nature had actually been allowed to take its course . If the National Government had not been formed , if the decision had not been taken to abandon the gold standard , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ double wall of tariffs and a depreciated currency , if the conversion loan had not cut the income of the rentier class by thirty per cent , if agriculture had not been forced to thrive on subsidy and regimentation , British history would have been strangely different . Suppose , for instance , the last sovereign in the gold reserves had been shipped abroad in October , 1931. and the gold standard had not been suspended but jettisoned , that indeed would have been letting nature take its course . Only the economists of the " monetary school " would have welcomed it as bringing on the universal demonetization of gold , and with it the dawn of a new day of wisdom in the vital matter of money . Again , suppose tariffs had not been resorted to , and the British market , the largest in the world , had remained accessible to other countries . Only orthodox free traders can argue that the resultant benefit to foreign countries would have so quickened world trade as to bring still greater British prosperity in its train . But such arguments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was not allowed to take its course . The history of the British people since 1931 is curiously like the history of an individual . A man makes decisions : some of them may be wise ; some may be blind but turn out happily because of circumstances which he had not foreseen ; and then he may be helped by a mere whim of events . Similarly , some of the national decisions in Britain have been intelligent , some have been fortunate , and there is at /east one instance of sheer romantic luck . Let me tell first about the luck . Luck is not unknown in economic history . The discovery of a great gold field can modify the economic fate of a generation . But the discovery of a mine is an incalculable occurrence , and this occurrence was not incalculable . It simply was not calculated or predicted . For the whole British nation it just happened . It occurred after the suspension of the gold standard . The National Government had been elected as a bulwark against . inflation . MacDonald had made people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it took to buy a postage stamp in inflationary Germany . Between Great Britain and inflation stood only her gold reserve and the determination to balance the budget . ( I admit , this is a story only for the orthodox . ) The gold reserve had been pledged to the last sovereign to New York and Paris for the credits raised in the last frantic effort to remain on gold . The credits soon would fall due . The country had no export surplus with which to buy dollars and francs to repay them . The Treasury had no funds abroad . and could not obtain them by any known way unless it impounded the foreign investments of private citizens . This had been done during the War in the white heat of patriotism . The operation could hardly be repeated in the face of financial disaster . If the gold reserves were shipped abroad London would lose its place as the financial center of the world . If the credits were not repaid the Bank of England would be degraded . Some new gold came to London regularly from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not enough . Nobody knew what was going to happen . MacDonald , who had promised sound finance , did not know , nor did Neville Chamberlain , Chancellor of the Exchequer . Permanent officials at the Treasury were in despair . Not even a sub-clerk was inspired to write a memorandum pointing out how the country was going to be saved . A trickle of gold started flowing into London from an unexpected source . The trickle swelled to a stream , the stream to a river . Within two years this river brought gold worth $350 , - 000,000 to London . The Bank of England could repay the French and American credits before they were due , with a triumphant flourish , without a mention of luck . Everyone was allowed to suppose that the traditional soundness of British institutions had been demonstrated once more . British prestige , shaken by the suspension of the gold standard , began to rise . The world over people said again that the English are great financiers , great business people . The trickle of gold had not come from any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vast subcontinent , with a population nearly three times as great as America 's , had been absorbing and hoarding gold . Some of it went into bracelets and bangles to adorn the women of India , some of it was hidden away as coin ; for such is the technic of hoarding in the Orient . No one could say just how much gold India had received , and no one foretold that what had been hoarded might be restored to circulate again in the arteries of finance . When the gold standard was suspended the paper pound did not deteriorate in purchasing power , either in Great Britain or India . Thus the gold of India commanded a premium ; the hoarder could sell at a profit . Indians , like everyone else , were pressed for funds , so the gold coins came out of hiding , and the bracelets and bangles were melted into bars to be shipped to London . The Treasury was quick to sec what was happening . The Exchange Equalization Fund was set up to provide the means to buy gold , both @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ further purpose of keeping the paper pound from rising inconveniently high or falling dangerously low on the world exchange markets . But its primary aim was to restore Great Britain 's gold reserves . And this it did . Chiefly thanks to India , British gold reserves already a year ago were the largest in the country 's history . Most of the British people have missed the mental adventure of realizing that their economic security to some extent lay waiting for them in the bangles on dark arms in India . Most of them cherish the thought that issues of such moment are under the exclusive control of the mysterious governor of the Bank of England and the coldly realistic Chancellor of the Exchequer . Now India could not have played this decisive role except for another happening , which also was not clearly foreseen . When the British went off gold , it seemed like a toss-up whether gold or paper-money prices would rise . Judging by the experience of Germany , Italy , and France , the suspension of the gold standard must be followed by an immediate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gold . Paper prices would have to rise , and the painful cycle leading to printing-press inflation would set in . MacDonald must have thought so , or he would not have formed the National Government for the primary purpose of defending the gold standard , and he would not have frightened the country with his reminiscences of German inflation . The world now knows it was no toss-up . When Britain went off gold , it was gold prices which were depressed , not pound prices which rose . Other countries likewise suspended the gold standard , and the sterling area became too large to be dominated by the minor power of gold . The British now will tell you that they did not go off gold at all , that it was gold which went off sterling . They have forgotten their fright in 1931 . Then they knew they were taking a leap into the dark . What they feared as a long fall turned out to be no fall whatever . The paper pound kept its value , and the British did not suffer in the least @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prevailed , for these at once began declining , with all the dangerous consequences of further deflation . Britain on the contrary found herself in a surprisingly favorable position . Her exports were stimulated by the cheapness of the pound in gold countries . The steadiness of the pound in India set into play the unforeseen forces which disgorged for London 's benefit the vast horde of Indian gold . II Those who proclaim that " nature " has been allowed to take its course in Great Britain are not thinking of the elements of romance in British revival . They arc capitalists of the pure type who know their theory better than their Britain . One may in passing pay tribute to their purity . No doubt the chief trouble with capitalism is that people insist on interfering with it . They have been doing so progressively for well nigh a century . Humanitarianism has made it impossible to grind down wages to the starvation point in the economic interest ; misguided capitalism has insisted on postponing bankruptcies and capital losses ; nationalism has erected mountainous barriers against the free @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bankruptcies , and the free market in order to survive . These are the " natural " forces which must operate if depressions are to he brief . Anyone who prefers them to the compromises of capitalist democracies can make out his case . But the last place to look for supporting evidence is Great Britain . For decades , interference with natural forces has been carried there to egregious lengths . Great Britain is the land of trade unions and national wage agreements ? in other words , rigid wages . These have been made still more rigid by the British system of social insurances . On the capital side of the ledger , the British banks , which no British government would allow to default on a penny of deposits , are stuffed with the debts of industries which in a pure capitalism would have failed years ago , and many of which will never earn profits again . Until these industrial invalids arc allowed to die recovery must be limited . Those who look to Great Britain for " natural " policies may be keeping alive the illusion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the defunct Manchester School teaches the City of London , and that the British know more about capitalism than any other people . What British conservatives know better than American conservatives is that pure capitalism can not live in a democracy , and that compromise after compromisemust be made if it is not to perish altogether . Hence British conservatives cheerfully accept trade unionism , while limiting its powers , and they even take the initiative in making concessions to humanitarian interference , as when Winston Churchill , as Tory Chancellor of the Exchequer , added widows ' pensions to the social structure , and British tories this year widened and liberalized unemployment insurance . As great a proportion of business men in Great Britain are in favor of the " dole " as are opposed to it in America . Where the British have differed from America in interfering with " natural " forces is first of all in their lack of effusiveness . When America has a program it becomes the lively concern of everybody . The nation paraded for the NRA ; it debates each new policy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ correspondents dramatize events and personify their news in a way impossible in England . Every figure in the New Deal belongs intimately to the whole country . But Prime Minister MacDonald is as great a genius in concealing his thoughts from newspaper men as President Roosevelt is in revealing them . The Chancellor of the Exchequer is as hard to interrogate as the Grand Lama of Tibet . The British Treasury believes in secrecy almost as much as in gold . Public opinion in Britain is canalized in orderly channels . It flows from the cottage to the House of Commons through local meetings and the local and national press , in a leisurely and recognizable stream . In America public opinion has the force and body of a flood . This American effusiveness is a democratic attribute , and the British certainly are less democratic in this respect . President Roosevelt has been given vast powers , but he is being watched , weighed , and checked by the entire nation . The National Government , with actually fewer formal powers , rules with far greater aloofness and authority . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who for a time enjoyed the sense that the National Government had been given " a doctor 's mandate " and knew best what needed to be done . When the National Government made its first appeal to the country in 1931 , the weak little Labor opposition , consisting of the plucky few who had not followed MacDonald into the coalition , was pilloried for its want of patriotism . The country did not realize that without this opposition , not only the gold standard but democracy itself would have been suspended . Had MacDonald carried his whole party with him , the democratic system of opposing political forces would have lapsed . MacDonald did not realize this at the time , neither did many others . If an austere cabinet oligarchy , supported by a rubberstamp House of Commons , was put into office by popular vote this was said to be democracy . Much satisfaction was expressed over the " elasticity " with which British democracy was adapting itself to a modern emergency . It was not until the Hitler regime swept into power by popular vote that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the lively operation of the rest of the democratic system . I have spoken of decisions in Great Britain which turned out fortunately because of unforeseen circumstances . Suspending the gold standard was one . The formation of the National Government was another . The Government was formed with the intention of saving the gold standard . When that had to go , the National idea had already taken hold , and an election could be fought on the new basis . Thus an emergency improvisation was converted into a system . This was fortunate from the standpoint of business revival , for the National Government has been a substantial factor in it . Faith in the National Government helped the country pass through those hopeless weeks after the suspension of the gold standard when no one knew for certain whence rescue was to come . Thereafter the concentration of power made it possible for the Cabinet to take the immediate measures essential not so much to revival as to the avoidance of complete disaster . The British people were living beyond their income . They were buying more abroad @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lack of balance , along with the growing budget deficit , was the fundamental cause of the crisis which led to the heavy withdrawals of gold in the summer of 1931 and the decision to abandon the gold standard . Balance had to be restored , both to the budget and in trade . The budget did not present great difficulties . The Labor Government had been ready to balance it , only some of its members had balked at the reduction of unemployment benefits . The National Government swung its economy axe upon its own employes , teachers , police , and relief recipients alike . There was nothing revolutionary in this . But to achieve a balance in trade there was only one method , and it was a revolutionary one for the British . It was the general tariff . At the election the country had not voted specifically for tariffs . Had there been a straight issue over the taxation of the breakfast table the election might have been lost . But the " doctor 's mandate " provided the blanket formula . And the passive trade @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to treat with exceptional remedies . No national debate on the issue was encouraged to prepare the wide public for the change , startling though it was . The Government quietly went to its House of Commons and as quietly obtained its rubber-stamp approval . Here was the one interference with the capitalist system which the British as a nation had most bitterly criticized in others and which they had held to be the cardinal sin against the common good . If it was a sin to close smaller markets , the greatest sin must have been to close the richest market in the world . Yet tariffs were applied without a sense of guilt , and without apology to the communities throughout the world which had been living from their work for British customers . British revival must in part be ascribed to tariffs . It gave home manufacturers most of the home market which had been supplied from abroad . The benefit was not uncornpromised , for the fall in imports was offset in a degree by its effect on exports . Foreign communities which could not sell to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enjoying the subsidy of a depreciated currency in part of the world , and at this time a slight improvement in world trade was setting in , so that the penalties of the tariff were obscured . Home manufacturers began to take on more workers . A spectacular revival in particular was made by the languishing steel industry . After having been swamped for a decade by its better organized rivals on the Continent , it soon was operating all up-todate plant at ninety per cent capacity . Tariffs , however , are not enough to explain the revival . They are at best a limited stimulus . British export industries , now no longer enjoying a subsidy of depreciated currency in most markets , may increasingly suffer . Tariffs are a permanent benefit only for countries which are ready permanently to abandon exports to the same extent as they abandon imports . The present mood in England is that tariffs have done a lot of good and ought to be retained . But no steps are being takento reorganize British industry to adapt itself to decreasing exports . Normally thirty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ abroad . The increase in home manufacture from tariffs is nothing like thirty per cent , and one day manufacturers for the home market either must be penalized to benefit manufacturers for export , or some way must be found to make the home market consume a great deal more . The home market already is taking about all it wants from home producers , and the gain from tariffs has reached its maximum effect . Revival to the point of prosperity through tariffs is improbable if not impossible . Indeed , the tariff wall may have to he rebuilt into an array of gates before full recovery can be attained . III Moreover , tariffs do not account for more than a part of the revival . As much of the actual improvement in trade is due to the highly technical operation known as conversion . Stated in its most obscure way , conversion did this by reducing the interest on the five per cent war loan to three and a hail per cent . It was a delicate operation requiring the utmost skill . It had the widest social @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Great Britain , the richest in the world , voluntarily accepted a reduction in income of thirty per cent . The value of the outstanding five per cent war loan was around ten billion dollars . Affairs had to be so managed that the owners of these bonds agreed to exchange them for bonds paying thirty per cent less in interest . On the face of it the operation appears impossible . What conceivable appeal could be made to so large a class to agree to a reduction of its own income ? But it was not impossible , and the appeal made was the only one which could have been effective ? self-interest . Its success lay in the conditions prevailing at the time of the appeal . Industry at home was stagnant ; investment abroad offered no allurements whatever and was being officiallydiscouraged . Money for investment was piling up without an outlet . Conversion could succeed if the field for home investment looked hopelessly gloomy and if the one safe security in the world appeared to be a British Government bond even at a low rate of interest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enough home outlook . It set to work to balance its budget and restore its prestige as a borrower . And then it proceeded to rig the market as brazenly as ever the most malignant operators in Wall Street . It announced a ban on any new capital issues which did not officially receive sanction , it forbade all new issues to foreign borrowers . Having made sure that the use of capital must remain unprofitable , it waited for the value of Government securities to rise . They rose . The market responded by accepting it as a fact that the days of five per cent returns were past . Government bonds began selling to return four , three and three quarters , finally three and a half per cent . At this point the Government announced the conversion scheme . Under the terms of the war loan its bonds could be called at par . The Treasury made known that on a given date it would repay the loan in full , or it would exchange all outstanding bonds for new ones bearing three and a half per cent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but it was a fractional part of the loss they were asked to accept . Since conversion was going to reduce the weight of the public debt and would help maintain the national credit , the Treasury accompanied its offer with an appeal to patriotism . But it was not patriotism whichinfluenced bondholders . They had to decide whether to accept new bonds or ask for their money back . If they got it back what could they do with it ? The answer was nothing . In the London market , rigged as it was , nobody of any standing but the Government would borrow money at even as much as three and a half per cent . The upshot was that nine-tenths of the bondholders converted their bonds and only one-tenth had to be repaid at par . Even this payment was quite a transaction , as it meant supplying the banks with a billion dollars in cash on a given day . But it was wisely managed and caused no trouble . The greatest single financial operation of its kind in history had been a brilliant success @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out that here too good fortune played a part . A government can not announce that it will convert its national debt to a lower interest rate and proceed to do so simply by the weight of determination . Philip Snowden as Chancellor of the Exchequer of the Labor Government itched to convert the five per cent war loan . It would have been a feather in his cap to have slashed the income of the wealthy capitalists of Great Britain . But he was not favored by suitable conditions . Industry had to be still more stagnant and government credit still better than during his regime . It remains to show how conversion contributed to British revival . There was a certain gain from the reduction of the weight of debt and the decrease of income tax which followed . But that was not the primary effect . When Government securities as the best in the market sold at par and above on a three and a half per cent basis , other low-interest bearing gilt-edged securities also rose in value . It was boom time for gilt-edged bonds . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the value rose of the investments locked up in the safes of British industries , whose reserves were confined chiefly to such securities . Earlier in the depression , gilt-edged securities had been weak , and some of the profits of industry had had to go to restore the loss in the book value of industrial reserves . Now the value of reserves rose without actual money being added to them . They rose simply as an effect of the conversion loan . In consequence , industries which had been unable to replace depreciated plant , keep up their inventories , or pay profits found themselves enabled to do one or another or all these things . Orders began coming to the machine industry for new machines and to manufacturers for fresh stocks . And the payment of industrial dividends was resumed , which put spending money into circulation . Deep within itself the capitalist system was beginning to heal , beginning as it usually does when a depression is passing , by the orders of industry itself rather than of the ultimate consumer . It is difficult to estimate what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ share from tariffs , what share from the beginnings of improvement in other countries . Probably half the improvement can be written down to the conversion loan . That half is the more important half , for in it were the forces which might develop into full recovery . Improvement from tariffs could at best be limited in volume and time . IV I have left little space to discuss the one further drastic interference with natural processes to which the British have resorted , the agricultural policy of Walter Elliot . It is not one of the key chapters of revival , though the purchasing power of British farmers has risen somewhat . Mr. Elliot is what the English call a " young man " in office ; he is under fifty . He has a sense of adventure and an unmistakable flairfor ideas of state planning . As Minister for Agriculture , his intention is to make the British Isles as nearly selfsupporting in producing food as possible . To this end he is intent on organizing the British farmers so that they compete successfully with foreigners and cease @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no bones about it that he wants food prices to rise . And when free traders tell him that British export industries will languish if the great food-producing countries can not sell to the British market he retorts that the exporting industries can sell instead to the British farmers , if they are making a profit at last . Mr. Elliot has set up national schemes for marketing nearly all the chief agricultural products of England . A scheme for hops was in force before he took office . He quickly added bacon , pigs , milk , and potatoes , and made ready to tackle the meat problem . He could not meddle with wheat , which was already being directly subsidized out of a processing tax and a straight government bounty . These Elliot schemes are nothing less than a nationwide organization of farmers under government guidance to plan production , fix prices , and regulate marketing . Theoretically the farmers have to want to be organized , and they first must come to Mr. Elliot asking his co-operation . That is easy enough to manage . Once they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He then goes to Parliament for legislative sanction , which must be given or withheld without amendment . Parliament naturally concurs as a matter of rou ? tine . Mr. Elliot can get a scheme legislated in about thirty minutes of parliamentary time and come away with the happy sensation of having put the quietus on another " natural " force . For Mr. Elliot does not like natural forces ; he calls them anarchy . Mr. Elliot is something of an anomaly in the British Cabinet , and all British policy is not to be understood in the light of his philosophy . MacDonald is not a national planner , nor is Baldwin the real leader of the British nation to-day , nor is Neville Chamberlain at the Treasury . But neither are they empire " free traders " of the Beaverbrook school . A minority of the Conservative Party wants Britain to form an exclusive customs union with the Empire ; and no doubt the policy would be adopted if only the Empire really wanted it . Walter Elliot keeps the Empire free traders at bay ; in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ distinction than he must between the farmers of Denmark and the Argentine and those of Australia and Canada . The significance of Mr. Elliot to be noted here is that he stands for the logical fulfilment of the doctrine of interfering with natural forces . Tariffs having been adopted as a medical measure , he converts them into a system of regimented agriculture . He rules over the once free food markets of the country like a despot . Are Danish farmers selling too much bacon for the good of British farmers ? Mr. Elliot politely warns them that unless they voluntarily cut exports he will have to apply a quota . He issues a similar warning to Chicago ; and in both cases a voluntary agreement is negotiated . Finding the British market flooded with cheap butter and cheese from Australia and New Zealand , he even asks restrictions here , as though time had not sealed the sacred right of the dominions to sell as they pleased in the British market , and the Ottawa agreements had not enshrined the right . Mr. Elliot has a host of admirers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also has his critics , some of them because he is a danger to Empire relations , some because the administration of his schemes has not been altogether happy . But their case against him is not that he is hindering " nature . " The British know well enough that nature , if unhampered , would permit their agriculture to die outright . V The resemblance between Great Britain and America during the crisis does not go much farther than a common belief that democracies can do much to save themselves . The spirit of the Elliot schemes is not dissimilar to that of the A.A.A. , yet they have widely differing aims . While Britain has solved some of her major problems by daring to defy nature , by daring even to gamble , her measures are wholly foreign to America because they are applicable to peculiar British circumstances . The National Government had to meet certain fundamental issues squarely ; it had to end reckless importation , balance the budget , and reduce the dead weight of debt . Beyond that it did not feel inclined to venture except @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a modest national housing scheme . There was no call as in America to weave a new social fabric ; unemployment insurance and relief , health insurance and old age pensions had been operating for two decades as part of the accepted scheme of modified capitalism . There was no need to censure the trusted financiers of the City and frame new legislation to curb their activities , since the issue of securities already was safeguarded by laws which had long demonstrated their efficacy , and the City already lived up to a high standard of trusteeship . There was no need to equip labor in its struggle for a fair share of the gains of industry , since the trade union movement was seasoned and sound in the main . The country already had its social security and could look first to fundamental matters of national finance and then to the future . The National Government , beyond doing its immediate task , has not committed itself definitely . If the trend of the times is toward economic nationalism , it has shown its sympathy in the Elliot schemes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to rely more on co-operation than rugged individual competition . But it is not convinced about economic nationalism . It believes a time is coming when world trade will revive , and nations again will freely exchange their goods . If world trade is to be a much more conscious process , carried on by larger units , the British will be prepared with better agricultural and industrial organization . The National Government has not tried to map out the future , nor has it felt the time has come to do so . The revival has brought economic activity back to the 1929 level , but it still does not employ the entire population . More than two millions are out ofwork , and it would be folly to talk of recovery either until this number is cut in half or until the national income has passed the 1929 figure of twenty billion dollars . But it has been a triumph to achieve so much of a revival . The non-democratic countries can show nothing to parallel it , and no other democratic country has done as well . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been able to function in an air of relative social peace and security . But this is a fortune they created for themselves . The good fortune which attended their abandonment of the gold standard was not ordained by the human will , but it is not cited to their disparagement . The most unwarranted disparagement is to say they have not acted , and to pretend that they have been saved by the curative powers of pure capitalism . To say this is to betray a strange ignorance of Britain , of democracy , and indeed of pure capitalism itself .                     