@@469793

THE science of sound is as old as ythagoras , but our modern engineering of sound waves is a thing of the telephone era . And in the last decade , with the swift rise of the radio and the talkies and their accelerating demands upon the laboratory , so much that is new has been discovered and so much that was old has been rescued from guesswork that acoustics to-day may be said to be one of the youngest of the sciences . Recent experimental findings overturn many of the classical formuhe . Physicists are beginning to use sound waves as probes for inquiring into the intimate behavior of gaseous matter . Engineers are putting the more precise knowledge to work in new musical instruments , in new stratagems for enhancing the auditory characteristics of rooms , and in clever schemes for reducing the noise nuisance . Many devices enter into the equipment of the new acoustics , but two may be regarded as the lever and fulcrum of our advance : the microphone , and the thermionic vacuum tube . The microphone is the electric ear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a faithful counterpart of waves of electricity . By transforming sound patterns into electrical patterns we reduce them to more manageable phenomena , and on this facility hinges the whole rapid development . The vacuum tube is so versatile that a full list of its services would he a lengthy catalogue . In general one may say that the vacuum tube makes possible the amplifier which is indispensable in longdistance telephony , in radio transmission and reception , in the acoustical performance of sound pictures , and in many other applications . Both microphone and vacuum tube are essential parts of the new instruments of measurement ? the sound meters , frequency analyzers , and other mechanisms for the exact determination of the characteristics of vibration . It is these sensitive gauges that have given a new precision and an unaccustomed control to acoustics . They have substituted for the judgment of the ear , with its variable sensitivity and its liability to psychological bias , the impersonal verdict of the pointer reading . Even in those fields in which human judgment must be the final arbiter the electrical measuring devices @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ear hears . They have revealed much that was unknown and corrected much that was wrongly believed . It has long been believed , for example , that each of the three recognizable characteristics of a musical tone is determined by a single physical characteristic of the sound wave . Pick up any standard textbook of physics and you will doubtless find some such pronouncement as this : The pitch of a sound depends upon the frequency of its vibration , the loudness on the amplitude of its wave , and the timbre on the shape of its wave . This generalization reduces the subject to a neat formula , pigeonholing each characteristic with a single determining cause ? but recent research shows that it does not tell the whole story . Experiments conducted by Harvey Fletcher and his associates at the Bell Telephone Laboratories demonstrate that a variation in any one of the three determining factors may affect each of the tonal characteristics . They prove that pitch may be changed by altering the amplitude or the wave-form as well as by altering the frequency ; and similarly that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ amplitude or wave-form . In the case of pitch , for example , tones that have frequencies of about 200 cycles ( or vibrations a second ) appear to be very sensitive to changes in loudness . This is the pitch that approximates that of middle A on the piano , and is well within the range of most human voices . Dr. Fletcher has found that if a tone of 200 cycles at a certain loudness is amplified a hundredfold , its pitch may be heard as a semitone lower . With still increased loudness the lowering of pitch is yet more pronounced . Thus as the sound is intensified in volume its pitch tends to shift from the soprano toward the bass end of the scale . The relation of loudness to changes of pitch is also experimentally proved . For example , Fletcher finds that if a tone of 100 cycles frequency is sounded with an intensity corresponding to thirty-five decibels above its threshold of audibility , the tone gives a sensation of loudness equal to that of a 1000-cycle tone at sixty decibels . Thus , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ increases in loudness much faster than does a high-pitched t-ne . It covers as large a range of /oneness in going up thirty-five decibels as the high-pitched tone does in rising sixty decibels . In the shaping of timbre ? and by timbre is meant the quality which enables the ear to recognize one sound of a given pitch as violin musk and another sound of the same pitch as vocal or piano music ? equally complicated factors enter . This may be demonstrated when violinmusic is reproduced over a highquality electrical system which permits the sounds to be amplified to any degree of loudness . By the use of electrical filters or other analyzing devices it is possible to show that , no matter what amplification is used , the wave-form remains the same , with all its overtone structures preserved intact ? and we used to think that these structures alone determined the timbre . But if the violin vibrations thus unaltered in wave-form are amplified to a loudness ten to a hundred times that of the sound coming directly from the violin , they lose their violin quality @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the timbre may be changed by varying the pitch . All these discoveries have come to a focus since 1930 , and while the research can not by any means be said to be complete , the results are sufficiently representative to give composers , singers , orchestra directors , and others , an obvious hint . Glorious as is its past , music may have a still more distinguished future when these new relations of its physical components are made use of by its creative artists ? when acoustical art builds its beauty anew on the realities of acoustical science . II The sounds we hear are only a fraction of the sounds that exist . Indeed , the silent waves are more numerous than the audible pulsations which make up our speech , our music , and our noise . Some sounds are inaudible because their vibrations are of a frequency beyond the ability of the nervous system to register . They are comparable to the ultraviolet light whose waves oscillate with a rapidity so great that the eye is insensitive to their vibrations . It is only by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these invisible radiations , and similarly it is only by ingenious devices of apparatus that we are able to prove the presence of silent sounds . Of course their existence has long been suspected . We hear a humming bird sing , his notes soar higher and higher until finally nothing is heard . And yet his mouth is wide open , his throat is pulsing , there is visual evidence that he is still singing . Certain crickets also shrill their calls at a very high pitch . Recently at the Research Laboratory of Physics at Harvard George W. Pierce and his associates set a trap to catch these unheard melodies . They made use of certain characteristics of crystals by which it has been found possible to control the vibrations of electrical devices . Crystals cut of Rochelle salt , for example , have a wide range of response and will vibrate in phase with sound waves that strike them . Dr. Pierce and his coworkers installed a Rochelle crystal in a parabolic horn , and made this the receiving end of a very sensitive detector The apparatus is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a cricket at a distance of two hundred yards . When the sound waves gathered by the horn strike the crystal the crystal responds at their frequency , and by its vibration gives rise to a varying voltage . The sound waves of the cricket 's notes are thereby converted into electrical vibrations , and these weak electrical waves are amplified with the aid of vacuum tubes and other apparatus . The result is a pattern of electrical vibrations corresponding precisely in frequency to the pattern of sound waves . But how to detect that inaudible frequency ? Dr. Pierce reasoned that if he comhined with this unknown vibration another vibration of a known frequency ? that from an electric oscillator , for example ? and applied the two superimposed vibrations to a vacuum tube detector , certain coincidences or beats of the two sets of waves should occur and these would make an audible vibration in the loud speaker . By analyzing the frequency of this audible vibration , and knowing the frequency of the superimposed vibration from the electric oscillator , one should be able to determine the frequency @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The plan worked . A small brown field cricket ( Nemobius Fasciatus , by name ) is shown by this apparatus to give off a variety of high-frequency sounds . The main pitch of his song was recorded as about 8000 vibrations a second , with other notes strongly registered as 16,000 , 24,000 , and 32,000 cycles . Nor is this the limit . In their laboratory the Harvard scientists have produced and detected sounds having frequencies up to 2,000 , - 000 cycles , and have demonstrated the existence in nature of sounds as highpitched as 40,000 cycles . This is far beyond the range of human hearing . Few ears can discern sounds of frequencies above 20,000 cycles , and for most adult ears the limit is nearer 18,000 . The higher the frequency of a sound , the shorter is its wavelength ; and there can no longer be any doubt that waves of exceedingly short length and very high frequency are continually agitating the air . Not only the crickets and other insects , but scores of frictional encounters of nature , the rubbing together of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the vibration of leaves stirred by wind , the friction of clothing , are shown by these experiments to produce , in addition to audible noises , many sounds of pitch too high for human hearing . In the ticking of a watch certain sounds of 30,000 cycles were detected at a distance of thirty feet . In addition to this unheard symphony of supersonics which surrounds us there is a medley of audible noises perpetually present but rarely if ever recognized because of the competition of more energetic air vibrations . For example , the beating of the heart makes a sound , and some of this sound would be heard if our hearing were not already monopolized by a continual agitation of louder sounds . These latter have a masking effect ? like that of a passing trolley 's clanging when the listener is trying to give ear to a delicate piano melody . When the masking noises are shielded off , the weaker audibilities become perceptible . In a perfectly sound-proof room ( an acoustical utopia that does not exist ) the listener would be able to hear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ flow of blood through arteries and veins , the pumping of the lungs , the inflow and outflow of breathing ? faint audible sounds which actually have been measured . To measure sounds of low intensity it is necessary to isolate them . An example of how this may be done was demonstrated in a New York University classroom a few months ago . E. E. Free and his associate C. A. Johnson fitted up a cup with a sensitive microphone as its bottom , connected this electric ear with a powerful amplifying system , and closed the circuit through a loud speaker . When the cup was filled with a handful of wheat grains , violent noises issued from the loudspeaker ? crunchings and grindings so raucous that professors in classrooms down the hall found it necessary to protest against the disturbance . What was it ? Dr. Free searched through the wheat and found here and there a grain with a tiny puncture . When these defective grains were cut open each was found to contain a minute worm , the larva of a weevil . It was the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wheat ? that made the noise . The microphone picked up the weak . sound waves and isolated them as waves of electricity , the amplifying system magnified the waves to the desired level of intensity , and the loudspeaker converted back into sound these magnified vibrations . In effect the apparatus operated as a sound microscope . The main problem in its design was the amplifying system . For the amplifier must be powerful enough to give audibility to the vibrations generated by the insects without unduly magnifying the noise of the electrons flowing at thousands of miles a second through the vacuum tubes of the delicate apparatus itself . Calculation shows that these electronic sounds measure only a little below zero on the decibel scale of loudness , and experiment demonstrates that with amplifications running into the billions , these electronic sounds become audible . So , to avoid imposing the zoom of the atomic particles upon the noise of the squirming insects , Free and Johnson designed their amplifier to operate at a mere ten million million fold magnification . That was sufficient , however , to make @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a professor . If an ordinary whisper were magnified by the same factor and released to the air in New York , I am told that it should be heard in San Francisco ? a blast of sound equivalent to that of the explosion of a major volcano . The amplified whisper would take on such huge proportions because it begins so much higher up the scale of loudness . A whisper measures about 25 decibels , whereas the insect noise may be zero or below . The decibel gets its name from an earlier unit chosen some years ago by telephone engineers to measure the rate of fading of telephone signals sent over a wire . They called their unit the bel , after Alexander Graham Bell , and defined one bel as an intensity ten times that of the zero level , two bels as a hundred times that of zero , three bels a thousand times , and so on ? each added bel multiplying the magnitude by ten . Even before this scale was adapted by acousticians to the measurement of sound intensity , it appeared that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beI was divided into tenths , decibels . In general we may say that a decibel represents about the smallest difference in loudness that an average ear can distinguish . In the laboratory the unit is defined in million millionths of a watt ; but perhaps its meaning may be suggested more graphically by mentioning the decibel equivalence of a few familiar sounds . The noise of ordinary breathing measured at a distance of one foot registers about 10 decibels . It is one full bel , therefore is ten times louder than a noise of zero magnitude on the scale . The rustle of leaves in a breeze rates about 20 decibels ? two bell , ten times louder than the level of breathing , or a hundred times the zero level . The noise made by turning the pages of a newspaper approximates 30 decibels . The average intensity of conversation is 65 decibels . That of piano practice is 75 . Five units higher up than that of the piano thumping , at 80 decibels , is the noise of a passing motor truck . A lion 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is also the loudness of the river falling on the rocks below Niagara and that of a passing elevated train in New York . The clatter of a steel riveter mounts to 105 decibels . The sound of a moving airplane at a distance of eighteen feet measures 123 decibels . Beyond this the nerve response becomes pathological , and at somewhere near 130 decibels ? ten million million times the zero point of intensity ? sound is painful in the literal sense . In using the term zero point it is not to be understood that the sound at that level is of no value . Zero decibels is the reference level on our scale of loudness , just as zero degrees is the reference level on the Centigrade scale of temperature . In general zero is thought of as approximately the threshold of hearing , but this is true only for vibrations of certain frequencies . For those of other frequencies the threshold may extend below the zero mark ; while for an even wider range , both at the bass and at the treble end of the sound @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Similarly , the threshold of painful sounds must be charted as a curved line . While it is near or beyond 130 decibels for a limited number of low frequencies and a limited number of high frequencies , it does not rise even to 120 decibels for certain sounds intermediate between these extremes . The thermometer again provides a simple analogue . Just as the freezing point of water is at one temperature and that of mercury at quite a different temperature , so is the threshold of hearing for a deep bass note quite different fromthat of a piccolo 's high treble . A high C on the piccolo , vibrating 4096 cycles a second , may be caught by some ears even when its loudness is a few decibels below zero ? whereas a low C on the organ , vibrating 32 cycles , must be sounded with an intensity of at least sixty decibels to be heard at all . The threshold of hearing for this organ tone thus requires an intensity level more than a million times that of the piccolo tone . A similar relativity between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ threshold of painful sound , the boil ? ing point on our noise thermometer , is close to 130 decibels for the low C of the organ , but for the high C of the piccolo it may begin to be felt at about 118 decibels . Quicksilver can stand more heat than water can before it boils ? and so is the ear able to endure a louder bass sound than it can of high soprano . III When the sound meters , filters , analyzers , and other devices have done their jobs ? have isolated the frequencies that are giving offense as noise-makers , and have rated the magnitude of their offense in decibels ? the acoustical doctor is provided with the basis for a diagnosis of the trouble . Sometimes a noise detector is used as a spy to keep watch on the mechanical condition of a machine . Thus the huge 20,000-kilowatt turbines of the mercury vapor power plant in Schenectady were lately equipped with a device which records the noises generated when their steel vanes are spinning under the blast from boiling quicksilver . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of only a few hairbreadths , and any undue expansion of the rotor or sagging of its shaft might damage the costly machine . So the listening device is installed ( along with other electrical watchmen ) to keep an ear on the noises and give prompt warning if any unusual sound develops amid the normal bedlam . A more common use of the sound meter is in the manufacture of mechanical products , as an aid to attaining " silent " designs . Today 's electric fans operate with only a third of the noise which was normal to fans of twenty years ago ; and electric refrigerators , washing machines , vacuum cleaners , and other appliances lately suffered the loss of some of their customary operating noises . The tick of the bedroom clock has been softened . Air passengers of the 1920 's were accustomed to stuff their ears with cotton before beginning a flight ; such insulation is no longer necessary , and noise meters report that the new " sound proof " cabins of the modern airplanes are not more noisy than a Pullman car @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ called a machine and its improvement in noise abatement can not be credited to any redesign of motors or propellers , but is primarily a matter of architectural acoustics . In particular it is the result of " treatment , " by which is meant the use of sound-absorbing material in the construction of the walls , ceiling , and floor of the cabin . The same practice has been applied in the design or adaptation of larger rooms , and especially in the attainment of suitable auditoriums where the problem is not merely to exclude outside noises , but also to insure the most suitable interior conditions for the hearing of speech and music . The foundations of architectural acoustics were laid forty years ago by Wallace C. Sabine , as the solution of a practical problem referred to him . Dr. Sabine was Hollis Professor of Mathematics and Natural Philosophy at Harvard , and there had lately been added to the university 's plant the Fogg Art Museum which included among its rooms a large lecture hall . The hall was intended for use not only by art classes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ room ? but the very first speaker to lecture in the place found the task almost insupportable . Let a sentence he spoken from the rostrum , and its syllables reverberated repeatedly . Sounds became a jumble ; hearing was almost impossible . The problem of disentangling the waves seemed one for a mathematician and a natural philosopher , so President Eliot turned to Professor Sabine and asked him what could be done . Broadly speaking , there are only two variables affecting the internal acoustics of a room : its shape ( including size ) , and its materials ( including furnishings ) . Dr. Sabine dismissed consideration of the first , for it was not practicable to change the room 's shape or size . But the material of its surfaces might be changed , and so he began a series of experiments in that direction . Three consequences may befall sound as a result of its collision with walls or other surfaces . The surfaces may reflect the waves , in which case there is reverberation . Or they may transmit the waves , and then the sound @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the energy of the waves , swallowing up the sound . Dr. Sabine found that the smooth hard surfaces of the plastered masonry walls and of the ceiling , floor , and varnished seats of the lecture room absorbed very little , they transmitted practically none , but they were very effective reflectors . When a word was spoken in an ordinary tone , the sound continued to be heard for more than five seconds while it reverberated between opposite surfaces . Even a slow speaker would have uttered a dozen or more syllables in those five seconds , and it was easy to understand that the ensuing mixture of primary waves with a succession of reflected waves might make hearing difficult . The professor set up an organ pipe as a sound source of constant pitch and loudness , and installed a suitable chronograph for recording duratiun . When the pipe was intoned in the empty lecture room and suddenly stopped , the chronograph showed that 5.6 seconds elapsed before the sound faded to a millionth of its original strength ? the point at which sound is rated inaudible . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Could it be shortened by the simple expedient of covering some of the hard surfaces with softer , more pliable material ? As the material for his experiment Dr. Sabine borrowed all the cushions from the seats of nearby Sanders Theatre . Some of these were brought into the lecture room and placed on its seats until a stretch of about twenty-seven feet was cushioned ; then the organ note was sounded , and in 5.3 seconds it had diminished to inaudibility . More cushions were added , enough to double the area of covered seats ; and now the sound of the pipe died yet more rapidly , in 4.9 seconds . Additional cushions were placed until every one of the 436 seats was covered ? and then the sound was audible only a small fraction over 2 seconds . Obviously he was on the right track . More than one thousand cushions were waiting unused , and Sabine was determined to test their full effect . He carpeted the aisles with them , covered the platform , draped them on a scaffolding , cushioned the rear wall from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was so great that the sound endured only 1 . I seconds . Many of the tests were made in the quiet of night . They continued two years , trying a variety of materials . The final outcome was a recommendation to resurface certain wall areas with felt . When this was done , as the professor modestly records the verdict in his final report , " the room was rendered not excellent , but entirely serviceable . " It is still used for a variety of meetings . Later investigators , with more sensitive and more exact tools of exploration , have added important refinements to Sabine 's work ; but all modern achievements in the improvement of room acoustics rest on the foundations laid in the Fogg lecture room . Reverberation time is recognized as a direct index to the acoustical quality of a room . And since the optimum time varies with the size of the room and the purpose for which it is to be used ( music halls requiring , in general , a longer reverberation time than speech halls ) the acoustical engineer has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not called into consultation until after the hall is built , but his art is such that by the use of " treatment " he may transform reflecting surfaces into absorbent ones , and by skilful placing of surfaces delete echoes , touch up dead spots , add resonance , and pretty well refashion a room into whatever acoustical pattern is desired . The new Madison Square Garden , Radio City Music Hall , and Center Theatre in New York are examples of recent architecture whose acoustics were improved by the adept use of treatment . And for treatment the acoustician is no longer dependent on improvisations with cushions , felt , and other adapted fabrics . There has sprung up a whole new industry devoted to the manufacture of sound absorbents , and treatment may be bought in convenient slabs and blankets . The material must be porous or resilient , preferably both . One practice uses a hard smooth surface ( of steel , plaster , or composition board ) perforated with numerous small holes , and lays this over a blanket of rock wool or other soft fibrous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pores to admit sound to the fibrous inner material which may be both porous and resilient . The excellent acoustical properties of the Hayden Planetarium in New York are attributed to the use of treatment . A circular room with a hemispherical ceiling is notoriously given to disturbing reverberations and other annoyances ? as witness Albert Hall in London ? but by making the inner surface of the planetarium dome of perforated metal and backing this steel with a soft layer , the architects and engineers attained a domed hall that is quite satisfactory for hearing . Perhaps the most exacting practitioners of the new acoustical techniques are sound-picture recorders and radio broadcasters . In a studio of the Columbia Broadcasting System which I visited in New York half the room is treated to provide sound absorption , and the other half is differently treated to provide a desired echo . The dead end , where absorption is ninety per cent , is the zone of hearing . Here the microphones are stationed . Here the floor is thickly carpeted and walls and ceiling are lined with four inches of rock @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ planned to absorb all frequencies equally ? an important desideratum , for some absorbents are selective , accepting high frequencies and reflecting the lows . The live end of the room is paneled in wood , and the panels are fastened only by their edges and so are free to vibrate . The absorptive and reflective areas of the studio are so proportioned and so placed with respect to one another that the sound waves striking the live end are thrown back to the microphone zone with a single reflection , and the vibrant quality of the wood adds richness and sonority to the reflected tones . The total effect is to increase the brilliance of music and speech . The designer , E. E. Free , explains this on the theory that the panels seem to act selectively as absorbers of confused sounds and as resonators of musically desirable sounds ? damping those waves which are out of phase and reinforcing those that are in phase . Certain of the panels are set at slight angles to the vertical plane , care is taken that an absorptive surface faces each @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an excellent mediumsized room for orchestral broadcasts has been attained . IV Sound absorption has been described as a surface effect , and until the present decade it was regarded as almost wholly that . But in 1930 Vern 0 . Knudsen , a physicist at the University of California at Los Angeles , was trying to calibrate a new sound laboratory there and chanced upon a strange anomaly . He noticed that the acoustical properties of the room followed the vagaries of the weather . On days when the wind blew from the Pacific , filling the laboratory with moist air , certain high-pitched sounds wouldreverberate four or five seconds . On other days when wind from another direction brought the air from the Mojave desert , the same sounds would reverberate only two or three seconds . It was the same room , the same surfaces , the same vibrations ? only the air had changed . How could it make a difference ? Thereafter Professor Knudsen spent much of his time in pursuit of that question . First he considered the possibility that the atmospheric changes might affect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or less , of the sound . To test this idea he applied successive coats of paint and varnish to the walls , ceiling , and floor . But they made no difference ? the weather continued to call the tune . On a trip abroad Knudsen discussed his problem with European physicists . A German authority advised him to line the room with bathroom tile ; then the anomaly would disappear , he said . Before spending two thousand dollars on this tile treatment the professor thought he would try another experiment that might explore the difficulty less expensively . It chanced that the university possessed a smaller room , made , like the new laboratory , of concrete and surfaced in exactly the same way ? the only difference being that it was Less than half the size of the new laboratory . From the dimensions Knudsen calculated that in the small room the sound waves would be reflected back and forth approximately 200 times a second , whereas in traveling the wider spaces of the large room only 93 reflections occurred . Thus , in one second a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ small room more than twice as often as in the large room ; and if absorption were only a surface affair it should proceed at a rate proportionate to the number of surface encounters and , therefore , should occur more rapidly in the smaller chamber . He was able to derive formula ; for the rates of sound decay in the two rooms ; but when the test was made glaring discrepancies between theory and fact showed up . Experiment proved that the absorption by the surfaces of the room was not affected by the humidity of the air , and indicated that the variations were due to absorption by the air itself ? that dry air took certain sounds of high pitch , sucked them up as it were , while very moist air was far less absorptive and therefore would conduct the sound for greater distances . All this was startling to the acoustical expert of 1930 whose science rested on the theoretical structure erected in the 19th century by Lord Rayleigh and his colleagues . According to their teaching the condition of the air should have very @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ worked out a set of equations to account for the behavior of sound , assuming it to be a wave form moving through a uniform continuous medium . Of course all knew that the air is no such isotropic jellylike stuff ; obviously it is a conglomeration of particles , the molecules of nitrogen , oxygen , and other gases . But Lord Rayleigh pointed out that analysis of sound phenomena on the basis of particle collisions involved mathematical difficulties and , moreover , was not necessary . It was not necessary , he reasoned , because the departures of sound behavior in fact from the behavior pictured by theory were so slight that for all practical purposes they were negligible . The revolutionary effect of Knudsen 's discovery is to show that for certain high frequencies the departures are not negligible , the actual air absorption in some cases being a hundred times greater than that predicted by Rayleigh . The California experiments demonstrate that both humidity and temperature affect sound absorption . The influence of temperature is steadily progressive ; cold subzero air is practically transparent to sound , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ high temperatures it is so opaque to high-pitched sounds as to make the latter inaudible at a distance of a few feet . In the case of humidity this progressive relationship does not hold . Perfectly dry air is the most transparent acoustically , aircontaining a pinch of moisture ( about 10 to 20 per cent relative humidity ) is the most opaque , and thereafter with added moisture the ratio of absorption decreases until at 92 per cent relative humidity the transparency to sound is almost back to the maximum . This latter condition corresponds to the moist fogladen air of the ocean , while air which is only 20 per cent humid approximates that of the desert . Many phenomena of nature are illuminated by this discovery of the influence of atmospheric conditions on sound . in the Arctic it is not uncommon for two men conversing in the open to be heard over the icy wastes for distances of four miles , and the barking of dogs has been heard fifteen miles . It was the custom to explain these long-distance sounds as a consequence of the reflection @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strata , but it seems likely now that the Knudsen effect provides at least part of the explanation . Desert travelers are familiar with the sound-blanketing of its hot , almost moistureless air . Nor are these findings only of academic interest . Dr. Knudsen points out that in a large hall the reverberation of high frequencies of speech and music may be affected more by the condition of the air than by the nature of the surface materials . Consider , for example , sound at a pitch of 10,000 cycles , a frequency within the range necessary to high quality music . If the air of an auditorium were at 70 ? F. temperature and of only 18 per cent relative humidity , sounds of that pitch would be absorbed by the air so rapidly that even with totally reflective walls , ceiling , and floor , the sounds would decay in five-eighths of a second . The inherent absorption by the room boundaries , including the audience , would reduce the time of reverberation to less than half a second . Admittedly this air is dryer than is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ per cent the reverberation time would be less than a second ? a duration too short for good musical effect . Not only surface treatment , but also humidity and temperature control may be important in acoustical engineering of the future . Designers of soundreproducing equipment for use in large theaters and out of doors may need to take into account the absorptive characteristics of air , and also those who plan to use sound in distant signaling , in altimeters for aircraft , and in fog warnings . From his discovery of this curious effect of moisture and temperature on the acoustical properties of the air Knudsen was led to dissect the air into its gases and investigate these separately . He found that when a small pinch of moisture is introduced into an atmosphere of pure oxygen , the ratio of sound absorption is five times greater than that of air containing an equal proportion of moisture . But when the same amount of moisture was introduced in pure nitrogen there was no increase in the sound absorption . Thus it is the oxygen in our air , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ part of the sound absorption . If our atmosphere contained no nitrogen , but were made up wholly of oxygen with such admixtures of water vapor as are common , it would be difficult to hear a message shouted across the street . The high-frequency components of speech ? such consonant sounds as th , s , and m ? would be swallowed up within fifty or seventy feet . Knudsen 's later studies of other gases show that carbon dioxide is even more absorbent than oxygen . Conversation in an atmosphere of carbon dioxide would require the voice of Stentor , for the high-frequency consonants would be absorbed within a few feet . The explanation of these newly-discovered acoustical qualities of gases seems to lie in the varying characteristics of collisions between the gas molecules . The progress of a sound wave shakes the air into a succession of contractions and expansions , molecule is bumped against molecule , and into the thermal movement of particles which is characteristic of the gas there is injected this additional periodic agitation . We used to think that the colliding molecules would behave @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concerned , but Knudsen 's work shows that uniformity does not exist . Roughly , it is as though a billiard player who has been pursuing his game on the theory that all the balls are of hard ivory should suddenly discover that some of the balls are of soft rubber . A rubber ball takes the energy of a collision differently from an ivory ball , and similarly the interaction of an oxygen molecule in collision with a molecule of water vapor produces a result different from that of nitrogen colliding with water vapor . Still different is the effect of carbon dioxide collisions . The theoretical explanation of this behavior has been worked out by Dr. H. 0 . Kneser , of the University of Marburg , and he has shown that the energy transitions which occur in these interchanges must be reckoned in terms of Planck 's constant of action , h . Sound absorption measurements thus provide a means of measuring the reaction constants of gases , and these give information regarding the nature of molecular collisions . Thus the research scientist finds in the Knudsen effect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into the minute mechanics of gaseous matter . So important is this discovery , so fundamental to the advancing front of physical knowledge , that at its Christmas week meetings of 1934 the American Association for the Advancement of Science awarded its one thousand dollar prize for the year to Professor Knudsen . He is continuing his researches at the laboratory in Los Angeles , where he has fitted up a two-foot cubical steel box as his reverberation chamber , and with that more compact and convenient apparatus is prosecuting new experiments into the behavior of sound in a variety of gases .                     