@@493577

December 27 , 1933 THE NEW numbers and patriotic appeal to resign , repudiate the public debt and bring dishonest officials to justice . The orders warn commanders against hanging politicians indiscriminately or using " pineapples " to loosen up the pocketbooks of those who will not contribute from patriotic motives . No doubt these instructions are distributed for their psychological effect on White Shirts and others , and while they seem to indicate a sense of humor in Mr. Christians , this is not necessarily true . Mr. Christians uses psychology like a salesman who has taken a correspondence course . And in answer to the question whether he will convert the Nazis to his radical monetary system or the Nazis convert the White Shirts to medieval barbarism , it must be borne in mind that even while the Nazis are not noted for subtlety they possess the prestige which accrues from the subjection of a great nation . Recently one of their representatives closed a letter to Mr. Christians with the following greeting : " Let me salute you as you will be saluted in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Watchmen. ? The National 1Vatchmen are a movement of a different character . No emotional appeal has been written into the " Plan for Economic Rehabilitation in the United States . " The plan is detailed and radical , and includes the nationalization of all property except personal , abolishes all corporations for profit , establishes a graduated income tax reaching 100 percent on incomes above $10,000 a year , a minimum wage scale , fixed prices , etc . It seems to be an attempt to combine socialism and the profit system of the early nineteenth century . Just what function profit will retain when cost and price are fixed is not suggested . F. M. Cox , National Commander , says that members are enlisted by addressing factory employees with the permission of the management and claims half a million adherents in one city alone and numerous other units throughout the Middle West . Many of the other fascist organizations in America are along somewhat similar lines . While fascism in its early manifestations springs from the bottom ? from the ruined fringe of the middle class ? it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the program of the present Democratic administration in Washington have all the economic earmarks of fascism , and it is significant that when Gerard Swope recently proposed his plan for absolute industrial dictatorship , General Johnson approved and added that the weapon of the strike should be taken away from labor . Another indication of this trend-from-above is the paper recently published by Lawrence Dennis and Harold Lord Varney , The Awakener . Dennis , although a radical economist who has been predicting for some time the doom of capitalism , has now taken a fascist position of the most reactionary sort . The slogan of his paper is " Against Socialism of the Left I " and the bulk of the sheet is made up of attacks upon the administration in Washington for employing certain liberal and radical economists in the various government bureaus . Fascism suffers from an inner contradiction . Organizations which seek to conserve can not act against established powers as can true revolutionary movements . Since the rank and file demand action nevertheless , artificial enemies have to be created . Whatever the purpose of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , bankers and Communists , and the traditional hate , the Jews , are dusted off and refurbished . But necessity forces the elimination of one of the triumvirate and concentration upon the other two . Organizing requires money , and neither the Communists nor the Jews can buy immunity by providing it . In Germany and Italy the bankers and industrialists came across . The movement has not reached this stage in America . The money powers seem insufficiently frightened to dig into their pockets to any serious extent , nor has anyone as yet assumed the mythical character with which heroes must be invested in order to put them across . Fascism in this country is waiting . The leader has not yet emerged . A merger and concentration of forces will be necessary if the present independent movements are not going to cancel each other . The power of fascism will increase in direct proportion as the efforts of the present administration to bolster up the profit system fail . And last , the growth of a powerful radical movement , even faintly approaching the strength of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ battle into the open . This last , it need hardly be said , can work both ways . The development of a powerful radical movement is probably the only thing that can save this country from eventually going the way of Western Europe . HAROLD LOEB AND SELDEN RODMAN . The Harvest Now among good harvests The human harvest fails ; The grain and fruit lie on the ground , The men are stored in jails . The stem is rotten on the root And the seed on the stem ; Store away the meager yield Of men with life in them . Store them fearfully away ? The fellows who maintain The right to live as honestly As fruit and grain . Wall and lock may have their hour , But the new crop will be grown From the seed that 's hoarded now In the barns of stone . 