@@487782

yOUR Excellency , it is with profound satisfaction that I welcome you to the White House and to this country . I am sure that I have but voiced the opinion of the whole American people when I say that we are deeply honored by your coming to us just at this time to discuss freely and frankly the relations between our two countries , and , even more important , the relationship of these two great democracies to the existing world problems and crisis . I am sure you will appreciate , M. Laval , that I do not in the slightest degree exaggerate when I say that the situation in which the world finds itself is the gravest that we have ever faced from the point of view of the existing forms of society . I feel very strongly that you will not disagree with me that upon us both rests the heaviest responsibility that men in our respective positions could possibly bear . We in this country are struggling with an economic depression which bids fair to be unparalleled in its duration and is certainly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other such crisis has the whole world been drawn into the fellowship of suffering and misery . Never before have there been such vast armies of unemployed . Never before have men faced the future with such anxiety as to what the morrow may bring forth . Never before has there been such a confusion of counsels among economists and financiers and those whom men have heretofore considered experts in such matters . Never before has there been such widespread agricultural depression or such a catastrophic fall of prices for so many of the world 's raw materials . In addition to that , the existing capitalist civilization finds itself gravely challenged by what some call a new order of society . Under these circumstances , M. Laval , it is of the utmost importance that we deal fearlessly and frankly with one another , that we avoid any of the indirections to which diplomats so readily lend themselves . The responsibility is primarily ours because ours are the richest lands , yours the least effected by the depression ; between us we hold two-thirds of the world 's gold . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the world will be more than ever adrift upon uncharted seas , without rudder , without direction . Let me lead off by telling you precisely what is in my mind . First , as to war debts and reparations . I realize that the moratorium inaugurated last summer was at best only a preliminary step ; the situation can not any longer be left as it is for the reason that the uncertainty as to the disposition of debts and reparations at the conclusion of the year of grace must be removed if states are to make their budgets intelligently , if there is to be a genuine restoration of confidence among the peoples of Europe , and especially those of England and Germany . You will agree , I am sure , that in this so rapidly changing situation we can not fall back upon the formula of " capacity to pay " which my country used in making the debt settlements . No one can tell what the capacity to pay of even your strong nation may be six months or a year hence . I therefore @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Congress of the United States , as soon as it meets , for the canceling of all debts , believing that this forgiveness of debt will benefit my own country as much as the foreign countries concerned . It will not be easy to convince the Congress of the righteousness of this position . My success with the moratorium emboldens me , however , to believe that I can once more appeal with good results to the generosity and wisdom of my countrymen . I can not , however , ask this great favor of the Congress without giving it the definite assurance that reparations payments from the defeated Central Powers shall also cease . The necessity of an economically sound Central Europe to the welfare and safety of the former Allies has been demonstrated beyond question by the relationship of British investments in Germany to England 's departure from the gold standard . But our Congress will ask something more than that . The coming disarmament conference in Geneva is indissolubly bound up with the economic restoration of Europe , You will not have forgotten that your last yearly payment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ while your annual military and naval expenditures reached the enormous sum of $432,000,000 ? ten times as much . Even in Great Britain only 4.2 per cent of its budget funds were paid to us , while 14 per cent went to army and navy . If canceling reparations will lead to the cutting of military and naval expenditures in half , it will obviously be a far greater boon in pounds and francs . But a still greater benefit will come from it because of the immediate increase in international good-will , in the removal of the fears of another war which distract so many portions of Europe . I am happy to tell you , as an evidence of our own good-will , that the delegation which we shall send to Geneva will offer a reduction of at least 50 per cent of our naval and military armaments , believing this to be the most substantial contribution we could make to the restoration of the world . It will be of the utmost importance if I can inform the Congress that your honored Government will join with us in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shall wish to discuss with you at leisure . Even in America we have learned that the time has come to ? remove every hindrance to trade . I am therefore in favor of the immediate calling of an international conference composed only of officials of as high rank as yourself , M. Laval , to deal immediately with the reduction of tariffs all along the line . I shall eagerly await your answer to my proposals . You will permit me , I am sure , in closing , to stress once more the tremendous responsibility and opportunity which are ours . We two can come to an agreement here which will go far toward reviving the hopes of humanity and ending the needless suffering of millions . What that would mean to your reputation and mine in the tomes of history , I need not say . You , I am sure , no more than I are desirous of having those future historians , who may record generations and centuries hence the fate of our time , write that among those statesmen who failed to come to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the third decade of the twentieth century were the Premier of France and the President of the United States , although once they had in their hands the chance to perform miracles . America and the League A MERICAN cooperation with the League of Nations in attempting to end the Manchurian crisis is of more than passing significance . It means that for the first time the United States is taking part in an international effort to prevent a threatened war . The precedent thus established will almost certainly influence the future attitude of this country when similar crises arise , and therefore is to be applauded . Had this cooperation come earlier in the present case , the weaknesses which have developed in the negotiations looking toward a solution might have been averted . As it is , the present teamwork between Geneva and Washington may yet , or so we hope , serve to bring about a just rectification of the Manchurian situation . Mukden was occupied by Japanese troops on September 18 . The Chinese promptly appealed to the League of Nations . The League asked Tokio @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ promised that the troops would be withdrawn . The League also asked the United States to join in its protest to China and Japan . This the State Department did by sending softly worded notes to Nanking and Tokio calling attention to the Manchurian situation and asking that the two countries respect their various treaty obligations . Nothing was said of the 1922- treaty under which Japan had expressly- agreed to refrain from violating the independence , sovereignty , or territorial and administrative- integrity of China . Nor did the notes specifically mention the Kellogg pact , under which both countries had agreed to settle their differences only by pacific means . This tactful course led nowhere . The Japanese troops not only remained in occupation of Chinese territory in Manchuria , but extended their hostile operations . Chinese protestations against this defiance by Japan of the League 's recommendations finally led the League Council to meet in extraordinary session to reconsider the situation . Again Washington was undecided as to its own course , but offered to help Geneva as best it could in bringing about a settlement . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ representative take part in its deliberations , although it knew Japan was opposed to such action . To get around this difficulty the Council sidetracked its own peace machinery and elected to invoke the Kellogg pact against both China and Japan . Thus the League has finally taken action which the United States could have initiated alone , and with far greater effect , immediately after the occupation of Mukden . As it is , the invoking of the Kellogg treaty comes now as a second thought . By its indecision at the start Washington showed that it does not have the unyielding faith in- this agreement which it must have to ' compel proper observance by other Powers . The League , too , appears to have favored the Kellogg pact only as a means of insuring American cooperation in its activities , going even to the length of deserting its Covenant to accomplish that end . Lastly , Washington 's decision to join with the League in the task of settling the Manchurian crisis , this being the only time it has cooperated with Geneva for the purpose of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suspicion in Tokio and has only increased Tokio 's determination to oppose any and all Western interference in what it considers a problem involving China and Japan alone . Soviet Russia also has a definite interest in the Manchurian question . Russia is a signatory of the Kellogg treaty , but not a member of the League . Had Washington invoked the Kellogg pact on its own initiative ( as it did in the Russo-Chinese dispute over the Chinese Eastern Railway two years ago ) it would have been compelled to cooperate with Moscow , and this , of course , would have been inconsistent with its non-recognition policy . Instead , the burden of bringing the anti-war treaty into play has been shifted to the League Council . This leaves Russia outside the international cooperative effort to bring peace to Manchuria . But it also leaves Russia free to join with Japan ( or to act independently ) in defending its own Manchurian interests , which may be done in a manner not compatible with any solution agreed upon by Geneva and Washington . America and the League have to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , if they are sincere in their desire to promote peace . They must see that both sides in the Manchurian dispute receive justice in accordance with the League Covenant and the Kellogg treaty . China is doubtless not altogether without blame , but Japan , by its hostile occupation of South Manchuria , has openly violated both of these agreements . It has in effect , if not by resorting to a formal declaration of hostile intentions , already prosecuted a successful war . It now seeks to hold the spoils of that belligerent action by negotiating directly with China , thus continuing to sabotage its obligations under the several international peace agreements to which it is a party . So it is not alone a question of preventing a war , but one of rectifying a difficult situation brought about by a war that has already taken place . If Japan can not be persuaded of the illegality of its position , and induced to join in an international effort to solve the problem thereby created , the whole war-prevention system erected since 1918 will be undermined . Edison @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Thomas A. Edison . The sobriquet of " wizard " popularly applied to him was by no means untie ? served , for if he was not a genius it would be hard to find anyone really to merit the designation . Since he rose without education to world-wide fame and a place among the immortals of science , his career will be once more heralded as " typically American , " especially in this hour when so many of our most conservative and hitherto contented citizens have been so thoroughly convinced by our malicious stock market that something is wrong after all with our wonderful American system . Yet a career like Edison 's can , in a sense , never be typical . For only rarely does fate create so extraordinary a spirit , so gifted an intelligence . That he lacked a scholarly and scientific training only made his achievements the more remarkable . Whether the training of a Helmholtz or a Siemens or a Thomson would have crippled this inventive genius or caused it to flower more effectively will always be a moot question . It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for his lack of training by his extraordinary industry and his incredible power to immerse himself hours without end in a given problem , His methods were daring and original , his experiments extraordinarily minute and of the widest range . No number of failures could discourage him . His belief in his impending success in anything that he undertook persisted to the end . In a single month , January , 1879 , he personally made a most exhaustive study of eight metals , covering forty pages of detailed experiments and deductions . He freely admitted that his methods were empirical* where he dealtwith chemistrv  --  in this he liked to compare himself to Luther Burbank . But he once said : " When it comes to problems of a mechanical nature , I want to tell you that all I 've ever tackled and solved have been done by hard , logical thinking . " None the less , it is true that he tried everything that might possibly lead to a given goal . For example , when searching for a filament to produce his incandescent lamp , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ another to comb South America , for the material which might solve his problem . and it was solved . For him it was a blessing that millions of dollars flowed in upon him . He sent them on their way again without a moment 's hesitation in his desire to wring another secret out of nature , to discover the hiding-place of some material that would help him to a new invention . Nothing ever altered the simplicity of his life or his devotion to his self-imposed tasks , and he was fortunate , indeed , in being able to stick to his laboratory almost to the very end . That he had vision in things scientific was frequently proved ; in 1886 , for example , he made on one day fifteen separate predictions as to the growth and future of the electrical business . Many years later twelve of these were found to have been completely fulfilled . But when he ventured into other fields and expressed his views on politics and social problems and on questions of labor , he floundered as deeply as does his friend @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ matter of the relation of capital to labor . He was not a model employer  --  any more than Henry Ford . Something of the fertility of Mr. Edison 's mind is shown by the fact that up to 1910 he had already filed applications for patents covering 1,500 inventions . His greatest achievement was , of course , the incandescent lamp ; one has only to imagine what the modern world would be like without Mr. Edison 's electrical contributions to the comfort and convenience of daily life to measure the immensity of his service to mankind . The telephone and the telegraph bear for all time the marks of his skill . The stock-ticker and the phonograph are children of his brain , while the debt of the moving picture to him is immeasurable . Failures there were galore . He squandered millions upon his magnetic-ore milling works ; his Edison Portland cement , like his poured cement houses for workers , has never risen to expectations . His process for giving power to electric street cars never came into use , nor did his plan for moving wheat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ago he jubilantly announced that at last he had developed the storage battery to a point where it could drive every gasoline automobile off the streets . Upon these and many other efforts he spent fortune after fortune , experimenting , experimenting , experimenting . Indeed , his true title is the Great Experimenter-Inventor . But none of his failures can for a moment detract from the extraordinary range of his successes , or hide the fact that Thomas A. Edison did more to bring the modern age of comfort , convenience , and industry than any other man in history . 