@@431059

IN TWO previous articles ( FORUM for January and February ) I have suggested that it is impossible for Western religion to continue as a favored institution protected by the Western state or supported by Western society if it insists that such qualities as love , meekness , forgiveness , self-sacrifice , and the supreme worth of the individual shall be treated as actual controls of conduct . " There is dynamite in the New Testament , " said James Russell Lowell a good many years ago . This is it . Neither state nor society , as they now are , could survive in the event that the people who are in the churches began to take these ideals seriously . That is why , as soon as there begins a move in that direction , tension is created ? the ordeal with which this series of articles deals . This ordeal will reach its most bitter and tragic form in the civil war that is coming within religion 's own ranks . The same processes of historical investigation and social transformation that have made it impossible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Western state and Western society make it impossible to live longer at peace with its own creeds . These formulations of dogma are everywhere ? except in those churches where discipline still holds the process in check ? undergoing a new examination . The demand for restatement has become so widespread that there is to-day , outside the Roman Catholic church , a World Conference on Faith and Order , with a permanent secretariat and a machinery of operation that compares with that of the League of Nations , trying to translate the dogmatic inheritances borne by all the churches into some sort of formulation that will be tolerable to the religious mind of the present . But the process of restatement has not , so far , yielded impressive results . Many are beginning to suspect that these formulas of the past do not so much require restatement as abandonment . A few years ago Mr. David Lloyd George was waited on by a delegation of American members of the communion of which he is a member to invite him to attend some sort of denominational gathering in this country @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " I am a member of one of the two branches of our church . And I know that these two branches are divided over the question as to whethera man is baptized for the remission of sins or on account of the remission of sins . I myself feel very deeply on that question . When I was a young man I became fully convinced that our branch of the church was in the right on that argument , and I came to believe it so passionately that I would gladly have laid down my life for my faith . But for the life of me , " he continued after a stage pause , " I can not remember now which side it was that our branch was on ! " This was , of course , only the facile wit of the politician , but it reflected fairly the common mind in the churches . A great part of the laity to-day regards creedal differences as immaterial , and is therefore inclined to chuck the whole business of church divisions , since these have resulted , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The clerical desire to escape the issue of the church 's own creeds is frequently seen operating in the act which is most wholly reserved to the ministry ? ordination . All the churches have some form of examination for candidates for orders . In the case of churches with a tradition of theological straitness , but which require a public examination of their clerical candidates , these examinations have frequently degenerated , in recent years , into contests in verbal dexterity . Certain theological seminaries , regarded as " unsound " by the champions of orthodoxy , have been accused of holding special coaching sessions for their graduates , preparing them for the verbal trick of satisfying conservative catechizers while not entirely stultifying their own conscience . I am prepared to accept the justification usually advanced for such a course , but that does not alter the fact that attendants at ordination examinations have often had cause to marvel at the agility of young fellows who sought to gain entrance to the sacred calling by making replies that they knew would mean one thing to themselves and another to their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the clerical reply is that creedal formulas and dogmatic postulates must always be subject to " interpretation that they never can mean precisely the same thing to any two people , let alone to any two generations or centuries , because they are not to be understood literally but as symbols . Good enough . But it will generally be found , on pressing the point , that what is meant is that they are to be regarded as a combination of symbolisms and literalisms , with the majority mood of the moment determining how much shall be taken as literal and how much as symbol . And when once that distinction is made ? if ever ? the cleric still does not find himself out of trouble . For then , under the pressure of our contemporary thinking , the further question arises : What is the meaning of the symbol ? II HE GREAT difficulty that I find in treating this intellectual tension within the ranks of religion is caused by the superabundance of the material available . One might take up almost any of the dogmas that were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , when these are put forward to-day in quarters where modern scientific ideas form the medium of mental exchange , an inner conflict of disquieting portent for religion inevitably develops . Western churches everywhere are filled with people who are there because of a haunting sense of need for replenishment from some source outside the objective phenomena of life , but who reject as untrue or irrelevant those formulations of belief to which the churches point as evidence of their spiritual competency . By way of illustration , consider the dogma of the uniqueness of Christianity as a supernatural religion revealed by God . It is not unfair to claim that , fifty years ago , this was a dogma so little questioned as to be a mark of Western religion under all its forms . And it is still true that an overwhelming majority of all the churches , Catholic and Protestant , would maintain the claim with unabated vigor . But there has come into the field of education a new discipline , to which has been given the name " Comparative Religions . " The results of this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of most theological seminaries , have been devastating to this fundamental dogma of the Western churches . To put it briefly , the thing that has happened has been this : Seen as part of a social process that has gone on among all races , Christianity has ceased to be " the " faith ? or " the true " faith ? and become " a " faith . And the clergy who are bewailing the slackening of churchly authority have not yet begun to understand all that is involved for their institution in that change . One indication of the sort of result that must be expected will be found in the report of the Appraisal Commission of the Laymen 's Foreign Missions Inquiry ? a document , published as a book under the title , Re-thinking Missions , which is at present stirring up a storm within the Protestant churches . This commission tells the Christians of the West that the future of the once challenged faiths of the East is to be a " continued coexistence with Christianity , each stimulating the other in growth toward the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ There is not only a tolerance in such a statement that would be impossible in the case of a " true " faith confronting " false " ones , but there is a suggestion that Christianity is but one among many religions , all struggling onward in some sort of evolutionary process toward an eventual synthesis of truth . The General Council of the Presbyterian church immediately branded this report , so far as its conception of the dogmatic position of Christianity is concerned , as " a denial of evangelical Christianity . " I believe that most communions would agree , although some of them might draw back from so blunt a form of statement . But the fact that a commission of such prominence could render such a report , which could be received with respect and approval in many quarters , serves to show  --  and the more plainly against the forthrightness of this Presbyterian disclaimer ? the reality of the tension that has developed over this once uncontested dogma . Another illustration that immediately comes to mind concerns the fate of the dogma of scriptural inerrancy . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ every important dogmatic claim held within every communion , whether Roman , Orthodox , or Protestant , declares that it rests on some textual authority in a divinely inspired scripture . And the process of historical criticism , which has overthrown both theories of inspiration and security of texts , now makes the resort to proof-texts as irrelevant to the modern mind as would be a resort to the divination of entrails . Here again , great portions of Western Christianity still make of this a bitter struggle . But the intellectual battle , despite all denials , is over . III OR a final illustration , consider the altered status of another creedal affirmation that is still maintained by all but an inconsiderable minority of Western churches ? the doctrine of the Trinity . I doubt whether any of us can read the history of the struggle that developed when the Unitarian movement began to gather importance in New England , and later on the midwestern frontier , without finding it hard to believe that any such heat and bitterness could have been engendered . To this day , however @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ minister will not be admitted to the professional organizations of his trinitarian brethren , while such a national body as the Y. M. C. A. spends endless time fussing about the degree of trinitarian orthodoxy that must be required of its proselytes . The plain fact of the matter is that trinitarian orthodoxy ? except as an empty creedalism ? is dead in wide regions . If there are those who do not realize the extent to which this supposedly vital dogma has been undermined , let them ask the next cleric who comes along what he actually means when he affirms his belief in a Third Person in the Godhead , the Holy Ghost . Many , it can be confidently predicted , will refuse so much as to attempt an answer . Others , making the attempt , will , with a little questioning , become involved in wild confusion and contradiction . Still others , falling back on the verbiage of their theological textbooks , will roll off sonorous periods about " a social life in the Godhead , " or " the persistence of the Divine Urge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thing . Yet the history of Western religion is studded with the sight of men butchering each other over this dogma of the Trinity ! Now it should be said at once that this test I have proposed would not work if the clergyman questioned should be under orders in the Lutheran , the Roman Catholic , or the Southern Baptist communions . Ministers of these churches ? and of some others having the same general characteristics ? will have pat answers ready for questions concerning any dogmatic or creedal assertion . In the case of the Baptists , the reason is largely social , as it is in that of some varieties of Lutheranism . That is , the supporting community itself has not yet been vitally penetrated by the modern educational process of which the historical criticism of religious material is a part . But in the case of the Roman Catholic church we have the principal example of the attempt to escape this ordeal by the imposition of an iron discipline . But those with an historical sense of the response of all institutions to their social environment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discipline can be maintained . Iv Two questions lie at the heart of this whole struggle . Western religion is being thrust into its most severe internal ordeal as it is called on to define in new terms its relation to Jesus of Nazareth and its belief in God . I submit that when the ordeal penetrates to this depth , it has reached rock bottom . But this depth it has reached , vehement as many of the defenders of the established religious order will appear in denying it . Let us begin by considering the present position of Western religion on the significance of Jesus . The issue is so extremely delicate that one hesitates to deal with it in the non-technical language of a general publication . But it can not be dodged . I have already said that the old trinitarian theology has become impossible for large numbers of churchmen . Obviously , that means that the effort to keep vitality in the phrases of the creed ? " very God of very God , begotten , not made , of the same substance with the Father @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interpretation " that finally refines reality into thin air . Any considerable reading of current religious literature will show that , so far as the conspicuous theologians and preachers of the liberal American Protestant churches are concerned , their effort to define what is meant by the " deity " or the " divinity " of the Founder of Christianity has almost abandoned the metaphysical approach . Instead , there is resort to phrases asserting that , to the believer , Jesus reveals God , or that Jesus gives the idea of God ethical content , or that in Jesus the summation of divine attributes has become incarnate . Or expressions of a similar sort . Now , for the purpose of making religion a help in the solution of the spiritual problems of contemporary men this may be all to the good . I believe it is . But nothing is gained by trying to minimize the extent and importance of the change that has occurred between the time when the urge in men 's souls impelled them to cry out the stupendous affirmations of the Nicene creed and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Well , at least we may say that Jesus reveals what God must be like . " And still less is spiritual good faith served by trying to make it appear that the two formulas are , after all , one . They are not . Why not be honest about it ? The difficulty here may be metaphysical , but it grows out of this process of historical criticism to which such frequent reference has been made . The effort to strip away the accretions of the centuries and to recover the historical realities concerning the Nazarene is not a new one . But within the last few years it has taken on a new intensity and followed new paths . I have already said that I hold the main agent in bringing this to pass to have been Western Protestantism 's most famous living saint , Dr. Albert Schweitzer , who published his Quest of the Historical yesus in 1910 . He declared then that his " quest " had led him to a Jesus who was the complete child of his age and of the restricted environment of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ illusions of a long since outmoded eschatology . To put it in the sort of language that theological discussion generally eschews , Schweitzer 's Jesus turned out to be mistaken about a number of things because he believed a number of things that were not , and are not , so . Does it need much explanation to make clear why , within the churches , a struggle became inevitable from the moment when intelligent piety began to admit the possibility of a limited , and even in some particulars mistaken , outlook on the part of Christianity 's Founder ? For the process , once so large a gap had been broken in tradition 's wall , has been along two lines of advance . It has been toward an increasing appreciation of the questionable historicity of the documents on which Christianity has founded its theological structures , and toward an increasing appreciation of the narrowing process visited upon Jesus by the date and locality of his career . To anyone who desires to see the sort of result to which this process has led , let me recommend a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jackson Case , one of the most distinguished theological professors in the West . This book attempts to sum up the results of the historical scholarship when applied to Jesus . What sort of figure emerges ? " There are clear evidences in the historical records , " says Professor Case , " that he held opinions and entertained attitudes that do not approve themselves to us as suitable for our day . . . . We prize the injunctions of Jesus as stimuli but not as ultimate goals . ... The problem of adjusting individual conduct to the necessities of social environment in a modern age can not be solved by imitating an ancient pattern . A different line of action to-day amply justifies itself in the sincerity and judgment of honest and intelligent people , who may at the same time genuinely admire the sincerity of Jesus and grant the full propriety of his speaking and acting as he did within the particular situation where he lived and in the light of his beliefs about the future . " This is , I admit , an extreme statement of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Founder . Yet the process that led to this result is now generally accepted by the progressive wing in Protestantism , so that the results differ only in degree and not in kind . But if these results are not at war with the historic dogmas of Western religion , then words have lost their meaning ! Consider , for a moment , an article by a member of what is probably the most distinguished theological faculty in the United States , Professor A. Bruce Curry of Union Theological Seminary , New York . It appeared in the Christian Century , and its mere title , " How Far May Christians Diverge from Jesus ? " tells a great deal as to the ordeal confronting church dogma . In this article Professor Curry outlines four positions toward the authoritativeness of the teachings of Jesus which he believes may be adopted by the educated man with some logical constituency . Without bothering with the first three , none of which satisfy him , let me quote from the fourth , which evidently embodies the position of Professor Curry : " He ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ philosophy , and experience in the light of the best knowledge and insight of himself and his spiritual kindred , past and present . Where he finds himself indebted to Jesus or to later Christianity he will be glad to make acknowledgement of the fact . But he will be under no initial obligations to align his faith with that of Jesus , or with anyone else in the Christian tradition . Nor will he feel that he must impress Jesus into the service and support of his own developing religion . He will recognize that the basis of authority has shifted to the informed insight of the best qualified individuals and groups . And he will welcome in organized fellowship anyone who sincerely seeks truth and life-at-its-highest . Whether this man can then be called a Christian ' is a serious question . ( Sic ! ) Perhaps he should be so accepted if he confessed that the major contribution to his experience and faith came from Jesus , making Jesus still the Master . ' For many , this seems to be the only position which makes full place @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Leaves some place for Jesus " ! Can there be any so blind as not to see that a religion which still attempts to define its relation to its Founder , officially , in the homoousian terms of Nicea , while its scholars define their relation to that Founder , actually , in such terms as I have quoted , is in for a period of inner stress so violent as to preclude intelligent prophecy regarding the outcome ? Realizing this , the school of European theology at the moment most popular ? the " crisis " theology of Karl Barth ? rejects the claim that the " Jesus of history " has any religious importance whatever , and insists that the only purpose of the New Testament documents is to present a " Christ of faith " who is a metaphysical Being . This school hoots out of court the idea that the historical Jesus held any " principles " which can to-day be discerned or , if discerned , could be applied without reducing the applicants to what its spokesman , Professor H. Emil Brunner of Zurich , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Well , that is one way of " saving " the Founder of Western religion from the effects of historical study . But how much , in the long run , does it save ? V BuT we have yet to measure the full extent of this inner ordeal . In many quarters , it must be acknowledged , the belief in a theistic interpretation of the universe is being attacked with a vehemence hitherto unknown , and devoted souls who claim to speak in behalf of the preservation of religion declare that the thing most needed now is to rid religion of the incubus of God ! To set the spirits of men free , let the idea of God be relegated to the dust-heap of the race ! The issue became inevitable with the passing of the old supernaturalism . The old categories of theistic argument , which sought for a First Cause by various avenues of speculation , have become largely irrelevant to those whose idea of the universe has been transformed from an enclosed territory to a cosmic stream . Probably a majority of those who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ biologists are saying to-day walk off our college campuses quite indifferent to questions concerning beginnings and endings . So completely has the intellectual climate changed that , in many a faculty club and among groups of urban sophisticates , the mere attempt to maintain that the informed mind can , and will , go on believing in God seems usually to be greeted with amazement . In the United States , the most important attack on the theistic position is that which goes under the name of humanism . ( Religious humanism , be it understood ; not the Paul Elmer More-Irving Babbitt literary brand . ) Here , under the plea of protecting the interests of religion itself , there is rejection of the idea of an objective reality called God . Mr. Lippmann , with his plea for a stoic " high religion , " has given this point of view widest circulation . Professor Max Carl Otto , of the University of Wisconsin , its leading philosophic champion , upholds what he calls " an affirmative faith in the non-existence of God , " with a compensating belief @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it is even more a portent that the clearest religious presentation of the argument has come from a professor of comparative religions , Dr. A. Eustace Haydon of the divinity school of the University of Chicago . Within the religious community , it does not seem to me that the humanists are making rapid progress . The movement showed more assertiveness ? if not more actual influence ? four or five years ago than it does at the present moment . Perhaps the fourth year of the depression is not a favorable time in which to preach the self-sufficiency of man . But the present resurgence of theism , if such it can be called , is being gained by resort to arguments that involve hardly less conflict with the dogmatic orthodoxies of the churches than would a complete rejection of theism . The situation is caught in a nutshell in a new book , Is There a God ? which is a reprint of a debate originally published in The Christian Century . The debaters were Professor Otto , Professor Douglas Clyde Macintosh of Yale , and Professor Henry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ both the theists in this argument shy away from all questions as to whether or not God is a person , and that Professor Wieman is clear in his definition of God as a process . Even so traditionally disciplined a theologian as Dr. Macintosh , while insisting that he believes in " a superhuman spiritual Being , an essentially personal cosmic power , an intelligent loving moral mind and will , " finds himself saying , " The God we know thus scientifically ( sic ! ) is , whether personal , impersonal , or superpersonal , and whether one or more than one . . . " Surely there is enough uncertainty in the second statement to make the first seem largely a matter of the theologian 's desire to believe . Professor Wieman , whose " minimum definition " of God as that upon which we depend for life 's highest values is being seized on in many quarters as a starting point for a theism consonant with modern thought , is even more specific . Rather than intending a static entity of some kind , he crisply @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mind the " process of growing good , " and that we men " find God only when we are caught up into this creative process of associated living and are used by it , enriched and transfigured by it . " Dr. Wieman dismisses the whole question as to the personality of God by declaring that " I deny personality to God , not by subtraction , but by addition . " Just what that means , in terms of conceivable concepts , I confess is vague to me . The value in this shifting of the approach from description to definition of deity is clear . But how about the difficulty ? On the one hand , there is that with which this article has specifically to deal . How is such a definition of God in terms of process to be reconciled with the older orthodoxies ? In what possible way can the creeds and catechisms and articles of religion and all the other foundation stones of the past be held identical with the thought of a scholarship which says that when you have disclosed " that process @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the same time makes each individual most contributory to the total community " you have discovered God ? On the other hand , there is the difficulty involved in making any such definition of deity hold either positive or arousing values for the purposes of popular religion . Because that is not our immediate problem , I pass it by , pausing only to quote the words which H. G. Wells put into the mouth of William Clissold after reading the theism of Harvard 's famous Professor A. N. Whitehead : " The mystical God of force and substance ? if I may use the word God ' for so remote a conception ? to whom the endless winding staircase of molecular science mounts forever and never attains , is , I feel , no priest 's God of sentiment and morality , no friend of man and pitiful judge of our peccadillos , but a God of austere complexity , a God of variable and evasive rhythms and unfathomable intricacy , the God of a philosophical mathematician . " Professor Wieman may hope to escape this sense of remoteness by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men , but one still doubts whether his God , defined as " that interaction between individuals , groups and ages which generates and promotes the greatest mutuality of good , " is a concept which has in it the elements which will send the members of this bewildered and buffeted generation back to their knees . VI IT CAN be anticipated that exception will be taken to the assertion that the church is at war with such of its own dogmas as I have named . The very vehemence of the denial is one measure of the reality of the ordeal . Certain ecclesiastical areas are less affected than others , because of the theological discipline to which they are still subject . But as the content and effect of modern education is diffused , these tenets which I have treated ? and I think that the reader will agree that they have been basically important in the past history of the churches ? will find themselves under increasing shock . Often this shock will come from unexpected quarters . At the moment of writing , as I have said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prepared by a special commission for a group of laymen who were anxious to know where the church stands to-day and willing to put up the money to find out . This report recommends drastic changes in missionary method , but the thing that has jolted ? no other verb will suffice ? the churches is the abandonment of such familiar dogmatic ideas as the " heathen " character of other faiths , the necessity for Christian conversion as a means to salvation , and the whole soteriology on which the missionary enterprise was launched . Since it has been these very ideas that have sent devoted evangels hastening to the ends of the earth , is it any wonder that church bodies are expressing their disagree-ment ? The fifteen commissioners who drew up this report were all representative of the thought current in collegiate circles . What they think , as regards religious dogma , is still the thought of a minority . But the thought which the educator of to-day holds as his own minority opinion will to-morrow be multiplied many times as the possession of his disciples . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leaders to discover the extent to which this displacement of dogmatic ideas has already progressed , or the influence which the process is having . So , within its own life , as much as in its relations with the Western state and Western society , Western religion is moving into a period of terrific stress . An honest relationship with the minds of its own adherents involves frank dealing with these dogmatic issues ; it should bring candid statement of the resulting modifications of doctrine . Mr. Wells has said that the churches can not speak frankly on these issues without destroying themselves . I do not believe that , although it is a verdict I can not now attempt to review . But of this I am certain : Without some perfectly plain speaking at this point , vast numbers who remain within the churches will be sufficiently aware of the intellectual situation to be forced to conclude that the communions are attempting to dodge where they are not competent to compel conviction . As between the peril which Mr. Wells foresees and the peril involved in repelling the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to make a choice . Both choices may involve death ? but there is a resurrection for that death which is heroic .                     