@@220982

Primitive people from time immemorial have eaten the hearts , livers and testicles of ferocious beasts and valorous enemies . Believers in sympathetic magic , they sought thus to acquire strength and bravery . Scientific minds saw no sense to this until about 75 years ago Charles Edouard Brown-Squard ( 1817-94 ) concluded that such a diet somehow made men of weaklings . He sought the reason and found a testicular secretion which in infinitesimal amounts did what the whole gland could do . That potent quintessence came to be called a hormone . Other glands in the body were soon found to produce secretions of similar potency . Thus born was the modern science of endocrinology. * Since Brown-Squard 's original demonstrations more and more hormones have been discovered . They occur in the pineal gland in the middle of the brain ; in the pituitary gland under the forebrain ; in the thyroid , parathyroids and thymus in the neck ; in the adrenals on top of the kidneys ; in the pancreas at the stomach ; in the stomach and intestines ; in the ovaries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pattern of their complicated interbalance makes every human being precisely what he is . The balance changes during life , making the baby a boy , the boy a youth , the youth a man , the man a dotard . Disease or accident , food or medicine may alter the balance . Then one may be smarter or duller than natural , thinner or fatter , more brave or more backward . A woman with an overactive thyroid is a busybody with a quick pulse , a temperature slightly above normal . She wants to wolf all kinds of food . The doctor may quiet her by dosing her neck with x-rays or the surgeon may cut out part of her goitre . Dosing with hormones is less brutal than surgery . Doctors begged pharmacologists to give them in pure form the active principles of the endocrine glands . When Chemist Edwin Calvin Kendall of the Mayo Clinic isolated thyroxin , the essence of the thyroid , about 15 years ago , a loud cry of applause arose . Since then other hormones have been refined and analyzed . Last @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that he had synthesized the male sex hormone . To get it , this altogether reputable scientist attacked hydroxy-ketone , a substance related to acetone , with dihydrocholesterol which is a derivative of cholesterol found in bile , brains and eggs . Nicely controlled chemical procedure produced a modified hydroxy-ketone which he claims is chemically identical with the male sex hormone . Whether it can be used alone or whether , like natural sex hormones , it works best in combination with pituitary , thyroid or adrenal cortex medication , is something pharmacologists must determine . It probably will grow hair on a eunuch 's chest . But there is no chance whatever that it will make him a father . <P> *Previous work on internal secretions , however , had been done as early as 1849 , by Claude Bernard .                     