@@470015

IT is a mystery to most of us college presi-dents why the public is so interested in us . To those few of us who are a bit pompous this public concern seems quite logical . But most presidents are relatively simple , modest folk , anxious to do a good job on a college campus ; to us the public spotlight is often as irritating as it is surprising . Whatever a college president does seems to have some degree of public interest . If he loses his job special news writers are sent to cover it " adequately . " If he loses his driver 's license that gets headlines , too . We are asked to indorse everything from newspapers to gasoline . No public issue arises without some campaign to indorse or oppose it , and we are always urged to sign the letter to President Roosevelt which appears in Monday 's papers with a column or two of signatures . We are asked to speak on every subject imaginable , before all kinds of audiences ; and usually there is no honorarium . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " when they should be let alone and not asked to express opinions on subjects on which their only competency is that they are college administrators . We really ought to be pleased that the public is interested in us . If colleges were not one of America 's main industries our jobs might be much less secure . The public demand for higher education makes our colleges going concerns , even in times of depression . About a million American young people are enrolled in one thousand institutions of higher learning . Probably one out of every five American families has members now in college or includes former college students . The American passion for education is highly emotional ; loyalty to Alma Mater is less a matter of brains and more a matter of feeling than any other national loyalty . College presidents are the mouthpieces , the figureheads , for these institutions ; no wonder we get letters on every subject under the sun , advice galore ; naturally what we do and say interests the public . A college president 's job is a varied one . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over a campus with a thousand students , a hundred teachers , and two hundred employees ? all of whom are , in some way , influenced by how well I do my job . Select new faculty members , six to ten a year , and keep all of them serene , suppressing jealousies and avoiding hurt feelings ? and remembering that an able professor is usually a sensitive plant ! Preside at faculty committee meetings , trying to advise them toward the wisest decision , supporting what they recommend to the trustees . Preside at faculty meetings , which are often a time-consuming bore . Decide dubious cases of admission , of discipline , and of scholarship award . Welcome student opinion on college policies and faculty appointments , but always with full loyalty to the faculty . Try to keep faculty departmental difficulties from harming the college 's educational program . As far as possible , know students personally , discuss their difficulties with them sympatheticallyand wisely ; attend all athletic contests , and chaperon many dances . Teach a class , meeting weekly for one semester ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meets in my home , in a most informal atmosphere ) . Remember the name of every alumnus I meet anywhere ? if he has a " grouch , " try to mollify him ? if possible , interest him in the college 's future . Meet parents , particularly those who feel their sons have not had fair treatment by a professor or a faculty discipline committee . Meet a young alumnus and the girl he is to marry . Write a fifty-page Annual Report on the college 's progress and problems . I am also supposed to be responsible for a property which cost six millions , and an annual budget which totals a million ; know by the tenth of each month that no budget items are being overdrawn ; decide as wisely and impartially as possible which items in the next budget must be reduced , which requests for departmental funds , salaries , library , upkeep of grounds may be granted . Keep in touch with trustees , particularly members of the executive and finance committees , trying to show them the college 's needs and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ theirs , not mine . Travel about twenty thousand miles a year ? by auto , train , plane , and boat ? meeting alumni groups in forty localities from San Francisco to Port/and , Maine . Present the needs of the college for new buildings and endowment to possible donors , alumni , and others ; usually this is not done by direct appeal ( I have asked for money on only three occasions during thirty years as a president ) but by showing the college 's accomplishments , its future , and its present needs . Make about one hundred addresses a year ? to students at the weekly Assembly , to alumni at dinners , at Sunday convocations in other colleges , at teachers ' meetings , Rotary Clubs , Chambers of Commerce , patriotic societies , church suppers ( Meiklejohn correctly termed college presidents " peripatetic phonographs " ) . Try to keep cordial the relationship between " town and gown " by serving on the Executive Committeeof the local Chamber of Commerce , Y.M.C.A. , Hospital , Community Chest ( and for a brief period , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ boys in trouble with the long-suffering police ; of an irate property owner who ' phones that " my " boys have cut down his evergreens to decorate for a fraternity dance ( they had n't ) ; of a faculty wife discouraged over her husband 's ill health and finances ( find some generous alumnus to help ) ; of a boy who must be staked out of my own pocket to get home for vacation ( he repaid me ) ; of an alumnus needing help to get the position for which he is applying . Questions which other presidents have told me have faced them include : Shall we put lightning rods on our buildings ? Shall Professor Jones ' home , collegeowned , be painted white or yellow ? With mounting food prices , is it wise to raise on our farm more pigs and chickens ? Shall I bail out the lad who , drunk , " stole " a car , or let him spend a night in jail to reflect ? How can I best explain over the long distance to John 's parents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wise to change the tune of " Alma Mater " ? Which precise shade of blue is our college color ? It is never a monotonous job ? and I would not swap with any other . It is a twenty-four hour , twelve months ' job . There is a long summer vacation , but I am at the office at least one day every week . Unlike professors , there is no sabbatical leave ; in thirty years I have been away , entirely free from the office , only for two trips to Europe , one of seven weeks , one of ten . We presidents are unlike in many ways . Some of us look like presidents ; many do not ? and the latter enjoy it more . In a crowd many of us would be taken for mildly successful business men . On the train from New York to Northampton , Neilson was enjoying the banter in the smoking compartment . One of his companions said , " I sell autos ; what 's your line ? " " Skirts , " promptly replied the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ us are married . Alice Freeman Palmer ( Wellesley ) is almost the only married woman president on record ; she was active while her husband was active too . We men almost always find we must have a wife to help us on our job . " Mrs. Prexy " has a job as diverse and interesting as her husband 's . She may be ? and often is ? the intimate friend of countless undergraduates ; she can help to keep the faculty serene by her thoughtfulness ; she may take a place of large responsibility in the social and charitable activities of the college town . As a hostess she may have a thousand guests for a reception , ten house guests , usually trustees or rich donors , and twenty for dinner ? all in forty-eight hours . At a social gathering of presidents and wives the following were reported as the activities of one wife , during her husband 's absence , in only eighteen hours : within her home she entertained the widow of a benefactor of the college and one of her relatives , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whose parents were friends of the president , gave a luncheon for a French duchess who had come to lecture to the French Club and the Faculty Wives ' Club , presided at the meeting of fifty faculty wives held in her home , and interviewed and pacified three irate policemen intent on arresting the boys in a nearby fraternity house . In many college communities all college guests ? preachers , lecturers , general visitors , prominent alumni ? are entertained at the President 's House . In one New England college there is a famous cook , who stays only " to oblige " the president and his wife ; her salary is modest ; her chief demand for her continued service is that she shall meet all distinguished guests . The ingenuity of that particular president is shown not alone by his able management of the college ; he must adroitly take visitors , even titled Englishmen , through the kitchen to show them the view of the beautiful pines behind the house and " to meet Mrs. Jones , who helpsus . " Crestfallen is the guest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , learns that she has no desire to meet him ! In some presidential homes college students help ; visitors to President Angell at Yale found undergraduates greeting them at the door . Often the college chauffeur becomes a character about whom tales are told , such as the Irishman who , while the president worried about his distinguished guest 's tardiness , hunted up speakeasies far and wide with William Allen White to prove to him that " prohibition did n't prohibit . " Or the Austrian butler on another campus who feels himself a real part of the college staff as he cares for guests , telling them of the college 's excellencies . A president 's success is measured by his ability to deal with his trustees , his faculty , his students , and his alumni . Truly he has a host of bosses . Usually the Board has one or two men whose influence counts most ? like Bannard of Yale , Davison of Wesleyan , Gibson of Bowdoin , Hepburn of Middlebury , Loree of Rutgers , Morrow of Amherst , Swift of Chicago , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Governor or the State Superintendent of Schools . In the faculty the president usually has some " elder statesmen " with whom he may consult freely and frankly . In many colleges to-day there is an advisory committee of professors with whom all appointments and promotions are discussed . Once presidents were tzars ; now the American Association of University Professors and , on some campuses , local units of Labor Unions protect faculty rights . To-day the following could not happen : Seelye of Smith ruled over his faculty with vigor ; one lady teacher vanished suddenly ; her friends worried and one finally summoned sufficient courage to ask the President what had happened . He said , " Why , Miss Smith , I dismissed her ; she had the audacity to scold me . " Student relation . ships are usually the simplest and most satisfying ; young America is very fairminded and loyal . The male president of a woman 's college has a peculiarly difficult position . Surrounded by women , a man may easily become tzarlike ? with unfortunate results ? or feminized . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the husbands of alumna= and male trustees takes almost a superman . Alumni may let their loyalty transcend wisdom ? the president must curb but not disturb . If he has a few men on his faculty , in only rare cases are they as able and aggressive as men teachers in men 's colleges . Actually , there is no reason except tradition why boys prefer male teachers ; girls usually do likewise . In coeducational colleges boys are often splendidly taught by women teachers . No woman professor has as yet been chosen in a man 's college . There still is sex discrimination . In spite of the fine record of college-trained women in government positions , in spite of a woman 's becoming a Cabinet member , in spite of the protests by presidents of women 's colleges , IIarvard has so far refused to admit women to her new Graduate School of Government . The presidents of women 's colleges feel this sex antagonism keenly . Men 's colleges receive gifts in the millions ; women 's institutions , if lucky , in the thousands . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ colleges organized to present to the public the claims of all the women 's colleges ; the results so far are chiefly intangible , with very few checks . Neilson ( Smith ) and MacCracken ( Vassar ) have so developed the institutions over which they preside that from every standpoint except endowment and professorial salaries they surpass all but a few of the men 's colleges . Among the women leaders of women 's colleges Blunt ( Connecticut ) , Comstock ( Radcliffe ) , Gildersleeve ( Barnard ) , Glass ( Sweet Briar ) , Park ( Bryn Mawr ) , Reinhardt ( Mills ) , and Woolley ( Mount Holyoke ) have been as successful as any of us men . Their task is doubly difficult too . They have their job to do in the office ; when they return to their homes they are the hostesses ; no wife relieves them by arranging dinners , receptions , social contacts with students , faculty , and town . We men do not envy them their twentyfour hour a day responsibility . Presidents gather and hobnob on various @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Colleges attract three to four hundred presidents ? a catastrophe in the convention hotel would give headaches to many hundred boards of trustees ! The meetings are addressed by speakers from America and abroad . The informal gatherings in the corridors are , however , more popular than the lecture hall . Here we discuss problems with faculty and trustees , new presidents soon to be appointed , ideas for professorships we must fill , schemes for raising funds and attracting students . Many States have annual college-president conferences ; many regions , likewise . A unique organization in New England , nearly a century old , comprises about twenty non-state , non ? women 's institutions . For two days in October the president and one faculty man from each member college meet on the campus of the host institution ; a spirit of complete candor is said to prevail , no reports are printed , no reporters are admitted . We meet at one another 's inaugurations too . These are often occasions of academic glamour as we march in our many-colored gowns and hoods . The speeches vary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the inaugural address than in its contents . Finley 's speech of welcome is similar to those he has given on many , many earlier occasions , but it is always charmingly delivered ; Lowell said more in five minutes than the rest did in twenty ; Angell was at his best as an after-dinner speaker . Sometimes we pay academic debts by conferring honorary degrees on one another ; the president most recently chosen may get his first honorary hood at the first inauguration he attends as his college 's presidential delegate . Friendly rivalry exists among us thus to honor one another ; Seymour escaped last June by being abroad ; Conant and Dodds were showered a few years ago . Watch the papers and count the degrees Baxter ( WilHams ) , Day ( Cornell ) , and Dykstra ( Wisconsin ) will get . Most of us speak our minds frankly on public affairs , often even on matters in which we have no competency . I think there is much to he said for the attitude of King ( Amherst ) , who believes his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out on matters which do not directly concern the campus . He was almost the only one of the Northern presidents who did not publicly denounce Roosevelt 's Supreme Court proposals ; even when pressed by his trustees , he maintained that this was no concern of Amherst 's and refused to be counted , for or against . Most of us are conservatives , as are our bosses , the trustees , in general ; and radical economic changes worry us by threatening adversely our endowment income . For many years before being a Democrat became so popular , Sills was the only member of that party heading a college in the Northeast . Even to-day MacCracken 's ( Vassar ) vigorous support of Roosevelt differentiates him from most of the rest of us . Some of us may be too critical of modern trends at Washington ; probably our faculties and students show a higher percentage of approval . In this " new day " it would be most unfortunate if the proletariat considered college presidents as unresponsive to modern tendencies . We may " view with alarm " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such a large part of his valedictory at Yale a denunciation of Roosevelt . After all , our job is chiefly academic . Presidents of State-supported institutions are under much more of a curb on public matters than those of us who preside over independent colleges ; few of the heads of independent colleges , even those which have close denominational ties , are prevented from speaking publicly the truth as they see it . Cowling , at Carleton College , to-day has much greater freedom than Coffman at Minnesota . Probably this group of presidents can do more than those in institutions under public controlto light for freedom of speech ; we can publicly oppose Oath Bills , we can urge freedom for the teacher . There are many signs of impending interference with academic freedom in American colleges ; here we have a large responsibility . The president 's freedom of speech often gets him into trouble . One president took an assigned topic for his speech at a conference and described the preparation for marriage which could come through study , without mentioning the influence of the Church @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The official Catholic weekly of the State denounced him for this oversight and branded his institution as " Godless " ; his mail was unusually heavy for the next two weeks ' Another president , in 1928 , stated that he would not vote for Al Smith " but not because he is a Catholic " ; he found himself involved in a controversy with a Methodist Bishop ; forty letters of vilification arrived from bold enemies of the Pope who were too cautious to sign their own names . A letter to Jewish premedical students , explaining the difficulties of admission to medical school ( ten applicants for each place open to a Jewish boy ) was seen by a reporter , and the presidential signer was occupied for a full ten hours with interviews over the telephone by three New York dailies , requests for pictures and special stories ( refused ) and eulogistic reports in next day 's papers in Germany twisting his advice into an attack on American Jewish students . ( Of the seventy letters which followed from Jews , a large majority commended the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a situation entirely beyond his control . ) When college presidents arc dismissed the public is keenly interested . Politics may have been involved in Frank 's departure from Wisconsin , but most of his presidential colleagues felt that it was deserved ; no matter how fine a speaker and writer he is , he was not a successful university president . We were amused at the story that he set eight o'clock as the time for his formal dinners ? in a community where such New York hours were not the custom ; on the occasion of his first dinner for the Governor the executive and his wife presented themselves too early , and were refused admission by the butler ! Little left Michigan because he was unwilling , even when head of a State institution , to give up his vigorous public support of a proposal ( birth control ) to which a majority of the State 's citizens were opposed ; his defiance of tact and diplomacy deprived American higher education of a leader of great ability . Dennett resigned from Williams because the trustees decided to use @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ educational needs were greater ; his request for a " suspensory veto " over trustee financial actions was foreign to the American principle that trustees control and presidents carry out their decisions ; the president must educate the trustees about the college 's needs , and in doing so often has to exercise great tact and patience . The Williams situation of last summer is unusual ; Dennett was succeeded by Baxter , who was considered for the presidency when Dennett was selected three years ago , and who was Dennett 's main advocate then . Baxter 's presidency will be much easier because of the difficult and distasteful work which Dennett did in connection with the college 's finances and faculty . Jaquith 's resignation last June from Illinois College was for financial reasons quite unlike Dennett 's : because the trustees were unwilling to do what he considered their share in meeting the college 's financial crisis . One of the most disturbing presidential resignations of recent years was Meiklejohn 's at Amherst ; his career since has been largely one of frustrated hopes and plans . In his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his equal ; in uniting his faculty and solving financial problems ? including his own ? he failed . But Dwight Morrow , in looking back at the crisis , told Nicolson , his biographer , that he doubted whether the trustees ' action was wise . A forced resignation may hurt a college for years ? and so may an incompetent president . There are many pitfalls which may destroy a president 's usefulness . Sometimes one trustee with wealth may prove difficult . Markle , rich coal baron on the Lafayette Board , made MacCracken 's position as president most uncomfortable . The rich , opinionated trustee insisted on strengthening the engineering department , although Lehigh with its fine School of Engineering was only a few miles away , and Lafayette certainly had more pressing needs . The president must also have found the gift of trustee Kirby ( five-and-ten-cent-store tycoon ) embarrassing : to endow a department and erect a building for government courses in which the superiority of capitalism would forever be maintained . For some reason Lafayette seems to be a difficult place for able presidents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for many years chiefly by " doing nothing . " Lewis , the very able president to-day , has been faced with a difficult athletic problem . He insisted on eliminating subsidies to football players , changed coaches , and secured an able athletic director from Harvard . For some unaccountable reason football defeats entirely beyond normal followed ? and alumni howled ; one alumnus , say the town papers , has offered a new athletic building if the athletic director is discharged . A victorious football team in 1937 has quieted the critics somewhat . At Wooster a large gift was promised if the college would disband the fraternities ; over vigorous alumni opposition ( which still hurts the college ) this was done , but the donor died just too soon and neglected to include the proposed gift in his will ; the president soon resigned . Miss Woolley , resigning at Mount Holyoke , found many of the trustees determined to defy her wish for a woman successor , perhaps because a Board largely composed of males usually prefers to work with a man president . In the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Holyoke just as the president was leaving for a speaking trip . " You have no idea , Mr. President , why I am here . " The president kept silent , thinking he knew all too well the expostulations over unfair treatment which were to come . " We bachelors who eat at the Faculty Club have been discussing this matter for some time , and we finally decided we ought to speak to you , and I was selected to tell you . We think you ought to get a new hat . " The president , amazed , soon let his visitor know that the sort of hat the president of the college wore was none of the instructors ' concern ? and ran to catch his train . Then he thought : Brown has evidently not been told of his dismissal ; when he is , he will assign it entirely to this interview , not to his failure as a teacher . At the first stop he dashed off a wire to the department head , " Reappoint Brown for next year . " When he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be kept for a second year , poor teacher that he was , to avoid any feeling that the president was vindictive over the criticism of his hat . A Middle-western college suffered for two decades from a most unfortunate occasion when leading faculty members accused the president of undue familiarity with women students and secretaries ( a college president must be as far removed from such gossip as Caesar 's wife ) . The president agreed to resign , perhaps because he wished to save the college from unpleasant publicity . Unfortunately , publicity was not avoided , many of the abler faculty men left , trustees were alienated , and the deposed president 's two successors failed to unite the college 's clientele . Athletic problems , chiefly football , often hamper a president 's success . Knox 's record-breaking string of football defeats certainly did not help Britt with his alumni ; at Iowa Jessup found that the university 's expulsion from the " Big Ten " reflected on him throughout the State ; at Centre the alumni and community insistence on a nationally successful team contributed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) has lost much alumni support by his demand for a " clean-up " of football ; Clothier ( Rutgers ) is bothered by a " big time " athletic tradition in a small-sized university ; Ward ( Western Maryland ) was a leader among the more religiously inclined colleges of the country , although his football team achieved success which made his colleagues suspicious of the methods used to attract and hold players ; Wilkins ( Oberlin ) having tried with little success to change the athletic standards of the Ohio colleges , is now encouraging the organization of an informal national group of institutions " Iike-minded athletically " ; the chief criticism of Graham ( North Carolina ) throughout the State is based on his valiant but probably unsuccessful effort to eliminate subsidies to football players in the Southern Conference . The presidents of women 's colleges ? and Reed with no intercollegiate sports ? may congratulate themselves that they are spared ! King at Amherst has used athletics skillfully to revive undergraduate morale and alumni support . Amherst 's athletic record was low when Pease resigned ; some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ content with defeats . King , who boasts he has never played any outdoor game except croquet , became an ardent fan , following the team to all its games , backing the new coach wholeheartedly , pleased when boys with athletic promise were admitted . Victories followed ; the campus became more athletic-minded than any other similar New England college ; gifts for a new athletic plant costing three quarters of a million were soon secured . Jordan , the coach , became Athletic Director ; his name is prominent in the catalogue list of administrative officers . Few , in building the new Duke , saw to it that a stadium became one of the most striking parts of the new campus and that the football team became nationally known and successful . Tucker 's wise use of athletics did much to nationalize Dartmouth . Newspapers can hurt a president severely . The president of a college located in a two-paper town usually finds one paper boosting him and one anxious for every chance to criticize . Robinson at the College of the City of New York must regret @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ difficulty he has with his rather unruly students . Reporters always consider presidents " fair game " ; I have been interviewed about almost every subject under the sun , often entirely unassociated with the college , and at all hours ? including phone calls at two A.M. Refusal to say anything may be twisted by the reporter so that it will hurt the college or the president . When news of a gift , a new appointment , or most newsworthy of al , a new football coach , breaks , one must be sure the metropolitan and local papers make the announcement simultaneously . " Jumping a date line " on a college release has happened all too often ; the college dare not boycott the paper , and unscrupulous editors ? there are some , though few ? or careless copy writers ? there are many ? may get a scoop which pleases them and brings to the college the wrath of all the other papers . How to divide your news so that you keep both the morning and afternoon papers still friendly requires a Solomon . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ say " no " graciously without offending ? Here we need the skill of the politician , the wiles of the superman . Burton at Minnesota and Michigan is said to have been able to refuse faculty requests for more money for salaries or departmental needs " as though it hurt him more than it did the asker . " Second , can he wait patiently , quietly , to accomplish his plans , or is he the type who drives ahead ruthlessly over opposition , unwilling to wait and win ? A wise dean once said of an able president , " His only weakness is that he has no reverse gear . " Sometimes we are very careless about matters of public concern connected withour colleges . The presidents of the colleges in Massachusetts were " asleep " in letting the Teachers ' Oath Bill pass the legislative committee before they even knew of it . They requested a rehearing and found themselves made ridiculous by the non-college-trained , shrewd Irishman who presided ; after each president spoke denouncing the bill , he called on a communist or a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the next session a very vigorous campaign resulted in a vote to repeal and a Governor 's veto , which was sustained . In Connecticut Yale has had continual trouble with the threat of taxation in New Haven . The veto of the Governor ( ex-Yale Dean ) alone kept her athletic playing fields off the tax rolls of the town of Orange . Many of us are keenly worried about the possibility of taxation of part of our endowment or property . In Indiana a bill to tax dormitories was stopped only by a compromise which will ultimately cost the colleges much . Harvard was probably astute , as she acquired Cambridge property for her expanding campus , in agreeing to make a large annual gift to the city , partly in return for police and fire protection We who are Protestants feel that the main hope we have of remaining " tax free " rests with our Catholic brethren ; they do not wish to pay taxes on their collegiate property either , and bishops usually have more influence than presidents with governors and legislatures . We presidents are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ abilities . We think the public often expects too much of us and our colleges . We would like you to understand clearly what sort of folk we are . Please do not expect the impossible of us ; we can not educate your sons and daughters unless they have the capacity for self-education within them . We know that many experiences educate just as effectively as a college . We do not want the public to consider us supermen or individuals disdainful of those who are not college trained . Actually , we are very much like you .                     