@@470055

he was President of the United States Woodrow Wilson made a speech at Charlotte , North Carolina , in which he astonished and outraged the Tarheels by pointing out that they are not typical Americans . North Carolina had then , and doubtless still has , a smaller foreign-born population than any other State . The census of 1910 ? the latest one at the time of Mr. Wilson 's speech ? showed that 99.4 per cent of the residents in the Old North State were native-born of native parents , while many thousands of them were Americans of the fifth to the tenth generation . What , asked the bewildered and resentful audience , could be more American than that ? Yet the President 's words were true and they remain true to-day . The census of 1930 showed that Americans of foreign birth , or with at least one foreign-born parent , number 40,286,278 in a total population of 122,775,046 . Move the inquiry back a generation ? that is , include grandparents as well as parents ? and the number would certainly double . Racial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but typical of the country . Most of the population consists of people most of whose progenitors were Hying in other countries when Lee surrendered to Grant . Obviously , the ideas and ideals of this population must be taken into account in any effort to determine what is the American way of doing anything . It is idle to expect to find in the writings of the found-ers of the republic a complete expression of the beliefs of families that did not even learn the language of the founders until the founders had been dead for many years . It is this vast displacement of tradition ? unique , so far as I am aware , in the history of nations ? that has given an aura of unreality and frequently a tinge of cant to modern expression of ideas that in earlier days were unquestionably valid . When President Hoover , for instance , during the political campaign of 1932 expressed his faith in " rugged individualism " as an essential part of the American tradition he incurred the suspicion of thousands who refused to credit his sincerity . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tremendous amount of highly respectable authority in support of his position . Why , indeed , should he do more than mention the name of Benjamin Franklin ? By his contemporaries , and for some generations later , Franklin was accepted without question as an authentic voice of America ; and he was the greatest of all exponents of rugged individualism . It is hardly credible though that any rational man would argue seriously that the philosophy of Benjamin Franklin embodies the prevailing trend of thought in the United States of 1937 . It is a philosophy empirical in the extreme ; and it was based on observation of an environment that exists no longer even as a family tradition in the minds of the greater part of the nation . The older American stock may have heard from their grandfathers tales of an America identifiable with the one of which Franklin wrote ; but the older American stock is now a minority of the nation . Most Americans are sprung from ancestors who lived in an entirely different environment and who thought in widely different ways . Various institutions , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have operated to implant the old tradition in the new population , but not with unqualified success . In some measure the effect has been partially to erase the traditions the newcomers brought from Europe without entirely supplanting them with those developed in America . The plate is fogged . The picture is cloudy and uncertain . A natural and inevitable conflict of ideals sometimes results in concepts of Americanism so bizarre as to seem , to those whose traditions are clear and definite , beyond the bounds of sanity . Unquestionably there are men , and thousands of them , not insane by any legal or medical standard , who really believe that the programs of the Ku Klux Klan and the Black Legion are in line with the true American tradition ; and there are scores of less extreme movements whose supporters are firmly convinced that they are upholding the ideals of the founders of this republic . II One of these movements is democracy . Strong faith in democracy emphatically was not characteristic of the men who set up this republic . Hardly anyone will question this statement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well to the man who is commonly regarded as the very high priest of democratic dogma , Thomas Jefferson . His enemies understood this clearly . One of their favorite methods of denouncing him was to fling the word " democrat " in his face ; they never doubted that this was the insult that would sting him worst , and they were right . A certain measure , but by modern standards a narrowly limited measure , of democracy was indeed regarded by Jefferson as inevitable and was , therefore , accepted by him with what grace he could muster . He envisaged the gradual extension of democracy too as probably necessary , and was prepared to countenance it . But for all that he reserved doubts as to the political competence of the masses , except as they were directed by men of skill and integrity ; and he dreaded above all the participation in politics of an urban proletariat . With such an attitude taken by the most eminent radical of the time it is hardly necessary to examine in detail the recorded sentiments of the rest . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , like Hamilton , that " the rich and well born " should control the destinies of the republic ; but even those who did not agree with this assertion saw nothing really scandalous in it . Democracy was no religion , no sacred article of faith with the men who founded the republic . They accepted it , in limited form ? there was a property qualification for suffrage and at that the people voted directly on very few offices in most of the States ? but they accepted it as a makeshift and a pretty doubtful one . They took democracy , not because they thought it was good , but because everything else offered was obviously much worse . They took it very much in the spirit in which they took the Constitution ; for Franklin was speaking for nearly every member of the Convention when he said , " I consent to this Constitution because I expect no better , and I am not sure it is not the best . " Worship of democracy and the Constitution is a later accretion to the American tradition . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nor is there any very compelling reason to suppose that it will remain the American way until the end . Even liberty , the one abstraction on which there was widest agreement , had its /imitations in the minds of the makers of the republic . The very man who wrote in the Declaration of Independence , " We hold these truths to be self-evident , that all men are created equal , that they are endowed by their Creator with certain inalienable Rights , that among these are Life , Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness , " was at the moment when he penned the words the owner of slaves . It did not occur to him at the time that his words could possibly have any application to slaves , because the word " men " carried in his mind a special significance ; it meant , if not gentlemen , at least white men and Englishmen . Even twenty years later Jefferson 's comments on the French Revolution are eloquent of his delighted surprise at discovering that Frenchmen too are actually men . Independence was not at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . They exhausted every resource in their efforts to avoid it , and the document itself is a long protestation that they did not approve of it , that they had sought desperately to escape it , and that they accepted it only because they were driven to do so . If the peculiar sanctity now attaching to democracy , liberty , and the Constitution is an addition to the American tradition , originating not with the founders of the government , but long afterward , there were , on the other hand , certain concepts which they undoubtedly regarded as essential components of the American tradition , but which have long since been discarded . One was the notion that the United States was and must forever remain essentially a society of husbandmen . Jefferson was the great protagonist of this delusion , but even Hamilton admitted that the United States must always remain primarily agrarian . In view of the fact that the first census after adoption of the Constitution , that of 1790 , showed a population 96.7 per cent rural , this assumption is understandable ; but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 43.8 per cent rural ? well over half urban . The tradition of the agrarian nation has been compelled to yield to the contrary fact . With it has gone the aristocratic concept of politics accepted so implicitly by the makers of the republic that it never entered their minds to write it into the organic law . The Declaration of Independence and the Constitution , the two documents generally regarded as the embodiment of the essential American u-adition , are products of the eighteenth century . The aristocratic theory had been challenged by countless philosophers in earlier times , but its actual demolition began with the French Revolution , when the Constitution had been in force for years . Actual participation in government by the poor and ignorant was simply not a part of eighteenth-century thought . A few advanced thinkers , especially in France , toyed with the idea of universal participation , to be sure , but always in vague and ill-defined terms . At the time of the American Revolution universal suffrage was an idea as strange and radical as companionate marriage and euthanasia are to-day ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but hardly taken seriously . The men who established this country took it for granted that the conduct of public affairs would always remain in the hands of an upper class . They envisaged an aristocracy whose members would be qualified by brains and character , not by lineage ; but they unquestionably envisaged an aristocracy , because any other form of political organization was beyond their imagining . " Let us erect a standard , " said Washington , " to which the wise and honest may repair . " No others were invited . If no effective barriers were raised to bar the silly and crooked , it was because the founders had such faith in the potency of aristocracy that they could not imagine its subjugation , not to mention its abolition . The twentieth century finds that the facts are quite different . Science and technology , rather than philosophy , have made such radical changes in the world that eighteenth-century reasoning no longer applies . For one thing , the dense ignorance in which the masses of mankind were sunk in the eighteenth century has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to read , but the barriers of time and distance have been so far swept away that it is possible for an artisan in California to have reasonably accurate and virtually instant information of every important event that occurs in Washington . When Madison was drawing up the organic law of the Union it was physically possible for only a small number of minds to operate on the problems of government ; the vastly greater number had neither the information nor the education requisite to making even the simplest of judgments . Lacking the gift of prophecy that might have foretold the railway and the telegraph , Madison and his friends inevitably supposed that it would always be so . They had every reason to regard the rule of the select few as an ineradicable part of the American way ; but it has not remained . Any student of American history can multiply these examples , but it is useless to labor the point . Our concept of what we call Americanism has been protean in the past , and there is no convincing reason to believe that it has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ things which most of us now look upon as fundamental to our tradition and culture within fifty years will be altered or abolished . Shall one assert then that the question of what is the American way can not be answered until one has been told what American , and when , and where ? This does not necessarily follow . In the first place , no rational man would ask such a question without implying a certain selectivity . The American way is certainly not the way of the villains and fools that have afflicted the country , but rather of its best and wisest men . Washington , Franklin , Hamilton , Jefferson were highly exceptional , far indeed from being average Americans ; yet when one speaks of the American way he certainly means theirs rather than the way of Benedict Arnold and Jesse James . In the second place there are a few principles held to be true by the foundersof the republic that are still held to be true , in exactly the same way , by the wisest and best Americans of the twentieth century @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; but if it can be established that they have remained unaltered during all the changing fortunes of the republic and are , at bottom , unaltered to-day , one is fairly safe in describing them as the essential American tradition . III For my part , I hesitate to pronounce positively genuine more than two . The first of these is the dignity of the individual . The second , a reasonable measure of respect for reality in politics . Let Jefferson state them both in more seemly language : " All men are created equal . . . endowed by their Creator with certain inalienable rights . " For the moment , never mind what the rights are ; the essential point is that all men are created equal and endowed with rights . This is the dignity of the individual . Then for the second : " I am not for awing the human mind by stories of raw-head and bloody bones to a distrust of its own vision , and to rely implicitly on that of others . " This , after all , is but " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it seems to me , is erected the whole structure of American ideals and institutions . No matter what program a man may propose , if he can make it square with these two principles I , for one , hesitate to declare it positively un-American . On the other hand , any program that obviously violates either of these is not in line with American tradition . The implications of these ideas are sweeping . For example , on the first one the totalitarian state goes to wreck . If a man , created equal with all his fellows , is endowed with " inalienable rights " and endowed by his Creator , then the first of these rights must of necessity be the right to think ; for without liberty of mind he can not be aware of his possession . This right , according to the American tradiLion , can not be invaded by any earthly power , not even that of the State . But to restrict men 's opportunity to learn , whether by reading , or by listening , or by discussion , is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ transferred and not transferable to any state or king or dictator . Jefferson wrote down " life , liberty and the pursuit of happiness " as among the " inalienable rights , " but this is not absolutely true . All three a man may alienate by his own act . He may commit a crime that will compel society to restrain him , or even to destroy him , for the , protection of its other members ; but not even crime , except the sort of crime by which he forfeits his life , can deprive a man of the right upon which all others rest , the right to do his own thinking . But if the individual , including the humblest , is inviolate in his personality , then the state can not be entirely sovereign , that is to say , it can not be totalitarian . " Thus far shalt thou go and no farther " can not be said , even at the border of the realm of the spirit , to a genuinely totalitarian state . Other rights are qualified , even the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to invade , or in fact does invade , other rights may , or may not , be basically American . But any policy based on the assumption that the citizen is , or ever may become , merely a tool of the state , under an obligation not merely to act , but also to think for the good of the state , is a denial of every moment of the existence of this republic from 1776 to the present . If the doctrine of the dignity of the individual embodies the principle of permanence which has maintained the identity of our country , the doctrine of respect for reality embodies the principle of development which has made the country great . The earlier American historians strove manfully ? as the writers of elementary school texts do still ? to inculcate the idea that the revolutionaries of 1776 were inspired to fight a seven years ' war by pure love of liberty , religious and political . Later and more cynical historians , revolting against an impossible idealism , have almost subscribed to the idea that they fought for unadulterated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of money . But I ant not aware that any historian , early or late , has suggested that they fought out of sheer annoyance at being continually told that the moon is made of green cheese . Yet a pretty good case can be made out in support of some such theory . For nearly two centuries before the outbreak of the Revolution the colonists had been facing a very stern reality . They had brought from Europe a highly developed system of political ideas and an equally highly developed system of political organization . But they found that neither worked . That " divinity doth hedge a king " was a pretty theory , but the scarcity of corn in Jamestown was an ugly fact ; therefore gentlemen who had obtained from the king , as the fountain of honor , exemption from menial tasks nevertheless were compelled to bend their backs to the shovel and the hoe . If the rights and privileges of gentlemen did not apply in the new land , why should any of the rest of the old order that was obviously inapplicable to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ realize that " a distrust of its own vision " is a fatal handicap to a nation . Oglethorpe came with a marvelous scheme of political organization ; but if it had not sacrificed Oglethorpe 's scheme and trusted its own vision , Georgia must have perished . Braddock came , bearing the king 's commission and skilled in the rules of warfare ; he brushed aside with contempt the facts of border warfare and died , with most of his army , as a result . Governor after governor came , honored with the confidence of the king and his ministers ; but proved , in fact , incompetent . After a century and three-quarters of such lessons , Americans at last firmly grasped the idea that any government which persistently ignores the facts is a villainously bad government . Underlying the libertarian philosophy of 1776 ; underlying the desire for religious liberty ; underlying the motive of economic advantage ? underlying all else was a keen realization of the absurdity of government by an authority distant three thousand miles , geographically , and six weeks temporally. it would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ motives behind the American Revolution ; but a sense of humor , which is basically a sense of reality , had somewhat to do with it too . This pragmatic view of the state has survived throughout our history . We began with a Constitution that satisfied nobody except in one particular , to wit , that it was less extremely objectionable than the worst proposed . Maybe it was , as Gladstone said , the greatest work ever struck off by the hand and brain of man at one time , but it certainly was not so regarded by the men who made it and in a hundred and fifty years their successors have altered it twenty-one times . But the mere adoption of the Constitution is evidence of the fact that the Americans of 1787 regarded it as the first duty of the government to cope with the realities of the situation . This opinion was not unanimous ; it took three years to bring the last of the thirteen members of the Confederation into the new Union . But it was the prevailing American doctrine , and it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has it been resolutely challenged . In 1861 eleven Southern States went beyond the point at which New England had faltered forty-five years earlier and supported with arms the theory of States ' Rights against the emerging fact of nationality . On that occasion the fact triumphed and the theory was drowned in blood ; and the effort has not been repeated . When the basic doctrine of any society , political or other , is so loose and vaguely defined , many of its members are doomed to perpetual mental suffering . This has certainly been true of the American republic . There has never been a moment since its establishment when it did not seem , to a considerable number of its citizens , to be tottering to its fall . Indeed , the Constitution itself was regarded by some men in every State as a denial of everything America stood for . In Massachusetts they called it " the great Leviathan , " in New York " The Gilded Trap , " in Virginia " pernicious , impolitic , dangerous . " Nor were these sentiments the mouthings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ honest men , some of them able men . Since then emotion has swung to the other extreme , and the terrified are afraid , not of the Constitution , but for it . The great exemplar of this attitude was John C. Calhoun , who devoted his time for thirty years to mourning the evident reshaping of the Constitution . His error was in supposing that altering or even abolishing the Constitution would necessarily change the nature of the republic . History has demonstrated the falsity of this view . We have actually changed the Constitution in no less than twenty-one particulars ; but the republic survives , and it is essentially the same as the republic over which George Washington presided . The reason is that all the changes , with a single exception , have recognized , first , the dignity of the individual , and , second , that the law must be in agreement with the facts . The one exception was the Eighteenth Amendment , which has been repealed . The Constitutionality of an idea , or an act , is therefore an uncertain test @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Purchase was flatly unconstitutional . So , in the estimation of many able lawyers , were the Emancipation Proclamation and the recognition of the revolutionary government of Panama ; but they met the facts of the existing situation when the Constitution did not , so they were profoundly American . Prohibition , on the other hand , like the Fugitive Slave law , stood the test of the courts ; but both of these incontestably constitutional enactments denied both the dignity of the individual and the plain facts of the situation . Both were un-American and both collapsed . Heretical as it may sound , I do not believe that either democracy or liberty is a fundamental part of Americanism , much less that " equality of opportunity " which is supplanting universal suffrage as the theoretical expression of liberty . Democracy and liberty are not bases , but logical outgrowths of the American tradition . They are inescapable deductions from the fundamental ideas but , as a philosophical proposition , might conceivably be supplanted by something else without touching the fundamentals . Mind you , I can not imagine how @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have never been able to imagine how it could be done , so they have not tried it . Democracy and liberty are the outgrowth of the combination of the two American ideas . The concept of the dignity of the individual may be entertained without the concept of democracy as an inevitable result . Indeed its finest statement as a political policy is Chatham 's famous rhetorical description of the poor man 's cottage : " It may be frail ; its roof may shake ; the wind may blow through it ; the storms may enter , the rain may enter ? but the King of England can not enter ! " Chatham was no democrat . He was an earl ; but the government he headed did recognize , if it did not always respect , the dignity of the individual . That benevolent despotism beloved of political theorists might recognize this element of Americanism without admitting the validity of democracy . But to this theorem add the other , that political organization must conform fairly closely to reality , and escape from democracy becomes impossible . To @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there is a test , other than experience , that will reveal the superior man . Whether it is the test of genealogy , as in the case of legitimist monarchs , or of theology , as in the case of the selection of the Dalai Lama , or of force , as in the case of dictators , or of thaumaturgy , as in the cases ofvarious primitive tribes , there must be a test that will reveal the true sovereign . But there is no test except experience . Nothing else can prove a man 's capacity to be the head of the state . Recently we have seen an amiable gentleman , but no philosopher , God knows , proclaimed as " the high and mighty prince Edward ... our rightful lord , " and then reduced within twelve months to the level of a simple subject , without even a title until his successor granted him one . Well , I have always cherished a decided partiality for the Duke of Windsor ; but the notion that Eddie , for all his good qualities , ever was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lord of several hundred million people , is one that I ca n't swallow . Of course , I understand that it is all symbolical . I am aware that no intelligent Englishman ever dreams of taking all the ritual literally , and that , far from being ruled , he asserts the right to rule the most intimate affairs , even to the marriage , of his so-called sovereign . But that is just it . There is no deep-seated conviction among the British that their political organization must conform , with reasonable fidelity , to reality ; therefore , they can ? and to a large extent do ? accept democracy , but they are by no means driven to it . For us though there is no escape ; believing in reality as well as in individualism , we have found no workable method of government other than the rule of the people . Then , if you set up rule of the people , liberty follows as a matter of course . If the people have the power , they are politically a free people . They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American tradition seems , as it is set down on paper , simple enough , but it is in reality a subtle and difficult concept . Many Americans , among them some very distinguished men , have been quite unable to grasp it . For one thing , it definitely limits the power of democracy . " Though the will of the majority is in all cases to prevail , " observed Jefferson , " that will , to be rightful , must be reasonable . " It is not reasonable if it denies that every man is endowed by his Creator with rights ; nor is it reasonable if it writes into the law some such principle as that adopted by the Middle Western State whose legislature enacted that pi should thereafter be equal to 3 , instead of 3.1416 plus . Thus any law that seeks to control the minds of men , or that denies the plain facts of existence , is profoundly un-American , though it were upheld by fifty Supreme Courts . The will of the majority is no more divinely inspired than is the will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ righteous in its establishment as the final arbiter . The reasons for accepting it are based on no consideration more exalted than expediency . The majority presumably can present more bayonets than the minority ; hence it is expedient to permit the majority to prevail , lest it resort to bayonets . In that case it would prevail anyhow , and the minority would be underground . Whenever and wherever a question is capable of settlement by force , there the rule of the majority should be accepted simply as a method of avoiding bloodshed . The problem of who shall occupy the White House is capable of solution by force ; not so the problem of the origin of the human species . An ablebodied policeman with a club can make me pay taxes ; therefore a decision by the majority as to what taxes shall be levied is binding . But all the policemen between Sandy Hook and the Golden Gate can not make me revere the Constitution ; therefore a majority decision that I shall be compelled to revere it is idiotic and profoundly un-American . It violates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it invades my human dignity by denying that I have a right to think for myself , about the Constitution as about all other things ; and , in the second place , it ignores the stern reality that the thing ca n't be done . This is why the wildest economic theory ever germinated in Moscow is by no means as thoroughly un-American as the teachers ' oath laws that have been sustained by the courts in a number of States . The un-American element in Communism , in Fascism , and in Nazism is precisely the same : it is the theory that a man has no rights as a man , but only as a member of society . The teachers ' oath laws seem to assume that an American has no right to think about hating the United States . But he has . He has a right to think about anything . More than that , it is an innate right that the United States can not take away and has no right to try to take away . Our property and our bodies may be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by majority rule . But our manhood is our own , and truth is neither our property nor that of the government ; hence Americans have always believed that when the government presumes to lay its hands on these things , " it is their right , it is their duty , to throw off such government and to provide new guards for their future security . " V What is the evidence of the truth of the two basic American beliefs ? As far as I know , there is none at all . The evidence of experience is not conclusive , as other nations have existed well enough without either . Yet , while it may not constitute absolute proof of the truth of our fundamental assumptions , this evidence is impressive . The United States is the only great nation in the world to-day that is still operating under the same political ideas that controlled it in 1787 . All the others have experienced at least one revolution , most of them several , with the exception of Great Britain , which escaped revolution by adopting a modification @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years have constituted a period during which all political systems were subjected to stresses far more numerous and more powerful than have occurred in any other period of equal length in all history . The whole world has been made over since the Constitutional Convention finished its labors and adjourned , but the organization it set up , based on these two principles , is still doing business at the old stand . It has survived , not merely wars , including one frightful civil convulsion , but the worse strain of enormous expansion , in area , in population , and in wealth . It has survived the conversion of its population from a rural into an urban people . It has survived the abolition of time and distance as regards communication , and their immense reduction as regards transportation . It has survived the invasion of the electorate by forty-three million poor voters . It has survived the worst economic cataclysm of modern times with only one shot fired against the government , and that by a crazy man . Surely , this is enough to prove that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ flexible and strong . Since all is change , doubtless in time this too will pass away . But never believe that you and I shall be here to see it go . There are those who cry that the republic even now is crumbling into ruin . And why not ? Cassandra , bless her , is a permanent feature of the American pageant . Her wails are the antistrophe in the great national chorus , and were they to be hushed we might infer that things were abnormal indeed . She cried out when the Constitution was adopted , and again when John Adams reduced the republic to a tyranny , and again when Thomas Jefferson delivered it over to anarchy . She had convulsions when Andrew Jackson , and , later , Abraham Lincoln , tore the Constitution to shreds and tatters . She foretold impending doom when Ulysses S. Grant accepted the carriage and pair and when Grover Cleveland bluntly demanded gold . Theodore Roosevelt destroyed the country , and so did Woodrow Wilson . Oh , well , some day no doubt Cassandra will be right @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the present attitude of the typical American seems to be After all , terrific excitement over nonessentials is also a characteristic American way . But however high the income tax may run , and however far the alphabetical agencies may go toward converting the country into the Utopia of tramps , these things do not affect the country 's real tradition . As long as no " tyranny over the mind of man " is erected here , George Washington , or any man who sat with him , might return to this strange country and , in spite of all the changes , exclaim without hesitation , " This is my own , my native land ! "                     