@@469031

PALSY of bewilderment has overtaken that distinguished American , Mr. Plain Citizen ? that well-known patriot portrayed by the cartoonists as a small man , slightly cross-eyed , wearing large glasses , wrinkled trousers , and crumpled shoes , and bearing on his countenance the marks of labor and sacrifice . The cause of his bewilderment is obvious . He wants peace and security for his country and his home , and yet he is continually beset by clamor about the perils of impending wars , the starvation of the Navy , and promises of peace . What he wants seems simple to him . As he sees things , national defense means defense of the American heritage ? the land , people , and institutions on this continent . It is his country andhis home which he wishes to have protected against foreign invasion . But when he inquires how this is to be done he hears discordant and confused voices . On the left he finds the advocates of peace discussing , not national defense , but good will among nations , seeking to spread the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon treaties , the World Court , and the League of Nations . All this is highly praiseworthy but it does not seem to bear directly upon the cause of national security which he has at heart . Then he listens to the professional defenders ? the Navy League , the big navy advocates , and the apostles of armaments and superiority . They generally speak in technical language of guns , tonnage , naval bases , trade routes , and supremacy on the seven seas . Their technology overwhelms him , for it is couched in terms unfamiliar to lay ears . It is impressive . And every now and then , above the roar of the technical battle , he catches notes bearing on the foreign policy of the United States government , as if , after all , that is to be a determining factor in armaments , peace , and security . Evidently here is a situation that must be cleared up before our bewildered citizen can recover his equilibrium . Arousing himself from his lethargy , he decides to inquire for himself , so that he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ teachers of civics inform his children in the public schools that all good citizens should . He starts with the assumption that all good citizens love their country and want to see it well defended . He has heard the old slogan , " In time of peace prepare for war , " and he thinks that the job should be " adequately " done . At the same time he believes in peace and " business as usual , " and hopes that things may be so managed as to stave off the calamities of war . In this mood he looks about for himself . And what does he discover ? H First of all he finds peace praised and celebrated as the greatest good to be attained in international affairs . A score or more of peace societies and ten thousand peace advocates warn him that the next war will blast soldiers and civilians alike , lay his home waste , and cover our rocks and rills with a layer of poison gas . Thereupon he asks what the friends of peace are doing to prevent this major @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pacifists have organized immense societies with imposing lists of imposing citizens serving as sponsors . Theysend parsons , professors , journalists , teachers , and other estimable people around among the nations of the earth spreading the spirit of good will and interpreting the respective civilizations to one another . They hold grand banquets where Englishmen , Germans , Frenchmen , Italians , and Turks dine together in brotherly love and listen to noble words on the merits of peace . They exchange decorations , titles , honors , and university degrees . They get up peace pacts for governments to adopt and induce them to put their signatures on the dotted lines ? always with appropriate " reservations . " They urge the merits of the League of Nations and the advantages of the World Court . Everywhere , in short , our bewildered citizen hears peace extolled . Nowhere any more do responsible statesmen speak loudly of the uses of war in developing " virility . " To be sure , a few admirals and generals seem to believe in the ancient creed ; many old men , who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and the World War , praise martial virtues from armchairs in clubs ; and a host of hard-boiled men of action continue to think that " we need a war " every now and then to tone up the body politic . But the noble art of fighting as a good thing in itself receives no open praise in this country from our leaders in public affairs . The glow of martial pomp has disappeared in the slime of trenches , the welter of gas , and the darkness of the undersea . Even general staffs safely ensconced in departmental offices , having read about what happened to the high commands in Russia , Germany , and Austria after the last grand debacle , seem to look with some trepidation on the next trial of causes by battle . So our bewildered citizen is confirmed in the opinion that peace is a good thing and should be maintained . He then looks about in the tons of peace literature at his disposal for edification and tries to get at the philosophy of the business . Early in the search he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1931 . He reads that this society was founded by Andrew Carnegie . It is sponsored by some of the finest men in America , many of them doctors of law , divinity , and philosophy . All of them , with perhaps the exception of Bishop James Cannon , Jr. , rightly command wide respect throughout the Republic . The report of the Union tells of its activities . The field secretary " gave three weeks to the World Educational Institute in the colleges and universities of Indiana and Missouri . Perhaps the most unique opportunity presented itself in conducting the conferences on ' World Friendship ' at the Eighth World 's Christian Endeavor Convention in Berlin , Germany . " On page 27 it is related that " it has been a fine year for Interchange work . Never has there been so much interest manifest in this endeavor . One difficulty has been to concentrate our efforts . There is an ever-increasing number of Americans who desire to go to Europe ? preachers and laymen ? at their own expense , for the propose of interpreting the best @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with them the spirit of friendliness to other peoples and to become familiar at close range with the religious , social , industrial , and political conditions of those countries . " There have been other activities . " The Peace through Art Committee acquired a small exhibit known as the International Hope Chest . . . The Chest traveled into many States during the summer , visiting vacation schools . Bible schools , county fairs , etc. , and met with universal favor . " In enlarging the exhibit , it appears that the agents of the Union devised this scheme of thought : " Follow the Goodwill Line from the International Hope Chest , through China ? the land of the compass and the peaceful teachings of Confucius , through Belgium ? the land of lovely laces and the famous Louvain Library , through Germany ? of beautiful toys and the homeland of Kant ; and many , many other countries ? Until the Goodwill Line arrives at its Goal ? **29;1076;TOOLONG Friendship =World Peace . " From what may be called the lighter literature of peace , our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reads reams of statistics on the costs of armies and navies and discovers that his own Government spends about eighty per cent of its annual budget on wars , past , present , and future . He runs through solid speeches by informed leaders on the League of Nations , the Kellogg Pact , and other formulae for allaying the distempers of nations . Scarcely a single effort on the part of peace advocates and their governments to adjust international relations amicably escapes ample recording . There is certainly no dearth of authentic and valuable materials on the ways and means and problems of the peace movement . All this is certainly excellent , thinks our plain citizen , even if difficult to arrange in his mind in a satisfactory picture . But not all pacific activities are covered in the formal reports of the peace societies . Our bewildered citizen must examine the news of the passing days . The files of the New York Times are open to inspection . In the issue of May 19 , 1931 , there is an account of eighty boys and girls who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under the auspices of a great peace organization . One of them declared : " I think we can say the air all around the earth to-day is full of good-will greetings . " Five days later the faithful Times reported that several clergymen held a parade in protest against the display of bombing planes over New York City , and carried banners labelled : " The way of Jesus and Gandhi is stronger than guns . " On June 22 , 1931 , the Times announced the establishment of a new cultural center for art , literature , music , science , and education , " with the ultimate aim of assuring international peace . " In the autumn Canon Rogers , chaplain to His Majesty King George V , insisted at Columbia University , in an open meeting , that " the adoption by the nations of a doctrine of forgiveness is necessary to settle the disturbed social and economic problems of the present . " Not long after the Canon offered his solution for our " disturbed " problems , the Times , on October 22 , 1931 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Waldorf ? a " Friendship Dinner . Good will , not military might . " Many of the best citizens were present , among others Thomas Lamont and Charles M. Schwab , who served as " members of the board of honorary chairmen . " At ten o'clock the room was darkened in honor of Edison , and a pianist softly played , " Lead Kindly Light . " Then upspake Sir William Robertson , chief of staff of the British Army during a part of the World War , and said : " I want to submit now that another way can be found by which nations can live together without having periodical recourse as in the past to butchery and barbarism . Give a will to peace in any way equal to the will to war which nations were too frequently taught to cultivate before 1914 . When disputes arise , approach them in a just and friendly spirit , as gentlemen , not as brigands . " ( So it would seem that peace is possible if responsible officials act in a friendly spirit , as gentlemen , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shock to our bewildered citizen , for be had never thought that it was possible for high officials of his Government to act as brigands ; but still he accepts the information as a part of his education in peace . ) Enthusiastic as our plain citizen may be about good-will trips to the land of beautiful toys , and about approaching international problems in a spirit of forgiveness and as gentlemen rather than brigands , he finds , in the course of his review of peace plans , very little which bears upon the question uppermost in his mind . It is apparent that most of the advocates of peace are not thinking primarily of national defense , but of overcoming the growing war machines by pledges and promises of friendship and good will among nations . Of the excellence of this hope in itself there can be no question , but the central issue of national defense is not clarified by the spread of sweetness and light . All , save a handful of extreme pacifists who , as Justice Holmes once wittily remarked , take the Sermon on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is to be national defense . Yet they do not say exactly what is to be defended ; or how it is to be defended by policy and arms . While approving all the noble virtues which they celebrate , our bewildered citizen does not see a guarantee of security for his country and his home in their programs , promises , and activities . So much for peace . Now our be . wildered citizen must listen to thunder on the right . The Navy League , founded mainly by armament-profit makers , pours pamphlets and news stories upon his head , frequently if not weekly or daily . From its offices stream reams of statistics on tonnage , guns , battleships , cruisers , ratios , and parities . It abuses President Hoover for proposing to cut down the Navy budget in time of national distress . accuses him of abysmal ignorance , and demands more ships , more fighting gear . On its press releases sapient editors comment , while they print columns of its stuff as " news . " The President of the United States says @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prepared now to defend our shores against invasion . The Navy League retorts , in effect , that he does not know what he is talking about . Congressmen threaten both him and the League with an investigation . Meanwhile the navy men in Congress prepare to prepare . They announce a bigger building program ? more cruisers , more guns , more of everything in the fighting line . They give out or inspire news stories that break into the first page bemoaning the dire fate hanging over the country , deploring the dearth of good fighting craft , insisting on larger appropriations for the Navy . So this is to be one of the burning issues in Congress . And in the end it comes down to cases : What kind of ships are to be built and how can anybody know whether the ships constructed will do what their sponsors propose ? There is the rub for our bewildered citizen who must do his civic duty by making known his sovereign will to the gentlemen who represent him in the Senate and House of Representatives . Naturally our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ instruments of national defense ? He turns to the experts for light . On the one side he finds Admiral Sims quoted as saying that modern warfare has made them obsolete and that the best place for them in the next war would be as far up the Mississippi River as it is possible to run them . On the other side the high experts of the United States Navy League tell him that the movement to abolish battleships emanated from a British brain , that Great Britain does not need themto defend her widespread commerce , that she wants swift cruisers for this purpose , and that she is trying to delude the American people into abolishing these sea monsters in her own interest . Between the two stand the submarine men . Many of them declare that the battleship is as much out of date as the ox cart , that the undersea boat can blow them all out of the water whenever they leave their bases , and that admirals oppose this contention merely because submarines are dirty and dangerous , have no ample deck spaces for grand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for officers , put men and commanders on an overalls level , and smear grease on gold lace . So far , more confusion . Well , anyway , Congress appropriates money for modernizing American battleships . On what theory does it spend the taxpayers ' millions ? How does it get a sound , intelligent view of the battleship question ? The answer is simple . It does not have any clear idea of what it is doing , for it relies principally on naval experts . The method of its system is illustrated by the following passage taken from the official documents of the United States . On April 17 , 1930 , the committee on naval affairs of the august House of Representatives , the Hon. Fred A. Britten , of Montauk Point fame , in the chair , held a hearing on battleship expenditures . To get light , it called a specialist in ship designing , Rear Admiral Rock , before it to testify . A member of the committee , Mr. Lankford , asked the Admiral : " Those battleships , before they are modernized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not ? " To this the Admiral replied with a precision that would delight an engineer : " They are not as efficient as they should be . " Thereupon the following colloquy took place : Mr. McClintic . How many battleships did we use in the World War ? Admiral Rock . We were ready to use all of them . Mr. McClintic . Did we fire a single shot from a battleship ? Admiral Rock . I think you are getting out of the line of my specialty . I am not a seagoing officer . Mr. McClintic . It is true that they did not fire a single shot in that War . Is it not true that most of them were put away in reserve ? Admiral Rock . There was no naval engagement on this side , but there were a good many shots fired during the last war on the other side . Mr. McClintic . We could have sent some battleships over there ? Admiral Rock . We did send some . Mr. McClintic . Battleships ? Admiral Rock . Yes , sir . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in any battle ? Admiral Rock . They were in the Grand Fleet , but whether they were in the Battle of Jutland , I do not remember . Recalling that the Battle of Jutland took place a year before the United States entered the World War , our bewildered citizen adjusts his goggles and inquires whether Admiral Rock was born before or after that celebrated sea fight . Taking up the expert testimony anew , he then reads a profound statement on the point by Mr. Britten : " So far as that is concerned , Count von Luckner told me that the ship on which he was chief gunner went all through the Battle of Jutland and never received a scratch . " On such scientific , authoritative , expert , informed , and informing illuminations the taxpayers ' money is voted to modernize battleships . Presumably if it were not for the Washington Conference limitations and wicked British propaganda , the United States would be building battleships by the dozen to meet the cries of the Navy League for safety . Finding the battleship issue so splendidly clarified @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ question . The newspapers fairly bristle with the subject . He is informed that national defense and national honor demand more cruisers and bigger cruisers . What kind of cruisers ? There 's the rub . But there is official light on this issue also . It was fully , almost savagely , discussed during the hearings of the Senate committee on foreign relations on the London Naval Pact of 1930 . Owing , perhaps , to the wiles of the canny British ( the state of whose country since 1918 throws light on their canniness ) , the American delegation at the London Conference agreed , among other things , that the United States was to have three six-inch gun cruisers instead of three eight-inch gun cruisers which the Navy Board demanded . Thereupon a storm broke among naval experts on this side . Secretly or openly some of them opposed the ratification of the treaty , bringing up the three-cruiser business in support of their contention . If certain of our admirals are to be believed , Admiral Jones in particular , the very safety of the Republic hung @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cruisers . Senator Reed brought the whole matter down to this point of dispute . He asked Admiral Jones point blank whether the whole issue under discussion did not narrow down to this , and the Admiral , without cracking a smile , said , " I consider that a very vital point . " How did it happen that the United States delegation at the London Conference was defeated on a vital point , made this " concession to the British " ? Senator Reed brought that out , too . He asked Admiral Pringle whether it was not a fact that there was a sharp division of opinion among the American naval experts advising the delegation on the merits of six-inch gun cruisers and eight-inch gun cruisers . The Admiral had to admit that there was " quite a difference of opinion on the subject " among his own brethren . Then Senator Reed squared away and fired a broadside at the Admiral : " So that the delegation was faced primarily with the responsibility of deciding between these two groups of naval officers what was the best thing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Admiral countered with expert brilliance by replying : " I should say that there was a conflict of opinion among the naval officers there ; yes , sir . " Still merciless in his search for hard facts , Senator Reed hauled Admiral Jones on the carpet again . This was the same Admiral who seemed to think the heavens would fall if the United States had to take three six-inch gun cruisers instead of three eight-inch gun cruisers . Senator Reed now confronted him with a letter which he Admiral Jones had written to the Secretary of the Navy about a year before , saying a good word for the six-inch gun cruiser . The Senator read to the Admiral some of his own words : " It must be remembered the Admiral had said in 1929 that there are conditions under which a six-inch gun unit would be of more value than an eight-inch gun unit . ... The advantage naturally lies somewhat with the eight-inch gun , due to its greater range , but this advantage rapidly disappears when the two units come within range of gun-fire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the six-inch gun and the fact that its destructive effects are sufficient to properly disable an eight-inch gun unit if sufficient hits are made . " Having invited the Admiral , in effect , to eat his own expert words delivered in 1929 or reverse what he had just said in 1930 , Senator Reed asked him : " Is that the 1929 view still your opinion ? " The poor Admiral was evidently covered with confusion . Senator Johnson , who seems to be afraid that the Japanese Navy will sail in and capture Hollywood , tried to save the day for him , but in vain . The Admiral admitted : " Generally , it may be considered my view at this time . " Senator Reed flashed : " That is all . " Obviously admirals had differed among themselves and one admiral had differed in 1930 from himself as he was in 1929 . But the merits of these guns remained an unsettled question . Senators sought light on that . They asked Admiral Pratt for information , and he answered : " The eight-inch gun @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ visibility , but much of the time you have fog and all sorts of trouble , perhaps , ahead of you , and under those circumstances I would prefer the six-inch gun to the eight-inch gun . " Through the smoke of the senatorial inquest , two facts emerged into daylight . The eight-inch gun will shoot a greater distance , and the six-inch gun will fire more rapidly . From this it follows that in clear weather the eight-inch gun cruiser has the advantage in its longer range , but in thick weather , when fighting is at closer quarters , the six-inch gun cruiser is better because its fire is more rapid and its projectiles will easily pierce the armor of an eight-inch gun unit . There was the whole business in a nutshell . Whether the United States should have eight-inch gun units or six-inch gun units , therefore , depends on the kind of weather Providence will provide for fighting in the next war . On this subject neither the Navy League nor the Naval Board could render a useful expert opinion . The issue should have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bureau . With this momentous issue cleared up ( at least as clear as weather forecasts can make it ) , our bewildered citizen finds himself confronted by alarming news that after all there are grave doubts among experts about the utility of the ten-thousand ton cruiser for national defense . In the New York Times of July 21 , 1931 , he reads , to his alarm and amazement : " The Navy has found that its eight new ten-thousand ton cruisers roll so sharply in rough water as to interfere with effective gun fire , and has ordered alterations designed to overcome this fault . The defect was discovered at target practice . " He reads further that last winter the Salt Lake Gay , one of the new ships , rolled so badly in a heavy sea that she snapped off the top of her foremast . Then he learns that the Northampton and four other cruisers cracked their stern posts while out at sea . Where had the naval experts been ? The designers ? Had they guessed wrong ? What was to be done ? Was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were to be installed and the bilge keels widened ? at the taxpayers ' expense . This was embarrassing to the Navy Department . It is more embarrassing to our bewildered citizen , because he hardly knows how to advise his Congressman to vote on the new cruiser bill . It would be shocking to have these big cruisers roll over in the next war and miss the enemy . Right on top of this distressing exposure of curious designing in the Navy , which was responsible for the rolling cruisers that can not shoot straight , came the still worse news that the ten-thousand ton cruiser was likely to be abandoned entirely in the future as no good to anybody . The news came from Great Britain , from that towering naval expert , Hector Bywater . It was printed in the New York Times of August 2 , 1931 , shortly after the story about our rolling cruisers . Mr. Bywater said that , at the time of the Washington Conference , England had on the way to completionfive cruisers , each of 9,750 tons , with seven and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gun cruisers then generally popular among fighting men and in wide use . Great Britain would not scrap these new vessels built by experimentalists ; so the Conference , said Mr Bywater , " foisted on the naval world a new ship fundamentally unsound in design . " Now that big-navy men are shouting for more big cruisers , a famous navy expert tells them that they are all wrong , that the treaty cruiser is unsteady , useful only " in an absolutely calm sea , " too light in armor , too heavy in guns , and , generally speaking , a complete fizzle for fighting purposes . With devastating logic Mr. Bywater seems to prove that the big cruiser is a total loss . Of course he may be a wily British propagandist trying to outwit the experts in our Navy League , seeking in British interests to stop the United States from building these big boats . Have not our Navy League specialists been telling us that Great Britain wants to confine us to light ships of the cruiser type ? At any rate , our bewildered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ know whether to ask his Congressman to spend more money fixing up the keels and bilge tanks of our big cruisers or to sell them for scrap iron to the shipbuilding companies . IV Discovering from their testimony and declarations that the technicians are themselves divided even in the field where the laws of materials and gravitation rule supreme , our bewildered citizen wonders about the cause of their divisions . A closer examination shows that they are in fact thinking about two things at the same time ? fighting engines and foreign policy . Some of the technicians evidently have in the back of their heads the idea of preparing for any kind of a war with any power or combination of powers anywhere in the seven seas . In their documents asking Congress for more ships and bigger guns , they include maps of the whole world showing its trade routes , the flow of commerce , and naval bases . Clearly they have something in mind besides defending the American heritage on this continent . At bottom they really want a navy big enough to obtain the same @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seas which Great Britain had for nearly three hundred years and has now lost , for all time , it seems . These technicians talk about defending American commerce , if need be , by war against Great Britain , France , Japan , and any other powers , singly or in combination . Their language is often vague , to be sure , but there is no doubt concerning their heart 's desire . Whoever questions this may find abundant elucidations in the profuse hearings of the Committee on Naval Affairs of the House of Representatives , duly printed in huge quantities over the last fifteen years , and in the hearings of the Senate committee on the London Naval Pact of 1930 . A good example is the testimony of Admiral Charles F. Hughes , before the House committee on January 16 , 19 ' 28 . In those pages will be found a discussion between the Admiral and members of Congress on the possibilities of keeping the trade lines to Europe open in case of a war with some European power , specifically Great Britain . The Admiral @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trade clear by armed power . If necessary , apparently an American fleet is to go over and beat Great Britain in her own waters . Judging the past by the future , the United States , if it had possessed a big navy ( how big , no one seems to know ) , should havesmashed the British interference with American trade in 1914-17 and kept the channels open to and from Germany . And in the future " adequate preparations " must be made , it appears , for just such contingencies . That may be magnificent , it may be war also ; but our bewildered citizen wonders if it is not far removed from the defense of the American heritage on this continent . He turns his eyes to the Pacific . On the portents of this theater , Admiral Bristol spoke with assurance before the Senate committee in 1930 . The Admiral had in mind the possibilities of a war in defense of the Philippines . Whether they are subject or independent , they must be defended in distant Pacific waters against Japan . The American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ necessary , to steam into the waters of Japan , strewn with mines , covered by bombing planes , and defended by her battleships , cruisers , and destroyers . All this lies hidden behind the curtain of the future . Senators were startled . How much will it cost ? One of the Senators asked the Admiral to make an estimate , and the Admiral answered as follows : " It means a long campaign . The last war cost U4,006.000,000 , and it was a very short war . If you had no bases over there and you have to start out on a long campaign , that will take a very long time , and the Lord knows what it will cost . " Perplexed by this possibility the bewildered citizen asks : Why get into a war with Japan ? Who would profit from it besides the munition makers ? After the Japanese Navy has been beaten in its own waters , what will it cost in the lives of boys to land an American army against Japan 's efficient forces ? And after Japan 's millions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ us say , two or three million American doughboys transported across the Pacific with fighting gear ? what will be done with Japan ? Will the cherry-blossom empire be annexed to the United States ? Will reparations be collected ? How , and in what amount ? What if Great Britain should decide before the fighting is over that it would not be well for her to allow the United States to become dominant in the Pacific , and should throw her weight on the side of her former ally ? Although senators and admirals sitting cheerfully in Washington did not see fit to ask themselves such pertinent questions , our citizen , who is no expert in naval affairs or politics , may knit his brow a little and ponder on the imponderables as well as on tons , guns , and bilge tanks . V Light begins to break in upon our bewildered citizen . All the tons of big-navy verbiage sift down to this ( to employ the substance of the Navy League 's argument ) : the United States must have a navy strong enough to defend @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ major operation in any waters of the world against any power or combination of powers . There is the case in a nutshell . Defense of the American heritage on this continent is an incident in this almost cosmic strategy . The United States is to be as supreme on the seven seas as Great Britain once was , is really to take the place of Great Britain as the one dominant world power ? " to seize the trident , " as von Tirpitz hoped to do . Obviously this is a matter of foreign policy , and the number of fighting engines necessary to enforce it is a detail . Is this policy possible , leaving the argument as to its desirability to other minds and other occasions ? Its implications are clear . The Washington Conference agreement limited thecapital ships of Great Britain , the United States , and Japan on the basis of the 5-5-3 ratio . The London agreement of 1930 extended the ratio principle to other naval craft . In other words , by solemn convenants , the government of the United States has denied @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the assumption that Great Britain is to be secure against the United States in her home waters , that the United States is to be secure in her home waters , that Japan is entitled to equal security in her home waters . If America is to have a navy big enough to win a major operation in any of the seven seas against any powers , then ratios and limitations must be thrown overboard . Suppose they were discarded , would it be possible for the United States to attain the supremacy so ardently desired in many quarters ? The curtain of the future does not part . It is sometimes said that the United States has more money than Great Britain and Japan combined and could out-build them . But would Great Britain and Japan , while straining every nerve in naval construction , sit idly by and wait for their doom ? If there is any revelation in history at all , they would not . In such a gigantic program undertaken by the United States they would see their own security in their home waters menaced by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States had completed its unconquerable armada . They would effect a combination and strike before their doom bell had been rung . To expect them to do otherwise would be to expect them to commit slow suicide . Great Britain did not wait until von Tirpitz had the trident in his hands . She joined the combination that smashed him and ruined his country . Admiral Mahan is far behind the times . No power can be really supreme to-day on the seven seas . Against any nation that now attempts to gain supremacy , the forces of the world would be quickly united . Such , at least , seems to be the lesson of the past twenty-five years . The fact that it is painful to the diehards of Great Britain and to the American Navy League is irrelevant to the issue in hand . Security for the American homeland and adjacent waters is possible . Defense of the American heritage on this continent is possible . Great Britain and Japan have conceded it in the Washington and London agreements . Although President Coolidge and Mr. Wilbur , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ include every dollar invested anywhere on earth , President Hoover has called the nation back to sanity . In his Navy Day address last October , he said clearly and firmly : " The first necessity of our government is the maintenance of a navy so efficient and strong that , in conjunction with our army , no enemy may ever invade our country . " There is something that the plain citizen can understand . He will have cause for rejoicing if advocates of peace will accept it , and if President Hoover , standing squarely upon it in the coming months , will help the world to learn the imperious lesson contained in the formula . On this doctrine the navies of the world may be brought down relatively to a police basis , and the enormous establishments which impoverish taxpayers and hourly threaten the world 's peace may be reduced to reasonable proportions . 