@@491089

T WO pictures and an interlude dramatize the story of Herbert Hoover and his dream . The first picture shows him under a canopy in a pouring rain , overlooking a wilderness of umbrellas . He is standing On the high veranda of the Capitol at Washington , surrounded by the powerful of the earth , come there to do him homage . He is speaking into a microphone a message to which more people are listening over the earth than ever heard one human voice before in all time . He is reading his inaugural address , in which he has documented his high hopes for the progress of the American people  --  a noble vision for his country , the program of a social order . There he stood about six feet tall , in the vigor of maturity . His voice was clear and strong . It rang across the world the trumpet cry of a people calling humanity to work together for realization of the common hope of peace under justice , prosperity under liberty . The Changing Picture AS HIS words circled the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the humble alike : " Behold the fruit of democracy  --  this blacksmith 's son , this product of our times , an orphan who found free education to equip him for the highest tasks of civilization and who walked into opportunity unchecked by hered-itary barriers or class prejudice . " There was the day of Herbert l loover 's triumph . His tide was at its flood . And the other picture : Deepening twilight on the desert . Black shadows of mountains glooming the horizon . Stark earth , white , sterile with alkali , stretching illimitahly around a dreary railway station . On a siding a lonesome train , glowing like a paralyzed dragon in the murk . Inside , surrounded by a dozen friends and a group of reporters , sits Herbert Hoover , speaking into a microphone on the night before his defeat for reelection . His weariness shows in his slumping torso . His eyes lack luster and are red-rimmed with care . And over the radio , to his friends and supporters in the nation , his voice comes tired  --  how infinitely tired @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in disillusion . He has fought the good fight  --  and lost . In the interlude between these pictures , linking the first act with the last , forces  --  cosmic , inexorable  --  have played tragedy , with humanity as their puppets . America had never before seen so strange a story played upon the stage of her history . And , curiously , no one knows today exactly what it means . This story may be the prelude to a new era to be born in blood and turmoil . Possibly it is the triumphant struggle of the American spirit to survive and move forward to a rebirth of power . When , in the perspective of the decade before us , we shall really know how to read the meaning of the spectacle of these most recent four years , we shall know whether this battling figure of the President is an emblem of futility crushed by the onrush of new times and strange , new ways of men , or whether he is the hero who went down with the blazoned banner that . shall rise victorious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in the campaign of 1932 , Herbert Hoover was the last routed defender of the old order or a leader born before his time . The purpose of this story is not to prophesy , hardly to interpret , but to set forth with some sense of their meaning the events of this four-year interlude  --  to make a chronicle of the devastating years that have changed America more deeply than any decade in her history . Because be was President , Herbert Hoover was the central figure of the times . To understand the times , we must first get the man in proper focus . So let us consider the man who was the central figure of these times . It is no flattery to his countrymen to point out that in the four years forward from March , 1929 , their President had more world power than any other contemporary figure . His leadership was more than national . For the first time in American history , the parliamentary heads of the great nations of the earth came to Washington seeking aid and advice from the President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , until October , 1932 . The Pomp of Power AT HOME , having in his hands the tremendous powers invested by the Constitution and gathered under usage and tradition in the presidency , Mr. Hoover 's possibility for leadership was augmented by the financial crisis that came in the autumn of ' 29 . And by midsummer , 1932 , the President held more power over the destinies of his country in a time of peace than Woodrow Wilson held during the war . Moreover , in a time of peace , Mr. Hoover changed and enlarged the American Government , almost functionally , concentrating in the White House approximately dictatorial financial power . He used , in June of 1932 , when a financial crisis was gathering at Chicago , the power of life and death over financial institutions of this country which no other one man has ever before held . if he had a craving for power , surely it was sated in those days . It was in those three years following 1929 that Herbert Hoover was probably the kind of President that he had dreamed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was best equipped to do . He was being the man of his own ideal . Which does not mean that he was inflated with self-satisfaction . No one who saw him frequently inthose days could be mistaken in the genuinenesS or his huMility , in the sincerity of his own disillusion , in his personal self-abnegation , his utter simplicity which is the core of strength in any man . But he was moving through great events unhampered , unchecked by fools , unfettered by responsibility to irresponsibles . He made his plans carefully  --  perhaps even tardily  --  but he executed them swiftly , splendidly . In the White House , Herbert Hoover was handicapped by his experience as an executive . This experience gave him a sense that the presidency is an administrative office  --  whatever lip service he gave to the ideal of democratic leadership . In reality the presidency is first of all a forum ; indeed , an evangelist 's pulpit . A President 's first business ordinarily is to make public sentiment , and then , having generated power , to channel it through @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , of course , volumes and volumes of laws enacted since the beginning of the republic . They are tops which , in the main , are spinning and need little attention . The President 's job is chiefly to lead the American people . He can hire administrators . In fifty years the . United States has had three Presidents who stressed the evangelical end , of the presidency , and who dramatized their causes . These Presidents were Grover Cleveland , Theodore Roosevelt and Woodrow Wilson . They succeeded fairly well in rallying a militant public opinion , sometimes a majority opinion , but always a dependable minority . But Herbert Hoover did not have a knack of turning the front porch of the White House , with its Grecian columns , into a stage set before which he could walk the hoards and play the hero for the glory of God and the preservation of the faith . An Administrator , Not a Politician P RESIDENT HOOVER 'S blood explains him better than any other one attribute . The Hoovers were Quakers in Pennsylvania , who , at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , went to Canada . There they intermarried with the French Canadians . They returned shot full of Canadian blood , in the first third of the nineteenth century , and Herbert Hoover 's natural Quaker caution was strengthened and buttressed by French conservatism , which , under pressure , becomes stubborn , dogged silence , and always , on the surface , is gloomy . Those about him who know him well declare that often when he is doing his best he is most unhappy . He talks as though he believed the worst and acts as though he believed the best  --  the French in him . His sense of the realities never leaves him , but it is creamed over with a dour Quaker fatalism which is sometimes disconcerting to gay spirits who have to be heartened to keep them in harness . Probably Mr. Hoover realizes the handicap of certain of his qualities , for over and over he explains to those lithe sprites who wish him to start a Billy Sunday campaign for this , that or the other needed public measure ; " I ca @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have no Wilsonian qualities " ? speaking not in pride but . with regret . It was with these limitations that he met Congress , treating Congress as a political institution , as a branch of government rather than as a collection of average Americans chiefly interested in returning to Washington every two or six years with the acclaim of their constituencies . Hoover could not charm these men , could not bind them to him . A certain deep integrity of self-respect stayed his blandishing hand . And his manner chilled Washington . This forthright quality , which rejected many of what may be called the salacious qualities of political equipment , was responsible largely for President Hoover 's attitude toward the Progressives of the Northwest . To him they were trouble makers . He knew their kind as an executive of industrial corporations , mining corporations . He knew the character and generally suspected the motives of pestiferous minority stockholders who were always trying to make trouble in the board meeting and to wrest control or emoluments from the governing majority . He would have none of them in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the White House . In Congress they formed blocs , which was outside of the schedule of any prosperous concern . They would n't go along . That was their trouble and his . Yet he and they whom Senator Moses , the public leader , called " sons of the wild jackass " had much in common  --  their hope in a better world , their faith in the American spirit working through the American people . But he was an administrator . Men who would not take a program , who walked their own ways , were beyond the pale . The nasty things which they said of the President were not important . Conservatives said much nastier things , but the nasty things the Progressives said wounded deeply because of their fundamentally intransigent atti tude . President Hoover never seemed to realize that these Northwestern Progressive senators , covering a territory from Michigan , south to Oklahoma and west to the Coast , really represented a considerable bloc  --  generally a majority bloc  --  of the popular opinion in that territory . It is Republican territory , vital @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  as , for instance , Mr. Hughes  --  may win New York and meet defeat at the polls . Often , in these Northwestern States , a conservative senator turns up for a term or two , but always at least one fighting Progressive senator in every state testifies to the permanency of Progressive sentiment in that state and in that whole region . This sentiment encourages martyrs , who become pests at the White House unless the incumbent knows how to meet them . The Handicap B UT President Hoover did not enjoy jollying people along while he went through their political pockets . His business training handicapped him in dealing with malcontent Western Republicans . For an executive sits at his desk . He pushes buttons . Men appear . He says , " You go and do . " And if you say , standing there , " No can do , " he replies briefly " Out , " and the episode ends . But you ca n't say " Out " to men with constituencies that keep saying " In . " And if you @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ignoring them , the short-circuiting burns your own fingers and endears them to their constituents . Moreover , let us assume that these Progressive Republicans are demagogues and sometimes they are . Even ( Continued on Page 531 those who are fairly honest run amuck in demagogy sometimes ; a. strange phenomenon that embitters business administrators , but is understandable in polities . Even when they are demagogues and case-hardened , a President who has been through the mill  --  as , for instance , was President Coolidge , who ran nineteen times as a candidate  --  realizes that while God is always good , men are sometimes careless . So he sighs and smiles , and lets it go at that . But the desire for perfection , the yearning for blood or garroting overcomes a man like President Hoover and makes him bitter . His bitterness does riot annoy the regulars . They smile and sigh and knock off 40 per cent for human nature , and go back to him again because they are regular . But because the irregulars are irregular , the iron of presidential bitterness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people in the Progressive states thought he was reactionary . They sealed their ears to his messages and imagined a vain thing . Incidentally , we have one of the reasons for the weary man on the lonely train in the Nevada desert . And the evidence upon which the people imagined these things was strongly circumstantial . As a man with business training , Mr. Hoover made the same allowances for the foibles and shortcomings of the rich and the powerful that politicians made for men of their craft who run amuck in demagogy . President Hoover came to the White House after thirty years of association with rich men . He estimated them accurately , made the proper discounts between their protestations and their performances , and when , on the whole , their balance was on the good side of 60 per cent , he took them , did business with them . He even trusted them , realizing not at all how , in a democracy , the populace makes no such discounts . The possession of wealth  --  one of our marks of success  --  assumes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ When virtue is wanting with wealth , even if the virtue is only slightly tarnished , America rages and puts up the bars . The President was never at heart a plutocrat . The big boys of Wall Street abandoned him and his Administration before 1931 , and never came hack . And in private he grumbled at their perfidy and complained of their greed bitterly . But also , because he had worked for thirty years with men of wealth , he could not publicly scold a million dollars , much less a hundred million , however he might disesteem the man who held it and still was rapacious . Those who saw much of the President , and intimately , felt that , if anything , his distaste for the predatory rich was deeper than his contempt for those whom he regarded as demagogues and trouble makers . But he could not , being what he was , publicize his scorn . President Hoover , more than any other President who has occupied the White House since Theodore Roosevelt left it , was a middle-class President , striving to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mob and hated the idle rich . The background of his childhood and his youth made him middle class . He had rio upper-class hallits . Personally he was a hard worker , a driver in his office . He ate simple food , and not too much of it. ; drank nothing at all ; was not a meticulous dresser ; had no sense of the more subtle social amenities ; scorned the perfunctories of purely social events and was bored by them . He liked plain men , was a bit suspicious of academicians . The purely erudite had to be tested before he accepted them . He had no plutocratic diversion . Golf , polo , tennis attracted him but little . Afternoon tea was not in his social lexicon , and when he appeared at a tea he was like a Great Dane at a eat . show  --  sniffy , but not so savage as evidently he wished to be . Here stands , in rather vague outline . your typical American business man moving in the higher brackets . This was the business man 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of living man . Add this one other touch to our hero : He had been exiled from his country for nearly twenty years and he had the exile 's fighting patriotism . Herbert Hoover is not a hundredpercenter in the sense that he loathes all other peoples and suspects all other governments . But he is a hundredpercenter in his passionate , almost bigoted belief in America . Exiles get this belief when their exile is involuntary , as his was  --  a business necessity . He was romantic in his belief in America  --  American destiny , American ideals , the American way of life , our democracy , our institutions , the nobility of our aspirations and the Divinity that guides our leadership . The Gantlet of Critics Remember that here you have a sensitive man who has never taken the political bludgeonings that a man must take who runs the gantlet through the courthouse , to the state house , and on to the Nationhl Capitol . Then realize with what wincing dismay he received the castigations of those cheap hlatherers who assumed that , because he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foreign ways and manners . His inner drama , when his patriotism was challenged , was like the whole story of his four years from the rainy March day to the twilight in the desert  --  all offstage , a babble of voices never interpreted , a clamor without action to which the people could respond , a man somewhere just beyond their vision , striving mightily , bending to a terrific task , Samson turning the wheel , with the Philistines also blind . So much for the man . Now for the times in which he worked , the task before him during those Four years in the White House . That rainy day  --  March fourth  --  was ominous . It was as though the rain came from far-distant gathering clouds . The political and economic horizon of America in March , 1929 , seemed fair , the skies cheerful . Business was booming . Outwardly , commerce moves swiftly , steadily , in prosperous channels . Yet for a year portentous warnings had been coming to the surface  --  warnings of unemployment , falling commodity prices and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the channel , the current was slowing down a little . The President called an extra session of Congress immediately to consider agricultural relief . For seven years  --  since the deflation of 1920 and 1921 ? the American farmer had been in a bad way . His case was acute . His unmarketable surplus was piling up . The American price was made by the export-surplus price  --  a price far below the returns labor and business were receiving for their efforts . The Tariff Fight As a part of the relief program , the Congress began considering tariffs on agricultural products . Everyone agreed that the farmer needed tariff relief . Whereupon , industry , seeing the tariff floodgate open , began to demand relief . Probably before he realized it , the President was in the midst of a tariff fight . " The tariff is the father of the trusts , " quota an American statesman nearly fifty years ago . And whether he was scientifically accurate in his genealogy or not , he voiced a popular feeling in the heart of America . We believe the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . being more or less wicked and selfish , like to use For our own ends while we are denouncing the wickedness and selfishness of others who are doing what we are doing . Every tariff bill 1 hat has been passed for fifty years has crippled every President who has signed it . A tariff often has lost the Congress to its sponsors . Sometimes a tariff act has wrecked an administration , as it wrecked Harrison 's , Taft 's and Hoover 's . Our one-term RePuhliran Presidents have all been winged by the tariff , if or when they have sought their second elective terms . The President knew , in the upper stratum of his consciousness , that he should assume aggressive leadership . He had said , in his speech of accepts . ante , " Government is more than administration . It is a power for leadership . " And again , " The presidency is more than executive responsibility . It is the inspiring symbol of all that is highest in America 's purposes and ideals . " Which were line words . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to presidential leadership . When a resolution was offered by Senator Borah , of Idaho , limiting the scope of tariff revision to agriculture , perhaps the President , strenuously advocating it. , could have secured its passage . But Bomb 's resolution was defeated and the devil was to pay , with no hot . pitch . While the tariff hill was grinding through the legislative mill , the air at Washington was thick with scandals . It is always miasmic and gaseous whenever a tariff bill is passing . And the smart Democrats , knowing the ways of publicity and the dangers of tariff revision , kept stirring the pot and releasing stinks . No matter how sound that tariff hill was , no matter how badly needed it may have been , it was horn in scandal . The Democrats named it . the ( Irundy-Hawley after a will-known Inhhyiat who turned up with a senator 's eommission from Penns Iva nia . Grundy also made remarks alinut the backward states , meaning chiefly the agricultural West . The Senate Progressives fuught the passage of the tariff hill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They assailed the President and regular Senate leaders . Fighting for what the West regarded as a righteous cause , these Western Republicans soon became rather obviously out of favor at the White House . Whereupon , the White House began to lose the confidence of the population that had elected and reelected these Progressives and their kind to Congress for two generations . In the tariff melee , the President 's leadership slipped . His belief in regularity , his faith in the constituted party authorities holding over from his business days , when the majority of the hoard of directors was sacrosanct , did him disservice in dealing with Congress . The tariff bill presented to him had redeeming features  --  many of them . But being branded as it was , the brand was the political reality that the President faced , and not the defensible schedules , not the excellent features which the bill con-tamed. drudgingly he signed the Hawley-Smoot Bill , thinking he could explain it . Perhaps he could have explained it in prosperous times . But adversity was just around the corner . When @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . When the Wagon Overturned That was the beginning of the end of the honeymoon , provoked by distrust , vague and disconcerting , in the presidential leadership . Following the enactment of the tariff act came the legislation for so-called farm relief . In framing that measure , the presidential leadership was more potent than it was in framing the tariff hill . And upon the whole , a better measure was the result of his activity in Congress . At the last , the clause providing for the price-stabilizing feature of the act was inserted and the President accepted it grumblingly , having no great faith in its efficiency , but believing that the rest of the act justified the compromise . In the summer of 1929 America went stark mad in the stock market . No one knew more definitely how mad America was than the President and his advisers . For the most part , he was impotent . Hindsight can , of course , demonstrate what foresight could not see . To have done the things which hindsight considers wise now might have been mad folly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ II is hard to pull the lines and turn : 1 runaway team into a tree , wise as it may seem after the wagon is overturned . Anyway , the crash came ; the wagon turned over in the autumn of ' 29 . Obviously , the President and his advisers and American economists generally , whether academicians or business seers , felt that this was just a bubble pin-pricked . Wise men said that in three or six or ten months business would stabilize itself . But in the meantime , the President 's fear was for labor and the deflation of labor . It was natural that his first thought , when the collapse came in the autumn of 1929 , should he to maintain a high standard of living during the healing process about the wound where the bubble was pricked in Wall Street . He called labor leaders and captains of industry to Washington . He was at his best , in his finest form , handling small groups of men , bringing them to a definite conclusion upon a concrete proposition . He had no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the outlines of his figure were not nebulous . He bent the two opposing groups to his purpose and sent them away with a compromise  --  on the part of labor not to strike , on the part of capital not to cut wages . It . was a perfect hit of executive leadership . So 1929 rolled into 1930 . ' Unemployment grew steadily but not alarmingly . It could he explained away . The American people were nervous , irritable , but not despairing . They kept listening in the gloom like children for a word from the Great Father . Any kind of trumpet voice would have done . The word did not come . Probably it did not occur to the President that he should ride the storm . And if he had yearned to ride it . he could not . A shallower President would have sounded the tocsin . But President Hoover was studying the situation , trying to know intelligently what it meant ; why it was ; what , it was . He was interested in facts and not in the psychic relation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He was calling conferences . Ile was arousing the people to the need of helping the unfortunate . He was organizing , in a nation-wide set-up , the henevolent spirit of the American people through regions , in states , by counties , in the cities , and in the townships . Unquestionably , hundreds of thousands , perhaps millions , were kept from the more hitter phases of want . by the President 's organization for unemployment relief . It was not spectacular . A radio address here , an occasional talk there , a few sensible , pointed remarks delivered to the American Bankers Association meeting at Cleveland , covertly rebuking them but certainly not denouncing them , for looking toward lower wages as a solution of the situation , was the extent of his public appeal . l'nquestionably , for one thing , more emphasis would have proved to the people how deeply their President was moved by the misery about him . He could have closed the mouths of his traducers , who pictured him as cold and heartless in these terrible years . Certainly a little @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and would have helped the President when he needed the American people and called in vain . Head , On Collision Nineteen-thirty-one ( - tune stalking in like a plague . The earlier months of 1931 seemed to he carrying hope in them . A slight upturn in commodity prices seemed visible . America , isolated , might have recovered . But America was not . isolated . And no one knew it better than Herbert Hoover in the White House in those late spring days of 1931 . Seeing Europe gathering on I he brink for a plunge , he must have felt like a train dispatcher who knows that two trains are approaching on the line head on , and are beyond his control . Ile acted with all the vigor of his nature , and from June , 1931 , to November , 1932 , he took command of the situation at home and abroad . When England went olT the gold standard in the autumn of 1931 , a grave crisis arose in America . The President conjured , almost out of the air , financial resources to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ defense without warrant of law , merely consulting congressional leaders of both parties and financial captains of 110 party , and proceeding hour by hour and day by day with his plans , revising them under real need rather than political expediency , telling the reporters what , he could  --  which was preeious little  --  and holding the politicians in line , who had to he consulted in small groups so that they could not gang him . It was war . Ile was the high command . The White House was G . H . Q. for t he world . But the security of the American financial structure , which was under fire , was the President 's objective . Banks had been popping across the land like machine-gun fire ; that fire gradually eased down . The hanks were protected by the financial barrage which President Hoover had dropped around our vanishing gold reserve . Those autumn days were great days for the President . He was aglow with a noble sense of power , elated with his feeling of usefulness . In his own heart he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strode into the winter with a program for Congress . Congress met a new leader , a new President Hoover . The man who had peeved and pouted about the tariff bill , and finally signed it after Congress had pushed him as far as it dared , was dead and gone . First Aid to the Injured During the months which followed , Congress , under the President 's leadership , institutionalized a , revolution . The program for financial protection and relief was a break with America 's past ; yet a break only in the distance it went forward , not in the direction it took . It amounted to an enormous expansion of latent national credit to save America . One after another , these measures were enacted by the Congress ? the Reconstruction Finance Corporation , the Home Loan Banking Bill , the Unemployment Relief Bill , the Tax Bill and the various budget-balancing reforms which the President advocated . One purpose was behind every detail of this program  --  that the people  --  using for the time their credit , but eventually by their taxing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President was adamant against any measure which looked toward the Government supporting the people . He was stubborn . He knew that his enemies were saying that he believed in the people supporting their Government and not the Government supporting the people , unless they were rich people . Gibes never phased him . He meant his Americanism even deeply enough to he mean about it . The marvel of it all was not that the devil was abroad in America in the spring of 1932 , roaring with a blind rage at prohibition , crying out at gangsters , keeping twelve million out of work , harrying the White House and the Capitol with pickets , threatening the banks of the Midwest with major receiverships in Chicago , mobilizing striking farmers on the highways of the Mississippi Valley . The wonder is that through it all the President kept his head and pushed his purpose forward with such determination , with such uncooling fervor as he did . It is necessary here to stop for a moment and consider a little further the profound significance of that program , for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the philosophy of the America that he loved , that he idealized , and that inheres in our social organization as it has grown in the last three hundred years through the amplification of the American spirit into a social order , a culture unique and distinguished , carrying with it an approximate of justice in human relations , for all its cruel faults and wicked failures , never before equaled in modern civilization . It is middle class , this American civilization . It holds the pious hope that by curbing the cupidity of its plutocrats through taxation and regulation , society may bring more and more justice to its proletariat , holding the one down , boosting the other up to its own middle-class social and elmnomic status . That is the America of the Fathers . It was the composite vision of Washington , Jefferson and Hamilton . It was the ideal of Andrew Jackson and Abraham LineaIn . In modern times , Theodore Roosevelt and Wilson saw this same America from different angles . It was to save this America intact out of the depression that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attitude , and so made his fight . It was not for the economic status quo that he contended ; only for the preservation of American institutions , social , commercial , political . Somewhere in his heart burns a white flame of passion for this ideal . Hewing to the Line When the stock-market crash came in the autumn of ' 20 , instinctively the President began to measure his conduct and his plans by his own formula of Americanism . Looking back over three years , it would seem as though he had said in his heart : " There shall be no change of attitude , while I am President , in the Federal Government toward the people of America . I shall hold doggedly to the thesis that government can not concern itself with the misfortunes of individuals unless those misfortunes can be removed en masse by institutions and by administrative acts and orders , " Federal Government can extend its helping hand to states , to the corporate subdivisions of commerce , possibly to municipalities , and to the organized profit-making institutions of commerce  --  railroads @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ like  --  in which all men are investors and public creditors , theoretically at least , upon common terms of advantage . We shall lend , but not give . The American Federal Government will not dole out beneficences to men as men , however great their need . " Charity , when charity is needed  --  and now indeed it is needed  --  must begin at home and stay at home . Charity can not be made a function of the Federal Government .. The dole is the wedge which will split America . into classes  --  a conscious , insatiable proletariat attacking a ease-hardened plutocracy fighting for its unjust privileges . That is not America . That is not democracy . In its ultimate objective , the order that begins with the dole ends in a revolutionary overturn of our whole political philosophy . Sooner or later , the dole spells doom for the rule of the middle class as a bumper and shock absorber between the two minorities at the poles of our social and political organization . " Of course , the President probably did not formulate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the upper stratum of his consciousness , but through it all he was guided by the light of this white flame in his heart , the fait h in the American philosophy of . equal opportunity , a Fair fight , and a chance for the individual to win under the changing rules of the changing game . His obdurate courage in his leadership was never heroic . His dogmatism divested him of any sort of glamour to the multitude , whirls too often made him the villain of the piece to those who were in need and in woe . Perhaps another man , a rabble rouser , might have kept himself under the halo of sanctity , might have held the plaudits of his countrymen . But this man could not . And yet , so fine was his faith in America that he romanticized the people , believing that occultly they would see the truth about him in the bewilderment of the times ! In the campaign the odds were heavily against . him . He carried backbreaking handicaps : The defection of the Northwest Republican liberals , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the tariff , whether fair or not ; the depression with its twelve million unemployed  --  and of course there was prohibition . He might have won carrying either of these burdens ; possibly with two , but together they overwhelmed him . Added to these handicaps was a hitter unfaith in all leadership , and his was the only leadership upon which the populace could vent its spleen . He was " in ' ' ? the innermost of all " ins . " He was doomed to go out .. The depressions emotionalized American polities . The country was not reasoning . It was feeling , and feeling low in its mind ; ready  --  indeed eager  --  to say any dirty thing  --  in fact , the dirtiest possible thing it could say  --  against things as they were . The Man Who Walked Alone Obviously , his work as a leader lay in the field where he could not advertise . He could not say to the world : " Our gold reserves are dangerously low . We must do thus and so to save them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ banks were tottering in this city and that , nor explain that money had to be lent to railroads to save certain insurance companies glutted with railroad bonds . Thus , while he was maintaining the gold standard , saving the banks for their depositors , the railroads for their creditors , so that insurance companies and savings institutions should not collapse and bring debacle to the land , the people saw only that he was trafficking with Europe , that he was scooping money into the railroads and the banks while men were starving and farmers were going bankrupt . He had to lose his political life to save his country . There was no other way out  --  for bins at least . If he had held less faith in his country and if he had cherished its ideals less zealously , even if he had developed a flair for the dramatics of politics , he might have won . Whatever may he said about the President in this crisis , his utter lair ; of the conscious sense of political stagecraft would seem to prove his clumsy honesty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the American spirit , trying to point out in a dignified way the underlying theory that had motived his action . The President 's addresses from the third of September until the Madison Square Garden address will need little whipping into shape when he publishes them as a book , a sort of lyric treatise glorifying the American ideal , explaining its limitations , its achievements in our history . But he was " aught in the avalanche of events . This picture of the President walking his lonely way on the pa t h of du ty needs a little retouching , a few dark strokes to make it human . For he was no plaster saint politically . lie had , during his three years , rather cousistently and with a. nice instinct chosen to honor in public office men of a ? onservative type of mind , Whatever flings and gibes t he Progressives in Congress may have aimed at the President 's face were confetti beside the javelins which the regulars hurled when his hack was turned . So , in the campaign , literally , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prepense . Impossible stories , vindictive attacks ; indeed , a volley of scandalous hooks were published against him in an organized program of slander . Within Sight of Canaan Of course , the blow of the election hit him bard , however he may have seemed to realize the truth about the coming results , out in the desert . that last night . It was not , indeed , hopeless until the votes were counted . Then came the crash . For four years he had thought in terms of an eight-year job . Every conscious thought- in his mind , every rising ideal in his heart had been linked to the work of reconstruction after economic recovery . He hoped to do great things in the next four years . As a curious coincidence with the stork-market crash , he had appointed a fact-finding commission of sociologists to study America . For three years , with his blessing , this commission had been gathering facts about recent social trends in the United States , to be ready for the economic resurrection . The work was in the hands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had written a foreword , giving the two fat volumes collected by his commission his benediction . " This study , " he wrote , " is the latest and most comprehensive of a series . . . beginning in 1921 with the report on Waste in Industry under my chairmanship . It . should serve to help all of us to see where social stresses are occurring and where major efforts should be undertaken to deal with them constructively . " Among other things , the findings committee reports in favor of old-age pensions , unemployment insurance , control of industry in the interest of large public participation in the profits of industry and the nearer socialization of many industries instead of having them function for profit entirely . The President did not agree that old-age pensions , or unemployment insurance , or the management of industry must be done by the Federal Government . On the contrary , these things should be accomplished otherwise than through bureaucracy . It was the President 's hope to advance the reorganization of our institutions so that an ordered society should emerge in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ guided us for a century and a ha-If . He did not conceive that these ideals were based so much on the details of an economic or political system as upon asocial system in which the dominant theme was human security and liberty , and in that he has reiterated time and again that liberty can not exist under a regimentation of men by government bureaucracies . He hod no illusions that he could bring hack yesterday , but was striding into tomorrow  --  a new // world . He said so often in his speeches . He , possibly , did not make his meaning plain to the masses . Clearly , he was too conscientious to make concrete promises . Concrete promises of plans in dealing with the fabric of human society are dishonest when given by any man . He knew full well that no human being could prophesy or perform by merely rubbing a panacea or quack medicine over a sore spot and envisaging a cure for the ills of our social body , which is so sick today . He would not , being what he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a promise , what form unemployment insurance should take . He had long- been engaged in discussion with certain industrial-insurance companies of the methods to perfect a plan of unemployment insurance to be operated outside the Federal Government and gradually expanded over the whole of employment  --  just as life and accident insurance have been solved in the nation . .9 Lifelong Ideal He could not say ' ' By thus and so we will establish old-age pensions , " although he had in these years been cooperating withindustrial and insurance companies in the evolution of an oldage-insurance policy , the launching of which had already been begun but bad been stopped by the slump . He was not prepared to promise what specific methods should be given to every man to enjoy the blessings of liberty and happiness ; he was prepared to say emphatically that liberty and happiness can only arise amongst free men . But he could talk about the abolition of poverty for all who wished to work , as the very basis of liberty . That has been his lifelong ideal , which is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ One night after the election , he and a friend were talking these things over in the White House . The friend bad been in the Executive Offices , talking with some members of his secretariat about this report on the recent social trends . Their enthusiasm for it was superb , reflecting his belief in its vast importance . The President 's head leaned forward as he sat in his chair , with his elbow on a chair arm and his fingers supporting his brow . his eyes were on the floor . He said , with no emotion but with profound conviction : " The ideal and guiding star in all this period of change must be to preserve our social system . That far transcends the accidents in the economic system or the details of the political system . Change is inevitable . That is forced upon us by scientific discovery and invention if from no other cause . But the change must be in the form of organic growth , that we may preserve the links of this country to its traditions , holding all that we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The thing that must not be changed is the ideal of an organized society wherein men and women in normal times have , in the main , secured the right , to enjoy the blessings of this commonwealth and a certain minimum of security . No lasting change could be made in the economic system that is not fundamentally in accord with human instincts , but society must be organized in such a fashion as to provide a minimum security of living to those who are willing to make an effort . " We had almost reached it . Then came a rain of blows from a collapsing financial world that required all our energies to preserve our very foundations , let alone to perfect our superstructure . " My conviction is that we have the productive capacity , we have the natural resources by which there is and can he a standard of living below which no American citizen who is willing to work should be asked to go . And with it should be security  --  security in his job for every man . By that we abolish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ torments and the greatest limitation on spiritual and intellectual liberty . " Then from that minimum standard , which should include good food , good clothes , decent , self-respecting housing , education of children and leisure to develop personality , men should be allowed to grow according to their talents . That liberty is the most precious possession of society . We have fought for it through a century and a half  --  the liberty of every man to make of himself what he will and to go as far up as he can , providing he goes honestly and gives service to society for what he gets . " " It is that liberty , " interrupted his friend , " which Communism denies and which Socialistn would restrict . " The President cut in with : " Any proposal which regiments up the people as a bureaucracy to work for the government is not only an immediate limitation upon their liberty but upon the expansion of their individuality . Furthermore , proposals to regiment the people under bureaucracy contain in them the seeds of unquestioned limitations of liberty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ press , freedom of political action and all other freedom . Progress to our immediate ideals must be made in part through government in the regulation of the forces that would undermine equal opportunity to men . Progress must be achieved through better organization of economic forces outside of government . But our aims must be attained chiefly through guidance of the evolutionary growth of organized society outside of bureaucratic regimentation of men . Democracy will never survive if we take that course . But these ends can he attained . It must be done . A matter of primary importance in the organic development of society is the maintenance of the spirit and of ideals . That spirit can be awakened . It has been awakened . " " With democracy not as a political system but as a way of lire ? " The Biggest Job He would not lie diverted , but went on : " To those ends we must learn , we must work , we must not lose sight of the objective . It is the biggest job on earth . Our production system is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ doing its job fairly well  --  at least , it affords a foundation . The functioning of these two systems has been torn to pieces through the failure of proper functioning of the financial and credit systems of the world today , and to some extent in our own country . These systems should he merely the lubricant of production and distribution , not the controlling force . We have been fighting for four years to preserve the system of production and distribution from destruction by failure of the financial and credit system . That is the point for immediate attack . It embraces not only ourselves but the entire world . We have to cooperate with other nations to find part of its solution if we would not he destroyed by these storms from the outside . Otherwise we sink to the depths of Russia , and thereby through the degeneration of production machinery , which , despite all five-year plans , keeps these people at the point of starvation . Ours is a great opportunity to make a new civiliza tion , huilded upon the accomplishments of the past @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ destroyers we have to fear . " The friends were silent for a moment . The President lifted his eyes from the floor and sighed and choked a little chuckle as he realized how empty his hands would be for the coming years . It was with a sad , quizzical little smile that he added : " Well , that 's that . It will work out some way . " As they parted , he sped the friend away with a humorous grin . The irony of it ! So history stands hesitant , waiting for time to tell whether Herbert Hoover is merely a failure as a politician or a success as a statesman : whether , by pointing the way to social recovery , this President is the first of the new Presidents come to power fifty years before his time , or whether , by battling so valiantly against assaults upon the American spirit of the fathers , ho is the last of the old . So much remains for time to tell history that we must wait for the truth . POM OC2.11PY3 ( Continued @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the court room . Bilgeville College announces that she has made a faculty trade with Moonshine University in which Professors Fuller and Dayton of the English department will be traded for Backfield Coach Wingate and two first-string tackles not yet selected . Both institutions stand to profit by this deal , as Moonshine graduates have been notoriously weak in spelling and punctuation in past years . and Bilgeville has n't had a winning football team since the war . The Consolidated Wringing Machine Company has secured two blond stenographers from the Eighth National Bank in return for an auditing clerk and six dollars in cash . Both sides to the trade announce themselves as well satisfied . Customers have shied at the feminine contingent in the Consolidated in the past , but the acquisition of these two blondes is expected to attract many new clients . The girls will work in the front window on the street . floor . With the acquisition of an accurate clerk , the Eighth National expects to balance its accounts more accurately in the future . William V. Jones announced today that he and his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whereby two Jones daughters go to the Smiths in return for a Smith son , two tennis rackets and a ton of furnace coal . This balances both families , so that they now have two sons and two daughters apiece , and the Smiths figure to get through the winter on their coal unless a severe cold snap materializes . England and America have made a trade in which five English magazine punsters will go to America in return for three American crooners . Both countries express complete satisfaction with the deal .                     