@@491069

A you N ( 1 man entered St. Lawrence University at Canton , New York , last nut Milli and confessed that he had never ridden upon a railroad train . The boy was seventeen years old ; his father was a prosperous druggist in a small city not far from Canton . The boy had a good automobile of his own and had used it to come and go everywhere . His father had another ear . The railroad was no part of their ordinary , workaday life . One of the officers of the university , an ardent railroad fan , was most interested in this young man and took him , not long ago , for a ride on the local train to Ogdensburg . The boy said that he enjoyed the experience . There are many boys and girls like this in American colleges today . In my day almost every boy knew the railroad and loved it . He was expert in locomotive lore . He knew the trains and the men who ran them . But . the younger generation today begins @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a practical or a. really close-at-hand necessity . College football teams go back and forth by rapid automobiles or motorbuses ; campaign parties ride here and there and everywhere upon the concrete highway . Short special movements upon the railroad . have ceased almost entirely . Not long ago a. railroad president went out into the Middle Vest to the dedication of a railroad station . It was the usual sort of affair of that kind  --  a gathering of bigwigs , more or less big , a luncheon and rather interminable speech making . When it was nearly over , a local banker approached the railroad president and congratulated him upon the elegance of the new building . " Qui te a monument to the railroad passenger business , " said he , in his impressive , hankerish way . " Mausoleum would be a better word for it today , " replied the railroader. lie was thinking , rather sadly , of that former great factor in American railroading that of late has been slipping pretty rapidly . From a high peak of 81,305 , - 000,000 in passenger-traffic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  it descended , in an all too brief decade , to 5780,000,000 in 1929 . Slowly at first ; just lately with alarming rapidity  --  toboggan-slide fashion . For a long time the railroaders themselves seemingly were not fully conscious of what was happening . They went ahead blithely , adding tine new fast trains to their schedules , planning and building great new passenger terminals here and there and everywhere across the land  --  as it now appears , for a traffic that in a measure has gone . For the addition and perfection of trains there has been justification . Much of the passenger service by 1920 had grown more than a little ragged . The World War was responsible for a wholesale decimation of trains and schedules . Under the pretext of helping to win the war , certain railroad operators went after unprofitable trains  --  long-time sore spots  --  with a vengeance . The American railroad passenger schedule of 1920 became a sorry-looking thing , especially as compared with that of but three years before . And yet the passenger travel upon our roads in that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a height never before reached ; the new result being , of course , a business of greater profit or more nearly a profit than had hitherto existed in the history of the steam railroad in the United States . If this condition could only have continued indefinitely the American railroad would have remained in clover . ( ( Continued from Paste 44 ) sounded natural with that light broadcast , " the intruder said to his confederate . ' ' You could n't have made it more lifelike if you 'd really been watching the tight . " " I just shut my eyes and pretended I saw them two niggers in the ring . " " You could n't have done no better if you was at the ringside . We could n't have made no more coin out of it , neither . The crew passed the hat , and our eut , for your phony radio speech is better than a hundred bucks apiece . " " That 's swell . But , Bill , we do n't want to get nowhere near them dredge niggers for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we rigged , we 're sunk . " " Boy , they sure was a crazy bunch ! I wonder what they 're doing to that Wildcat cook that touted all the inside dope . " Ducking through the willows , seeking a refuge from his impending past , the Wildcat wasted a thought on Shad Borneo . Then : " Ai n't never gwine to believe nobody no mo ' whut dey says . Landed lucky on dat dredge boat outen a swamp full of sarpints . Gwine to be twice dat lucky kin I git back whah 1 left dem friendly rattlesnakes ! Feet , lead me ! " COUYITONI DPI NG32 AHEAD ! ( Conanued from Page 21 ) Unfortunately there were in 1920 , problems not only of labor and of labor 's wages , not only of a morale seriously impaired by the long period of government control , but far more portentous , those of that swift-oncoming competitor , the automotive vehicle , The development of the motor car and the motorbus , the perfection of the national highway system , the cheapening of motor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ end of the railroad business ; while it was felt even then that the motortruck might yet become a serious competitor to the freight end of it . Gradually the pressure of this new competitor showed itself upon the passenger revenues of the roads . It bit hardest upon the so-called short-haul business ; chiefly upon branch lines and local trains upon the main lines . The long-haul traffic and the commuter business still remained comparatively undisturbed . To the average railroad this last has never been a matter of much happiness . Like Topsy , it " just growed . " Long ago the automobile and the bus began to wreak havoc with the only part of the business of many of these commuter lines that even approached a possible profit  --  the occasional riding on the trains , not only in the rush hours but out of them , by persons who paid full fare or something fairly close to it . Dwindling Commuter Service A case in point has been in New Jersey , on the one side of the state , just across the Hudson from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ side , just across the Delaware from vast Philadelphia . In the one location a fine vehicular tunnel has added to the falling off of a once brisk short-haul passenger traffic ; in the other it has been a bridge that has contributed to it . Before the completion of these still-new trans-river highway arteries , the New Jersey commuters into both of the two metropolitan cities were , to a large degree , compelled to cross the two rivers by ferryboats , neither particularly swift nor always dependable transport , but nevertheless very largely used . These ferry services now are all but gone , save in the busiest of the rush hours six days a week . Busses , not by the dozens but by the hundreds , now cross from Manhattan through the Holland Tubes to Newark , Elizabeth , the Oranges , Montclair , all that vast North Jersey territory once almost exclusively served by the railroads . In a similar way the Delaware Bridge between Philadelphia and Camden has proved itself not only a useful convenience but a highly patronized one  --  again to the detriment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from Camden . Reports of this same sort come from the great commuting areas around Boston , Pittsburgh , Chicago and San Francisco . The busses around those metropolitan communities also have taken the bloom off the apple and have left only the core . The regular heavy commuting business has not been much disturbed , but again this is the traffic of lowest fares , the most expensive of all to handle , with its vast high-tide demands upon passenger terminals . Even if for but a few hours a day , it means that terminals must be , and are , designed for the high tides , at vastly increased expense . Similar stories come from the branch lines and the main-line locals , where there is not even the saving grace of a morning and night suburban business . Many of these branch lines are following the way of many of the interurban and are being abandoned ; in a few eases their rails are actually being torn up . The list of these abandoned branches increases month by month ; last fall saw the abandonment of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Valley of Western New York from Geneva to Naples ; the forty-two-year-old Ilwaeo branch of the Union Pacific in Southwestern Washington was snuffed out of business at the same time ; next month , or perhaps next fortnight , it will be some other little branch ; they are falling these days like the autumn leaves . Few of them will ever be restored to service again . One of them , however , has come back . It is the little Ausable branch of the Delaware S. Hudson , up in the northeastern corner of New York . A year or more ago passenger service was abandoned upon the line . Residents along it were left to their own devices to get in and out of their home towns . Among them was a man of fairly good fighting blood . His name is Rockwell Kent , and he is an artist who needs no introduction to the American public . Single-handed and unaided , save for a lawyer carried at his personal expense , Kent , against great odds , succeeded in licking both the railroad company and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ November passenger service on the Ausable branch was restored . Mr. Kent 's victory raises an interesting question : How long can a railroad company be compelled to maintain a losing service upon any one of its lines ? A good many of them have taken away service , and then , upon the appeals of communities , have restored it only to find those selfsame communities suddenly indifferent to the restored trains  --  which , in the long run , must be again taken away . " I think that , with some exceptions , we can about say good-by to local passengers on our trains for distances of fifty or sixty miles or less , " the late Samuel Rea , president of the Pennsylvania Railroad , told me , hardly more than a half dozen years ago . His opinion was shared by many of his fellows . They did feel , however , that they had a pretty firm hand upon their long-haul passengers . Railroad prosperity was evident across the land . After the slump year of 1921 , net earnings increased steadily , right up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , of course . Since then , despite that prosperity , or at least the appearance of it , and up till a twelvemonth or so ago , the railroad net has been turning downward again . Slowly until 1929 ; since then with increasing rapidity . Five or six years ago the railroads manfully set out to save at least their long-haul passenger traffic . They realized that a fifty-mile minimum was , after all , but an arbitrary limit and one that might be subject to gradual raising . They turned the searchlight upon their own services and found improvement possible . Lagging schedules were shortened ; the running times of the best expresses between Chicago and important Pacific Coast points were cut from seventy-two hours to fifty-six . And there were similar cuts elsewhere in the land . Equipment came under critical eyes . That omnipresent American institution , the Pullman sleeping car , did not escape the scrutiny . For fifteen or more years there had been very little real improvement in the Pullman car except to make it heavier and stronger , and to keep it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ remained the same democratic sort of vehicle that George M. Pullman had devised at the beginning of the Civil War  --  a chariot wherein men and women slept in open berths back of thin green curtains , on the dormitory principle that used to obtain on the river and lake and ocean steamships of that same quaint period . America was not anywhere as democratic in 1925 as it was in 1565 . Americans had gone to Europe in increasing numbers , and though the wagon-lits of the Continent left much to be desired in comfort and in cleanliness , one fundamental idea of their construction  --  individual bedrooms  --  did make appeal to discriminating travelers . Single.12oom Sleepers America has had sleeping cars made up entirely of individual staterooms for many years past . The breezy Colonel Mann once devised such a car and had it running down on the old Piedmont Air Line in Virginia . Mann gained valuable patents , which Pullman was glad to buy afterward , and then he retired from America to introduce his sleeping ears into Continental Europe . After that Pullman built various @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the Pennsylvania Limited and later on the Wabash , between Chicago and Detroit . Later , all-room cars  --  compartments and drawing-rooms combined  --  became quite popular upon many of our luxury trains and still are in use upon them . But these ears , wasteful of space , are rather expensive for the groat majority of overnight travelers in America , the men and women  --  chiefly men  --  who fill more than 5000 sleeping ears on an average night . An answer came , five short . years ago , in the introduction into the United States and Canada of the so-called single-room sleeping car . Following the British principle , rather than that of the Continent , a sleeper was devised with fourteen rather ii &rruvi; rooms , with the berth or bed running crosswise in the ear instead of lengthwise . as had been Pullman custom . Only these were real beds  --  comfortable , deep-spring beds  --  instead of bunks made up of seat cushions , as in the best . of the old-time all-room cars . Each room held individual lavatory accommodations as well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aisle nervously awaiting the shavers in the community washroom as the terminal was approached and to hope to heaven that some one of them would cut his throat . Ten of these cars were used in 1926 . The number has steadily been increased since then , until nearly 100 are now in operation both in the United States and in Canada , with the number steadily increasing all the while . Obviously the car is best suited for short overnight travel , yet in trains well provided with club cars and other lounging facilities it is practical to use them for considerable distances ; already they are in service between New York and Chicago . Moreover , the house of Pullman is engaged in making interesting variations upon the type ; it is taking the drawing-rooms out of many of the old-time standard sleepers  --  twelve sections and a drawing-room  --  and is changing these to ten open sections and three single rooms . No one can fairly accuse the Pullman folks these days of any lack of progress . They are even working out another variation of the single-room @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In this newest ear there are thirteen instead of fourteen rooms , and an upper berth is hung in each of them . Such a car has a maximum sleeping capacity of twenty-six persons , which happens to be the sleeping capacity of the average standard ear . As a matter of fact , the average use of the Pullman sleeping car in this country is now less than eleven persons a night ; so even the older fourteen-room car is well suited economically to the present-daY situation . This single-room car is but one of the radical improvements made by the American railroad within the last eight or ten years to help save its bacon . Other luxurious passenger equipment , without a peer the whole wide world over , has come along to accompany it . A British railway advertised a year or two ago that it had installed a hairdresser 's saloon upon its crack train ; there are more than twenty trains that boast such conveniences right here in the United States and have done so for a dozen to twenty years past . The roads @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and recently they have begun to cool them artificially and to ventilate them with filtered air . They have installed radios and train telephones . Even that outstanding feature of the American luxury train , the observation platform , has not escaped improvement . Some of the roads have begun to inclose it like the sun porch of a comfortable . country home . There are two camps this observa tion-pla au rat si tua Lion . ThelargerEastern roads have so farprefurred to stick to the old-fashioned open platforms . They say that their patrons really prefer the abut idant fresh air that they gain from them . Each of the Iwo principal roads running between New York and Chicago managed to get along until September of 1929 with a single twenty-hour train running regularly between the two cities  --  although frequently in several sections . Then a spasm of expansion struck them and the twenty-hour fleet was increased suddenly to nine on the one road and to six on the other . In the onrush of passenger traffic , still existent in September , 1929 , the step seemed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the two roads were still doing an excellent business . I had myself , on a Sunday in the preceding January , seen one of them pull out of a Chicago station bound for New York in seven long sections of twelve or thirteen cars each ; S99 revenue passengers all told , or what would have been a. whale of a first-class passenger list for even one of the biggest of the transatlantic steamships . Eighteen months later things were very different . Some of the fifteen twenty-hour trains on the two roads have sometimes carried as few as fourteen to sixteen paying patrons apiece . At that , they are doing better than some of their lesser fellows . Not long ago a fine through train ambled its way from Miami up to Chicago . In its seven Pullman cars it held exactly five fares . The financial smash of the autumn of 1929 saw the American railroad at its greatest . expansion in passenger operation . The battery of fast , expensive trains between New York and Chicago was repeated at many other places  --  between Chicago and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between Kansas City and Chicago , between Chicago and the T win Cities , and many other places as well . In some of these instances there was a real wastage of service . Count that as one heavy point against the competitive system of railroading as it now prevails in this country . New Railroad Stations Nor was this extravagance in passenger operation confined , to the movement of a great number of trains alone . For a number of years since the war there had been a good deal of splurge in the erection of showy and expensive stations at postwar building prices . The list is a fairly long one  --  Chicago Union Station ; Cleveland ; Buffalo ; Springfield , Massachusetts ; and many lesser ones . Others are still in progress , at Philadelphia , at Cincinnati , at Omaha , at Syracuse and at Montreal . A real necessity has dictated the construction of most , if not all , of these facilities . Yet it is highly probable that if the railroaders could have foreseen this year 's slump in their passenger business they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than half of their present size , and so have saved their properties a vast deal of capital expenditure , and perhaps obtained an economy of operation as well . There is an operative cost of a dollar for each passenger hauled in and out of some of these more elaborate terminals . This is not entirely to be charged to the evils of the competitive system . Travelers through the noncompetitive New England of a quarter of a century or more ago will easily recall the ancient station at New Haven in those days ; a large overcrowded wai t i erg room filled with a milling crowd . from early dawn till late at night , who patronized the trains departing for Hartford and for New London , for Middletown and Willimantic and Derby and Northampton . A few weeks ago I went into the line , large , now station that has replaced the ancient depot , at ten o'clock on a Saturday morning  --  no football in the Yale Bowl that day  --  and found exactly nine people sitting on the benches . No more trains for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for Middletown . Those branches are all abandoned for passenger service . Now Haven station , instead of being a railroad hub , is merely a simple junction now , where the main stem from New York breaks into two busy branches  --  the Shore Line to Boston and the old Valley road north to Hartford and to Springfield . This picture is being repeated all the way across the land , and still railroads are under constant pressure from local chambers of commerce and other civic bodies to erect monumental passenger stations in a vast variety of towns , large and small , at railroad expense , of course . It is only a municipal airport er a municipal dock that is built  --  for rail competitors  --  at the public expense . No one has ever heard of a city or a village coming forward to help a railroad build a passenger terminal that might quickly become a pride to the community . Conserving Their Finances When you come to the entire question of public help toward the building of waterways or highways , you touch upon a subject @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of them , the head of a very great railroad in the Middle West , expressed himself most definitely to me just the other day . Said he : " Next year , for the very first time in its history , the property of which I have the honor to he president will have no budget . We have more than sufficient equipment for the business that is now coming our way . And we are going to conserve our financial resources . " This policy has been reechoed by more than one of this railroad president 's fellows . Some of these gentlemen are apt to refer to a certain famous confereuce held at the White House not long after the financial smash of October , 1929 . At that time , at the earnest request of the President , the outstanding railroads of the land , practically all of which were represented at the conference by their presidents , pledged themselves to generous expenditures upon their properties in an effort to bring back a quick return of prosperity . The President received this cooperation most appreciatively . Yet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , have gone blithely ahead in the promotion of plans for the immediate development of both highway and waterway facilities , to the vast annoyance of many of the railroad presidents . It is hard for a man to see , first , his passenger business , and , nowadays , much of his local freight business as well , go drifting to the great new three-way and four-way and six-way concrete highroads that stretch themselves mile after mile close beside his rail lines , and over which is moving briskly , at no real charge at all , a business that formerly went upon the railroad . It takes quite a president to keep his equanimity in a situation such as this . " Twice in its history the country has all but gone bankrupt on splurges of railroad overbuilding , " said one of them the other day . Is it necessary for it to do the same thing again , on a splurge of highway overbuilding ? " These things are being set down here , not as a matter of personal opinion but as an accurate reflection @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The crash of the autumn of 1929 , followed by long months of continued depression and lack of business , found the American railroad a wallowing ship badly overloaded with many expensive excrescences . As any good mariner would he bound to do , the men who command it have been throwing some of these overboard . Excess passenger-train mileage has been cut here and there and everywhere . One large system at one fell stroke cut nearly 100,010 miles a month from these . It is estimated that it costs from $1.50 to $2 a mile  --  probably nearer the latter figure than the former  --  to operate a passenger train of the better type today . On this basis a monthly 100,000 train-mile cut represents some real cash savings , and with comparatively little sacrifice of essential passenger service . One New England road in September last reduced its force of road foremen of engines from twenty-two men to four . Here was a curious situation . Offhand it would look as if that particular road had been doing one of two things  --  either employing far too @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ operating economy to a point of danger at the present moment . In this case , the former probably is truer than the latter . The road foreman 's job is quite largely one of education  --  of training young firemen and young engineers properly to handle the delicate mechanism of a locomotive . When I say that on another New England road  --  a considerable property  --  there is today not one fireman with less than fourteen years ' experience or an engineer with less than ten years at the throttle , one can see that the road foreman over there has become a little superfluous . Fewer and Better Employes The railroad in America , unable , because of stiff union agreements , to make wage cuts , finds its only refuge , in times of stress such as these , in cutting down the actual number of men employed in its work . On many roads this now has become a considerable number . From 10.000 to 12,000 to 15,000 to the road on the larger systems is not an overstatement . In August . 1930 , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a little more than 1,500,000 employes . It is less now . But those figures of August last represent a smaller employment total than the roads have known since 1909 . They are 245,000 less than the employment rolls of August , 1929 , and 500,000 below those of the stirring days of the end of government operation in 1920 . It is a real tribute to the efficiency of actual operation of our American railroad organization today , however , that present-day traffic  --  about equal in volume to that of 1920 ? is being better handled by the 1,500,000 than it was by the 2,000,000 then . About 40,000 less freight cars are doing the job , and doing it better . But they are bigger ears than those of a decade before . There are fewer locomotives , but they are better locomotives . And they are ( Continued on Page 50 ) ( Confirmed from Page 48 ) hauling the freight train of today at an average speed of 13.7 miles an hour as against the average of 10.3 miles of the freighter of 1920 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against the twenty-three miles of the box car of 1920 . The railroad picture 18 not all to be written in gloom . There are many bright sides to it , and this is one of them . No sane man expects that , even with the steady extension of highways and of improved waterways , the railway is suddenly to be done out of its chief freight traffic . Yet the situation that it faces , even here , today is none too pleasant . The use of the motortruck as a carrier of short-haul freight is increasing , not decreasing . More curses by your old-time railroader at that new-time concrete highway that makes this ? even possible . Various types of both forwarding and merchandising companies are showing an increasing tendency to consolidate small lessthan-carload shipments into carload lots , from which the railroad gets a much-decreased revenue . Industrial consolidation all across the land has brought an increasing urge to eliminate shipments of raw material , finished parts or final , from one plant or branch to another . This is particularly " true in modern automobile @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ additional tendency to ship the finished cars by river or lake boats or barges , as well as over improved highways . There is a threat by the oil companies that they will ship gasoline by pipe line between many of the cities of the country . And recently the United States Government added insult to injury by avoiding a small rail haul of but a very few hundred miles by shipping a lot of ammunition by truck and canal to New York , by steamer to New Orleans and then by barge up the Mississippi . There was a final short haul by rail , but when the particular road that made that short haul divided its receipts with the barge line it found that it had no profits left . The bed of the freight-traffic manager is not upholstered with roses these days . He is walking the hard pathway of his brother in the passenger end of the business . Day Coaches de Luxe Various measures are now being suggested for the relief of the entire situation . Many executives are beginning to think that a lowering of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Some of them have also expended a good deal of time and no small amount of money in recent years toward improving this branch of their passenger service , hitherto a bit neglected . They have vastly improved the quality of their day coaches , both in their seating arrangements and in trucks on which they ride . They have created whole trains of nothing but day coaches , complete from club car to the observation-platform feature , and have operated these trains at high speed and with few intermediate stops between various cities of the country . These have been , in every respect , beautiful trains , gayly colored without and within , provided with porters and many of the other special facilities of the Pullman service , and yet operated entirely without Pullman charges of any sort . This excellent effort has not always been rewarded by an adequate increase in patronage . . In several cases these all-day-coach trains have alreadybeen withdrawn for lack of profitable patronage . Therefore , in the opinion of an increasing number of railroad executives , the relief must come in lowered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ service of itself , seemingly , has failed to draw patronage back or away from the big interurban busses . These last sometimes operate at from 00 to 75 per cent of the railroad fares for the same distance . Occasionally they get full railroad fares , minus Pullman , of course . In certain cases the busses have a decided advantage in possessing terminals located in the very hearts of large towns or cities , close to hotels and shops , while the rail passenger terminals may be a considerable distance away . In any event , though the busses unquestionably have created a certain amount of traffic for themselves , yet a goodly amount of it must have come from former railroad patrons , especially from day-coach patrons . To meet this situation and to endeavor to regain these day-coach patrons , the suggestion has been made that the fares on this particular type of equipment be reduced to the two cents a mile prevailing on certain roads prior to the late war  --  on almost all of them , if you bring the once-popular mileage book into the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suggestion in any of this that theaaassenger fares for the supertrains  --  or , indeed , any form of train carrying Pullman passengers  --  be lowered . These rates apparently are now fixed . TheY are lower in the United States and Canada than those for similar accommodations and service in Europe . Apparently they are satisfactory . The answer may be in the fact that the inclusive charge for a single room , fare and extra fare on the twenty-hour trains between New York and Chicago is $70 . SS , and that plenty of patronage is forthcoming for these . The argument of those who would reduce the day-coach rates is that there is not enough spread between the lowest fares upon our American railroads and the highest . In Europe the class system has served to solve this problem . In Great Britain , for instance , the third-class fare  --  there is no second-class except in a few portions of Southern England  --  is three cents a mile in our money , while the first-class rate is five cents  --  formerly six Here is a considerable spread @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Europe . There is nothing quite like it in either the United States or Canada . Some of the Western roads already have made a number of experiments with these low day-coach fares . Fares of approximately two cents a mile in these improved cars between Kansas City and Denver have succeeded in attracting an increased amount of business to them . A rate of $52.50 from California to Chicago established more than a year ago has so justified itself that it has been lowered five dollars and made effective all last summer and autumn , and in both directions . The railroads installing it have reported a large increase in their day-coach business . That feature of their travel has now increased itself from 12 to 23 per cent of the total passenger revenues . It has been followed recently by a cut in day-coach rates from Chicago to the Pacific Coast points of the Northwest to $50 in each direction . ( Confirmed on Page 52 ) THE SATURDRY EVENING POST . ( Centinieed from Page so ) The motor couches have met these rather sweeping reductions with similar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possible to ride from Chicago to the Pacific Coast for 928.50 , or hardly more than a cent a mile . That this can be done profitably , oven upon a Free right of way , is open to serious question . And in any event it is obvious that a high-grade , passenger-carrying vehicle that can haul eighty to one hundred persons can do better , even with a charge against its use of the right of way , than one carrying but twenty-eight or thirty . Many railroaders hope for some reversal of public sentiment that will yet insist upon a fairly heavy taxation of motorbuses  --  motortrucks as well  --  upon the ground that with their great size and weight , and their swift speed , they are more than ordinarily destructive to the pavements of the public highways . Any proposal to reduce straight passenger fares nationally  --  even though limited to day-coach travel  --  is bound to meet . with great opposition among the railroaders themselves . Here again are two opposing schools of thought , decidedly . The standpatter school makes many good arguments for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reduce our present standard passenger rates to two cents a mile , " it says , " will mean that we must get an increase of SO per cent of day-coach riders before we can hope for any increase in business or in revenue . - What sane man would be willing to guarantee us such increases  --  practically doubling  --  in the face of the present situa-tion ? " The stand patters have no counter proposals . They are standing as if against an inflexible wall , hoping , even though vaguely , for relief to come to the situation through an improvement in the national business situation . Whether that general improvement  --  bound to come , and in the not distant future  --  is going to bring any real or permanent relief to this railroad-passenger problem is difficult indeed to predict . Whether the development of airplane transport  --  already 100,000 commercial passenger-carrying miles are being flown annually in the country , 200,000 passengers carried ? is to bring further decline in railroad fortunes , and this time in the more profitable long-haul business , it is difficult now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a most perplexing situation . These conditions  --  al lof them fairly acute these Clays  --  slake the average railroader Feel that he must go rather slowly as to his future . It has been suggested that the present emergency is large enough to call a railroad convention  --  presidents , vice presidents and other high executives to continue in session for a week , if necessary , and to thrash out some of the problems that are so vexing to the business as a whole . At this convention of railroad executives various questions would be pressed : What shall be the attitude of the railroads toward highways and toward the waterways ? Shall they advocate regulation of the length , weight and speed of motor-trucks and coaches because of their destructive effects upon the highways and the dangers to which they expose private motorists ? What of taxing very heavily such vehicles ? How about meeting the competition of trucks by pick-up and delivery service from the door of the shipper to the consignee ? How about this question of lowered Fares ? All these and similar problems would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have precedent in similar assemblages held when the railroad industry still was young , in days prior to the coming of the Civil War . A well-attended meeting might clear the present atmosphere . In fact , a two-day meeting attempting something of this sort was held in New York in the middle of last November ; a fairly well-attended assemblage of railroad presidents and vice presidents which sought to draw up some sort of program for Congress for its long session nearly one year hence  --  a program which would call for remedial legislation to help the American railroad better stand its ground against the motorbue , the motortruck and the inland barge ; in most cases bringing these competing carriers under the control of the Interstate Commerce Commission . The railroads would also like again to enter water services on their own behalf , both on the coasts and on the inland waterways . This is all right , as far as it goes . If the railroads will only formulate their proposals with definiteness , and will then present a united front behind them , a real beginning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by an army not sure of its course and reasonably sure of final victory . Cooperation is vastly more than a word , or a group of words . It might he possible for the railroads to take a leaf out of the big book in the White House and appoint some sort of capable joint commission to make a careful study of the entire problem in all its many phases . The result of such a study , made by careful and experienced , yet progressive , men should also clear the present atmosphere . It is commended both to the rail carriers and to that far-reaching and powerful organization , the American Railway Association . Cleaning Out the Dead Wood A united front , and united energy can do much for our national railroad sys-tem at this time . There are many things also that the roads can do in-dividually . They can  --  they already have to a large degree  --  clean house in personnel . Dead wood is going down the stream . More is to follow . And all the dead wood is not human . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the railroad can do , and should do still , toward bettering these , chiefly along the line of selling itself not only as a prospective carrier but as an institution , The average American railroad has not even scratched the surface of its possibilities along this line . The American railroader goes his way slowly  --  sometimes too slowly . Reis facing a real crisis , unquestionably . He has faced other crises  --  some of them much more portentous than this one  --  and has come through them safely and with a smiling face . The present ? situation is by no means hopeless ; the railroads have not ceased to be the very backbone of the nation 's transport system . It is the yellow signal that is displayed , not thered . Caution , not danger . 