@@487379

PRESIDENT ROOSEVELT 'S speeches in Rio de Janeiro and Buenos Aires in connection with the opening of the Inter-American Conference for the Maintenance of Peace have broken with all American diplomatic precedents . He did not offer the customary condescending promises of protection or concessions to the little fellows by the big brother . Instead he made a virtual appeal to solidarity and mutual assistance among equals in view of the forthcoming European cataclysm , which can not leave America unscathed . His address in Buenos Aires was a challenge against the implantation of European fascism and a warning to non-American nations to keep hands off this continent . It was not merely a tactful departure from the usual haughty interpretation of the hated Monroe Doctrine , implying the right to intervene in the affairs of other American countries . Roosevelt 's idea of mutual protection is actually foreign to the original idea of Monroe . And a new inter-American multilateral declaration or covenant is expected to result from this conference as a joint warning and affirmation of American solidarity and mutual defense . The changed attitude must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President Roosevelt alone . Technically and economically the United States today needs the help of other American countries almost as much as they need the United States . No longer is America protected , as during the last World War , by those two great moats , the Atlantic and the Pacific . Submarines and airplanes now easily negotiate oceans . General Balbo arDecember 12 , 1936 rived here with two dozen airplanes from fascist Italy in military formation . Japan and Germany have huge airplane carriers from which they can loose their bombers to spread death and destruction over New York , Philadelphia , and San Francisco , as well as over Buenos Aires and Rio . The President 's reception during his visit to South America leaves no doubt that the former hostile attitude of almost all Latin American countries has undergone a great change in the last few years . The popular demonstrations in the streets , the ovations given him by deputies and senators and by the usually nationalist and anti-imperialist students , can not be dismissed as just another polite exchange of diplomatic amenities . True @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President , interrupted Roosevelt 's speech in Buenos Aires with the traditional shout , " Down with imperialism ! " However , his outburst may be explained by the fact that he is a quite recent convert to the Communist Party . Having probably reached only last year 's line in his required reading , this young man appears still to believe that to prefer the lesser evil is counter-revolutionary opportunism , though the present solution adopted by his party lies in the united front with all non-fascist parties to the right of the Communist Party . It may safely be said that the United States has abandoned the idea of expansionist militarist imperialism in the Western Hemisphere . The abrogation of the Platt Amendment , the withdrawal of the marines from Haiti and Nicaragua , the abandonment of financial control in the Caribbean and in Central America were practical and undeniable demonstrations of this tendency . The United States now has all the territory it needs at the strategic points for the military protection of the Panama Canal . The Virgin Islands , Puerto Rico , Guantanamo Bay , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , while the naval stations in Fonseca Bay , Hawaii , and Guam play the same part in the West . No Latin American government visualizes at present any invasion or intervention on the part of the United States . Some pessimists may not be fully convinced that President Roosevelt 's statement , made on December 28 , 1933 , before the Woodrow Wilson Foundation in Washington , to the effect that " the definite policy of the United States from now on is opposed to armed intervention " will be forever binding on all future policies of the United States . But at least they believe in the more realistic assurance of Secretary of State Cordell Hull , made a few days before at the close of the Montevideo conference , that " no government need fear any intervention on the part of the United States under the Roosevelt Administration . " That conference ushered in the new Administration 's " good neighbor " policy . The United States approved a convention on the rights and duties of states , according to which " no state has the right to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " This policy marked a complete reversal of the attitude the United States had taken during the previous Pan-American Conference held in Havana in 1928 . At that conference all attempts to vote similar conventions or resolutions were697 strenuously opposed and prevented by the American delegates and by their Latin American satellites , Cuba , Nicaragua , and Peru , whose dictators remained in power only because of the military or financial assistance of the United States . Sentiment against the United States ran so high during the Havana conference that Argentina even opposed the plan of building a pan-American road between Washington and Buenos Aires for fear , as the delegate from Argentina put it , such a highway might lead from Washington to Buenos Aires rather than from Buenos Aires to Washington . The hostility was based on very concrete economic reasons  --  the refusal of the United States to admit Argentine meat products in competition with the American meat industry . The pretext or reason given for this embargo  --  precaution against transferable plant and animal diseases  --  did not console the Argentine cattle raisers . Nothing could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's virtual promise , during a luncheon with President Justo , that animal diseases in one region would no longer be used as a reason for excluding exports of meat products from the entire country . Sick sheep and ailing cows will no longer stand between the friendship of Argentina and the United States . The United States no longer faces a hostile and pro-German Mexico in the south , as during the World War . As in former years , Brazil relies on the United States as its best customer for coffee , its main export product . There was never any serious friction between the two countries . Colombia , for many years bitter , has been reconciled by a $25,000,000 compensation for the loss of Panama , separated from the mother country by the " revolution " so skilfully engineered by Theodore Roosevelt . The present Colombian government under President Lopez has a united-front regime of all leftist elements . At the May 1 celebration this year , both President Lopez and the leader of the Communist Party , standing side by side on the balcony of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Central American countries now has any grievance against the United States . Though these countries defaulted all dollar loans , the United States waived all its claims and rights on the revenues of the custom duties which were pledged for the payment of loans made to these governments . During the Chaco war the United States was not accused of sidingopenly with either of the belligerents . At the time of the Arica affair a sensible solution for the conflict between Peru and Chile was proposed from this country : to cede Arica to Bolivia  --  against compensation to Chile and Peru  --  and thus to give this landbound country an access to the sea . Had this proposal been followed , it probably would have prevented the subsequent Chaco war . Thus it may be said that the United States has at present no enemies on the American continent . Certain points of dispute still remain among the nations below the Rio Grande . There is the rivalry between Brazil and Argentina for South American hegemony , the unsettled frontier problem among Ecuador , Peru , 698 and Colombia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the sea . By far the most dangerous and the most immediate threat to the peace of South America is the unsettled dispute between Bolivia and Paraguay over the Chaco Boreal . Yet in the face of the possibility of a renewal of the Chaco war , this item has been expressly excluded from the agenda at the Conference for the Maintenance of Peace . What was the real purpose behind the calling of the conference ? Roosevelt 's speech in Buenos Aires provided the clue . He stressed not less than fourteen times his advocacy of the principles of democracy , constitutional regimes , democratic government , individual liberty , personal freedom , and social and political justice . To a large extent his address was an emphatic warning against fascist adventures , and particularly against the danger of foreign  --  that is , European  --  fascist intervention or invasion . The South American brand of frankly military dictators and unconstitutional or semi-constitutional presidents who do not enjoy mass support is somewhat less dangerous to peace than the overseas brand of popular fascist dictators . Yet Roosevelt 's speech @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which flirt with the idea of aligning themselves with the European fascist countries . Already Salvador and Nicaragua have recognized Italy 's conquest of Ethiopia and the Franco regime in Spain . It is reported that Chile 's President , Alessandri , originally elected as a liberal , is likewise inclined to recognize Franco . With the exception of Mexico , Colombia , and Costa Rica , almost all Latin American governments have expressed , directly or indirectly , their sympathies with the Moorish , German , and Italian invaders and destroyers of the mother country , by harboring and protecting the fascist refugees in their embassies . Bolivia and Paraguay have at present totalitarian dictatorships headed by militarists . Bolivia 's new dictator , who a few months ago obtained power as a result of a military coup , is the chief of the country 's " National Socialist Party . " One of the forerunners and founders of this party was Captain Ernst Ram , who until 1932 was instructor of the Bolivian army in preparation for the war against Paraguay . The fascist movement is growing in most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the Nacistas in Chile are being organized and instructed by Germans and Italians . Only Colombia and Mexico have leftist governments . Venezuela is still groping to establish political parties and labor unions after the death of the dictator , Gomez . Chile , Ecuador , Peru , Argentina , and Uruguay enjoy constitutions which are innocuous adornments for the semi-dictators who wield all the power . However , in a number of these countries the fascists are still badly divided . There are no less than eight fascist groups or parties in Argentina , and four in Chile . Not everywhere does the army sympathize with the fascists , as it fears their competition and does not relish the idea of being superseded by civilian upstarts and armed ruffians . Moreover , united fronts , left blocs , and The NATION popular fronts of anti-fascist parties are springing up in every country . The trade-union movement , hitherto divided along ideological lines , shows everywhere a tendency toward unification . Notable electoral successes have been obtained in Argentina , Chile , and Peru , as a result of which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and reforms . In Argentina the candidates of the united front obtained the majority of all seats in the Chamber of Deputies during the last congressional election , and in Peru the presidential candidate of the left bloc won a few months ago the majority of the votes ? whereupon the elections were promptly invalidated . Strong native radical and leftist movements and parties are being formed in some of the South American countries . These movements have greater mass appeal than do those left parties which receive their inspiration from abroad . Among these new parties which speak the language of the natives and are , as a rule , concerned with the specific interests of their respective countries , are the Uniristas of Colombia , the Apristas of Peru , the Alianza Libertadora Nacional of Brazil . Each of these parties has a greater following than any previous leftist movement in South America . While at present peace prevails among the various Latin American republics , serious conflicts are brewing within almost every one  --  the final contest between fascism and democracy . These struggles will hardly be decided @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ following European examples , the fascist countries rally to the assistance of South American fascists or , worse still , if the latter ask or accept assistance from European fascists . It is on this point , perhaps , that the Monroe Doctrine , old or new , will have to be again invoked  --  but this time for the defense of the liberties of American peoples . Whatever their platonic and sometimes even practical sympathies for fascism and fascists , several American countries seem to be apprehensive of the possibilities of aggression from Europe . America 's apparent intention of obtaining from this conference merely a pan-American declaration of neutrality , and of preventing shipments of arms and munitions to belligerents in case of a world war , seems not to satisfy at least one-third of the countries represented . According to a recent dispatch , the five Central American republics , as well as Panama and Colombia , want the proposal of the United States strengthened by the inclusion of a declaration of solidarity to a point where non-American aggression against any one of the twenty-one republics would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could come only from fascist countries , such a declaration would be in effect a promise of mutual assistance against fascism . Whether actual treaties will be concluded for the prevention of war in the Americas , whether real neutrality will be established and maintained during the coming world war , and whether plans for mutual assistance would work , only time will tell . However , the danger of a world war in which the entire Western Hemisphere might be involved and the warning speeches of Roosevelt and Hull will greatly contribute toward strengthening the anti-fascist parties in Latin America . 