@@487344

N O MOVE that the United States could have taken at the London naval conference would have appeared more hypocritical than the proposal for a reduction of 20 per cent in total tonnage The Administration must have known that it would be rejected . In view of the recently announced increases in the French and Italian navies and the threat of new German construction , Britain is in no mood to consider reduction . Any suggestion that presupposes the continuation of the present ratios is a red rag to the Japanese . Since the United States is farther below its quota than any of the other powers , a cut would be much less expensive for this country than for Great Britain or Japan . It is obvious that no agreement is to be achieved unless the American delegation faces the issues realistically . Either we must give way to Japan 's demand for parity or we must enter into a collective agreement for maintaining the status quo in the East . If we desire disarmament  --  as vast numbers of Americans do  --  we must show our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we ask of other nations . And why not ? No country has greater natural security than the United States . A navy for purely defensive purposeswould be but a fraction of the size of our present fleet . If our naval force were reduced to defensive size , other countries would find it much easier to make reductions . Apart from the protection of our imperialistic interests  --  which mean very little to most Americans  --  is there any reason why we should not take the first step ? S HOULD MUSSOLINI ACCEPT the new " peace " plan drafted by Sir Samuel Hoare and Premier Laval , the League 's efforts to build a system of collective security would be effectively sabotaged . Ostensibly the scheme calls for an " exchange of territory " between Italy and Ethiopia . Italy is to be offered an area equaling approximately half of Ethiopia , while the African kingdom is to receive in return a narrow strip of territory leading to the port of Assab in Eritrea . Included in the land which is being offered Mussolini is a vast tract of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ colonization by Europeans . The proposal goes far beyond the ill-fated plan drafted by the Committee of Five prior to the outbreak of hostilities , and would give Mussolini more than his armies would be able to conquer  --  at their present rate of progress  --  for many months . That Laval has wished to " satisfy " Mussolini has long been evident , but Hoare 's approval , unless overridden by the Cabinet , can only mean that Baldwin has deliberately deceived millions of pro-League voters who gave him a specific mandate last month . Doubtless the unholy scheme will be defended on the ground that it removes the threat of an immediate war in Europe . Actually , however , the chance that Mussolini , weakened by the check to his armies in Ethiopia and harassed by sanctions , would attack England and France together is extremely remote . The primary danger of war in Europe lies in Hitler 's widely heralded thrust toward the East . If Mussolini obtains his empire by defying the League , all hope of that agency 's restraining Hitler will have vanished . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Great Britain has been strengthened by his somewhat unexpected triumphs at home . Owing to the Radical Socialists ' unwillingness to assume responsibility for the devaluation of the franc , Laval 's fiscal policies were approved by a substantial if grudging majority . The attack on the government for its leniency toward the Croix de Feu and other fascist organizations proved more difficult to withstand But after three days ' heated discussion a formula was found which satisfied all but the extreme left parties . The so-called defense organizations , both of the right and of the left , are to be dissolved and denied the right to reorganize using uniforms , insignia , or arms . Anyone caught cariying a revolver to a public meeting is to be subject to a heavy sentence , and any individual or journal responsible for provoking political crime is to be dealt with severely . As a result of this agreement , not only the Laval government but democracy itself ; s given a new breathing spell in France ; the chances seem now distinctly against a fascist coup d'etat before the elections in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ return to a left government which is representative of the views of the majority of the population .                     