@@486454

COMRADES : We have seized power because those who nominally possessed it had no means of using it , while those who used it put their private advantage above the public good . Our mission will be over when we hive contrived new instruments of corporate life in harmony with our social purposes and have reunited power and responsibility . During the generation before we achieved control , political life had almost disappeared : no party dared to take the necessary steps out of the morass of chicane and greed and unimaginative national rapacity . Every political leader feltbound to keep intact the swollen fortunes of the minority , to maintain the irresponsible control of semi-monopolistic industrial groups , to preserve the unstable equilibrium of the inverted financial pyramid , to respect the bellicose demands of a bigoted and uninformed nationalism . We have now overcome this paralysis in our moral and political life ; but do not mistake the authority our action-units exercise . They are hi the nature of a powerful stimulant , a poison introduced at the moment of crisis in order to restore the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relatively few in number ; your influence has been that of organization , -self-discipline , rational purpose  --  a moral influence . Within five years I hope to address only a skeleton army . You will return , disciplined and refreshed , to a country that already shows the happy effect of your exertions . Meanwhile : be watchful . FROM A LETTER TO THE . PRESIDENT OF THE ECONOMIC COUNCIL During the first stage of the economic transition it has been necessary to assume as fixed the objectives of the past economic order . Your provisional organization has been admirable . By the establishment of a commissary of supplies and shelter in every community , we have been able to guarantee subsistence to every person ; by erecting a national minimum , to which all individuals are entitled , irrespective of status , vocational ability , or capacity to work , we have not only'laid an indispensable foundation for planned machine production ; we have lessened the friction and suffering that would otherwise have been inflicted , not alone upon the uppermost tenth of the income groups , but upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of land , capital , and credit have been accomplished all the more effectively because we have taken these measures without vindictiveness ; the good surgeon , ruthless with the knife , does not disdain anaesthesia . But the transformation we seek is something more than a nominal change in power and control ; we must resist the strong temptation to buttress the existing economic structure by accepting its objectives and attempting to carry it on . Under the financial canons of the past , the goal of economic production was to create new wants , to expand the market , The fourth of a series of articles on this subject . Others will follow in early issues. ? Eorros . THE NATION.to provide a constantly increasing turnover of goods , to direct economic activities toward the fields of greatest individual profits . Our new economic system must rest upon two radically different assumptions : first , our prime duty is to supply a constant minimum of the necessaries of life for our whole population : second , we must turn a good part of our excess energies into forms of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the bearing and rearing of children , the cultivation of the arts and sciences , the building of new cities and the complete reconstruction of old ones , the magnificent rehabilitation of the whole countryside . Once we have established an adequate minimum for the whole population , our current production must be directed , not toward creating aimless wants and meaningless luxuries , but toward providing replacements . Gains in production , through new inventions , through planning and rationalization , will theii provide further energy and man power for creative activity . The success of an economic order must be judged , - not by the absolute output of goods , but by the ratio of consumption to creation . Fortunately , we have already taken a step or two in the right direction . In many communities the proportion of teachers to children has been doubled . Eventually , I suggest , we must quadruple it ; this is only a limited first move toward replacing the prison discipline of the old public school with the experimental and many-sided activity necessary for a healthy . education . Similarly , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ schools , universities into many times the present number of units ; in various industries the same requirements hold true for administration and factory organization ; we must recover the human scale . In the organization of production , once-the formidable inertia of the past is overcome , the Economic Council will perhaps tend to err on the side of conservatism . I for one would not have it otherwise . Our problem in America , unlike that of our comrades in Soviet Russia , is to reduce the tempo of industrialism . We must turn society from its feverish preoccupation with money-making inventions , goods , profits , salesmanship , symbolic reprekentatians of wealth to the deliberate promotion of the more humane functions of life . No Economic Council can by itself enforce such a change ; but by providing the proper instruments and organization , by collaborating with those educational and cultural agencies that are working in the same direction , it can guide this change to fruitful issues . SPEECH TO THE LEAGUE OF YOUTH YOUNG MEN AND YOUNG WOMEN : I will not burden you with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you , nor flatter you with the comforting delusion that your beliefs and prejudices are valid in direct proportion to your inexperience . The great advantage of youth is that it is the period that fosters the maximum contempt for death . To you , then , we have given some of the dangerous tasks of society : those of the mine , the construction camp , the aviation field , the lumber camp , the hospital . Your service in industry is part of your social education and personal discipline ; your foreign expeditions at the call of the World Economic Council have rounded out that sense of international society which you acquired , in the germ , through your intercourse with visiting teachers of other nationalities in your schools , from the earliest grades onward . Most of you have deeper regional roots than the average American of the : past order ; but , by the same token , you have lost the stale illusions of isolation and self-sufficiency : you are , in a very real and effective sense , citizens of the world  --  and this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of being the citizen of any single country . What the Green Revolution - has given you is not allegiance to a country , but allegiance to a universal corporate idea . MESSAGE TO THE LOWER LAKES COUNCIL OF CORPORATIONS - - The Council of Commissars views with - concern the effort to form political parties within the local corporations . The net effect of this effort-would be to upset the equilibrium of interests and to create false issues ; moreover , it- is a sign that the local corporations are not performing their functions . The council regards this part of the political structure as of critical importance . ' Today the citizen ' does not vote - through his-political party ; he votes through his corporation  --  thrOugh-. his city , his university , his factory , his consumers ' cooperative , his professional association ; he has as many votes as he has interests and functions . Should the work of the local units fall off , should place-holders and- demagogues take the posts of able administrators who are skilled in composing differences and finding a common workable ground , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be hampered ; power would revert to the Central Authority , - where it existed at first at the beginning of the revolution , and I would speedily become a Caesar or fall before some unscrupulous commissar who was bent on becoming a Caesar himself . A government that - really-  operated under the principles of - the old political system , and was Socialist one day and Tory the next , or Democrat one year and Republican the next , would be impossible ; as a matter of fact , the theory was a deception . Behind the scenes the work of- the government went on  --  almost equally bad or equally good  --  with little respect for party mandates. - Today our political life must be a constant reality , since it deals with real forces , real issues , real interests ; but the essence of our system is that these issues can neither be formulated nor expressed through the medium of the political party . Our system is not to count numerical votes ; we compose and integrate corporate pressures . Let me recall- a familiar example  --  the reduction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ during the three-year period beginning last October , in order to lower the general working hours from six to five and a half . That issue- might have led to a deadlock between the Council of Cities and Regions and the Economic Council ; or , carried on in accordance with the principles of party government , it might have become the issue in a whole series of electoral contests between the ins and the outs . The prompt decision of the Council of Commissars in favor of reduction avoided this futile display of power , and the popular response proved that we interpreted correctly the sentiment of the country . The fear that we should fall below the world quota in the surplus production of wheat , cotton , petroleum , and cotton goods has proved after a year 's experiment to be unfounded . The World Economic Council has even suggested a further experimental reduction in export commodities to a five-hour schedule . EXTRACT FROM A RADIO BROADCAST UNDER THE AUSPICES OF THE COMMISSAR OF EDUCATION Today it is highly important to distinguish between these different methods in education @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ comrades wish to make over the entire educational system on doctrinal lines , they would crystallize the beliefs and slogans of the revolution into a permanent system of habits and attitudes . Nothing could be more fatal to the real accomplishments of the revolution . The method of indoctrination would burden us with stale dogmas and empty shibboleths and keep us from controlling effectively the flux of reality . - But while indoctrination is always a danger , training for the tasks and opportunities of our society is necessary ; this concerns itself not with beliefs and attitudes by themselves , but with actions . The old order left us with a vast mass of unsocialized and undisciplined people ; someof these were mentally unfit to take part in the new order , others were actively hostile , others still were untrained for any , . useful work whatever . It is for these adults that we have - established our temporary agricultural and industrial training schools ; passage through these institutions is necessary as a qualification for leaving the present undesirable quarters once occupied by the rich in our big cities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we have been creating . ' This task of rehabilitation will:take at least a generation . In cases of extreme moral degeneration , as in many gangsters , business men , politicians , and racketeers , we have sought to use every resource of medicine and psychiatry to further the work . At last we come to the main task of education : the discipline and cultivation of the whole personality , that continuous process which begins in the cradle and ends only with the grave . What type of personality do we seek to create ? We seek to abolish the narrow- specialist , the fanatic , the dangerous . madman who would simplify life by the elegant methods of Procrustes . We do not deny the values and interests that properly belong to the workaday world ; on the contrary , we are steadily reorganizing production so as to assimilate more of them . But the-processes of life and culture complement those limited experiences , and . the man or woman whose activities have been limited to the narrow walls of the office or the factory , who has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ never found his life heightened and intensified by a painting , a drama , a poem , or an imaginative grasp of the actual by means of philosophy or aesthetics  --  such a man or woman has not fully entered into his human heritage . - FROM A PERSONAL LETTER , WRITTEN FIVE YEARS AFTER THE REVOLUTION But surely , my dear E. , you see beneath the surface of my " dictatorial mug . " A dictator , even such a temporary one as I purpose to be , can not operate from behind the scenes ; he must appear in public , that is , in character.  --  Had I so much as cracked a smile during the first year , our enemies would have regarded it as a sign of weakness , and so would a sheepish populace . Hence the frown and the implacable jaw  --  and how my face aches after a long day in public ! To speak frankly , this business of make-up is all that I have learned about the political animal during my three years in office ; and I learned this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ jest with a rebellious major general . The soldiers thought I was afraid of him and almost deserted me ; I was compelled to have him executed on the spot to prevent a counter-revolution from occurring . After that I scowled at such people  --  and canceled the death sentence . Aside from this , I have learned nothing about managing the political animal that I did not already know as president of a small college . The main thing is to have a good dean ; he must do the dirty work , hire and fire , boss and bully , and execute all the disagreeable orders , in order that the Chief shall not fall into public disfavor . As executive secretary of the council , my old dean at Swarthurst has done admirably ; there is nothing like a good grounding in the classics to fit a man for such a post . We have made our share of mistakes , but I had counted on making more . I had forgotten the positive energy and capacity for growth of the young people who rallied around the original @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ incorporate , integrate , internationalize  --  as we have already passed beyond the earlier shibboleths of the revolution  --  deflate , decentralize , distribute . Some of our engineers , still limited and fundamentally uneducated men , may fancy that the highest mission of an organized society is to make organization universal ; but quite the contrary , I feel that the real use of organization is to leave large tracts of life in freedom and peace . I purpose to give every possible encouragement to spontaneous and amateur activities  --  chiefly by letting them alone . To be completely rational is to allow even for irrationality , and though the words over the door of our state are discipline , corporate responsibility , and socialization , once we step over the threshold we will write Emerson 's , word : Whim . - Like him , we hope it is more than that ; but we ca n't bother to explain . You , my dear E. , will understand . - 