@@487347

T HE MOST one can say of the naval conference to date is that it has completely lived up to expectations . Within a few hours after its opening the Japanese trotted out their demand for parity under new phraseology  --  a " common upper limit . " When pressed to define their objective more specifically , the Japanese delegates first said that the " common upper limit " was to apply to three countries only ? Great Britain , the United States , and Japan . Later , when it became evident that the smaller powers were joining the two Anglo-Saxon nations in opposing Japan 's demand , their position shifted , and the conference was told that all states should have the same theoretical rights of equality . Meanwhile , in bilateral conversations with the British , the Japanese declared that they were willing to concede that England had greater defensive requirements than Japan , but insisted that they must have full parity with America . Since Britain and the United States must maintain fleets in the Atlantic as well as the Pacific , parity for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the other governments can grant while maintaining the existing theory of navalism . If battleships , heavy cruisers , and airplane carriers are of any value , it is for offensive purposes . But whyspend hundreds of millions of dollars , the navalists say , if at the same time you allow your potential enemy to have a more effective fleet than you have . To this there is no answer as long as a country is committed to the use of its navy for imperialistic ends . Since Japan can not give in , for reasons of national prestige , the deadlock appears unbreakable . Unless the United States is willing to make substantial concessions , we might as well 1ecall our delegation and at least save that expense . S TEP BY STEP the Japanese military appears to be im-posing its will on China despite the resentment which these moves have engendered . Not satisfied with the semiautonomous government which has been set up at Peiping with the consent of Chiang Kai-shek , the Japanese have seized Tangku , an important port near Tientsin , , and Kalgan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ route to Ulan Bator ( Urga ) and Soviet Siberia . The first gives Japan control over practically all of North China 's foreign trade , while the second puts it in a position to bring pressure on Outer Mongolia . Unless checked by foreign powers , the chances are that the Japanese will continue until they obtain full control of the five provinces which they originally intended to include in the North China autonomy movement . Genuine international opposition is unlikely , however , unless the Chinese themselves organize effective resistance to Japanese penetration . The brutal police attack on the Peiping students who were demonstrating against Japanese aggression may prove the spark that will kindle such resistance . Because of China 's age-old respect for scholarship , Chinese students have long played an influential role in national affairs . It was the students who were primarily responsible for the overthrow of the notorious pro-Japanese Anfu clique in 1919 . Students were in the vanguard of the revolutionary movement in 1926-27 . The fact that they have been effectively suppressed since the Japanese invasion of Manchuria in 1931 makes their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ particularly imps essed by the League 's sanctions against Mussolini , believing that if they can organize opposition in China the League can scarcely refuse to take action against Japan . D R. FRANCIS E. TOWNSEND , who has won the support of millions of hard-pressed , elderly Americans ( and of their sons and daughters-in-law ) by telling them that Congress can save the nation by the simple and highly-gratifying device of giving old people $200 a month which they must spend immediately , has the two old parties worried . The more remote threat is that Dr. Townsend ' will incite a third-party movement . The immediate cause for alarm is the questionnaire which has been sent to every member of Congress asking for a yes-or-no answer to three questions . The Congressional victim is asked whether he is in favor of the Townsend plan , whether he voted for the McGroarty bill last session , and whether he could be relied upon to help pass a bill embodying the plan at the coming session . To ask a politician any question requiring a straight yes or no is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  the answers are to be printed in the National Townsend Weekly just before Christmas  --  whether he is in favor of a plan to pay $200 a month to his elderly constituents is to put him in the position of the gentleman who was asked if he had stopped beating his wife . The simple yes or no leaves no space for pointing out that the proprietors of the Townsend plan have already extracted more money from the old people than the old people will ever get out of the Townsend plan ; that the McGroarty bill provides for a pension " not to exceed $200 a month " but sets no minimum ; that on other issues , such as labor , the Townsendites are extremely reactionary ; and that the transactions tax by which the plan would be financed would bear heaviest on the poor . No wonder the old parties are worried . Making promises that can not be kept is nothing new for Democrats and Republicans , who have used the trick successfully for decades . The trouble is that Dr. Townsend is , so far @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ job of executing it to those in office . The continued agitation for the Townsend plan should make it clear to Congress that the demand for security is too strong to be satisfied by the Administration 's feeble gesture in that direction , the social-security act . W E WISH that the Democrats who are so exuberant over the New Deal and the Republicans who are pleading for a curtailment of government expenditures would take time off to study the two latest and most reliable estimates of unemployment . The first , made by Robert Nathan , formerly consultant of the Committee on Economic Security , places the number of wholly unemployed in September at 10,915,000 ? a decline of about 4,000,000 since March , 1933 . This figure is closer to the estimates prepared by the Labor Research Association and other radical agencies than to those of the more respectable organizations , such as the National Industrial Conference Board . It is considerably lower , however , than the latest estimate of the American Federation of Labor , which has just been issued after more than a year of careful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at approximately 11,650,000 as compared with 15,740,000 in 1933 . Thus while business activity has recovered more than half of its losses in the past thirty months , unemployment is still three-quarters as great as at the depth of the depression . At this rate full recovery to the 1929 level of production would . leave about 7,500,000 without work . Less than half of this number are now employed on government projects , and neither of the major political parties , so far as we are able to observe , has anything to offer the remaining four million . Yet these unemployed millions , if even partially organized , could hold the balance of power at the next election . A PARTICULARLY HORRIBLE vigilante attack took place on November 30 in Tampa , Florida , where three men , members of a radical political group , the Modern Democrats , were seized by a band of men , among whom they recognized at least two policemen , and were flogged , tarred , and feathered so severely that one of them has since died . The mayor , the chief @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Legion have denounced this outrage , and local officials have promised to do everything possible to discover and convict the perpetrators of it . However , aftermuch questioning of policemen , Chief Titsworth declared that he had not been able to discover that any of his men had had a part in the affair . Joseph A. Shoemaker , the man who died , was said by his fellow-victims to have been subjected to a more severe beating because he called one of the gang , a policeman , by name ; just before his death he regained consciousness long enough to repeat the name to various officials who were at his bedside waiting for it . The condition in which Shoemaker was found , and as a result of which he died , was described by the attending physician and printed in the Tampa Tribune . Man 's inhumanity to man was never better illustrated , and it was undoubtedly the nature and extent of the violence that provoked the widespread protest . N O DOUBT THE PROTEST is for the most part genuine . That vigilante sympathies also exist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Fort Myers News-Press . This newspaper declared that a similar attack in Fort Myers would doubtless result in a similar outcry , " for the record , " but that in private men " who knew who did it and why " would say that the victims got what was coming to them . It went on : However , the chastisement administered the other day was , by all accounts , unnecessarily brutal and the people of Tampa may be saying that this time the boys went too far . Laughing off boisterous corporal punishment is one thing and condoning ruffianism just short of homicide is another . There are better ways of combating a nuisance than beating a man half to death , and whatever the authorities in Tampa may think of vigilante justice they would do well to quench both the cause and effect before they have a sure-enough murder case on their hands . There are two items to add to this . Since Shoemaker was so inconsiderate as to die , the authorities of Tampa have a sure-enough murder case on their hands . And the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ view " of the case . The Tampa Defense Committee , the American Civil Liberties Union , and other organizations which are attempting to further legal prosecution of it may want to call this attitude by another name . E NEMIES OF DEMOCRACY must be constantly cheered by the status of academic freedom in New York City 's high schools . The latest invasion of student independence took place recently at the instigation of Stuyvesant High School authorities . A group of Stuyvesant students had met in a private home to consider the formation of a chapter of the American Student Union , the projected coalition of Socialist and Communist student organizations . Police summoned by school officials invaded the apartment , broke up the meeting , and seized both the student who resided there and James Wechsler , former editor of the Columbia Spectator and an organizer of the Union , who was to have addressed the meeting . When Wechsler asked if he was under arrest , the police replied , " That 's up to the principal . " After having been detained for about two hours , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , - Sinclair J. Wilson , who was apparently disturbed by the form rather than the content of the incident . The episode also disclosed the existence of student " spies " who submitted a detailed report of the meeting , carefully distinguishing between those who had attended to listen and those who had gone to " break up the meeting . " Mr. Wilson later denied that he had wanted the police to raid a private home ; he explained somewhat lamely that he had asked for plain-clothes men to act " in case a crowd gathered in the street . " It is indisputable , however , that the principal was arbitrarily assuming jurisdiction over the extramural activities of his students , and that , if the youthful spies were acting " spontaneously and voluntarily , " as Mr. Wilson claims , nothing has been done to curb their ardor . Perhaps the most shocking phase of the incident , aside from the obvious illegality of the raid , was the intimidation of a student in the presence of school authorities by police who loudly declared , " We 'd @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Campbell and Mayor LaGuardia have both declared that they will hold immediate investigations . Such an inquiry , if boldly prosecuted , should serve to illuminate the whole system of repression in the city 's schools . Stuyvesant High School is not the only offender ; the use of police , espionage , " red lists , " and student " vigilantes " has been frequently reported in schools throughout the city , and the " Americanism " drive is being faithfully pursued . P RESIDENT MENDIETA of Cuba has been forced to resign , a victim in the end of the force which brought him to power ? American imperialism . For some months the United States has been seeking to organize a " free " election in Cuba , to escape the charge that the government is handpicked by Washington . Difficulties developed when the old Liberal Party  --  formerly headed by ex-President Machado  --  split , and a minority group supported the coalition candidacy of Miguel Mariano Gomez . The Supreme Electoral Tribunal declared this combination illegal , whereupon the coalition parties threatened to withdraw from - the elections @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the State Department , to President Dodd of Princeton University to act as arbitrator . On December 6 Dr. Dodd devised a formula which in effect reversed the tribunal 's decision . This precipitated the withdrawal of the strong Democratic Party headed by former President Menocal , while the dominant faction of the Liberal Party issued an emphatic statement charging American interference . On December 11 Mendieta resigned , and Jose Barnet , former Secretary of State , was elected Provisional President . With Mendieta out of the way , the Democratic and Liberal parties have agreed to participate in the elections on January 10 , which will give at least the appearance of a genuine contest . All other parties , representing an overwhelming majority of the Cuban people  --  the Cuban Revolutionary Party , Young Cuba , the Agrarian Party , and the Communist Party  --  are illegal . The government terror , the emergency repression laws , and the complete suppression of civil rights have made it impossible for them to conduct an electoral campaign . The United States may attain its desire of having a " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be no nearer freedom than it was under Machado . M AYOR LAGUARDIA of New York City , who introduced foreign affairs into his job by revoking the permit of a German masseur because the Nazis were undemocratic , has again taken sides in an international argument by attending the Italian Red Cross rally at Madison Square Garden on December 14 . It is true that the Mayorconfined his remarks to the noble purposes of the Italian Red Cross , but he was the only speaker who paid much attention to this aspect of the affair . Supreme Court Justices Cotillo and Pecora , who also spoke , frankly championed the cause of Italy in the Ethiopian war , and urged Italian-Americans to support the civilizing and liberating efforts of Mussolini and the Italian army in Africa . The purpose of the meeting was described in the Progresso Italodmericano for November 17 in vivid language . To once more demonstrate that the hearts of the ItaloAmericans beat with the heart of the faraway Motherland and that each and every compatriot who resides in this Motherland of adoption is ready to give @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ brutal international coalition led by England with the utmost resistance and give a chance to the Italian soldiers who are now in Africa to write another epic page of glory in the history of civilization . . . and also it must serve to show that the five millions of Italian-Americans who live in the United States are ready to immolate themselves on the altar of their great Motherland and will answer . . . an eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth . Even allowing for the impetuous Italian temperament , these look like fighting words , and they might well have warned the Mayor of New York to avoid even the appearance of sponsoring them by his presence at the meeting . Free speech being still a cherished American tradition , Italo-Americans have every right to immolate themselves as loudly as they like , however much they may run counter to American foreign policy by doing so , but for the highest official of a great city to appear in his public capacity while such an attitude is being urged is something else again . A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Investigation , of which J. Edgar Hoover is director . It seems that a number of applicants for jobs  --  not to mention a number of men enlisting in the army during the month of November  --  have criminal records ! About 7 per cent of the 7,500 army applicants were discovered to have been accused or convicted of crime , including robbery , embezzlement , forgery , breaking and entering , and unlawful wounding . Fifty-three of the 7,500 have served penitentiary sentences . We do not know the statistical relationship between those of us who so far have kept out of jail and those who have not , but 53 out of 7,500 amounts to .7 per cent , which somehow sounds like a pretty good batting average for the non-jailbirds . However , Mr. Hoover had worse statistics to offer ; of 197 persons applying for chauffers ' and cab drivers ' permits in Kansas City , Cleveland , Omaha , Salt Lake City , and Honolulu , forty-eight , or about 25 per cent , had criminal records , and ten had served prison sentences . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ know . Perhaps that no man who ever was accused of a crime , or went to prison for it , should have another job . Perhaps that the employees of the Bureau of Investigation have too much time on their hands in which to look up finger-print records . If a man , even an ex-criminal , is out looking for a job which involves real work at regular wages , it might be more sensible , not to say kinder , to forget his past . He more than other men should have learned the lesson that crime does n't pay ; bringing up his criminal past to plague him may merely convince him that honest work does n't , either .                     