@@487386

ONLY confusion can result from an attempt to analyze the situation in Europe in its separate parts or from day to day . To understand any single event at any given moment it is necessary to understand the whole intricate mess . Perhaps the central fact to keep in mind is that a world war is even now in progress . In the streets of Madrid , in the sky above the city , at the port of Barcelona , on the seas that surround Spain , a war is being fought in which every important nation of Europe is engaged . They are calling it the " Little World War " in Paris . But its size should not be judged by the territory over which its legions fight ; it should be measured by the magnitude of the powers engaged and the interests involved . Had it been a genuine civil war the struggle between the fascist troops of Franco and the Spanish republican army would probably have ended early with the defeat of the The NATION fascists But it never was that . From the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ borders from Italy and then from Germany , to augment the inadequate rebel supplies . After the neutrality agreement came into being , the fascist flood continued , and finally , belatedly , Soviet Russia began to ship equipment to Madrid . Officially , of course , it is still a civil war . Germany and Italy have consistently denied their shipments to the rebels . Russia has denied similar charges , though it showed enough diplomatic honesty to announce that it would feel free to aid the Spanish government if the fascist powers continued to help Franco . And the Non-Intervention Committee has saved its face by deciding that none of the accusations has been proved  --  though all are known to be true . So that , behind a diplomatic false-face , a situation has developed in which Italy and Germany are waging undeclared war against Soviet Russia , both actively with guns and men on the soil of Spain and through charges and counter-charges and diplomatic maneuvers in capitals a thousand miles from Madrid . France is not yet physically engaged , although its sympathies are with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But diplomatically it is tied to Great Britain and emotionally it is torn between sympathy for Spain and horror of war , a conflict that divides and confuses the government itself and the masses that support it . As for Britain , it is following its traditional policy , the policy that always works so well until the fatal day when it fails to work altogether and complete catastrophe results . The government temporizes , pretends the war is a local affair , pretends the neutrality agreement is still effective ; and meanwhile speeds up its armament program and is said to be negotiating secretly with the Spanish fascists in an effort to secure its interests in the Mediterranean in case of Franco 's victory . But the principal belligerents are going to make it difficult for any nation to continue to hide behind a policy of concession and compromise . During the past week Germany and Italy have recognized the " government " of Franco , though his mercenaries are still camped in the suburbs of Madrid ; and the fascist general has utilized the prestige thus conferred upon him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even to demand from France the funds the Spanish government has invested there for safe keeping . Italy has followed its recognition of Franco by an announcement that under no circumstances will it permit a " Communist state " to exist on the Mediterranean . A loyalist cruiser has been struck by a torpedo which the government more than hints came from a German submarine . The British have decided to convoy merchant ships on the higli seas . Behind these minor maneuvers looms the anti-Communist alliance made or in the making between Germany , Japan , and Italy . An agreement between Germany and Japan has been ratified this past week in Tokyo ; an understanding between the Reich and Italy was reached during Count Ciano 's recent visit to Hitler ; and the existence of a bloc pledged to fight communism is freely admitted on all hands . This can not please Great Britain , whatever its sentiments toward the Soviet Union and the Spanish left . But it may easily frighten both Britain and November 28 , 1936 - France into continued delay and hesitation The militarist-nationalist powers have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and will accept accomplished facts . The weakness of the democratic states has become an axiom among dictatorships , and even Soviet Russia shares this reputation in so far as it has preferred peace to the defeat of fascism . Thus the Little World War grows bigger , and responsibility for its growth must be laid upon the nations that have refused to act at a time when action might still have saved Europe 's peace . The curious aspect of this tragedy is that every nation knows that the fascist states were determined to do what they are now doing Yet each step in their progress toward the domination of Europe is greeted with mild surprise and treated as a detached incident , when political realism would demand that it be understood for what it is  --  a single maneuver in a general war . Dismantling the WPA H ARRY HOPKINS and Rexford Guy Tugwell have generally been regarded as the Administration 's left wing Mr. Tugwell has yielded to pressure , and his program for rehabilitating the low-income farmer , inadequate though it was , is to be further @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being subjected to the withering , if indirect , fire of old-line politicians . If this means that Hopkins is to be forced out , the President may look forward to a serious loss of confidence from his liberal supporters . Today it is work relief , not crops , that is being plowed under in the name of the balanced budget . Once it was every third row of cotton . Now it is every fourth job in the WPA . A hint of the sweeping cuts that have already begun to be made came in the very first post-election speech of President Roosevelt , whose victory was swollen with the votes of relief workers . It was a speech calling on private charity to resume a responsible role in caring for the unemployed . Since then we have had James Farley 's statement to the press in London on November 16 that the WPA is to be abandoned and relief shifted back to the local communities . At home , orders have been received by the directors of local projects to cut their staffs 25 per cent by December @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ government to eliminate 500,000 of the WPA 's total of 2,400,000 by January 1 . To pay the cost of relief until June 31 , the end of the fiscal year , the Administration , it is reported , will ask Congress for $500,000,000 , which will keep the WPA going only if its program is reduced by 25 per cent . Where the ax will fall in the general process of curtailment is indicated by cuts now under way . Reductions are not likely to be uniformly distributed over the entire country . Though the schedule calls for large cuts in the cities , it is more probable that in order to avoid organized protest the Administration will accomplish its objective by drastically reducing or completely liquidating projects in the rural areas , where WPA workers are621 unorganized and lack the mass support necessary to exert pressure on Congress . We may also expect disproportionate reductions in white-collar projects , particularly in the cultural ones This is unfortunate not only because the four arts projects have made a remarkable showing in proportion to their cost but also because actors , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ general will be the last to be absorbed by private industry just as they were the last to be taken care of by the government Already in New York City 1,000 each have been let out from the theater and music projects , 800 have been dropped from the art project ; the writers ' project has been reduced by 16 per cent and is scheduled for a further cut of 26 per cent We commented last week upon one of the most blatant examples of slashing without regard to need , which occurred when 850 white-collar workers were dismissed from the New York City hospital project despite the fact that their work of modernizing a dozen city hospitals is essential to the public health When the city administrator , Colonel Somervell , received protests from all sides he offered to reinstate the workers in jobs at Fort Hamilton . Forts must be modernized though hospitals fall apart . From other cities come similar reports . In San Francisco as many as 50 artists are said to have been laid off in a week , and California newspapers have announced that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ project in Oklahoma City has been asked to report on the " minimum number of workers needed to complete our ' American Guide ' " ? not the minimum number of workers who must be kept on relief . The Artists ' Union of Boston reports that 100 art workers are to be dropped by December 15 . Now the groundwork is being prepared for the general dismissals . The process must be devious because of the resistance which a direct attack would provoke . Instead of direct dismissal , investigation of all New York 's 214,000 WPA workers has begun . True , 90 per cent of them have already established their claim to relief either by being transferred from home relief or by submitting to some prior investigation , but the present survey is to establish their " current need , " and it is significant that the " interview sheet " asks no questions about the debts of the relief worker who , it is hoped , will be found ineligible for relief . Presumably next month 's survey will establish their next month 's " current need @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rolls have been pared to the bone . What will happen then ? Several procedures are open to the workers who are being dismissed because the election is over and a dividend recovery is sweeping the newspapers They can go back to home relief , if they can get it They can be reabsorbed by private industry , when , where , and if they find private industry offering jobs . Some of them , in their extremity , may do what Victor Brown and Goldie Larner did in New York last spring when they received the fatal pink slips  --  they may commit suicide . In the big cities the workers can and will put up a fight to be retained on the WPA For the white-collar workers this is the only alternative ; and in New 622 ' York at least they are so strongly organized in the City Projects Council that their protest may well be effective . Last spring when the WPA quota was cut 42,000 , the white-collar men escaped with no dismissals largely because of their intelligent and courageous resistance . Workers in other cities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . They must not hesitate to use it to its full strength . To that pressure must be added the voice of organized labor , which can ignore this new attack on the unemployed only at its own peril . Tampa and the Future T HE Convention of the American Federation of Labor in Tampa has continued the suspension of the unions affiliated with the Committee for Industrial Organization in a resolution which makes a frantic attempt to put the blame on the C. I. 0 . for all that has happened . It recounts , in whining and hypocritical sentences , the aid the A. F. of L. has given to the estranged unions , which have now turned against their parent body . It says nothing of the long record of sabotage and actual betrayal which American workers , organized and unorganized , have suffered at the hands of the craft-union bloc . Its very tone reveals a desperate and authentic anxiety . This anxiety springs from the certain knowledge that the future of American labor lies with industrial unionism . It haunted the opening speech of President Green @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be measured , in one sense , by the ferocity with which the C. I. 0 . has been attacked at Tampa , for this ferocity reflects the inroads it had made and is making in the minds of the rank and file even in craft unions . The " unity " and " peace " which everybody would like to see brought about have been dramatized for the newspaper reader in terms of the personal ambitions of the leaders who find themselves at swords ' points in this controversy . While this has made the issue vivid , it has also limited the perspective in which it must be seen to be understood . What are the larger considerations ? Industrial unionism is a technique of mass organization growing directly out of the system of mass production which characterizes our highly industrialized modem state . To the concentrated power of modern monopolistic industry labor must oppose an equal concentration and solidarity , which it can achieve only by organizing all the workers of an industry into one big union . Industrial unionism is the great natural weapon with which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can bring about in this country a political society that will correspond to our system of production . Through a combination of developments , political and economic , industrial unionism some three years ago burst out of its relative obscurity as a sound theory and emerged as a practical functioning technique for organizing the great bulk of American workers , hitherto unorganized but ripe for unionization . That section of the A. F. of L. represented by the C. I. O. ? which includes speThe NATION cific unions already organized industrially and leaders committed to the principle  --  welcomed this development and seized upon the new prestige of industrial unionism as an opportunity to build a genuine national labor movement in contradistinction to a select club comprising 5 per cent of American workers . It was , naturally enough , rejected by those craft unions whose workers are best organized horizontally  --  and there are a few such . It was much more violently rejected by those craft unions whose memberships , if they were recruited on an industrial-union basis , would be enormously increased , to the peril of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A. F. of L. provides for industrial as well as craft organization . And certainly the intelligent and logical solution , granting that the A. F. of L. is sincerely devoted to the interests of labor , organized and unorganized , would be to allocate to the craft unionists those sections of labor which are best organized on that basis , and to the industrial unionists the workers in the mass-production industries . The trouble is that on any democratic basis the industrial unionists would command the great majority of workers , and the machinery of the American labor movement would pass into their hands . The craft unionists who now control the machinery will defend and are defending it with every weapon available : they deny that the issue is industrial unionism ; they charge the C. I. 0 . with being communistic ; and certain reactionary trade-union elements have even raised the race issue in the attempt to pry predominantly Jewish unions away from the C. I. 0. , arguing that Jewish unions can not afford in the light of the anti-Semitic danger to be connected with a " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ larger considerations here adduced and the day-by-day bitterness that has emerged from the political conflict involved , is there any reason to hope for genuine unity or peace ? Historically and practically , the only basis for peace is that the industrial unionists be given a free hand to organize the mass-production industries . Since the executive council insists that the constitution permits both types of organizing , it should be able to make this concession . At the moment , however , too many bridges have been burned . It seems very unlikely that the A. F. of L. would make such a concession openly , and the issue is so crucial and has been so well advertised that it would be difficult to find a face-saving disguise . It was equally unlikely , however , considering the essential lack of energy in the decadent and dwindling craft-union bloc , that the convention in Tampa should have taken positive action against the C. I. 0 . It has , to be sure , sustained the suspensions . This looked like action ; is is really inaction . To expel , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ council to the violent action involved in giving charters to rival unions and to the actual knifing of the industrial-union drive in every basic industry . Industrial unionism must eventually win out , since it is stronger than its advocates . The A. F. of L. must permit the mass-production industries to be organized industrially if only because they are being so organized .                     