@@487447

NEITHER LABOR NOR THE FARMER SEEMS to have cause for alarm in the Supreme Court 's decision in the Chicago milk case . In our opinion it does not weaken proper exemption of trade-union and farm-cooperative activities from the anti-trust laws or undermine proper attempts at regulation of the milk industry . The court held that milk producers and distributors engaged in a price-fixing combination could not evade anti-trust prosecution by appealing to the Agricultural Marketing Act , since that law permits price-fixing only under government supervision and regulation . Had the court held otherwise , it would have left the dairy farmer and the consumer completely at the mercy of the milk trust . The decision also seems to imply that neither labor unions nor farm cooperatives can plead exemption from the anti-trust laws when they engage in monopolistic combinations with employer and distributor organizations . To have decided otherwise would have been to uphold a kind of racketeering . But this ' decision does not mean that the anti-trust laws can be used to police any and all labor-union and farm-cooperative activities . Attorney General Murphy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ applied " to the activities of labor organizations and their members . " The question is , , " What activities ? " Murphy is less cautious than Thurman Arnold , but both seem to be looking back to the anti-trust-law interpretations of the court uncle Taft . THE SUPREME COURT HAS ALREADY TURNED its back on the ideas of the Taft era , and nowhere more strikingly than in the field of labor . One of Justice Brandeis 's last decisions identified the right to picket with the right of free expression , and was in sharp contrast to the weasel reasoning of the decisions to which the Department of Justice now appeals . We think the Supreme Court will uphold the United States Circuit Court of Appeals in its unanimous , decision setting aside the $700,000 triple-damage verdict against the Apex sitdown strikers in a suit brought under the anti-trust laws . Judge John Biggs , Jr. , condemned the sitdown strike but declared that the commission of unlawful acts by the strikers did not make them guilty of a combination in restraint of interstate commerce ? " their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ action local in motive and in effect . " Remedy for the sitdown strike , the court declared , lies in the criminal laws of the state : Thurman Arnold says he agrees with the decision . But if the court is unwilling to apply the anti-trust laws to the sitdown strike , is it likely to do so in the obscurer and more controversial cases with which he is concerned ? The Apex decision , in effect , upholds The Nation 's contention that the anti-trust laws were not meant to be a means of policing labor but of policing industry . In that connection the ruling will be bad news for Tom Girdler , who has pending a similar suit for $7,500,000 against the C. I. 0 . The steel industry provides our outstanding example of evasion of the antitrust laws . When a steel magnate accuses labor of violating the anti-trust laws by trying to unionize his men , he may be suspected of possessing a sense of humor . OHIO 'S INDUSTRIES ARE BOOMING , BUT Ohio 's cities are experiencing a financial crisis which has caused @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the meager rations of other families to be still further reduced . In Cleveland a quarter of those on relief , mostly single adults , have been dropped- from the food lists altogether and are being kept from starvation only by supplies issued through the Federal Surplus Commodities Corporation . The scale on which assistance is available to families is indicated by the allowance of $17.10 for two weeks to a woman with eight children . Nor is it certain that such payments can continue to the end of the year unless additional funds are raised . The rushing of WPA jobs for 6,000 will , however , do something to reduce want . In Dayton and Toledo , hospitals report numerous cases of malnutrition . In Toledo the schools are shut , and only the very old , the sick , and children are receiving food allowances . Ohio cities are continually running into troubles of this kind because the legislature has steadily refused either to make an adequate state contribution to relief or to permit the levying of additional local taxes . Mayor Burton of Cleveland , a Republican @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ session . But Governor Bricker has Presidential ambitions , and his chief claim to the attention of his party is the fact that he has balanced the state budget . To deal with the relief crisis would necessitate sullying this record ; so the Governor is sitting tight and telling the cities that their extravagance is to blame . Playing politics with misery in this way may endear Mr. Bricker to the G. 0 . P. It will hardly make the same impression on ordinary voters . Published weekly and copyright , 1939 , in the U. S. A. by The Nation , Inc. , 55 Fifth Avenue , New York , N. Y. Entered as second-class matter , December 13 , 1897 , at the Post Office of New York , N. Y. under the act of March 3 , 1897. 638 IN SAN ANTONIO , TEXAS , A COURAGEOUS liberal is on trial . The prosecution of Mayor Maury Maverick is a transparent political maneuver ; not even his critics deny the political animus behind the accusations . The most serious charge  --  that he paid the poll tax @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dropped ; he now faces the more vapory charge that he " conspired " with others who committed that offense . Even if the charge were valid  --  and it remains to be established  --  it would come with ill grace - from any Southern politician , for the procedure is routine in Southern elections . There is serious question , moreover , of the constitutionality of the poll tax itself , which is a flagrant hang-over from an undemocratic past . The significant fact is that Maverick is an independent liberal , a left New Dealer in John Garner country . When the Garnerites prevented his reelection to Congress , they thought they had written finis to his career . They were wrong . Now he looms as a menace to a Garner-controlled Texas delegation at the Democratic convention and as a perpetual nuisance to the state 's reactionary overlords . This trial is designed to accomplish his political burial . Whatever its outcome , we suspect that he wo n't bury easily . A RENEWED FLOOD OF PROPAGANDA MAY be expected against Mexico , now that its Supreme Court has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ per cent of Mexico 's oil production was controlled by the Anglo-Dutch international oil trust , ' and another 30 per cent by the Rockefeller companies . They would doubtless not be unwilling to see American lives and money spent to establish a new Mexican regime more to their liking . The Mexican court 's decision is based on the 1917 constitution , which vested ownership of the subsoil wealth in the nation , this provision being patterned after an older Spanish law that subsoil wealth was the property of the sovereign . Under the decision the companies have a right to compensation for " capital directly and legitimately invested in the oil industry on Mexican soil " but not for profits they would have made in the future if there had been no expropriation . We think the method and time of payment a legitimate subject for State Department negotiation , but to go beyond this would be to revive " dollar diplomacy . " Even expropriation without compensation is not unprecedented in law , as one Mexican judge pointed out , citing the abolition of slavery in the South @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ parallel , for just as the Northern merchant and capitalist chafed under the power exercised in the government by the slaveholding planters , so the Mexican people have long resented the interference and power of the oil interests in their government and economy . The difference is that Mexico offers compensation , although the wealth the oil companies have taken out of the country is many times greater than , their investment . The NATION PREMIER DALADIER WON A RENEWAL OF HIS decree powers and a vote of confidence in the first session of the Chamber of Deputies to be held since the war began . A considerable minority , mainly composed of Socialists , voted against him , and during a stormy debate many members declared that they would join the opposition save for the fact that they wished to avoid a government crisis . Daladier did , in fact , threaten to resign if thwarted , but in the end made a slight concession by promising to submit each decree for approval within one month if Parliament were in session . Since his powers make it unnecessary to call @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a very faint gesture toward democratic control . With all the Communists expelled , there was no opposition to Daladier 's broad war policy . The grounds for complaint were rather that Parliament was being ignored instead of permitted to exercise a general supervision over the government . No doubt many of the deputies were irked by comparisons with the British House of Commons , which has been meeting regularly since the war and engaging in pungent criticism of the government . So far from hampering the administration , this parliamentary freedom appears to be a positive force in exposing inefficiency and creating a direct link between public opinion and the Cabinet . Above all it is serving as an aid to the maintenance of those basic civil liberties which are usually the first victims of war . Britons , of course , have had to surrender temporarily many rights , but every demand in this direction is subject to sharp scrutiny in Parliament , and not long ago the Home Secretary was compelled to withdraw a whole set of regulations which the House considered gave him unduly wide and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ IN CHICAGO against striking Hearst newspapermen recalls the Al Capone era . A fine sense of professional " ethics " has kept stories of the attacks out of the press in Chicago as elsewhere , even the supposedly liberal Chicago Times remaining silent on the gangsterism . But the latest issue of the Guild Reporter , organ of the Newspaper Guild , lists eighteen cases of assault by so called " goon squads " and also reports that thugs shot at strikers manning a sound truck and slugged the crew of another after attempting to overturn it . The attacks began on November 18 when frail Harry Read , strike-unit chairman , whom Hearst once called " my best city editor , " was set upon by a gang of six and knocked down . Read is head of the Chicago Cathedral Chapter , Association of Catho-lic Trade Unionists , and was distributing leaflets for the Holy Name Cathedral Labor School when he was attacked . Mayor Kelly 's police seem to be showing a positive genius for not being present when the " goons " are at work . Only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ municipal judge let him off with a one-dollar fine . December 9 , 1939 WAGE DIFFERENTIALS BASED ON RACIAL discrimination exploit the labor of the Negro worker and undermine the bargaining power of the white . The decision rendered by Federal Judge W. Calvin Chestnut in Baltimore requiring the . payment of the same salaries to Negro school teachers as to white is a victory in the fight for wage equality . It will also aid in the establishment of greater educational equality for Negroes in the South . The Maryland Teachers ' Association and the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People deserve great credit for the fight they waged to win the Chestnut decision . What has happened in Maryland should set an example in the North as well as the South , for wage inequalities based on race exist above the Mason and Dixon Line as well as below it . " By Fire and Sword BY FREDA KIRCHWEY MHE " ideology " behind the Russian invasion of Fin-1 land is summed up with beautiful brevity in the words of a Stakhanovite worker at a meeting in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the New York Times just before the invasion . " We will punch them so hard in the teeth that not one gentleman ruling Finland will be able to gather them together again . Long live the peace policy of the Soviet government ! " The teeth were symbolic . In military terms they were quickly translated into the bodies of civilians smashed to fragments in buses or on the streets of undefended towns by bombs dropped from Soviet war planes . The horrors that fascism wreaked in Spain are being repeated , in the name of peace and socialism , in Finland . And the contemptible pretenses that have accompanied fascist aggression  --  pretenses brilliantly exposed and excoriated by Litvinov in his unforgotten speeches at Geneva  --  are now being revived by the government that dismissed him in foims so brazen and bizarre as to seem almOst like caricatures of their fascist models . After the conclusion of the Nazi-Soviet pact , Louis Fischer wrote in The Nation : " The pendulum of the Kremlin clock swings fast and never stops halfway . " This week it has swung @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are the reasons for the Russian invasion of Finland ? Let us ignore the shocking nonsense in the Soviet press and look only at the facts . Russia demanded certain islands in the Gulf of Finland ; a naval base at HangO , Finland 's chief fortification ; the port of Petsamo close to the nickel mines owned by the International Nickel Company , Finland 's one outlet on the Arctic Ocean ; a piece of territory near Leningrad on the Karelian Isthmus ; the demilitarization of - the frontier . In re-639 turn Finland was offered a strip of Karelia , larger in area than the territory Russia demanded , but of no particular value . Long negotiations in the Kremlin failed to produce an agreement . Finland 's representatives announced that they had accepted a majority of the Russian demands but could not go the whole way without sacrificing the country 's independence . They went home , leaving the door behind them open for further talks . But the country was put on a war footing in case of trouble . Soviet and Finnish troops faced each other across @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ launched a systematic campaign designed to terrorize the Finns into surrender . Out of the mass of abuse and lies the one point consistently made was the present vulnerability of Leningrad and Russia 's need of controlling the approaches to the city both overland and through the Gulf of Finland . This point is valid if Russia is preparing to meet an attack from Germany or from Britain in alliance with Germany . While neither looks probable for the duration of the present war , the Soviet government , is obviously determined to utilize the freedom from interference which the war provides , to guard against the hazards of a longer future . Without invasion the Soviet Union could have obtained the boundary concessions and the islands in the ' Gulf of Finland it has now taken by force . The one thing it certainly could not have gained is the fortified Hanel peninsula ; if Finland had granted this it would have been as if England allowed a Continental power to establish a naval base at Plymouth . Rather than relinquish any part of its demands , the Russian government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decided on this no one knows , but certainly the policy was laid down before the British-French negotiations began last summer . The terms of that undefined Russian demand for concessions in the Baltic states , made during the negotiations , are now revealed in the bombs dropping in the streets of Helsinki . When the demand was rejected , Stalin turned to Germany , and his advance in the Baltic may well have been part of the deal that preceded the division of Poland . 