@@431066

NEVER think of irises without being I reminded of an old florist friend who used to snort in disgust every time they were brought up in conversation . " Weeds ! Nothing but weeds ! " he would declare . " There ought to be a law against having them around . Why otherwise intelligent people go into such raptures over them is a mystery to me . Sort of proves that we are all daffy somewhere ! " That was all of fifteen years ago . The so-called garden movement has swept over the country since that time , and it has continued to grow and gather recruits in spite of floods and droughts , grasshoppers and Japanese beetles , depressions and banking holidays . At a time when we were supposed to be on a national spree of gin , jazz , and speculation , the gardening impulse was being heeded by millions of homeowners . That development , when probed to its depths , is no more amazing than the manner in which the lowly iris has forged ahead in the affections of gardeners everywhere @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weed . With the possible exception of the peony , it is the sturdiest garden perennial we have . It spreads like a prairie fire in front of a high wind ; it multiplies faster than any other perennial in captivity . Rank , lush , and lusty , it appropriates everything in sight . Its demands are few but insistent . It is so hardy that one gardening friend solemnly affirms that he was unable to destroy his troublesome surplus in a bonfire ! It laughs at the ordinary garden run of pests and diseases . It has the same grand manner in the returns it offers you for bringing it into your garden . No friendless cur puppy could be more grateful for a little attention and shelter . It is lavish in the riot of color and bloom it produces , and its texture is quite as exquisite , prejudiced critics to the contrary notwithstanding , as any pampered orchid that ever grew . I can speak advisedly about iris prejudices . I was not at all enthusiastic when I first commenced to garden seriously after the war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ householders then , was just a " flag " to be shunted off in some impossible corner where nothing else would grow . And when we thought of " flags , " they were always blue flags . Beyond that our thinking never went . The iris has never had a vociferous propaganda behind it , as many other specialty flowers have had . It has belonged to the unorganized majority ; it has managed to survive without subsidies of any kind . And so some of us have been a little slow in learning about its real merits . A few farsighted hybridists , who read the American character correctly and believed that the demand would come for sturdy , fool-proof flowers any one could grow almost anywhere , went to work with the iris , and the treasures they have produced amaze the flower connoisseur and satisfy the most fastidious tastes . Take color , for instance . I do not believe there is another garden flower produced today that has such a wide color range . Every primary color can be matched by inexpensive varieties in trade with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ place where the orchid has it over the iris ! But the orchid is poverty-stricken in comparison with the  | iris when it comes to other colors . And the variation in tints and shades is almost endless . I have many varieties of pink-toned , bluetoned , and yellow-toned irises in my garden so near alike that it requires patient study , and sometimes an expert , to tell them apart . So you can really have a rainbow collection of irises alone in your garden ! In the question of growing height there is just as wide a range . The dwarf irises we grow in the rock garden sometimes are not over six inches high , perfect miniatures of their grownup cousins in every way . On the other hand , California hybridists are producing giant irises growing as tall as any man . And there are varieties and species attaining every height between those two extremes . So far as growing requirements are concerned , there are irises that will thrive in any situation from under water to the dryest hilltop . And because of this variation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be spread out from earliest spring , when the dwarf varieties bloom in the rock garden , until mid- or late July when the last Japanese sorts are in their full glory . THE purposes for which irises may be used Tin the garden are almost as endless . The tiny sorts can be used for edging small beds , or spotting relieving shades of color in the rock garden . The tall bearded and intermediate types can be used for a number of purposes ? edging wide walks , shrubbery beds , or for low screens . They may dominate beds themselves where some particular color motif is desired ; they can be used for accent both of foliage and color in the regular perennial beds . And if you have a troublesome spot somewhere where nothing else seems to thrive , they will ordinarily come to your rescue . The newer giant sorts are especially good for landscape planting , and for toning down high , harsh stone and brick walls . The Japanese types have landscape value , too , provided a little more moisture is present than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It is a mistake , however , to think that Japanese irises should be grown in boggy , wet ground . They want plenty of moisture , but they will not thrive where their feet are continually wet . Reserve such situations for the native American blue flag , or the European flag . Such types are excellent for naturalizing along the edges of small streams ; if you have a swamp or bog garden , they will be in their element . The Siberian iris , which resembles in a way our American blue flag , is just as fastidious about wet feet as the tall bearded and intermediate irises . It needs good drainage . Because it looks like our blue flag , many people have assumed that it should be planted in lily pools or along the wet banks of streams , and it succeeds admirably in these situations provided it has good drainage . I have grown Siberian iris beside my lily pools for years with excellent results , but it was protected by a curb that kept excessive seepage from destroying the good drainage previously @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ success . One is drainage , and the other is division . Since few of us can grow the American or European blue flag , we can lay it down as a primary consideration that all garden irises must have good drainage . Some will require more moisture than others , as we have already seen . Irises are not so phlegmatic as the peony and therefore will not thrive in one situation year after year . Irises must be divided regularly , or they simply give up the ghost . They are rank , quick growers , and most varieties are very prolific , multiplying at a fierce rate . Because of the peculiarity of growth in which a ring of rhizomes grows around the parent plant , about three seasons will find the plants hopelessly " plant bound , " so that the new rhizomes  |                     