@@487401

THE violence of the business recession during the past six months has been such that a comparison with 1929 is inevitable . What at first appeared to be purely a Wall Street setback is now reflected in every economic indicator , and fear is spreading throughout the nation that recovery , which , after all , never attained really impressive proportions , is about to be replaced by a depression comparable to the last . It is a moment of near panic in which cool consideration is the first essential . Yet in their desire for quick action the controllers of our economic destinies are threatening to repeat the performance of the Gadarene swine . In any analysis of the situation a useful start may be made by comparing conditions with those obtaining in the summer of 1929 . Then money rates were rising to fantastic heights  --  a sure sign of an overripe boom . Today money is cheap and the machinery is available for making it cheaper . In the months preceding the 1929 break there were indications of overproduction in many directions ; stocks of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were excessively swollen owing to the popular belief that Hoover and Mellon had discovered the secret of unbroken prosperity . Earlier this year , prior to the Wall Street collapse , stocks of many industrial raw materials were in short supply , and the fact that they are once more expanding is due to the sudden withdrawal of demand . That is to say , it is symptomatic rather than causal Another way in which the present situation differs from that of 1929 is its more local character . In the earlier year the decline was obvious in Europe several months before it set in here . Today there is very little sign of recession in other major industrial countries , and the recent decline in aggregate world trade has been traced mainly to American influences . Most important of all , we have at present clear evidence of a shortage of real capital , as contrasted with an excessive expansion of productive capacity in many industries in 1929 . Then we were consuming too little and inyesting too much . Now - consumption is certainly not excessive , but it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The doctors of Wall Street and Washington are in general agreement that the root of our present malady is in the capital-goods industries and that a revival of investment is essential if the recession is to be checked . Since midsummer the new-issue market has been completely comatose , and the unanimity with which entrepreneurs have declined to engage in any fresh activity has not unnaturally led to the belief that we are faced with a " sitdown strike " on the part of capital . Certainly recent words and actions of representatives of business have lent color to this theory . A heavy and effectively aimed barrage of propaganda has sent Congress scuttling around in wild confusion , and everything has been done to build up the belief that only by drastic revision of the New Deal can confidence be restored and capital induced to function . In spite of the abundant malice which business bears toward Washington  --  is it the hatred commonly engendered by the good friend who seeks to curb our vices ? ? I doubt if there has been any organized conspiracy . Rather there is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such advantages as can be gained from a situation which was not consciously created or desired by business . A similar drive was witnessed in Britain in 1931 when financial interests , seizing the opportunity afforded by the world crisis , attacked the pound sterling and broke the Labor government . If there is not a plot , what is it that has hit us ? That question can best be answered by tracing briefly the economic history of the past twelve months . A year ago the Administration 's pump-priming theory seemed to be justifying itself perfectly . Private industry was taking up the load , and after many false starts recovery really appeared to be well on the way . There was a steady rise in all the economic indicators ; employment was increasing ; business generally was making profits . Although the New Deal policies , now denounced as completely destructive of business confidence , were then in operation , although the undistributed-profits tax was already in force , although the Securities and Exchange Commission was in active supervision of the market , although , in short , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of business is concerned , was much the same as it is today , yet in the fall of 1936 business was freely planning renewals and expansion and finding no difficulty in persuading investors to put up the money . Apparently the time was ripe for Washington to relinquish the pump handle to the reinvigorated grip of private enterprise . Indeed , before the new year was many weeks old , there were signs that recovery was getting out of hand . Wall Street was back at its old game of discounting profits for the next ten years on the basis of estimates for the next quarter . Commodity markets went hog-wild , following a sudden sharp upturn in world demand due in large part to rearmament . Stocks of industrial raw materials , particularly metals , were eaten into more rapidly than production could be expanded . So far as most of these commodities were concerned , this was-641 a very temporary movement , since production could be , and was , speedily jacked up . However , Wall Street made it an excuse for further pyrotechnics , and Washington @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ overspeculation ; a new shot of deflation was in-jected by an increase in member-bank reserve requirements of 50 per cent ( in addition to the similar increase in August , 1936 ) ; steps were taken to cut federal spend-ing on recovery and relief with a view to bringing in sight that dim day when the budget was to be balanced . In the fiscal year 1937 expenditure on recovery and relief , according to the Treasury returns , was some $443 million less than in 1936 ? a decline of roughly 121/2 per cent . In the past four months this tendency has been accelerated , with expenditure for the four months July to October , inclusive , $430 million below the corresponding period of 1936 ? a fall of 38 per cent . But this is not the whole of the Administration 's deflationary activity . There is also the matter of the pay-roll taxes which are being employed to build up the social-security reserve , already amounting to over $400 million . This money , taken directly out of the consumers ' pockets , instead of being invested @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ government securities . True , this permits the release of equivalent funds to private bondholders , mainly banks , but since the banks are tending to reduce their holdings of government securities without increasing private loans to the same extent , the net result is a definite reduction in national purchasing power . Meanwhile , what of private enterprise ? Has it released from its reservoirs a life-giving flow of capital to compensate for the reduced stream from the federal dam ? On the contrary , no sooner were the government sluices closed than private enterprise followed suit . At the beginning of the year , when federal expenditure was still at a fairly high level , new corporate bond issues were averaging over $100 million a week . There was a sharp downward turn in mid-March , and since then the tendency has been an irregularly declining one up to the present point , where new financing is practically at a standstill . According to Barron 's , bond and stock offerings for the first ten months of this year totaled $3,602 million , compared with $5,147 million in 1936 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reduction in public investment , an even more severe decline in private investment . We may well ask : What went wrong in the spring of this year ? Why should capitalist confidence , that tender plant on which our destinies depend , bloom in December and wither in June ? Our industrial and financial giants had begged and demanded that the budget be balanced Why , then , should they wilt when the fulfilment of their prayers seemed on the way ? The answer , I think , is that the real force behind last year 's recovery was a belief that inflation , if not just around the next corner , was not more than a few blocks away . Hence it was better to hold goods than money , better to exchange liquid resources for real assets . This argument received apparent support from the sudden upsurge in commodities , which , as has already been suggested , was due to amporary maladjustment rather than to any long-term shortage of supplies . When the President , outraged at the relapse of Wall Street into drunken habits , snatched @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not safe-to deprive those dependent on alcohol too suddenly of all stimulant , and in this instance it was all the more dangerous in that the contents of the bottle were not nearly so potent as everyone thought . There was , in fact , very little danger of real inflation and hence good rather than harm in a belief that it was on the way , lacking a better method of promoting long-term investment . The first response to the Administration 's campaign for greater sobriety was a severe correction of Wall Street values . That in itself did little harm to anyone save overextended speculators . What was damaging to the economy of the country as a whole was the reaction of the managers of industry . Their immediate problem was not serious , for order books were in good condition ; but the prospects for the future , on which plans for renewal and extension of plant depended , suddenly looked bleak . Costs had risen , which would not have acted as a deterrent if the outlook had suggested a rise in the price level . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Consequently business executives began to think of retrenchment rather than expansion , canceled capital commitments where possible , and refused to consider new ones . Perhaps if entrepreneurs ' decisions were really based , as they are in the economic textbooks , on cool calculations , more weight might have been given to the abundance of cheap money and the rising trend of purchasing power . But as J. M. Keynes has pointed out : " Enterprise only pretends to itself to be mainly actuated by the statements in its own prospectus , however candid and sincere . . . . Thus if animal spirits are dimmed and the spontaneous optimism falters , leaving us to depend on nothing but a mathematical expectation , enterprise will fade and die ; though fears of loss may have a basis no more reasonable than hopes of profit had before . " Last July there was a brief revival on Wall Street , based apparently on the way business had been maintained during the summer . But well-informed operators were not impressed . They knew that insiders were using the upturn to lighten their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and that as a result the heavy industries would be checked as soon as orders in hand were filled . Before the end of August the news began to seep through to the general public and the market broke in earnest . Now the managers of industry , whose drooping spirits had started the slide , saw in the behavior of Wall Street a justification of their worst fears . Rapidly the boundless optimism of the early spring was forgotten ; gloom became melancholia ; and melancholia passed into hysteria  --  a highly infectious disease . Rationalizing its terrors , business has no difficulty either in tracing the cause of the decline or in naming the cure . No reference is made to the government 's deflationary measures . Indeed , how could there be , since these are things for which business has clamored ? The loss of confidence is blamed on high taxation and on govThe NATION ernment regulation of and interference with industry . A more or less complete surrender of the New Deal is asked before business will consent to resume its functions and save the country @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inmates of a lunatic asylum demanded the right to prescribe a course of treatment as the price of good behavior . Nevertheless , there is the gravest danger that the blackmailing tactics of business will be successful . If they are , President and Congress may as well abdicate their powers to a Soviet of Economic Royalists under the chairmanship of Morgan , for it will have been demonstrated that whatever the people of this country may vote for , no progressive law may be passed if it disturbs business confidence ; that the future pace of the army of democracy must be that of its most reactionary capitalist . Are other methods of halting the recession open to the Administration ? I believe they are . Unlike the British Labor government , its hands are not tied in the monetary field , and it can easily reverse the engines of credit deflation . There is no serious danger of a flight from the dollar , for , let the owning classes wail as they will , they know there is no safe bolt-hole outside the United States . Already something @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by a release of a part of the sterilized gold reserve and by the Federal Reserve Board 's resumption of open-market purchases of government securities . The steady pursuit of this policy , to the point where interest rates were definitely lowered , would encourage industry to borrow new capital and purchasers of tax-free bonds to seek higher-yielding investments . Cheap credit alone will not turn the wheels of industry , particularly if the demand for consumption goods is falling . One way of helping to maintain purchasing power would be to halt the decline of government work relief . Congress should appropriate additional funds . Investment in public works should be enlarged and speeded up One concession to private enterprise might be considered . The principle of the undistributed-profits tax ought certainly to be retained , but it might be wise to suspend its application to certain industries , for example , the railroads and the utilities , where there is clearly both a need for new plant and a special difficulty in raising new funds on the open market . Naturally exemption should be conditional on the retained profits @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ manner , the tax might well become a valuable weapon of social control , assisting the direction of investment into the most desirable channels . It may be objected that this program would remove to the distant future the balancing of the budget . Perhaps ; but so would the concessions demanded by business , and so , still more , would the continuance of this recession until it becomes a depression . It may also be said that the program enhances the danger of inflation . That is too long and involved a matter to be argued here ; but I would suggest that at present inflation is utilized far too much as a bogy . Personally I would prefer to see it used as a carrot to stimulate the progress of the reluctant capitalist donkey .                     