@@469554

SHE was going , she said , to summon Bat Masterson . We had been tormenting her with the ingenious deviltries of childhood and , one small blonde girl against a half-dozen boys , she now proposed to stop it . ' I'he invocation brought us to an uneasy pause . Thirty-odd years later , 1 remember the rustle of cottonwoods while triumph glinted in her eyes and a light buggy came up the road . It chew abreast , and manliness restrained us from bolting but was not capable of a jeer . Two booted men in flannel shirts and wide tan Stetsons sat in that buggy , and a shotgun stuck out from under the seat . They were probably no more than a couple of neighbors bound up " the canyon road " for quail , but a dreadful name lent them awe . They passed . The blonde child said , " That 's Bat Masterson and I know him , " then stuck out her tongue and disdainfully walked away . The killer-sheriff was not within a thousand miles at the moment , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1904 , his name was a sufficient dissuader of boys . One of my mother 's stories dealt with a friend of hers who married and went to some Wyoming town . There , after some years , her husband was murdered , " on the very steps of the courthouse . " The misdemeanor may not have been sanctioned but there was no thought of arresting the misdemeanant . The widow was acquainted withthe usages : before the corpse was carried away she dipped a token in the thickening blood . She would save it until her son grew up ; then , my mother said , she would give it to him and bid him " wash the stain from your mother 's handkerchief . " The tale sounds a theme from the border ballads of all ages but it is quite true . To a boy growing up in that culture it had solemnity but nothing of the inappropriate . The last loose confederacies of rustlers and train robbers were not much later than my birth . In interior Utah and Wyoming there was still much gunfire and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to reproduce , but it was done by individuals , not gangs , by remnants of an outmoded lodge , in a tradition now formalized and obsolete . It was as far as the moon from Ogden . We were Butch Cassidy or Tom Horn . We held up the U. P. at Tipton ; we rode down fanning our guns at Laramie ; at Winnemucca or Castlegate we robbed banks and turned in our saddles to deal with citizens reckless enough to level rifles at us ; we rode back to Robbers ' Roost or Hole in the Wall for the orgies that convention demanded . But there was no feeling that such romance was related to our time and place : we were as ritualistic as the boys I see to-day in Cambridge , Massachusetts , firing machine guns from automobiles at government agents who had had the effrontery to pursue John Dillinger . Utah has little history of Indian trouble . This is due in part to Brigham Young 's enlightened policy ? he believed , soundly , that it was cheaper to feed Indians than to kill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the Indians of Utah were a degenerate race . The bellicose Utes belonged to the eastward , the Bannocks ranged far to the north , the Apaches seldom came up as far as the Grand Canyon , and the Navajos , who reached our border in greater numbers , were not warlike . The resident tribes were mostly GoshUtes and Diggers , technological unemployed , victims of the competitive Indian society which had forced them to the badlands , where such culture as they possessed decayed , sometimes below the use of fire . Thus it was that in the stories of the elders the red slayer was commonly just a beggar and a thief . They had been sufficiently sophisticated to trade on the reputation of their race , so that , finding a woman alone in a farmhouse , they might sometimes frighten her into largesse . But they could not often do even that ; my grandmother , startled by the apparition of a blanketed and painted buck singing Injun in her dooryard , simply picked up the weapon known to her generation as a horse pistol @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the warpath in one stride . The air was full of Indian stories , located elsewhere , of course . Neighbors had ridden to Sand Creek or had campaigned with Custer or Connor or Crook ; had fought off Oglalla attacks on wagon trains or stage stations ; had galloped to distant settlements and found the naked , scalped , and raped bodies of women , and children curiously dismembered and hung up . Distance was on all these tales , however , and the closest we boys came to them was in the distinction of one playmate . An uncle of his had been captured by Apaches , who cut off his eyelids and the soles of his feet and then tied him to a stake in an ant-bed and left him to the desert sun . But we inherited the frontier 's sentiments about Indians . The ones we saw , to be sure , were just grunting , dour , and mostly drunken grotesques , without terror , whom it was desirable not to approach too closely lest your mother be obliged to wash your hair with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was a savage whose extermination was dictated by the necessities of civilization . The attitude survived long enough to immunize me against one sentimentality of my literary generation . As a historian , I have been able to understand the Indian 's side of extermination and to master his strategy , but as a literary critic , I have been withheld from mysticism about the Amerind . I have not found him a beauty-lover , the creator of a deeply spiritual religion , or an accomplished metaphysician who plumbed eternal secrets which his brutish conqueror could never understand . Sibylline women and rapt men from megalopolis have been unable to persuade me that his neolithic culture was anything but a neolithic culture . Remembering the scalp-dance , I have found the Amerind on the whole less likely to civilize the American continent than the Nordic ; on Amerind art and religion , I hold , the frontier had a sounder criticism than Greenwich Village . In such ways , remembered violence tinged life in Ogden during that pause between frontier society and industrialism in which I grew up . I can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Outwardly , combined with the tradition of the migratory hunter , it did no more than give us a familiarity with firearms earlier than boys were getting it to the eastward . I owned several sub-caliber rifles before I was twelve . By fifteen I was a good offhand shot and had owned not only twenty-twos but a really formidable arsenal as well . By inheritance , appropriation , and the trafficking of boyhood I had acquired at various times a high-powered rifle , a shotgun , an automatic pistol , and at least three revolvers . My friends were similarly armed , and the gulches above Ogden endlessly echoed with our gunfire . Firearms were our cult , as automobiles and radios became the cult of our successors . We were competent . I knew no boy who did not regularly strap a revolver on his belt , balance a rifle on his shoulder , and disappear with his gang into the hills ; but I knew only one boy who was injured in all that time . Early as we came to them , we used our guns @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ value , so that we consciously practiced it as an art , but it was a frontier inheritance . The quality of all this scarlet was its irrelevance . And that is precisely my point : the West 's scarlet , the frontier 's violence , was episodic and irrelevant . Our elders and their elders had been lifelong addicts of civilization and community building . The cowboys arriving at Trail 's End , who liquored up and shot one another , were an inconvenience , like the breaking of a water main , and had nothing to do with the life of Dodge City . The schoolmarm took the children out to look for mayflowers through that intermittent barrage . Bat Masterson , on the prowl for a kill , stepped out of the way of matrons of the Eastern Star carrying crullers and chicken patties to a church supper . Just across the Weber River ( a very small stream ) from my grandfather 's south field , the Morrisite war produced three days of rifle and artillery fire . Civil revolt and its suppression get one line in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his plowing . A cattle war , a battle of miners , the rape of a bank or a stage coach was just what it is to-day a violent interruption of a peaceful proc. ess , and was met in the same way , with the same despatch . Only , the fron. tier , being a large country and insuf ? ficiently policed , had few community safeguards for life and property . That fact put such safeguards up to the in. dividual : if his safety and his property were threatened he had to defend them himself . " The law west of the Pecos " was what one wore on one 's hip or car . ried on one 's shoulder . When some . one stole your horse or dynamited your ditches you could not send east of the Pecos for a cop . The frontiersman sighed , dropped his plow , went for his arsenal , attended to the horsethief , and then came back , got his crop in , and became a private citizen . He gladly made a peace officer his vicar as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ showed a preference for one who had got his training among the outlawed , megalopolis shows the same preference to-day . Organization achieved , he promptly forgot his earlier phase . It is not in the West where a tradition of personal responsibility and violence persists . I have seen more pocket pistols at a single party in Georgia than in any ten years ' travel in the entire West . II Ogden had seen a deeper violence than casual outlawry . From its first settlement on , Utah was constantly rocked by the deadliest of all warfare , economic and religious . The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints was a semi-co-operative society governed by an oligarchy who claimed divine sanction and exercised absolute power . It had reached Utah after a series of expulsions which proved that the American social system could not adjust itself to it . Once in the mountains , the Church did its best to establish its system in defiance of experience . Fifty years of economic war between Mormons and Gentiles , intensified and made picturesque by the religious idiom of its expression @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In the course of that campaign the national government once sent an expeditionary force against the Church and at another time , in flagrant violation of the Constitution , confiscated the Church 's property , dissolved its corporations , proscribed some hundreds of its leaders , and attached a test-oath to the franchise . On its part , the Church expropriated the property of many Gentiles , with and without process of law , maintained a Gay-pay-oo for the immemorial purposes of dictatorships , and ruled by terrorism such of its own members as it had to and such Gentiles as it could . If the principles of the warfare were economic and if its strategy was political , the actual frontline tactics necessitated a long series of murders and one massacre in the grand manner . Yet this gaudy era too was over in that transition period during which I grew up . Ogden , as the railroad center of the State , had an actual majority of Gentiles and so had achieved a working compromise , a forced equilibrium , long before the rest of Mormonry . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon God , morality , and the national sovereignty for vindication , had subsided , and very little strife found its way to children . Mormon and Gentile , we grew up together with little awareness that our fathers fought in hostile armies . The child of a Catholic father and a Mormon mother , I myself was evidence of the adjustment . One of my earliest memories is of a little girl 's prophecy that the Wasatch mountains would be shaken down upon the plain in the imminent Last Days , and that I , as a Gentile , would be destroyed whereas she , as a Saint , would be saved for glory . Her prediction showed the smug self-righteousness as the Lord 's chosen that characterizes all Mormons . Children had , even at four or five , a vivid feeling of membership in a unity , a secret and exotic way of life which entitled them to privileges denied the rest of us . They had also an array of duties , organizations , and badges that set them off , but , being children , frequently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " primary " as we of St. Joseph 's parish were of communion class . But this exclusiveness was less marked in Ogden than in other Utah towns , and far less marked than in the farming country where Mormonry was unalloyed . The Irish priests of my own communion never preached against the heretics . Protestant ministers were less amiable , but it was only an occasional Gantry in the evangelical sects who bellowed excerpts from the filthy and preposterous anti-Mormon literature of the earlier age . We even mingled in Sunday School without shock . A Mormon meeting house was the place of worship nearest my home , and I was sometimes sent there for instruction until I was about seven , when Rome idly exercised its claim . ( Somewhat to my relief . No Puritan divine in the Bay colony ever equalled the long-windedness of any Mormon bishop . ) As we grew toward high-school age the lines tightened a little ? surprisingly , by the formation of castes . The rudimentary aristocracy of Ogden tended to be Gentile , and a good many people began to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ baptized or married not for eternity but only for this world . As we grew still older , as the efficient Mormon system began to select its missionaries among the boys and point the girls toward marriage in the faith , the cleavage grew distinct . But even then it was unimportant and often humorous . I remember a debate when my high-school class selected a baccalaureate speaker . The Mormon contingent , a minority , proposed one of the Twelve Apostles . An opponent solemnly put Jesus Christ in nomination , and Catholic , Presbyterian , and Baptist united to vote down the Saints . Polygamy , the sole symbol of Mormonism in the outside world , meant almost nothing to us . The truth of history , which historians have not yet understood , is that to the Mormons themselves it was only a religious symbol , lacked the coercion of economic logic , and was slowly and insensibly found to be a mistake . More briefly still , Mormon polygamy was a caste privilege . " The hierarchy " is the Mormon term for the governing class , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Church . In general only the hierarchy was permitted to practice polygamy ; only the hierarchy could afford to practice it . Thus there were never enough polygamists to establish the tone of any community ; there were fewer of them in Ogden than in other towns , and the institution had been driven underground by the persecutions of the ' Nineties . Some of our playmates were known to be polygamous children and the number was increased as we grew up and learned the open secrets of the town . So far as I can remember , that fact meant absolutely nothing to us except as it gave them a certain distinction . By the time we were adolescents some of them , especially the girls , felt , I believe , a kind of embarrassment or social inferiority which the training of the Church did not always transform to fervent superiority . It was , however , frequently compensated by the fact of plutocracy : a polygamist 's child was likely to be a well-to-do child . Adolescence also informed us about the furtive practice of polygamy . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conspicuously unmarried women . But there was no persecution to make such secrecy romantic and , unhappily , they were dreadfully ordinary people . We were just ribald about them . They were easily associated with the folklore that clustered about Brigham Young . The way in which Mormonism did influence our daily life was to spice it with miracle . In few societies are angels as common as policemen and heaven rather more familiar than a city park : I have had a lifelong tenderness for the world 's delusions because I grew up amid prophecy and the glories of the Lord . The whole aim of Brigham Young 's policy , after one disastrous experiment , and that of his successors was to abandon the supernatural . The leaders tried to repress the impulses of their people , but the Church had been founded during the Apocalypse by a prophet of God and had always been recruited from the naturally ecstatic . Miracle might be officially denounced but it was a fundamental condition of daily life . Hired girls in my mother 's kitchen looked into heaven . God @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at any corner , any Saint might meet an angel on his way . Patriarchs , prophets , and even deities nightly visited each block in Ogden when the Saints slept . The conversation of all Mormons was predominantly theological , and exegesis might at any moment change to prophecy ? and when I say prophecy I mean not only the hosannas of the chosen but literal , detailed soothsaying by qualified seers and revelators under immediate inspiration of God . Miraculous healing , of course , was commonest . The Lord sustained his people in all ailments from cancer to the common cold , from snakebite to St. Vitus dance . The Mormon elders had their sacred oils and liturgical pantomime , like all priests , but it was extempore miracles by individual Mormons that impressed us . In time of epidemic these were intensified to the classic symptoms of mass hysteria till terror and ecstasy walked the Ogden streets . But other miracles were more picturesque . The widow 's cruse had an exact parallel in a miraculous flour sack owned by a widow in my block . All @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ through a hard winter and when spring came was fuller than it had been in October . The Three Nephites are the Mormon variation of the Wandering Jew , three survivors of the earlier church doomed to wander the earth till the Last Days . Rumor of their presence sometimes spread through the back lots ; there were omens and queer sequels of their passing , and I knew several Saints who had seen them . Piety was rewarded by a legacy whichpaid the mortgage , by the miraculous provision of clothes or horseflesh or quails or manna . Sin received equally direct action : an accident that removed a " bad Mormon " was the judgment of an angry God , and drouth , plagues of grasshoppers and disastrous forest fires meant that the Saints were not living their religion ? usually by skimping their tithes . The destruction of one village by cloudburst and of another by a snow-slide was incontrovertible evidence of communal sin . Deliverance from the plots of the Gentiles was common . The missionaries went forth without purse or scrip throughout the world and they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with them . Sandy P. , for instance , had been persecuted by the Austrians . One night a mysteriousstranger , bearded and dressed in shining white , woke him from sleep and told him that Satan had prompted the villagers to take his life . Sandy rose and fled , the pursuit swiftly gathering behind him . It grew nearer as he labored through the night , and at last he came to a river too wide and rapid for him to cross . With the Mormon readiness for martyrdom , Sandy commended himself to the Lord . But a deep sleep came upon him . When he waked he was on the far side of the river and the frustrated lynchers were cursing him from the other bank . That miraculous slumber and that white-clad stranger were constantly with us in Mormonry . Portentous words thundered out of silence . The skies above Twelfth Street opened and Olaf Olafson , teamster or swineherd , saw unfolded the future course of his life . In the deep night Granny Gudmanson heard a sonorous , semi-Biblical apostrophe telling her how to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ailing cow , or how to build an extension on the thicken house . Celestial messengers overtook wayfarers and told them to turn back or armed them against danger on the route . Angels snatched one back from a train fated to be wrecked or came at night to hid one withdraw money from a shaky bank . And anything might be an omen or a portent . Dreams and visions made all the neighbors rapt . A configuration of the clouds , an egg with two yolks , a blight on the radish bed , even a nightmare had been inspired above and could either be interpreted at home or taken to some neighborhood seer for explanation . The Sandy P. I have mentioned was greatly gifted in divination . He kept his large family in a continual tension of miracle ? and of terror ; for do not suppose that communications from God are always conducive to a peaceful life . At about the age of five one of his grandchildren was repeatedly visited in dreams by another one who was dead . Through Sandy 's interpretation the dead @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a third child was soon to die ; and before long they took that third child to an asylum for the insane , which showed that Sandy had n't missed it far . Sandy 's youngest daughter was a classmate of mine at high school , and it was once my privilege to console her when a Mormon swain took some other maiden to a dance . She wept on my shoulder , most enjoyably to us both , but that night an angel visited her in a dream , and she laid the apparition before her prophet-father . Sandy interpreted and Sally sought me out . The Lord , Sandy decided , had pronounced her swain unworthy and had then given her a warning . " The Lord says , " Sally told me , " that I must not let a Gentile kiss me any more . " Childhood on the Mormon frontier seems to me a rich heritage . It prepared me for the economic and governmental miracles of these days . It gave me a good many yardsticks for the behavior of the race . It dissuaded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it made my faculty of surprise abnormally inactive . It gave me laboratory experience in dictatorship . . . . And there was also my Mormon grandfather 's revelation . The Bishop of Uinta once came to Grandfather 's house and told him that the Lord had revealed an intention to bestow his daughter on the bishop as a plural wife . Grandfather was a devout man , a man who had lived his religion , followed the priesthood , and built up the kingdom . So now his piety was rewarded , in miracle . The skies were opened to him and he said , " I prophesy that if you do n't get out of here , Brother L. , and if you ever mention the revelation to anyone , I will shoot hell out of you . " The greatest influence on childhood of the vanished frontier was the freedom we enjoyed . It was an all-inclusive freedom that touched every aspect of our lives . Perhaps I can best suggest it by the relations of the sexes in adolescence , and of this the most vivid symbol @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ high school . Toward noon one day a girl and I were coming back toward Ogden over the foothills when we reached a barbed-wire fence . Helen stopped and modestly bade me look the other way lest I glimpse her calf when she climbed the fence . It was a request absolutely in accord with the Ogden folkways ? and yet she and I had been alone in the mountains since one o'clock that morning , had climbed a peak and cooked our breakfast on the top . This , in 1914 . It was the privilege of young people , in groups or in couples , to wander in the mountains unchaperoned and unsuspected of misbehavior ? and , let me say , rightly unsuspected . At a time when elsewhere in America stringent restrictions were put on all such intercourse outside the home , we were quite free to go where we liked at any hours that pleased us . The form which the convention took is amusing : if we went into the mountains to cook supper we must be back before dawn , and if we wanted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ till after midnight ? otherwise we should spend the night together , which was unthinkable . The mountains were a force in our freedom . By the time we were eight we went on day-long explorations of the foothills , miles from home , unsupervised by older people . Two or three years later we were beginning to climb the peaks , and by the time we were fourteen we were camping out for days at a time , with or without tents , in canyons a hundred miles up the range . I remember , at fifteen , spending a Christmas vacation in a deserted log cabin deep among the peaks and , with several companions , practicing the not inconsiderable skill that suds a stay implies . The frontier had left this impress on us , and when the Boy Scout movement reached Utah just as we grew too old for it , we were contemptuous of its sterilized and evangelized woodscraft . Toward the supervised outdoor-life of the Boy Scouts and of the summer-camp movement which followed we felt a frontiersman 's disdain for the counterfeit . At @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the wilderness . We wanted no lectures on the hazards of cliffs , poison ivy , and rattlesnakes , and no exhortations about the beauties and purities of nature . As for nature , we were realists ? and that , I think , is one of the deepest values we experienced . But be sure we also paid a tax . This was a time , let me repeat , between two ages . The frontier organization had collapsed and the organization of the industrial order had not taken its place . In this very matter of outdoor skills we suffered . We were practicing a frontier craft but practicing it as an art ? survival value had gone from it and so nothing vital depended on it . For instance , I have deeply regretted my ignorance of the native botany and natural history . A generation earlier I should have learned the seasons , qualities , and uses of all native plants and woods , the habits of birds and animals , Ii the use of traps , and the crafts of taxidermy and tanning quite as naturally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . A few years later I should have learned them from the paid instructors supplied by a community grown suddenly solicitous about its young . I would rather have had the first training than the second certainly , but the second rather than none at all . Frontier society disciplined children within its necessities ; the industrial order taught them from a new sentiment of humanitarian responsibility . Our order granted them the frontier freedom and then , omitting discipline , disregarded them . In some ways it was not a bad system . Psychology approves its impersonality , and it taught children a practical Darwinism ? they learned , earlier than children elsewhere , immediate implications of the struggle for existence . But it was a handicap in many ways , since the terms of that struggle were changing and we were not equipped for the new phase . Also , it had its immediate pangs . A regret that has lasted to my thirty-eighth year springs from my inability to become a really good swimmer . I never saw the crawl stroke till boys just older than I began @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men in Ogden . Now the crawl stroke is probably not universal in Utah even to-day ( no river there has more than a thirty-yard stretch deep enough for swimming and there are only a half-dozen lakes in the whole State ) , but at least the new order teaches it . There was no one to teach me , and that fact has , I think , its significance . A boy who was not horn with a knack for boys ' skills was simply out of luck . To-day playgrounds and schools swarm with specialists who teach the awkward the approved technics of all games , sports , crafts , skills , and arts . In the Ogden of my time one had them or one never got them . No doubt the preferential treatment of to-day has been carried too far ; but one would like to ask analysts and social pathologists how much maladjustment , inadequacy , and frustration they have traced to the wounds inflicted by its lack . Whole areas of experience , whole classes of social adjustment , may well have been thrown out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ my generation when we ventured away from Ogden . We had the rituals of our own society , but when we got away from it we had an ineptness that proper supervision of children would have prevented . The elders had brought us into the tribal house , but they had not fitted us to deal with the outlanders . But one will have to go still deeper into the mind to appraise the basic fact of that frontier remnant . We learned as children , I say , implications of the struggle of existence . Frontier children always learned them , but the industrial order , at even its most squalid levels , delays that instruction and , above those levels , delays it perhaps too long . Among frontiersmen and those who succeeded to their heritage , such a realization has conditioned the entire climate and physiology of thought . The significance of that fundamental has been insufficiently realized and so has been grotesquely distorted by students of American society . Make of it what you will , to the despair of the hopeful or the apprehension of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conditioned by it . To that people the struggle of existence is not something that can be repealed by Act of Congress or demolished by rainmakers , philosophers , or the community meeting in prayer . IV There remains one frontier-fossil which I touch on with reluctance because , though one of the ideas which students of American life have been most voluble about , it can not be clearly phrased or adequately defined here . It relates to that clich ? of editorial writers ? individualism , and its implications in the action of the frontier on the national history . If as a critic of historical writing I have challenged the simplicities of certain historians about the American frontier , it is because I know of my own experience that frontier life was infinitely complex and not reducible to formula . Consider : I was the child of an apostate Mormon and an apostate Catholic , which suggested that the religious culture of the frontier was far from simple . Across the street from me lived a prosperous miner who made his cross on all documents because he could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who did not send his children to school till the town forced him to . He was the type-frontiersman of many thinkers . Yet the book in which I was taught to read was a Pope 's Iliad of 1781 and , chanting the couplets while I played with the miner 's children , I was a laboratory specimen of frontier relationships which no literary or academic formula could express . One of my grandfathers was an English mechanic turned farmer , another was an Italian cavalry officer turned commission merchant . I played with the sons and grandsons of Hawaiian princes , Scandinavian murderers , German geologists with duelling scars , English poets , Spanish mathematicians , French gamblers , Virginia slave-owners , Yankee metaphysicians ? of men who came from everywhere , who had every conceivable tradition , education , and canon of taste and behavior . On Memorial Day one ancient hung the Stars and Bars on his front door and mounted guard on it in butternut ; the King 's birthday was celebrated three doors away ; a pastry cook made a Dauphinist of me at ten @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Santa Claus ; in the next block manuscript letters of Emerson created a whole ritual of behavior ; beyond that house a fiercely silent dignity protected a national but locally unmentioned disgrace . Here , God knows , was none of that deadly uniformity of thought , habit , belief , and behavior which books about the frontier detect in absentia . I grew up in a culture much more various than I have found anywhere else . Such a society could have no such coercive singleness of opinion , no such dictatorial and puritanical absolutism , as the books describe . Quite the contrary : it could survive only by the utmost latitude of thought , expression , and personal behavior . We learned to sing " What was your name in the States ? " and we sang it in derision , but it had a meaning which the community taught us to respect . We learned that what a man thought about God , the government , the banks , the social revolution , women , sex , alcohol , or the Dauphin , Kriss Kringle , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not subject to our own views . More , we learned that what he did about them was , within the farthest possible limits of community elasticity , even more his business and not ours . We learned this from our parents and ourselves and from the daily practice of our community . The frontier had lapsed just so far that the lesson was not occasionally italicized by gunfire . We learned , in short , that the frontier had existed as a community , and could have existed , only by the constant exercise of the freedoms , individualisms , and eccentricities which the absentee critic finds it never had . I may say too that we saw these conditions end . As my generation grew up , industrialism and megalopolis made us their benefactions . Luncheon clubs arrived , and Chautauqua , the Y.M.C.A. , the syndicated press , booster movements , the hysterias and compulsions of wartime and prohibition , and the liberal point of view and national prosperity . We had been boys in the despotic uniformity of the intellectuals ; we did not know what uniformity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ same time a boy who bad once risen from bed at three of a spring morning with an arctic wind blowing out of the canyons , to irrigate his grandfather 's fields with icy water at just such times as the community chose to allot ? such a boy understood another widely denied quality of the frontier . For the books have struck the frontier paradox and solved it exactly wrong . They find that the frontier rigidly suppressed individualism in personal opinion and behavior , whereas frontiersmen could live together only by virtue of a greater latitude in such matters than any other part of America permitted . And they find that the frontier enforced an even greater individualism in economic and governmental affairs , whereas the very conditions of frontier life imposed co-operation . When glacial water seeped down my boots in a canyon wind at hours dictated by the water commissars , I was working in the earliest tradition of the pioneers , locally sixty-five years old and ninety years earlier than Mr. Ickes . Who but the economic individualist was the proverbial victim of frontier violence ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the horse-thief ; but surely the rustler , the claim-jumper , and the fraudulent homesteader were lynched by co-operative effort ; surely the stock-detective , the wolf-hunter , and the fence-rider were agents of a frontier economy in which the individualism of the critics had small part . How indeed did a frontier community exist at all except by means of a close-knit co-operation ? Especially , how did a frontier community in the desert exist ? The first job I ever held for any length of time was in a land-title office and it took me deep into territorial organization . I found the intricate network of a co-operative system . Not the co-operative merely , for the frontier had its share of communistic experiments which went the way of all communisms and , it may be , left some skeptical deposit on the minds of Westerners . Even Mormonism , whose cooperative society ruled in the name of God by a superior hierarchy , a privileged class , is a practical answer to the enigma of government , had once quaintly investigated communism . There in the records I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ teachings , with the Prophet John Taylor instead of Stalin to change its alignment . But in the routine of business I had to master the water laws , the grazing laws , the mining code ? I had to re-create the frontier 's cooperative reduction of chaos . Do not wonder if I have , in print , sometimes suggested that metropolitan authorities on frontier life go and do likewise . Or if I commend to them such casual items from frontier journals as this ; " To-day our water committee waited on Stark and Stevens and told them to close up their dams until they come into the agreement . " With its entry of a week later that Messrs . Stark and Stevens , kulaks of rugged frontier individualism , have been liquidated . Well , Ogden of those days was the damnedest place . We were really fin de siecle , we were the frontier 's afterglow . We saw that glow fade out . We stood , as it were , on a watershed , and also we went down the other side . In the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ three girls each of whom had one pair of silk stockings . By the class of 1915 there was no girl who had ever worn cotton stockings to the school , and the town had broken out with something that looked like a bucolic variant of the Junior League . Children of parents who had been conceived in cottonwood lean-tos , with their older brothers looking on , had suddenly become a plutocracy with a mistaken belief that they were a fashionable caste . But the sagebrush debutante is without interest to history and is hereby abandoned to literature , which so far has left her out .                     