@@468773

ALMOST a year has passed since the Palestine riots last August all but blew the top off Zionism . Authoritative facts were difficult to secure during the period when the Commission appointed by Great Britain was making its investigation and completing its report . It contains some amazing features . Everyone knows that it was the Jews who were attacked , pillaged , murdered . Yet a cardinal recommendation of the Report is that the non-Jewish inhabitants of Palestine must henceforth be protected . How comes this blazing paradox ? What are the permanent realities of the Zionist experiment ? Who is boss in Palestine ? Zionism is as old as Moses . Even if Moses himself did n't reach the Promised Land , he first transferred into terms of political actuality the need of Jews to possess geographical borders . In its modern phase Zionism began late in the 19th century with the propaganda of Theodore Herzl , as an effort to counteract the assimilation of Jews in alien countries and to entrench in the Holy- Land Jewish nationality , race , and religion . The movement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ observer could refuse emotional respect to a crusade asking a home for a homeless people . Then during the War a curious accident transferred Zionism from a dream to a reality and added fierce dispute to what had been an almost uncontroversial issue . Dr. Chaim Weizmann , head of the Zionist organization , was a famous chemist . The War was raging . Thousands of tons of munitions were exploding day by day . The supply diminished . Mr. Lloyd George , declaring the War as good as lost unless a synthetic means was invented to produce acetone , the base of cordite and T.N.T. , called a conference of chemists . As director of Admiralty laboratories , Doctor Weizmann got to work and produced synthetic acetone . When he was offered any reward he wished ? grant or honor or title ? he asked instead for a National Home for the Jewish People . The British government gave it to him , swapping Zionism for acetone . The Balfour Declaration , of date Nov. e , 1917 , gave official expression to this policy . This document is Zionist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with favor the establishment in Palestine of a National Home for the Jewish people , and will use their best endeavors to facilitate the achievement of this object , it being clearly understood that nothing shall be done which may prejudice the civil and religious rights of existing non-Jewish communities in Palestine or the rights and political status enjoyed by Jews in any other country . No one doubts that the Balfour Declaration was sincere . But no one can doubt on the other hand its enormous convenience to Great Britain at this juncture , since it brought Jewish opinion all over the world , especially in America , to the Allied cause . I shall allude later to other aspects of its convenience . It is important to notice also the express duality of the Declaration . It promised to support the establishment in Palestine of a National Home for the Jews , provided the non-Jewish population , i.e. , the Arabs , were not prejudiced . Out of this duality has arisen every phase of the Palestine trouble , down to the disemboweling of non-Zionist Jews in the massacres @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ League of Nations , with the Balfour Declaration embodied in the preamble . Ever since it has been the permanent base of British policy . Promptly the machinery of Zionism had gone into action . A very widely expressed philanthropy contributed funds , and the Palestine Zionist Executive was formed , with Doctor Weizmann as chairman . Two important orga.nizations functioned under the Zionist aegis to buy land for Jewish settlers , pay their expenses of entry , and install them on the land . World Jewry , however , did not unanimously espouse the Zionist cause . A great body of Jewish opinion considered settlement in Palestine a reckless and impracticable experiment , and many prominent Jews , like , for instance , Julius Rosenwald , refused co-operation . Within Zionist Jewry , too , there were dissensions ; even now the Revisionist group , which advocates immediate direct action , is in " opposition . " However , the work in Palestine began . The business of immigration , settlement , and education was efficiently organized . In 1922 , of the total population of Palestine , 590,890 were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jews have entered Palestine since . The population in 1928 was estimated at 898,000 , of whom 660,000 were Moslem Arabs , and 150,000 Jews . Thus the Jews still constitute a minority of 1 in 6 . Some details of the work of Zionism are remarkable . An attempt to express spiritual homogeneity in geographical terms was unique ; to many it was enthralling . I have watched the immigrants come in at Jaffa , on boats like troop ships , from the ghettos of Lemberg and Czernowitz and Prague . No , they were not handsome , vigorous young men . No , they were not lit by any apparentinward fire . Instead , they were wretchedly dressed and miserably poor , babbling in Yiddish , huddled in cantonments where brisk British officers shuffled and distributed them ; they looked like what they were , refugees from slums . But one could imagine these same people tilling the soil within a year or two , cultivating the grape , carving livelihoods out of the dusty rock of the Jordan hills , or the plain of Esdraelon . In Palestine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Commissioner ) there are Oriental Jews from Bokhara and Persia and Iraq , and there are University men and women from New York and Chicago . There are Jews from the Yemen , of small stature and with gentle , refined features , good craftsmen in silver and ivory , or good laborers on the farms ; and there are agricultural experts from the colleges of France , from Poland and Russia . There arc students and writers , doctors and lawyers , architects and musicians , organizers and social workers , from Eastern Europe and Western , from Asia and America . Zionism is an attempt to hand pick a nation The immigration of the haluzim ( pioneers ) is not fortuitous , but selective ; the Zionist organization , represented by agents throughout Eastern Europe , chooses them , man by man . First of all , of course , a quota is established ; this quota the Palestine ( British ) government must approve . Recently it has been restricted to the number the country is supposed to he able to absorb ; for the past two years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of an acute economic crisis in 1926 and 1927 . Once in Palestine , the immigrants are organized into colonies and settled on the land . Of various types of colonies , the kvatzah are the most interesting ; these are purely communal , in which even money theoretically disappears . Some of the land is the property of the Jewish people as a whole , in perpetual lease to the Jewish National Fund ; some may be privately bought and sold . The whole question of land tenure and sale is a complex and difficult issue , of which an expert investigation is expected in the near future . These immigrants , together with other Jews , have become the biological expression of what is known as the Hebrew revival . They are taught Hebrew , and that tongue has been resuscitated as a living language . Hebrew theaters have been organized ; a living literature in Hebrew is encouraged ; newspapers and public signs are Hebrew . Schools have been opened , in great numbers ; a Hebrew university has been built on Mt . Scopus , near Jerusalem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expressed in Hebrew terms . The concrete achievements of Zionism are also considerable . The standard of living of the whole country has been increased , as swamps were drained and malaria controlled . Jewish capital has entered the country in large amounts . The remarkable town of TeI-Aviv has arisen on the Jaffa sands , the only exclusively Jewish municipality in the world . And Zionists hope that Jewish brains and Jewish capital will eventually industrialize the country ? and so give employment to thousands of Arabs as well as Jews ? by such works as the Rutenberg water-power concession on the Upper Jordan and the chemical project for reclaiming potash from the Dead Sea . But in doing these things , Zionism had to struggle to survive . It has survived , but only just . II The Balfour Declaration did not install a Jewish National Home in a vacuum ; it installed it in an Arab country . The fundamental cause of the August riots , according to the Report of the Commission , without which the disturbance would not have taken place , was " the Arab @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the disappointment of their political and national aspirations and fear for their economic future . " Arab and Jew are astoundingly contradistinctive , considering that both are Semites . In religion , in language , in wage-scale , in politics , in morals , in community ideals , in habit of mind , in God they differ . H. W. Nevinson put it nicely : the Arab is a camel ; the Jew is a motor car , bumping him off the road . That Palestine is an Arab country is undeniable . And the Arabs insist , moreover , that Palestine was promised to them by the British as an integral part of an Arab state . Futile to explain that in the days of the promises the Allies chopped up Arab territory month by month ? on paper . No perfectly clear elucidation of these pledges has yet been vouchsafed by the British foreign office . But during the very days that Colonel Lawrence was promising the Arabs independence in order to gain their support in the War , the Balfour Declaration was being evolved in London . Once @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the Arabs , so they say , for two full years . The Arabs are careful to point out , however , that they do not regard the Jew as necessarily or individually an interloper . They are not anti-Jewish . They arc simply anti-Zionist . They point out in proof that almost 60,000 Jews lived in Palestine before the War , and not a hair on the head of one of them was ever harmed . Of course it is clear that Zionism alone is not responsible for the change whereby to-day Jews are massacred . When the Jews lived in peace in Palestine , for instance , it was the Turks , not the British , who ruled the country . The country was then garrisoned . Arab nationalism was unknown until 1908 . The Turks ruthlessly forbade politico-religious agitation . But in addition to these factors it is clear that fear of political Zionism spurred the Arabs to the necessity of hate , and Jewish insecurity followed . As long ago as 1920 and 1921 riots occurred . The situation following them was so acute that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ determining anew its Palestine policy . Mr. Winston . Churchill produced the definition , in a famous White Paper issued in 1922 . Being an extremely equivocal document , the Balfour Declaration is obviously capable of two distinct interpretations . The Churchill memorandum steered a careful path between the two . It insisted that Jews were to live in Palestine as of right , and not on sufferance . On the other hand , in distinct terms the Arabs were reassured . There would be no attempt to create an entirely Jewish Palestine . A Jewish National Home was contemplated " in " Palestine ? no more . The Zionists have accused the British of " whittling down " the Balfour Declaration ever since . They redoubled their zeal in immigration and colonization . And so the Arabs saw more and more Jews come in . The Arab effendis ( landowners ) recoiled before Jewish high wages as their own cheap labor disappeared . A Palestine Arab Executive rose to confront the Palestine Zionist Executive in local politics . Arab tenants lost their holdings , Arab resentment daily grew , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In literal terms , it is not true that the country has been " taken " by the Jews . Even to-day , of an estimated 2,750,000 acres of cultivable land in all Palestine , the Jews hold only about 225,000 acres . And one should point out that all this land was bought and paid for by the Jews , at a good price , and that the Arabs were willing enough to self . Nevertheless , the bedrock quality of Arab resentment remained unmodified . Essentially the Arabs were being dispossessed . In the early days Zionist hopes ran very high ; Zionists boasted that in thirty more years they would outnumber the Arabs , and the country would be " theirs . " Dozens of details contributed to the indignation of the Arabs , and in time the opinion of an ignorant , childish , and credulous group of nomads and peasants was solidified to a passionate , relentless anti-Zionism . It became clear very early that tension between Jew and Arab permanently prevented any development to normal self-governing institutions . Indeed , the government of Palestine is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no president , no prime minister , no cabinet . The administration is purely colonial . New laws are posted simply by decree . The " government " is vested almost solely in the person of the British High Commissioner , who is responsible only to the Colonial Office in London and , at an astronomical distance , to the Mandates Commission of the League of Nations . This has occurred because no legislative instrument could be devised satisfactory to Jew and Arab alike . Being vastly outnumbered , the Jews refused any government based on proportionate representation . And the Arabs refused anything else . The leader of the Arabs in Palestine is Hajj Amin El-Husseini , a tall young man of thirty-five with a ginger beard and hazel eyes , who is President of the Supreme Moslem Council and Grand Mufti of Jerusalem . As such , he is technically a British as well as an Arab official , and is in receipt of a salary from his Britannic Majesty 's Exchequer . Both his jobs under present ruling he holds for life . The Jews consider him the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exonerated him . The Mufti was condemned to five years ' imprisonment in 1920 by the British for complicity in the Jaffa riots ; he fled , however , and was not captured . Then Sir Herbert Samuel , wisely devoted to a policy of conciliation , decided to pardon him ; he announced the pardon at a great public meeting in Amman , capital of Transjordania . " Let Amin El-Husseini come to Jerusalem ; be will not be molested ; we have pardoned him , " Sir Herbert said . There was a movement in the crowd and , to the amazement of the British , El-Husseini appeared , lifted on the shoulders of the Arabs . He had been hiding ? in a good place ! III Now there is a third great factor to the Palestine problem , greater than either Arab or Jewish ? the British . It is the British after all who have the really thankless job ; they hold the bag and they ca n't let it go , for a reason . The importance of Palestine to the British Empire in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years Palestine has been an umbilical link between East and West and a cross-roads of conquest and trade by which Africa , Asia , and Europe joined . It still is . When the British government traded Zionism for acetone a certain idealism underwrote the transfer . But it is undeniable what an immense practical convenience Zionism has become . The British have offered a treaty to Egypt which may shortly curtail British control there . They have promised to withdraw from ' Iraq in 1932 . But no one has suggested that they are going to withdraw from India . When Cairo is evacuated , Palestine remains an essential base for British protection of the Suez Canel zone , and with it the crucial line of imperial communications , **32;947;TOOLONG . Additionally , Palestine is inevitably an essential link in any British overland or aerial route to Bagdad and the Persian gulf . Where are the India mail planes to rest save at Gaza and Amman ? And where is the oil of Mosul to reach the sea ? except in Palestine ? Thus Haifa harbor is being rebuilt , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the sea . Zionism is so important because it legalizes the British position in Palestine . In Egypt , in ' Iraq , in India protests and insurrections against British control derive essentially from doubt of the British right of occupation . In Palestine this doubt does not exist . By virtue of its official commitments under the Balfour Declaration and the Palestine Mandate , Britain is obliged to remain in Palestine . Zionism not only serves to give the British an anchor in the Middle East , it makes that anchor moral . For these reasons , among others , the Balfour Declaration can not possibly be withdrawn , or even seriously modified . The British job is simply to make it work . The ineptitude of the local administration , however , granting all the difficulties , is hard to understand . The British officials are pretty well whitewashed by the 1929 Commission ; even so , criticism from other sources is severe . The White Paper of November , 1928 , defining the status quo of the Wailing Wall , for instance , was never put into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A. strong force was kept in Palestine during the first unsettled years after the War ; it was reduced under Sir Herbert Samuel and in 1926 was almost entirely withdrawn , mainly at the injunction of Lord Plumer , then the High Commissioner . To disband the garrison saved money for the British taxpayer , and out it went . Part of the force , it is true , simply marched across the Jordan , there to form the Transjordan Frontier Force , but in Palestine itself remained only a smattering of police . Another curious item proved unlucky , However unfortunate it was in any case that the 1929 riots should occur , it was doubly unfortunate that they occurred in the middle of an English week-end . When the trouble began the High Commissioner was absent from Jerusalem on leave . So was one of his senior assistants . So was the commandant of police for Palestine . So was the district superintendent of police for the Jerusalem area . So was the chief British representative in Transjordan . So was the commander of the Transjordan Defense Force . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the job of governor of Jerusalem . Since the importance of Zionism to the British Empire is clear , and the sincerity of British pledges to Jewry have been repeatedly proclaimed , why can not a way be found from the dilemma in clear and unconditional Zionist advocacy ? Why not escape the equivocation of the Balfour Declaration by resolute reinforcement of the Zionist case ? Why have the Arabs been so " coddled " ? whereas Egyptians and Hindus are seldom coddled ? The reason adds a final item to the British aspect of the Palestine dilemma . It is that Great Britain is the greatest Moslem power on earth . Something more than 100,000,000 Moslems live under the British flag ; most of them are uneasy , and all of them respond at once to any slightest ripple on the Moslem ocean . For the sake of a few Jews in Palestine the British can not possibly afford to sacrifice the good will of millions of Moslems in Arabia , in ' Iraq , in India . Palestine , indeed , is not only itself an Arab country ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Egypt , Hedjaz . In all of them , anti-Zionist agitation took place complementary to the Palestine disturbances . As far back as 1925 , Lord Balfour was in danger when he visited Damascus ; Sir Alfred Mond in Bagdad in 1928 had an uncomfortable time . The British did not fear revolt in Palestine in August-September , 1921 , so much as jehad ( holy war ) in Britannic Islam . The holy war did not come . Probably it never will come . But it is uncomfortable to note what embers have already been brought to an easily inflammable situation . Thus the equivocation of the Balfour Declaration was from the beginning inevitable ; by the nature of the case , British policy in Palestine was deliberately condemned at outset to ambiguity . The Balfour Declaration can not he really enforced to encourage Zionist aims ; just as certainly it can not be dismissed . All of which makes it more than ordinarily difficult to comprehend that the British " army " in Palestine at the time of the riots numbered exactly 142 men . IV The general @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against Zionists , then of Zionists against British . In this oblique form passion was confused , but grew to clarity . The Jewish attitude to the Arabs was contemptuous , but in the beginning was hardly of direct hostility . But the Zionist grievances against the British rose apace , and were expressed freely and bitterly . Here is how Mr. William Zukerman , a Zionist journalist , * outlines them : 1 . The British land policy . This policy has been to distribute whatever free common land there was in Palestine to Arabs only . The Jews have not received an inch of free laud for colonization purposes . ( Art . 6 of the Mandate promises " close settlement " of the Jews on the land. ) 2 . The immigration policy . Jewish immigration into Palestine is restricted more than into the United States under the quota . S. Unequal taxation , under which the Jews pay practically all the taxes of the country . 4 . Failure of the administration to employ Jews in public works in Palestine . S. Failure of the Palestine administration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 6 . Failure to engage Jews proportionately in the police and in the military defense of the country . 7 . Above all , the supercilious , snobbish , and even downright anti-Semitic treatment which the Jewish population received from the British officials of Palestine administration . Thus the Jews charge , in effect , not only that the Balfour Declaration is being " whittled down " but that it is being forgotten . Vladimir Jabotinsky , leader of the Zionist revisionists , complains that the fact Jews breathe in Palestine will soon be classed as " provocation . " This is unfortunately almost true , Palestine being an Arab country . And a Jew has cynically suggested to me that it is the intention of the British to " enforce " the Balfour Declaration ? until the last Jew leaves Palestine . *Iv the Nation , Oct. 16 , 1929 . Meantime some supernatural agency seemed to precipitate disaster on the struggling Zionists . First came a cattle plague , then an earthquake , then a serious invasion of locusts . But the main cause of the critical economic crisis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and 1926 . As a result there were 8,440 Jews out of work in 1927 , with dependents running up to 30,000 ; they had to live on a dole of 82.50 per week , all that the Zionist organization could afford . Building activity dropped , especially at Tel-Aviv ; hundreds of small shopkeepers went out of business ; newly born petty industries had to shut down . The obvious remedial measure was to cut down immigration , and this was done ; the Jews consider it a grievance that immigration is restricted , but if it were free Zionism might very well have starved . During the crisis emigration of Jews from Palestine began in alarming numbers . Since 1927 , in fact , hardly more Jews have entered Palestine than have left it , although Zionist officials say that " mass emigration " is now checked . Here are the disconcerting figures : Slowly and dishearteningly , moreover , it became clear that the experiment as a whole was not paying its own way . On account of the various autonomous and pseudo-autonomous organizations involved in Zionist finance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the venture in the large ; but it is clear that few of the new colonies are selfsupporting . Zionism survives practi-cally by virtue of a widely expressed but essentially miscellaneous philan-thropy . Had not the riots broken out in August , 1929 , that month might have been celebrated by all Zionists henceforward as the anniversary of a strikingly fortunate event . For in August , 1929 , the United Jewish Agency was formed during the deliberations of the Zionist congress at Zurich . Not all Jews , as I have said , are Zionists . Not even all Jews in Palestine are Zionists . The students in the great rabbinical colleges of Safad and Hebron , who bore the brunt of the massacres , and the old settlers in the Rothschild colonies , who hire Arab labor , all stood aloof from political Zionism . The creation of the new Jewish Agency to unite world Jewry in support of Zionism was , and is , of great importance . The Agency is composed half of non-Zionists , who henceforth promise support to " Jewish " work in Palestine . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this end had two excessively unfortunate results . First , it caused the absence from Jerusalem of the responsible Zionist officials stationed there ; and had they been at hand to prevent the Jewish demonstration at the Wailing Wall on August 15 , the riots might not have occurred . Second , the formation of the Agency was a direct factor contributing to the riots , because it incited outbursts of chauvinism by Jews in Palestine , and this led to Arab retaliation . Then finally to the confusion and suspicion and tension of the whole situation was gradually but inevitably added the explosive force of a fierce religious crisis . V This crisis had been brewing a long time in the hot , fervid atmosphere of old Jerusalem . The whole religious issue was , in fact , absolutely fundamental , and it absorbed before long rational disagreements in political and economic fields , so that the disagreements became matters of hysteria and fanaticism . To this was contributed the extraordinary sensitiveness to any religious dispute which distinguishes Jerusalem . Imagine one 's astonishment , for instance , to discover @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nativity itself , in order to preserve peace among the five different Christian sects who have chapels at Bethlehem . The tension between Arabs and Jews was many more times more intense . It reached a natural and inevitable climax at the Wailing Wall , the Holy Place in Jerusalem which both Jew and Arab claim . The Wailing Wall is a colossal block of masonry in the old city of Jerusalem supposed to represent the last vestige of the ancient Jewish Temple . Thus it is a symbol of Jewish glory , an intimation of Jewish dreams , and a pathetic reminder of the Jewish past . But that it is a survival of the Temple of Solomon is a myth . Not a trace of the Temple of Solomon anywhere remains . The Wailing Wall does stand , however , on Mt . Moriah , where the Temple once stood , and a few stones in the lower courses of its masonry do date back to Herodian times . The Wall has , naturally , a profound reverential significance for Orthodox Jews , as well as an emotional significance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have assembled there , weeping , wailing , lamenting : But there is a terrific point to explain . The Wailing Wall is sacred not only to Jew , but to Arab also . It forms , in fact , the actual western wall of the Harames-Sharif , the Moslem holy enclosure in which stand the so-called Mosque of Omar and the Mosque el-Aqsa . The Haram-es-Sharif is not only one of the loveliest concentrations of architecture in the world ; for 1,300 years it has been a concentration of the Arab spirit , so august that only Mecca and Medina outrank it as the holiest shrines in Islam . And of it the Wailing Wall is an integral part . In old Jerusalem architecture combines so plastically with legend , stone by stone and myth by myth , that almost every Holy Place is the seat of several rival associations . Thus the rock in the Mosque of Omar is supposed to be the altar from which Abraham proposed to sacrifice Isaac ; but it is also the spot from which Mohammed is believed to have ascended from earth to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Arab shrine , since it stands atop the Mosque El-Buraq , where Mohammed tethered his famous horse before the ascent . Remote as these details are , they are of enormous significance both to Arabs and Jews ; and they are enforced by something much more tangible . The Wailing Wall , the pavement in front of it ( where the Jews stand ) , the structures behind it and adjoining it , and the houses above it , are , and for generations have been , indisputable Moslem property . This fact is legally absolute . The Jews , in fact , offered to buy the Wall , a few years ago , offering $400,000 for it , but the Arabs , after haggling over the price , refused to sell . The Arab property rights are vested in the Abu Madian waqjr . A ? waqf is a Moslem foundation , holding property for religious and charitable purposes . Both the absolute legal right of the Arabs to the property and the pious nature of the trust in charge of it are reiterated by every competent authority . These @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ essential points to understand . From incidents at the Wailing Wall to the outbreak of the riots in 199 is a direct sequence . One reads the Report of the Commission almost aghast at the bitterness of racial feeling evolving step by step from outwardly trivial events . In the large they may be summarized in three sentences . The Wailing Wall was the pretext and scene of direct Zionist religio-political demonstrations . Retaliation by hysterically inflamed Arabs followed . In each case , Zionist provocation came first . The Wailing Wall became a specific occasion of tension in September , 1925 , and of actual disorder in September , 1928 . From early times the Jews had had indisputable right of access to the Wall for purposes of lamentation and prayer . No one ever thought to interfere with this right until Jews not only came to pray , but brought with them mats , benches , chairs , a screen , and other appurtenances of prayer . Presence of such appurtenances transformed the Wall into a synagogue , an intolerable affront to Islam . In September , 1928 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Jews ; feeling was so high a riot followed . The British authorities were forced to issue a ruling taking the form of a White Paper establishing the Jewish right of access to the Wall for purposes of prayer , but denying them anything else beyond what the Turks had permitted . Both parties were to observe the Turkish status quo . But the ruling was not rigorously enforced : each side insists that the other violated it . The Arabs , for instance , began building operations ( on what was certainly their own property ) , but which according to the Jews served to transform the pavement before the Wall into an indirect passageway , where Arabs promenaded at times of Jewish prayer . British legal authority expressed all the way from London insisted the Arabs were within their rights , and had not disturbed the status quo ; the Arabs proceeded to build . Zionist indignation grew , violently expressed . The Zurich conference protested bitterly to London . Tensionreached such a dangerous point that Zionist officials in Jerusalem warned the conference by telegraph that the extreme @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , else there would be " revolt and insubordination . " The Wall became the fierce glowing core of the whole controversy . Even atheistic Jews who had previously regarded the Wall as a worthless pile of stones in " a dirty Arab alley " joined to demand militant measures . They came soon enough . August 15 , 1929 , was the day of Tisha B'Av , the feast of the Destruction of the Temple . A number of Jewish youths , stalwart and militant haluzim , marched through the city and , in violation of British orders and despite Zionist attempts to keep the peace , raised the Zionist flag at the Wall , made political speeches , and sang the Hatikvah , the Jewish national anthem ? all of this exactly comparable to advancing to an annoyed and ravenous lion and sticking one 's head inside his mouth . The next day Arab retaliation began . One of the dangers to security in Palestine is an everlasting overlapping of Jewish , Moslem , Gregorian , and Julian holidays . The day after the 15th was the eve of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ swarmed into the Haram area . They were restrained . During the week following , agitators told them of Zionist designs on the Holy Places ; credulous villagers heard wild rumors that the Mosque of Omar had been bombed . On the 23rd the storm broke . Magnificent work by British police prevented a revolution ; but by the time the troops from Malta and Egypt had restored order 138 Jews , including 8 Americans , had been murdered ; arson , rapine , pillage had fired its way over the country ; public security in Palestine was set hack twenty years ; and the Zionist experiment all but disappeared , in blood and smoke . VI I have told the story of the riots with an attempt at chronology and in such detail because they represent apparently permanent characteristics of the situation . An amazing discovery I made in Jerusalem is that Zionists do not mind murder . They apparently accept the possibility of further murder . The Jews have been massacred by the best people in history for centuries , and Arab pogroms are hardly big-time stuff . I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ words , Zionism is to go on , come what may . In discussion with Zionists shortly after the outbreak I mentioned the certain necessity hereafter of a permanent British garrison , to protect the colonies . I was told , " The British will protect us or we will protect ourselves ; it hardly matters which . ' " The irrevocable fervor of Arab hostility is taken almost for granted . For Jews there is no solution , not even death . The Report of the 1929 Commission certainly does not express this view , but indirectly it includes it . Since this Report presumably will condition future British policy in Palestine , if indeed it does not actually determine it , I must , to make my story complete , insert a brief summary of its conclusions . The outbreak was not premeditated , the Report says ; it neither was nor was intended to be a revolt against British authority in Palestine ; it was from the beginning an attack by Arabs on Jews for which no excuse in the form of earlier murder by Jews was established @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ provocation , as is the Arab Executive . " The complaint that the Palestine government has consistently shown a lack of sympathy toward the establishment of a Jewish National Home and that their policy is one of weakness is , in large measure , due to the difficulties inherent in the Mandate . " Zionist policy is severely criticized . " While Jewish immigration has conferred material benefits in Palestine in which the Arab people share , it is clear that claims and demands of Zionism have been such as to arouse Arab apprehension that they will in time be deprived of their livelihood and pass under the political domination of the Jews . " There is , the Report says , incontestable evidence that the Zionist organization has seriously departed from the accepted doctrine that immigration should be regulated by the economic absorbing power of the country . The land situation is acute , according to the Report . A landless and discontented class has been created by evictions of Arabs without provision of other land for their occupation . The Report does not note that in many eases Arab @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and have ever since complained that the Jews bought it . During the course of this article I have kept fairly close to the opinion of the Commission as to the causes of the outbreak . The fundamental one , already given , is Arab fear that the country is being taken from them . As to conclusions , the Report suggests the basic necessity of a new statement of policy by the British government , that will clearly safeguard the rights and position of the non-Jewi8h communities in Palestine . Naturally the Zionists have resented this Report even as the Arabs acclaim it . Neutral observers fall in the middle , appreciating the excessive difficulties of forthright recommendation , regretting , inasmuch as Zionism is to go on , that no definite ameliorative suggestions are forthcoming . Perhaps such suggestions are impossible . But Mr. Snell , the Labor member of the Commission , although he signed the Report , added a disclaimer strongly advocating practical compromise . His plea is mostly for conciliation . The difficulties , he thinks , are not absolutely insoluble . The Jews , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an inward fire impossible of extinction brought them there ; it will keep them there . Resented , attacked , murdered , they will yet stay . So the political tenets of Zionism must be modified , and Arab fanaticism controlled . The Jew and Arab are not fundamentally enemies : they must be taught not to gobble each other alive . Both Jew and Arab fare adjustments of almost incredible difficulty to this end . But the attempt ought to be made , else Palestine may very well slide into the sea . VII God promised Zionism to Moses , and Balfour promised it to Weizmann ; and all four have failed to make it work . At the moment conciliation seems indeed millennial . Perhaps chiefly for this reason action is necessary at once . Something must be done . But what ? For qualities of pure dilemma the Palestine situation is unrivalled . Let me recapitulate . Zionism is an emotional necessity to certain Jews ; but it is an economic and political failure . Arab hostility to Zionism is lamentable ; but it can not be erased @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to maintain them means difficulty , tension , bloodshed . Three fundamental conclusions are , however , reasonably clear . Ambiguous as it is , the Balfour Declaration can not and will not be withdrawn . Coterminously , friction between Jew and Arab seems inevitable . Derivatively , a British garrison must remain in Palestine . A garrison is not conciliatory , and it is not millennial ; but it is necessary just the same . Inexorable facts for which Jews as well as Arabs are responsible have created difficulties that are greater than ideals . Two great international nationalities meet at murder-point in Zionism . It is the thankless Jot of the British to have to temper this extremity . Thus to-day from one end of the Holy Land to the other the silhouette of steel helmet and bayonet is added to that of cyclamen and cedar . Henceforward ? perhaps until Mohammed meets the dead atop the Rock of Abraham ? Zionism rests in Palestine on British bayonets . 