@@256778

The people of Andalusia , in Southern Spain , who voted Leftist when Spain had elections , have usually been cool toward the Italian " volunteers " brought in by tens of thousands to help Rightist Generalissimo Francisco Franco in Spain 's civil war . Last week , as some 12,000 Italian infantrymen prepared to return to Italy in a " token " withdrawal of Italian troops , controlled Rightist newspapers and spokesmen whooped up enthusiasm to show Rightist Spain 's official gratitude to Fascist Italy . <P> Over the historic old waterfront of Cadiz , scene of one of Columbus 's departures for the New World , Andalusians who had thrown few bouquets at the Italians when they arrived 20 months ago cried " Viva Italia ! Viva Mussolini ! " as 4,000 of the departing Latins gave a farewell salute to tough , boastful General Gonzalo Queipo de Llano , Commander of the Rightist Southern Army . <P> Most interested spectator of the Italian leave-taking was a Britisher , Francis Hemming , secretary of London 's Non-intervention Committee . No secret is it that by this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Franco hope to persuade Britain and France to grant belligerent rights to Rightist Spain . To New York Times Correspondent William P. Carney , however , Mr. Hemming said that Italian aviators , artillerymen and technicians as well as infantrymen ought to be withdrawn . <P> On Spain 's northern frontier a smaller , less spectacular withdrawal of foreign fighters also took place . Into France went 350 cheering men of the International Brigades , until now a part of the Leftist Army . Surrounded by French Mobile Guards , they exchanged fists with French Leftists , shouted : " They did n't need us any more . They can win all by themselves ! " Arriving in Barcelona to witness the complete evacuation of the remaining 8,000 International Brigade men was a League of Nations Commission of 19 members , which included Noel Field , U.S. member of the League 's Permanent Disarmament Commission .                     