@@468951

IN THE annals of the daily press the story of Owen D. Young does not begin until 1921 . On November 6th of that year the New York Times reported the arrival of a party of tourists coming from New York to inspect a wireless station recently completed at Stony Point , Long Island . Over a bleak expanse of scrub oak ruffled by a brisk autumn wind these tourists saw twelve columns marching in a line with widespread arms . " They looked , " the Times reporter said in his dispatch , " uncannily like the Martians H. G. Wells once wrote about . " The incident is interesting not only as a. reminder that reporters were still writing about radio as a curiosity in 1921 , but because a few appropriate remarks on this occasion were spoken by a then obscure official of the General Electric Company . This was the first time any portion of Mr. Young 's remarks appeared in print in the New York Times , and for some years the only time . We have moved on from 1921 , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Young 's activities has expanded in the last decade at a pace at least as rapid as the whirlwind growth of the radio industry . During the last two years , thanks in part to his identification with the reparations plan which bears his name , Mr. Young has appeared in the New York Times on three hundred and twenty-six occasions , an average of approximately three times a week . Even Henry Ford has had no press since the new model to compare with this . From the obscurity of 1921 Mr Young has emerged with great renown . Impromptu stories of his life have flourished in the magazines . Newspapers have given headlines to his theories of prosperity , his analyses of the causes of depression , his testimony before Congressional committees on banking laws , the bonus , foreign trade , radio communications , and the regulation of utilities . Particularly in recent months the publicity which centers in his opinions and activities has multiplied and at the same time entered a new field of prophecy . By more than one expert we are told that , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ destined , by virtue of a brilliant career in business and the accident of his political faith , to lead the Democratic party in its next campaign . Of this possibility a large part of the press is increasingly aware . Mr. Young is now met on the steps of the Capitol by reporters who wish to know not only what he thinks about the reparations question but what he thinks about the Presidency . Editorial writers speculate upon the efforts he would expend as President to cheek the decline of commodity prices , to stimulate the movement of accumulated goods , and to rescue the railways from inaction . A political expert in the Herald-Tribune detects evidence of favoritism for his candidacy on the part of the central Democratic organization . Mr. Julian Harris reports to the Times from Georgia " a growing sentiment among southern Democrats that Mr. Young 's nomination would consolidate the party . " Additional evidence of this popularity among the politicians is to be found in the straw ballots which are now beginning to foreshadow interest in the 1932 election . A recent poll of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ showed this order of preference : Roosevelt 478 , Smith 125 , Young 73 , Ritchie 39 . A still more recent poll of 1200 key men and women in the party stood as follows : Roosevelt 562 , Young 256 , Smith 115 , Robinson 95 . Instead of a few scattered votes well down the list , Mr. Young 's name suddenly appears among the leaders . Unquestionably there is a widespread belief that , while the odds at the present time may not favor his selection ( or acceptance ) , a series of events far less fortuitous than those which have given us many of our presidential candidates might easily project a man with Mr. Young 's great prestige into the Democratic nomination . It is not difficult to identify some of the considerations which have set people thinking of Mr. Young in terms of politics and stimulated discussion of his availability as a candidate for President . He has , in the first place , all of the personal qualifications with which a candidate for President ought properly to be equipped . Even the Georgia Democrat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the medium of the rotogravure section or the talking news reel , rightly guesses him to be a man of personal charm and simplicity of manner . His career is in the best American tradition : farm boy , homespun college student , law clerk , junior partner , man of large affairs . He is an attractive figure at a public meeting , thoroughly at ease , an engaging speaker , amazingly youthful for a man of fifty-seven . He has an easy grace in making friends and an intuitive talent for winning gestures . New York , in the person of Mayor Walker , offered him a brass band and a shower of ticker tape when he returned from Paris with the Young Plan . He refused to believe that New York was moved to brass bands by its interest in a remote event which it did not understand and appealed to the Mayor by radio from the Aquitania , " Please let me come home quietly . " Moreover , there are certain political considerations which are more important here than matters of prestige and personality . Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the nomination under the rule which requires that the nomination go to the resident of a State with a large number of votes in the electoral college . But he is also a New Yorker who has never been linked in the headlines with either the " new Tammany " or the old one . No one has laid at his door ? and no one can lay at his door , since he is a complete outsider ? failure either to reform Tammany or to chastise it . He is equally impregnable in the controversy over prohibition . For while he has declared that he " resents the whole theory of the constitutional amendment and the fanaticism and unreasonableness of the Volstead Law , " he has also declared that he wishes " to be very patient with this effort of a great democracy in selfdiscipline " and that he , " for one , does not propose to take any chances on liquor again obtaining the upper hand in this country . " Both wets and drys may hope that this statement of the case foreshadows an ultimate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Young 's availability is that he is definitely identified in the public 's mind as a man who has thought seriously and consecutively about questions of foreign policy . In this respect he differs from Messrs . Smith , Roosevelt , Ritchie , Robinson , Cox , Reed , Moody , and all other possible candidates for the Democratic nomination , with the single exception of Newton D. Baker . This interest in foreign policy is a political asset in 1931 for the first time since the War . In the elections of 1920 , 1924 , and 1928 interest in foreign policy was at low ebb ; it was at least a luxury , if not actually a nuisance , for any candidate for President to feel concerned about our relations with Europe , the Far East , or South America . The situation to-day has changed . It is not a revival of interest in the World Court or the League of Nations that has brought the change . It is a revival of interest in world markets . Eleven years ago , seven years ago , even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an American army had fought a war . To-day Europe is a place where American business would be overjoyed to sell more goods . For the first time in the recent history of the American Republic questions of international economy have actually become street-corner topics of discussion . The laundryman assures his barber that we shall not be out of the woods until things pick up abroad . The drugstore prophet talks persuasively of the influence exerted upon prosperity in the United States by such novel factors as gold movements from the Bank of France , wheat exports from the Argentine , and the collapse of silver in the Orient . Mr. Hoover , too , it should be noted , was presumed to have a wide acquaintance with these matters in 1928 . But Mr. Hoover was an engineer . It is part of the Young legend in 1931 that WERE NOMINATED 277 engineers are specialists who work on technical problems in the sheltered laboratories of General Electric . III The portrait sketches which attempt to detach Owen D. Young as a man from Owen D. Young as material for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ write the chapter headings for a popular biography , from the family farm at Van Hornesville through St. Lawrence University and a career in private law to the chairmanship of General Electric . But when these episodes have been recorded they fail to suggest what the average person would like best to know : namely , the type of mind which Mr. Young possesses , the manner in which he approaches a given problem , the faculty which enables him to appear suddenly on a new front as master of an apparently unfamiliar situation . He was a lawyer who had specialized for some years in public utility cases when General Electric offered to take him on as general counsel and vice president in 1912 . A lawyer who had specialized in public utility cases was precisely what General Electric wanted at the time . But by virtue of what hitherto unsuspected talent on the part of a young lawyer in his thirties did General Electric , in acquiring a new counsel , acquire also its most competent executive ? He was a veteran of six years ' service in General @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ way to a glamorous future for an infant industry . It was easy , perhaps , to behold the vision of a thousand Stiller Hotels with a radio in every room . But by what combination of tact , energy , and exhortation did Mr. Young succeed in persuading Westinghouse , American Telephone &; Telegraph , General Electric , Western Electric , and United Fruit ( which controlled a wireless service in the Caribbean ) to take part in the negotiations leading up to the creation of that bold and amazingly successful patent-pool which bears the name of Radio Corporation of America ? He was a merchant of electrical equipment with some knowledge of the metropolitan markets of post-war Europe when he was invited in 1924 to accompany General Dawes on a mission to Berlin ? his first real appearance in the headlines . He knew enough of the existing reparations plan to know that it had failed . But by what qualities of mind and temperament did he manage to get the threads of the Berlin conference so securely in his hands that General Dawes said later , in explaining @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " He told me what to do , I told the others they must do it , and they did " ? The difficulty in making such episodes as these intelligible is the unwillingness of men who have worked with Mr. Young to credit him with any mysterious quality which would at once enable the outsider to feel that he had caught the secret of the man . To close associates of Mr. Young there is , in fact , no secret . These associates say of him simply that he possesses an exceedingly effective combination of qualities which are ordinary in themselves . They say that he has patience and urbanity . They say that he has a genuine respect for facts , They say that , while he has a normal set of dogmas about the way business and politics should be managed , he can rid himself of these dogmas effectively enough to permit him to consider without prejudice a problem placed before him . They say that he is an expert listener even to arguments with which he vigorously disagrees . They say that he has an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ placean entering wedge of compromise between conflicting theories . As evidence of the practical fashion in which these habits of mind and traits of character can be put to service , consider Mr. Young 's conduct in the face of certain crises confronting the conference on reparations payments over which he presided in Paris in 1929 . This conference assembled in early February ' and , after the usual exchange of courtesies , ran into difficulty over the question of how large a total sum Germany would consent to pay and how small a total sum Germany 's creditors would be willing to receive . The two figures proposed were more than ten billion marks apart . Both parties were adamant . The conference was deadlocked . Predictions were freely made that it would fail . It would certainly have failed if the two opposing factions had been permitted then and there to argue their difference of opinion to a final disagreement . At this point , however , Mr. Young suddenly brought forward his plan for the creation of a new international bank . This proposal had nothing to do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's creditors would receive . It was a proposal concerned merely with the creation of new machinery to collect and to distribute whatever payments might ultimately be agreed upon . It was a proposal , however , which commended itself both to Germany , because it promised to aid the Reichsbank in stabilizing its exchanges , and to Germany 's creditors , because it promised to facilitate the uninterrupted flow of annuities and to lay the basis for the ultimate commercialization of the German debt . At once attention shifted from the old deadlock over reparations payments to a new agreement over the advantages to Europe in the creation of an international bank . Mr. Young had brought into play his faculty for finding ? IF OWEN D. YOUNG the right spot in which to place an entering wedge of compromise . He had shown patience and urbanity in the face of an obvious temptation to abandon what seemed to many men in Paris a hopeless and a thankless effort . He had listened expertly to the claims of two opposing factions . He now led discussion of these claims away @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ immediate methods . The result was promptly apparent in the news from Paris . The conference revived . It went about the business of perfecting plans for the establishment of the bank which Mr. Young had advocated . For some weeks thereafter , through a succession of such crises and such methods of diverting attention away from danger spots to safety zones , the dozen men who represented their respective governments in the Paris conference proceeded to lay the basis for so large an agreement over detail that when the time came ultimately to face the question of the annuity which Germany would pay , too much had been accepted on both sides to permit the conference to break up without a final search for a compromise . Mr. Young 's own formula for this compromise , when it was at last submitted at the end of May , was rightly timed and ultimately accepted . IV There is little evidence in any quarter of a desire to quarrel with those appreciations of Mr. Young which set high value upon his methods of work , his broad experience , his skill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they threaten to make trouble , in Iolver Broadway , Paris , or Berlin . All this is the well-earned reward of an unbroken series of successes over a period of ten active years . No one , discussing the part that Mr. Young may one day play in public life WERE NOMINATED 279 or the question of his availability for public office , has seen fit to question his ability . Such doubts as have been expressed in this respect rest rather upon his point of view . This point of view , as Mr. Young himself describes it , is essentially liberal in outlook . " All of my people for many generations have been supporters of the liberal party , " he has said . " I think it would be helpful to put the liberal party in power . . . A conservative party must naturally be a party of inaction in new fields . Frequently it falls into reaction . Now I think this was 1928 and would presumably be true in 1932 that it is time to try again the initiative of liberalism . Let @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his own . The conservative party can not help being the party of the people who have . It can not help , for the same reason , being somewhat insulated from the people who have less . " Nevertheless , though Mr. Young has chosen to mark himself a liberal rather than a conservative , it is among people loosely described as liberals that opposition to his nomination has appeared . It is not the members of the Bankers ' Club or the National Association of Manufacturers but the Senate radicals who deplore the proposal to draft Mr. Young even against his will . It is the Senate radicals who insist that , with due appreciation of his readiness to align himself on the side of those " who have less " rather than those " who have , " Mr. Young is too closely identified with corporate wealth to warrant a belief that he would champion any program of taxation or control unwelcome to big business . What other attitude , they ask , could reasonably and in all fairness be expected of a man who is chairman of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ committee of Radio Corporation , a director of American &; 7 ? Foreign Power , and a director of General Motors Corporation ? Worse than this , from the point of view of the Senate radicals , is their belief that the nomination of Mr. Young would blur the edges of an issue on which they hope to stir the country in the 1932 campaign : the issue of public utility regulation , the control of holding companies , and the taming of the " power trust . " Senator Norris voices the suspicions of one left-wing member of the Senate when he says : " We know right now that the Power Trust is doing everything it can to nominate Owen D. Young as Democratic candidate for President . " In examining the record of Mr. Young on the power issue it is useful to note first that " power issue " is a somewhat indeterminate phrase , meaning different things to different men . To some men it means government operation of power plants at publiclyowned sites like Muscle Shoals and Boulder Dam . To other men it also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . To still other men it means one or both of these proposals , plus federal regulation of power transmitted by privatelyowned utilities across state lines . To still other men , opposed to an extension of federal authority , it means more effective regulation by the States . To another group it means a deliberate effort to supplant privately-owned utilities with federal , state , and municipal electric light and power plants . There are certain points in this wide range of controversy on which Mr. Young 's position is unmistakable . He is , by instinct and by training , an advocate of private methods of operation as against public methods . Not only is he on record to this effect in various statements " governmental organization is an inefficient and uneconomical instrument to do our public utility business " ? " it is scarcely too much to say that the best of the publicly-owned enterprises are comparable only with the worst of the privatelyowned concerns " ; in addition , he has played an active part in the management of a privately-owned utility . In 1925 General Electric @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ group of important power companies in eastern New York into the Mohawk Hudson Power Corporation . For some time , before General Electric sold its Mohawk Hudson stock in 1928 to J. P. Morgan &; Co. ( thereby leading to the creation of United Corporation ) , Mr. Young was a director of this enterprise . Moreover , General Electric was allied with Aluminum Company of America and the Du Pont interests in the ownership of Frontier Corporation , the last privately-owned company to bid unsuccessfully for a lease to develop the vast water-power on the St. Lawrence River . Of this lease Mr. Young said in 1926 that it " preserved the interest of the state to the fullest possible extent and gave to private capital no more than was necessary to induce people to invest their money . " Of the same lease Governor Smith of New York said at the same time that it was " unjust to the state " and in certain respects " prohibitive , confiscatory , and worthless . " There is this point , however , on which Mr. Young and Governor Smith @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and would presumably agree to-day . Mr. Young had expressed the opinion in an address before the National Electric Light Association that " where vast rivers , either on international boundaries or within the United States , require development for several purposes , such as navigation , irrigation , and flood control as well as for power . . . public ownership can not be objected to ; personally , I prefer that the IF OWEN D. YOUNG WERE NOMINATED 281 construction and ownership of such an enterprise be in the hands of a public corporation , the stock of which should be government owned , with the provision that the corporation finance the enterprise with its own securities . " It is an interesting sequence of events that five days after the collapse of the Frontier Corporation 's bid for St. Lawrence water-power , Governor Smith proposed a plan for development of this power through the agency of a public corporation ; that Mr. Young expressed himself in sympathy with certain features of this plan ; and that Governor Roosevelt declared he would like to have Mr. Young at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ask Mr. Young to do it . It is true that he is an officer of a private power corporation , but I believe that he has the state 's interest at heart and that he could be depended upon to do the job right in every respect . " We arrive , accordingly , at this somewhat paradoxical situation : we find Senator Norris in 1931 denouncing as an agent of the private power interests the man selected in 1916 to head a public power corporation by the Presidential candidate for whose sake Senator Norris bolted his own party on the power issue in 19es . At bottom , however , there is no real reason for confusion here . Certain essential facts are clear enough . Mr. Young differs with those dogmatists among the private-power interests who can see no health in government development of water-power at any place or at any time . But he likewise differs with those critics of the private-power interests who demand a drastic revision of existing methods of utility regulation . There is nothing in the record to suggest that on this point @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Governor Roosevelt . There is nothing remotely to suggest that he exists in the same world of ideas with Governor Pinchot of Pennsylvania , who belie ? es that " a power monopoly , fully conscious of its financial , industrial , and legal powers , " is now seeking " to seize the powers of government , or , failing that , to intimidate lawful authority to do its will . " V The question arises at this point : If power is to be an important issue in 193x , along with prohibition , and if there is nothing in the record to suggest that Mr. Young is prepared ( as Messrs . Pinchot , Roosevelt , and Norris are prepared ) to go to the country on the issue of public utility regulation , and nothing to suggest that he is prepared ( as Messrs . Smith , Ritchie , and perhaps Roosevelt are prepared ) to go to the country on the issue of repeal of the Eighteenth Amendment , in what manner would the candidacy of Mr. Young on the Democratic ticket differ from the candidacy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so far as it offered the public a choice between these two men as individual leaders ? The answer is : If Mr. Young were nominated on the Democratic ticket in 1932 , power certainly would not be and prohibition probably would not be an important issue , unless an independent candidate were nominated on a thirdparty ticket in an effort to rally the voters who are deeply interested iu one or the other of these questions . With Mr. Young and Mr. Hoover leading their respective parties , the campaign of 1932 would be fought on a different front . The dominant issue would be neither power nor prohibition , but an economic question : the question of what disposition shall be made of the surplus of farm products , raw materials , manufactured goods , and credit which has hung over a depressed industry and hindered its recovery . This issue has been latent in American politics for some years -- at least since 1920 , when commodity prices first turned down . It is an issue which has achieved considerable prominence at the present time . It is an issue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fundamental change had taken place meantime in the outlook for American business . The program of the Hoover Administration during the depression years of 1930-31 has consisted of an effort to dispose of the problem of an unwanted surplus by a policy of pricestabilization and high tariffs . Pricestabilization has involved the purchase of two hundred and fifty million bushels of wheat which are to-day precisely as welcome in the hands of an harassed bureaucracy in Washington as two hundred and fifty million red-hot bricks . High tariffs , at least to this point , have not had the desired effect of reducing a large domestic surplus of manufactured goods by excluding foreign imports . On behalf of Mr. Hoover it is argued that the economic policies of the Administration have not had and can not have a fair test when business all over the world is depressed . It is quite possible that a majority of the American people accepts this thesis , but it is certain that Mr. Young , for one , does not ; that lie regards depression at home and abroad as in large part the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economic insularity . " Isolation in our politics and exclusion in our tariffs , " he said in a recent address in San Francisco , " mean that we shall retain as a just penalty to our own littleness the surpluses which we might otherwise market to the peoples of the world . . . What shall we do with our surplus of wheat or cotton or what you please ? We must get rid of it . , . . There is no way out except to market this surplus where men are hungry and unclothed . , .. As our production per man increases in our factories and goes beyond the power of our consumption , we must export that surplus or have corresponding unemployment in those industries . .. . How can we market these surpluses , both agricultural and industrial ? The method is well known . Those who need our goods are the potential buyers . One cultivates his potential buyers . He does not rebuff them . He seeks their friendship and goodwill . If they need credit be extends it . If they have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ business of his own country he makes it a point to take them . .. . Something must come in if wheat and cotton and meat are to go out . " The corollaries of this policy are plain enough . They involve an abandonment of the Hawley-Smoot tariff . They involve the rejection of governmental price-stabilization plans which , if this theory is correct , are condemned to failure in the absence of foreign markets . They involve the use of idle funds for the extension of foreign credits . They involve a re-examination of the war debts , with particular emphasis upon those due to the United States . VI It is idle to guess in the summer of 1431 whether there is any real likelihood that Mr. Young will be offered ( or will want ) the nomination of the Democratic party at its next convention . Presumably he is the candidate of a minority at the present time . But certainly in the event of his nomination issues would at once be raised which would cut across party lines . Of the various factions which compose the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ noticeably restless faction at the present moment is the group of interests which represent big business . Politics seem IF OWEN D. YOUNG strangely out of joint to the spokesmen of these interests . It is the small Republican business man , and not the great Republican hanker or industrialist , who regards the Hawley-Smoot tariff as the last word in economic statesmanship . Big business has no use for the Hawley-Smoot tariff . It has no use for a policy of insularity . It deplores the action of the Hoover Administration in yielding to political pressure in the matter of price-stabilization . It sees in this action a threat of other subsidies in other forms , quite aside from the subsidy which big business itself has long enjoyed in the form of protected industry . Certainly it is a fact of some significance that at a time when an active faction of the Democratic party , led by Mr. Raskob , is doing its best to assure Republican business men that the Democratic party is eminently safe and sane , the newspapers should carry abundant criticism voiced by important business @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It was a partner in the house of Morgan , and not a Democratic Congressman , who declared at the last meeting of the Academy of Political Science that the time has come for " the governments of all nations , our own included , to stop this war of tariffs and subsidies with which they are strangling the world 's trade . " It was the President of the Pennsylvania Railroad , until recently Republican national committeeman from the greatest of all protection States , who said amid applause from members of the Bond Club of Philadelphia that " impediments to international trade are one of the greatest obstacles in the way of commercial recovery in 1931 " : " because of our international relations we are unable to use our great surplus of production to advantage , not only to ourselves but WERE NOMINATED 283 to the world at large . " IIeterodoxy of this sort finds champions to-day among men of large affairs in constantly increasing numbers . After all , as we may learn once more , there is nothing permanently binding about allegiance to party . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ comfortably housed under the banner of Republicanism that it could prosper nowhere else , but there is no real reason why this should be the case . Big business could drift into the Democratic party without inviting undue risk . It would find a bulwark of emotional conservatism in the Democracy of the Solid South . It would have the support of many voters in the metropolitan centers of the North , if the issue were resistance to new subsidies , since it is the metropolitan centers , traditionally under-represented in Congress , which pay the major share of the cost of any subsidy , whether it takes the form of purchases of wheat , federal aid for marketing associations , or appropriations for good roads . A great deal will depend upon the course of business between now and June , 1932 . Concede for a moment the continuance for another year of a halfway state between depression and recovery . Concede the increasing pressure certain in this case to be brought to bear upon the Administration to stabilize farm prices and to add new parapets to existing tariff walls @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Concede , finally , the completion of whatever chain of events is needed to persuade the Democratic party to nominate Owen D. Young as its candidate for President . In this case we shall witness a great migration about the fourth of next July . With a little nostalgia but no real regret , big business will load its vans and cross the line . 