@@486402

EUROPEAN REACTION to the stand Congress has taken on the question of revising the war debts should serve as a warning to Washington . Editorial comment in the press of Berlin , Paris , and London has lately been increasingly bitter toward us . Moreover , Berlin observers report that Adolf Hitler , who has promised outright repudiation of reparations , has been considerably strengthened by the adamant attitude of Congress . Chancellor Briining may fall unless he can soon counter Hitler 's promise with a definite guaranty of relief from Germany 's creditors . But France is hardly likely to extend such relief unless assured in advance that the United States will not insist upon full payment of the war debts . From London has come the suggestion that England and France take joint action on this question without regard to our position . Following up this semi-official suggestion , Wickham Steed proposed that England and France upon their own initiative proclaim a two-year extension of the Hoover moratorium . He described his proposal as " one sure way of bringing home to the American people a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nations . " If the Steed proposal were carried through , we should not only collect no debts what-ever during the two-year period , but we should be in a weak position in any future negotiations looking toward an adjustment of the debt problem . Europe may yet be swept by revolution , as some people believe , as a result of our callous and unintelligent attitude , but even if we escape the consequences of such disturbances , we shall very probably suffer in other ways from growing European hostility . T HE TESTIMONY of Mr. Lamont and Mr. Mitchell before the Senate Finance Committee covered a good deal of ground , and it will be difficult to draw conclusions from some aspects of it until more testimony from other bankers is in . Mr. Lamont 's remarks were reassuring in tone . He pointed out that in no case up to date has there been any default in the service on any private German governmental debt , including all the municipal issues , and he asserted his confidence that none of these issues would be repudiated . Mr , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ take this attitude toward private credits , expressed the correct opinion that the generation which has grown up since the war was becoming increasingly resentful of paying reparations , and would eventually revolt against them if they were continued . On the whole , the answers by both bankers were much more intelligent than most of the questions addressed to them . ' Some of the Senators on the committee seem to be trying to prove both that the international bankers favor the cancelation of war debts solely because they want to make their own private foreign bonds more secure , and that they have already sold all these private foreign bonds to unwary investors ! T HE WORST MAN President Hoover could possibly have chosen from the Senate , Swanson of Virginia , he has picked for one of the places on the Commission to the Disarmament Conference . It begins to look as if Mr. Hoover were deliberately trying to sabotage the conference by appointing men who have neither the ability nor the desire to make it a success . Senator Swanson is an imperialist and a big-navy man @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he was Ambassador at Mexico , nearly precipitated a bad break between that country and the United States ; he is at best a routinized , big-business diplomat . Hugh Wilson , if clever , is also a typical career diplomat of limited vision . It only remains now for Mr. Hoover to appoint a man like James J. Davis of Pennsylvania to represent the Republican members of the Senate , and the mischief will be complete . The only hope left is that Mr. Stimson will head the delegation . He really desires disarmament . There is not the slightest sign that the others do . As for putting a woman on , or a marl who is really passionate for disarmament or who is identified with the peace cause  --  such as Alanson B. Houghton or Nicholas Murray Butler  --  why , Mr. Hoover wo n't think of such a thing . Unless all signs fail , he has insured from the start that ours will be a reactionary delegation without the possibility of leadership . And yet , as President Butler has said , the Geneva conference may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                     