@@431153

WITH the recent landing of colonists on sun-baked Canton and Enderbury Islands in the mid-Pacific , Uncle Sam launches a momentous program to extend his domains . Naval supremacy in the Far East , leadership in bridging the Pacific with commercial airways , ownership of vast new stores of mineral treasure ? all these are at stake in the first major move to hoist the American flag over new land since we purchased the Virgin Islands from Denmark in 1917 . They lie behind plans just revealed for territorial expansion on a breath-taking scale unmatched in more than a century of the histor$r of the American empire . An executive order signed by President Roosevelt , assigning Canton and Enderbury Islands to the jurisdiction of the Interior Department , brushes aside British claims to the specks of land and serves notice that we regard them as American territory . The surprise move is expected to be only the first of numerous similar claims ? based on recent researches indicating that many supposedly foreign-owned islands in the Pacific were first discovered or settled by Americans . For the first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enormous areas of the Antarctic Continent discovered by Byrd , Ellsworth , and other American explorers . Diplomatic notes to this effect have just been dispatched from Washington to governments with conflicting claims . Further American steps to annex territory are predicted in the arctic . By far the most spectacular of these claims , in sheer size , the slice of Antarctica that we seek surpasses the area of Alaska . Its 640,000 square miles or more would bring to the United States the greatest block of new territory since the Louisiana Purchase , in 1803 , added the makings of about a dozen states to the Union . What interests us more than square miles , however , is the recent discovery that it holds a goodly share  | of the Antarctic Continent 's coal deposits ? reserves that are known to be sufficient to supply the whole world 's needs after more accessible sources are exhausted . From veins in mountains 300 miles from the south pole , Admiral Byrd has predicted , monster tractors will then bear the coal across the white ice fields to bases on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aboard ships . Gold and other valuable minerals , too , may await the opening up of the frozen continent , where permanent settlements may well arise , linked to civilization by airplanes and radio . A quarter of the way around the globe from frigid Antarctica , scorching under a tropical sun , Canton and Ender bury join the list of Pacific islet : whose unfamiliar names have beer thrust into headlines by swift-mov ing events of recent years ? Mid way , Wake , Christmas , Howland Baker , Jarvis . What is it all about : " Commercial aviation , " Govern ment officials say . Pan-Americar Airways clippers need lonely Mid way and Wake Islands as stepping stones to China ? and the magic wand of aviation transforms then into bustling little atoms of civilization with hotels , golf courses automobiles , and million - dollar flying-boat harbors . A supply ship anchors permanently at Kingmar Reef to guide clipper planes by smoke from its funnel-and the smallest inhabited island in the Pacific , a surf-beaten coral strand no larger than a couple of city blocks , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ route to the antipodes . Canton and Enderbury Islands fit into the same plans , if United States ownership can be established . An Interior Department license has already been granted to Pan-American Airways to develop and use Canton as an airport . This coral atoll or ring-shaped strand , fifty to 600 yards wide , surrounding a lagoon of nine-mile diameter , has been described as one of the finest natural bases for seaplanes in the whole Pacific . Enderbury , thirty-five miles away , offers land planes an equally good haven , in the form of a flat expanse two and a half miles long and a mile wide , rising fifteen feet from the sea . Both islands lie at a convenient halfway point on the air route between Hawaii and New Zealand . There is another side to the picture , however , that officials are more reluctant to discuss . Islands that can be used as commercial air bases could very well serve as advance bases for naval planes , the eyes of the fleet , in time of war . And Canton and Enderbury Islands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , occupy particularly strategic positions in the traditional American line of defense that extends from the Aleutian Islands in the north , through Hawaii and American Samoa , to the Panama Canal . Suppose , war stratgists suggest , that a hostile fleet from across the Pacific should advance upon : he American mainland . If the attack came between the Aleutian Islands and Hawaii , naval maneuvers are believed to have shown , there would be an excellent chance of detecting and repelling the invader . More uneasiness exists , however , about our ability to patrol effectively our ocean frontier to the south . Acquisition of Canton and Enderhury Islands would plug one gap . Whether for peace or war , the drone f airplane motors over the Pacific has : precipitated an international scramble for islands . Britain has recently estab:ished a wireless operator and a complete radio station on uninhabited Christmas Island , largest atoll in the Pacific with a circumference of ninety : files . For two years , British settlers : lave been occupying Hull Island , one f the Phoenix group of eight tiny @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , meanwhile , have not been idle . Since 1935 , the United States has maintained sovereignty over Howland , Baker , and Jarvis Islands by having relays of four Hawaiian schoolboys ? American citizens ? occupy each one . Although Britain sent a ship to Jarvis island to look our colony over , Canton island has become the scene of the first pen controversy over ownership . During many years its only inhabitants have been myriads of sea birds wheeling overhead , rats that feast upon their eggs , and hermit crabs and turtles that cask on the white beach . If it were not for its newly acquired importance to aviation , the rival moves of two great powers to gain possession of this tiny , warren atoll would take on the aspect of comic opera . As this is written , seven Hawaiian youths under the leadership of Richard B. Black , of the U. S. Department of the Interior , are sharing Canton with two British subjects who were deposited there to back up the claim of the empire ' n which the sun never sets . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ownership , the rival colonists are passing the time amicably together over beer and poker . How will the controversies over our new territorial claims be decided ? In the antarctic , it may take a mixed international commission to straighten out the overlapping claims of a number of countries ? with the name of the United States now added to those of Great Britain and its dominions , France , Norway , Argentina , and others . Our Pacific claims so far conflict only with those of Great Britain , but others may eventually involve France and Japan . In the past , similar disputes sometimes have been settled by arbitration , often by direct agreement between the parties concerned .  | As this issue goes to press , observers momentarily expect a friendly settlement of the Canton-Enderbury dispute . One unofficial proposal has been that America and Great Britain share ownership of the islands . In other quarters it is suggested ( Continued on page 107 ) that Great Britain might renounce all claims to Canton and Enderbury in return for a desired concession such as the privilege , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Canadian-Australian air line at Hawaii . Taking no chances of a technical slipup , Government officials announce our latest claims of ownership to be based on any or .11 of a number of points ? that Americans first discovered the land in question , first surveyed it or fixed its position accurately upon charts , or first occupied and made use of it . To bolster our claims , historical experts under S. Whittemore Boggs , U. S. State Department geographer , have been delving for months into the log books of old whaling ships and other records of early seafarers at Nantucket and other ports along the Atlantic . D OCUMENTS in faded handwriting , on torn and aged paper , have yielded to the investigators romantic tales out of the past . According to Edouard A. Stackpole of Nantucket , who aided the State Department search , Canton Island takes its name from the New Bedford whaleship Canton , which was wrecked there in 1854 . Its crew spent three weeks marooned on the desolate shores . Then , despairing of rescue , they took to the ship 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of forty-nine days on the open sea . Seeking mutineers who had murdered the captain and mates of the Nantucket whaler Globe and taken refuge on islands inhabited only by savages , the U. S. S. Dolphin in 1825 became the first American naval vessel to visit the Phoenix and Marshall groups . The schooner-of-war found two of the mutineers on the hitherto unknown Mulgrave Islands , six coral atolls in the Marshalls ? and placed these dots of land on the map for the first time . As early as 1791 , writes Boggs in a report just published by the American Geographical Society , the China-bound American merchantman Hope discovered five of the Marquesas Islands . AMERICAN discoveries , his report shows , include among others Howland and Baker Island , Palmyra Island , Kingman Reef , Washington Island , Fanning Island , and a number of the Phoenix group . Most of these and many others , including virtually all of the Gilbert and Ellice groups now held by Great Britain , were first accurately surveyed by Americans . As a further basis for our claims , pioneer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ extracting guano , bird droppings used for fertilizer , between 1860 and 1880 . American whalers and sealers alone accounted for the discovery of at least seventy-five islands in the Pacific , old documents indicate . Now , after many years , we are moving to make good the claims established by these doughty pioneers to our Pacific empire .  |                     