@@221218

Shanghai ( Paramount ) is a soberly sentimental treatise upon the inconveniences of racial intermarriage in which Dmitri Koslov ( Charles Boyer ) , son of a Manchu Princess and a Russian nobleman , makes diffident love to a visiting U. S. heiress ( Loretta Young ) among the bars and drawing rooms of Shanghai 's European colony . Assiduous cinemaddicts , who have seen it emphasized in 75% of all previous geographic problem plays , should experience small difficulty in assimilating the moral of the picture , implicit in the scene in which Dmitri and his heiress decide to part forever : East is East and West is West . This scrap of traveler 's lore is hardly made to seem more stimulating or original by the events leading up to the renunciation scene , in which Dmitri effects a six-months ' rise from rickshaw-boy to international financier while his inamorata is gracefully rejecting the countersuit of a flaccid young American ( Fred Keating ) . <P> That Shanghai is both less informative and less exciting than the article in Fortune which suggested it to Producer Walter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ functions with his usual skill , contrives to make Dmitri that most familiar of cinema anomalies , a plausible individual surrounded by implausible events . Good shot : the board room of a broker 's office with customers in evening dress waiting for the market to open in New York . <P> Accent on Youth ( Paramount ) . Play wright Samson Raphaelson balanced this fragile triangle on Broadway for many weeks in spite of its perilous distribution of sympathy in favor of middle-age against youth . As a cinema it enlists the aid of Sylvia Sidney and Herbert Marshall , whose air of romantic maturity is accentuated by powdered temples , spectacles , and a polite , nostalgic way of asking for a kiss . Miss Sidney first becomes his leading lady ( he is a playwright ) when getting fired as his secretary prods her into a love avowal , and ends as his fiancee after an interlude with Philip Reed , who symbolizes Princetonian youth . Accent on youth suffers less than most light pieces in translation to the screen , for , although its people sit around @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wit . One funny situation occurs when Reed , not recognizing Marshall as his rival in love , begs him , as a playmaker , to devise a dramatic way for him to express his passion for Miss Sidney , and then proceeds to win her by completely disregarding the scene which Marshall has concocted for him . Another comes with Miss Sidney 's discovery that a young husband who gets her up at 7 o'clock and makes her spend her waking hours at violent physical pastimes is less comfortable than an older lover whom the years have made sedate . <P> Civilized entertainment . Accent on Youth should please practically every class of U. S. cinema-seers except students or graduates of Princeton University . Good shot : Marshall 's butler ( Ernest Cossart ) perfectly executing three difficult billiard shots which are photographed with out any faking.                     