@@494035

What Kind of Waovs.and-Hours Bill ? / T WAS probably just as well that the BlackConnery wages-and-hours bill , as it came from the Senate , did not go through the House of Representatives last session . Even if the bill could have been broken loose from the Rules Committee stranglehold , and brought out to the floor of the House , that body , under the " getting away " frenzy which always seems to grip it after a few blasts of Washington heat , would have jammed the bill through in substantially the Senate form , and proponents of sound wages-and-hours legislation would have found that theirs was a hollow victory . Not that the Rules Committee 's bottling of the bill should be condoned . That action was an arrogant interference with the democratic process . But with this situation obtaining , it was only natural that attention was centered on the attempt to blast the bill out of committee rather than on the bill itself . In this special session , with this legislation a major item on the presidential agenda , with all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and , as a last resort , with a discharge petition almost certain to receive the necessary 213 signatures , there is little possibility of a successful repeat performance by the Rules Committee . This will enable the spotlight to be focused on the bill itself . And that spotlight will reveal a woefully inadequate and confusing attack on the problems with which the bill purports to deal ? so inadequate that it would probably be simpler and easier to make a fresh start . Everyone is aware of the extremely large volume of unemployment that has accompanied this recovery period . We also know that had not working hours been lengthened since the Schechter decision , a substantial number of the jobless would have been absorbed in private industry , contributing to their own support and relieving the public treasury to that extent . In June of 1937 , according to Leon Henderson , of the approximately twelve million workers estimated to be covered by the Black-Connery Bill , six million were working more than forty hours a week . The time has come for the government once more to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shall share in the increased production of our economy . The principal difficulty in setting maximum hours through national legislation is to fix a level effective in absorbing a substantial portion of the idle and , at the same time , to provide sufficient flexibility for the great variety of situations that such legislation must encompass . The National Industrial Recovery Act solved this difficulty by delegating the setting of standards to an administrative body . The legislation of the French People 's Frililt goecreiment did so bysetting a simple forty-hour standard , leaving the application of the law in particular industries to decrees and administrative regulations . I t seems clear that Congress can not legislate for all industries affecting interstate commerce unless the legislation is so flexible as to be ineffective in helping to absorb the unemployed . Congress can , however , set limits to the range of administrative discretion . The Black-Connery bill , as it passed the Senate , established a very one-sided limit to administrative discretion . It prohibits the Labor Standards Board from setting hours lower than may a but sets no limit on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ established need not be adhered to as long as overtime is paid for by time and one-half , though it is true that the Board is given power to limit such overtime . Further to limit the efiectiveness of whatever standards are established , the bill provides for exemptions for seasonal or peak activity , thus permitting overtime without any extra pay if the Board so decides . Completely excluded from the operations of any hourly regulations are such congressional favorites as the ginning , compressing and storing of cotton , the canning and processing of fruits and vegetables and the processing of beets , cane and maple into sugar and syrup when such employments are seasonal in dia raeter.  - -  -  which is always . If such are the hourly standards to be enacted by Congress , the unemployed eau be sure that they will have to continue to depend upon the meager subsistence , if any , furnished by the government . If Congress really intends to make the legislation effective , it will alter the forty-hour lower limit and permit the Board to fix maximum bouts ranging from thirty-five @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ necessary to permit highly skilled workers to work longer hours , the Board should be authorized to permit such overtime only upon show- ing of need for specific classes of workers , and die law should specify that such overtime shall be paid for at a rate of not less than time and one-half . The organized workers of this country do not need a minimum-wage law for themselves . I low-ever , the unorganized workers still receive extremely low wages in some sectors of our economy . As the preamble to the Black-Connery bill points out , rates are frequently as low as $5 a week . These low wage rates are certain to affect the standards prevailing for organized workers and it is to the interest of the latter to see that they are raised . The fixing of minimum wages should also serve , in many cases , to counteract the loss of income resulting from shortened hours of work . The guiding principle in the establishment of minimum wages should not be that of maintaining fair competition . This principle dominated NRA wage setting , and some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But minimum wages affect only a small portion even of labor costs , and if fair competition is to be the goal , it logically calls for the regulation of wages above the minimum and also of trade practices . The American Federation of Labor 's hesitancy in endorsing the Black-Connery bill is based on a healthy fear that it will lead to government wage fixing and its complement , compulsory arbitration . This fear would not be justified if the principle were clearly established that the sole objective of minimum-wage legislation is to set a rate below which society will not permit human beings to be exploited . So far as possible , this rate should guarantee to all workers a minimum standard of living . The principle suggests the setting of a uniform national wage applying to all industries affected by legislation , with variations only according to differences in the cost of buying the minimum standard . Even variations of this type involve dangers , as witness the multitude of sins committed by the NRA supposedly in support of this principle . A uniform national minimum would have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in raising standards in many industries . If it were set at a decent level , it might " curtail opportunities for employment , " which Congress has indicated it will not permit . Consequently it appears necessary to take into account the relative abilities of the different Industries to pay increased wages . Rates must be set for each industry in order that the standards may be as high as is feasible at the present time . The Senate version of the Black-Connery bill is just as one-sided in limiting discretion in setting minimum wages as it is on maximum hours . It permits the Labor Standards Board to set rates as low as or lower than existing scales but forbids the fixing of more than 40 cents per hour . In setting its standards , the Board is ordered to consider the following factors : ( 1 ) cost of living ; ( 2 ) relative costs of transportation ; ( 3 ) local economic conditions ; ( 4 ) value of services rendered ; ( 5 ) wages established for similar work by collective bargaining ; ( 6 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( 7 ) differences in unit costs of manufacturing occasioned by varying natural resources , operating conditions and other factors . Lurking behind several of these phrases is the warning : " Be careful of the wrath of Southern industry . " The dominant note is that of equalizing Competition . ' What is any agency to do in the face of these instructions from Congress ? Consideration of the last factor alone would involve the Board in endless research and controversy . And supposing unit costs arc lower in the North than in the South , does that justify a lower minimum wage for the latter ? How much weight is to be given to the various factors ? No matter how well intentioned a board , such instructions will result in the NRAmethod of setting minimum wages ? in accordance with the relative economic strength of labor and industry . This means that where labor is weakest and a minimum wage is most needed , the rate established will be lowest . As if to make certain that no one will be affected by whatever minimum wage results from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Such exemptions apply not only to genuine apprentices but also to that unnatural creation of the NRA , the " learner " ; they apply to persons whose earning capacity is impaired by " age or physical or mental deficiency or injury " ; and they apply wherever " the special character or terms of employment or limited qualifications of employees makes such employment justifiable . " If one is inclined to regard the Black-Connery bill as a step in the right direction , however halting , one should examine two general clauses the osten- sible objectives of which are to protect collective bargaining generally and all higher standards , however arrived at . Section S ( b ) provides that minimum wages and maximum hours shall be established in an industry only if the Board finds that a substantial portion of the employees are not covered by collective-bargaining agreements or that facilities for collective bargaining do not exist . If this means anything , it means that no standards may be established for industries like clothing , textiles and shoes , where organized labor has achieved collective-bargaining agreements covering @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ here that some of the worst forms of exploitation exist and where the collective-bargaining agreements are most menaced by sweatshop standards . Section 5 ( c ) also is seemingly benevolent . It provides that a labor-standard order shall not be applicable in any locality where the prevailing minimum wage is higher or the prevailing maximum work week is lower than that established by the Board . If the minimum standard is not to apply , does any standard apply to those concerns which happen not to be maintaining the standards prevailing in the locality ? Apparently not . Even if some standards do apply , it means that the Board must , of necessity , examine the prevailing wage-and-hour standards in every locality in the country in order to determine where standards apply and to what extent . One could hardly conceive of a better way to break down the concept of a national minimum wage . However worthy was the objective of the framers of these two clauses , they make it certain that the legislation will have but limited applicability and that standards will be established on a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attempts to protut higher standards , but section 5 ( a ) already contain a clear and explicit statement that higher standard may be developed through concerted activity of the workers . The best and probably the only guarantee against the lowering of standards is the further organisation of labor . The original Black-Connery bill gave the Labor Standards Board the power , in addition to setting minimum wages , to establish " fair wages " up to a maximum of $1,200 a year . This provision was deleted largely because of an attack by John L. Lewis , who voiced the point of view that this provision offered an entering wedge to government wage fixing and , in any event , was intruding on the proper field of collective bargaining . Strangely enough , the strongest supporter of the section was Sidney Hillman , who based his view on the experience of the garment unions , which have found it difficult to maintain collective-bargaining agreements because of the intense competition of the non-union shops . Mr. Hillman regards such a provision as helpful to the development of collective bargaining . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into the field of wage fixing . If one accepts the principle that it is proper for the government to fix " fair wages , " the right of complete wage fixing is conceded . An unsympathetic administration can use this precedent to fix " fair wages " well below existing standards . A much better support to the organized shops would come from some further stimulus to organization of the unorganized workers . Such a stimulus would be contained in a clause in which Congress stated its belief that wages for workers receiving more than the minimum should be reached through bona-fide collective bargaining . Such a clause was under consideration for some of the NRA codes , but the Labor Advisory Board was afraid that it would lead to the rise of sham collective-bargaining agencies . Effective administration of the National Labor Relations Act should prevent such a development . The wages-and-hours bill should also provide that where the majority of workers in any industry are governed by collective-bargaining agreements , bidders for government contracts shall be restricted to firms complying with the standards prevailing in such agreements . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a bill providing for trade-practice regulations as well as wages-and-hour regulations . A plausible case will be made for such legislation on the theory that industry must be given some compensations for the burdens imposed by labor reguladons . Before this pressure is yielded to , however , some of the unfortunate consequences of combining labor and trade-practice regulations under the NRA should be recalled . This combination was the result of a bargain between the administration , which was anxious for voluntary wage-and-hour standards , and industry , anxious to escape the restrictions of antitrust laws . One result was that the code-making process became a crude bargaining event in which industry traded wage-and-hour concessions for marketing regulations . Industries which wanted little or nothing in the way of legislative control over marketing practices offered little or nothing toward improvement of labor standards . The net result in the // field of labor was a crazy-quilt of wages-and-hour regulations unrelated ? to the needs of particular industries and uncorrelated for competing industries . The unhappy wedding of labor and trade-practice regulations also gave birth to the concept of self-government in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ considered means for developing fair competition through the sponsorship of industry groups . If these were primarily regulations of competition entered into voluntarily by industry , it followed that administration should be through industry agencies . The result was the development of code authorities , composed almost exclusively of industry representatives , to whom were granted extensive powers of administration of both labor and trade-practice regulations . Except in highly organized industries , labor was squeezed out of the picture , while the consumer representatives were impotent except for limited powers of criticism . If the NRA experience is at all valuable , it is in pointing to the necessity of a complete separation of labor regulations from any efforts to control trade practices . It is doubtful that either ex-Senator Black or the late Congressman Connery would be willing to approve the measure at present associated with their names . Newspaper rumors of a new bill to be presented offer encouragement , but no indication is given of the lines of reconstruction . Whether a new start will be along sounder lines depends , to a considerable extent , upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of 