@@493506

" Sold " on Foreign Bonds V . Wanted ? the Right Kind of Regulation THE GROWTH of American holdings of foreign securities from a few hundred million dollars in 1913 to nearly twelve billion dollars in 1929 is , perhaps , the outstanding development in our recent economic history . Our late prosperity and our present depression are closely linked with the processes of international finance or the traffic in foreign securities discussed in the pre , ceding articles . An attempt is made in this concluding article to explain the relation of our foreign investments with our economic situation and to advance certain recommendations for a more efficient social control of these processes . INVESTMENTS DUE TO THE WAR We owe our foreign investments partly to our natural resources and personal characteristics , but mainly to a chain of events which started some sixteen years ago when a Serbian patriot assassinated an Austrian archduke . World trade decreased 26 percent between 1913 and 1921 , while during the same period our foreign trade more than doubled . l3efore the War we had some 12 percent of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Last Year these percentages were exactly reversed . Supplying fabulous quantities of goods and services during the four-year riot of destruction and its aftermath transformed us from a net debtor in 1914 by about three billion dollars into a net creditor today by over fifteen billion dollars . It has also increased our stock of monetary gold from $1,870,000,000 in 1913 to approximately $4,500 , 000,000 at present . This increase in our gold stock , a direct consequence of the War , has an obvious relation with the expansion of credit in the form of foreign investments and instalment buying at home . On these greatly enlarged uses of consumptive credit our late prosperity depended to a large extent . Selling abroad 10 percent of our total commodity Production has been an essential part of our late I ; prosperity . Our manufacturers would not hear of oreigners paying for all their purchases with their goods or services . To sell more goods to foreigners ! Ilan we buy from them and at the same time sustain the war-debt structure , we had to be sold foreign Promises to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lower tariff and a larger exchange of goods , they soon discovered that they could profit Zorn the sale of foreign paper securities as well as ir ? rn the'sale of foreign goods . Our exports have , therefore , been largely paid for in this way and at the expense of the bAmerican consumer . The seller 's point of view prevails . Prosperity is conceived not in terms of well being , but in paper profits for sellers . Foreign trade , to benefit the consumer , must enlarge human pleasures by the exchange of a wider assortment of goods than a purely domestic trade would allow , and foreign investments , to benefit the investing country , must afford an enjoyable income in foreign goods or services . The processes of foreign trade and international finance are the result of events and human ways of behavior . Like Topsy , they have " just growed . " The mechanisms are controlled by a small number of men , mostly in Wall Street , to whom they are ways of keeping busy , making money and exercising power . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ post-war period , are mere technicians . They lack the cultural background , accumulated wisdom and experience to appreciate the social implications of the traffic under their control . Success is the standard . The measure is the quantity of money made . These princes of finance live , move and have their entire being in the artificial atmosphere of Wall Street , remote from sympathetic contacts with the millions whose funds and destinies they very largely govern . Most of them are relatively untraveled , either at home or abroad . They have little insight into the spiritual aspirations or economic needs of their clients . The problems of the Middle ' Western farmer or the German or Peruvian taxpayer can mean little to these men . EUROPEAN BANKERS AND FOREIGN LOANS British and Continental bankers , although perhaps no more altruistic , have a broader social background . Being older at the game , they have traditions . Theirs are the traditions of traders , pioneers and lusty human adventurers seeking foreign fields not merely for the employment of surplus funds , but for surplus managerial talent and home @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ just discovered international finance . It is not without significance that government securities , mostly of British colonies , make up only about 25 percent of the British foreign portfolio aggregating over twenty billion dollars , while government securities constitute about two-thirds of our foreign portfolio . According to a computation of the Midland Bank of England , new British foreign investments during the years 1920-27 totaled $5,700,000,000 , of which $1,830,000,000 took the form of debts , mostly corporate , and $3,870,000,000 was in the shape of capital rights or ownership of productive property . According to figures of the United States Department of Commerce during this period , the nominal amount of new American investments was $8,095,000,000 , of which $7,578,000,000 took the form of debts and $517,000,000 was in the shape of capital rights or common and preferred stock . Of the $7,578,000,000 of debts , $2,647,000,000 was in corporate debt and the remainder of $4,931 , - 000,000 in dead-weight debts of governments . Most of the latter were obviously unproductive , being the so-called commercialization of war debts and reparations . These debts really mean paying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ utility . But government bonds are the easiest foreign securities to sell . AN INSTRUMENT OF NATIONAL POLICY Depressing as the fact may seem in the light of present economic conditions , there has been the closest cooperation between the political government at Washington and the financial government in Wall Street . Washington has leaned heavily on the bankers for two things : first , economic glad tidings for the electorate , and , second , assistance in making possible the pursuit of three major economic policies . These policies have been : z . Collecting huge war debts to relieve American taxation , thereby deluding the American taxpayer with the notion that Europe was paying some part of our heavy war costs . The American investor has supplied these funds . 2 . Shutting out foreign imports to please American producers . 3 . Exporting heavily to please everyone . Before the crash , Wall Street and Washington were having things their own way and the country was extremely pleased with the working of the system . The government sold itself and its policies . The bankers sold the securities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were " sold . " The exploitation of the trusting investor to achieve national and imperial policies or to carry on war is no new thing . The British used international finance as an instrument of national policy in obtaining control of the Suez Canal in Egypt and in thwarting Russia in Turkey . The extravagances and misrule of the Khedive in Egypt and the Sultan in Turkey were financed to the tune of hundreds of millions of dollars contributed by the British investor , who held the bag in all the defaults and " scaling down " operations . The French government similarly financed the Russian government from 1888 down to the outbreak of the War with two and a quarter billion dollars of investors ' funds rather than those of taxpayers . ( The French investors now hold repudiated Russian bonds . ) More recently , the Italian government , which five years ago borrowed $100,000,000 from American investors for the " productive " purpose of currency stabilization and which has been unsuccessfully trying for the past two years to borrow more for further productive " purposes , has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lent Albania 70,000,000 gold francs , the annual charges on which are $1,7000,000 . The budget of Albania is about $1,000,000 . Italy has also made a $10,000 , - 000 loan to Greece for the purpose of buying armored cars and munitions . Similarly , the French government has been making military loans to Rumania , Jugoslavia and Poland . In 1911 President Taft recommended to the United States Senate a treaty with Nicaragua involving perpetual intervention , American financial control and a $15,000,000 loan . He also urged on the Senate the ratification of a similar treaty and a loan of $10,000,000 to Honduras . Military or national-defense considerations connected with the Isthmian Canal were at the bottom of both projects , ects as Mr. Knox frankly admitted . The State Depart-ment , as is disclosed by its published records in " Foreign Relations " ( 1912 ) , shopped these pieces of business around the Street until it lined up bank- ers to undertake both of them . The charges on the Nicaraguan loan were to be secured by the entire customs revenues , which , in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 1910 , 1915 , 1916 , 1918 and 1921 would not have covered the charges . It subsequently transpired , after these grandiose projects of the American President had been rejected by the United States Senate and the Honduran Congress , that a British loan to Nicaragua of ? 1,200,000 , or $6,000,000 , went , into default in 1914 . Service was not resumed until 1920 . A large part of our payment for the Bryan-Chamorro Treaty was used to make up the arrears . This happened notwithstanding the fact that the revenues were being collected by an American State Department Collector General for the British bondholders . One may wonder whether our government would have met the service on the $15,000,000 loan when the inevitable default oc curred . ( The French government took care of the French holders of Russian bonds until the close of the War . ) The Honduran revenues were similarly insufficient to warrant the $10,000,000 loan f ? r that republic . and criticized this unadmitted sponsoring of an d Post-war German loans have not been endorsed as officially as Mr. Knox 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but they have bee ' successfully launched under circumstances which en:e gage the moral responsibility of our governmen Congressman McFadden , chairman of the Foust Committee on Banking , has repeatedly pointe Ger d c41 man loans . It must , of course , be recognized that while international finance has been used to facilitate the numerous economic crimes since Versailles , it has also been used to carry out many highly humane pieces of constructive work and relief measures . Most of the League of Nations loans , such as those for Austria , Hungary , Bulgaria and Greece , for example , are worthy uses of international finance . It should not be overlooked , however , that these humane measures were made necessary by the inhu man economic and nationalistic policies which international finance had previously facilitated . The point that worthy uses do not justify abuses seems too obvious to require elaboration . REGULATION OF THE SECURITIES TRAFFIC The mischief done by international finance , when used as an instrument of national policy , is a matter of history . Foreign loans preserved the Tsarist regime @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been keeping reparations and war-debt payments froni collapse for six years . It is doubtless proper to use international finance to carry out emergency relief measures , but enduring policies should be financed by taxation . Only in this way can public opinion exercise effective con , trol . International finance as an instrument of national or imperial policy should be renounced . International finance as a necessary and vital economic process in our present order should come under more effective public regulation . Modern financing must be done very largely through the sale of stocks and bonds . Federal regulation of this interstate traffic would have both authority and precedent under the interstate-commerce clause of the federal Constitution . In upholding the different state laws for the regulation of the sale of securities , the United States Supreme Court has held that the states are free " to act until Congress itself intervenes . " At present most states in the United States have Dille-sky laws , the purpose of which is to define , prevent and make punishable fraud in the sale of securities . These laws usually @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also exempt , seSurities listed on the New York Stock Exchange . The assumption that the supervision of the New , ? , 1 " lc Stock Exchange ensures the realization of the Objectives of the blue-sky laws more satisfactorily than the state commissions is doubtless well found-c ! ' ? The regulating personnel is likely to be techni-137 41 incompetent and inefficient . Overt acts of common-law fraud , however , are not society 's only concern in connection with the Profiteering , market manipulations other than mses ' stied sales , concealment of information , unfair pers by privileged parties of information for rer ? nal profit ? these are matters of public con-n . During the post-war period the dominant thought in high places has been that the function of the government is to help sellers rather than buyers . A high tariff for sellers is laudable , but regulation in the interest of consumers is an unwarranted interference of the government with business . A President of the United States has felt called upon to help the stock market by the expression of the opinion that brokers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a matter of fact , they were too high . We have been encouraged by official statements constantly to buy at prevailing prices , often to the sorrow of those of us who bought . In the traffic in securities , as in other commodities , it is well to observe the old adage , " Look after the consumer and the producer will take care of himself . " The sellers have ample advertising facilities at their command . They have most of the experts . They have easy and often exclusive access to the sources of information . They also control the organs of publicity . The poor investor must look to the sellers for information and guidance about their wares . They are experts ; he is an amateur . The consumer learns from the literary or dramatic critics the worst about a new novel or play . When , however , a banker offers a new security , practically everything that appears in the public prints about it , whether in the advertising or news columns , has been written or censored by his experts . Business @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is true , financial and investment counselors , but their services are costly . Their adverse criticisms usually come after the disclosure of unfavorable facts to the general public . In the nature of things , no professional adviser can be expected to brave the retaliation of the financial powers by pronouncing an adverse judgment on their security offerings . As a practical matter , unpleasant truths can be disclosed in many situations only by a public official professionally charged with this function . This is preeminently a field for uniform regulation . It calls for competent law-making of a techical sort . It would be presumptuous to undertake any detailed recommendations in an article of this character . The broad lines of policy are self-evident . As many unfavorable facts about every piece of financing as can be ferreted out by competent and fearless experts must be made available to all prospective investors . . STATE DEPARTMENT SUPERVISION The function of public regulation would not be the selection or recommendation of investments , but the publication of the facts . Unsound and unwise investments would not be entirely prevented @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ventures . Effective publicity for all the relevant facts may , however , minimize the present evils of propaganda , concealment of unfavorable credit factors and undisclosed market manipulations . In 1922 the United States State Department asked to be informed of all contemplated loans . When asked recently to explain our policy , Secretary Stimson denied that the State Department had " exercised the right to approve or disapprove , " adding that " the Department approaches no closer to any expressing of approval than to say it interposes no objections to the loan or is not interested . " To the legally minded the difference between disapproving and interposing objection may be clear . At any rate , the Department has " interposed objection " to two types of loans : loans to governments which had not met Washington 's views as to debt settlement , and loans for certain monopolies which our government did not like . Mr. Stimson 's phrase about the Department 's not being interested in certain loans furnishes the best argument why this form of government supervision should cease . As the State Department @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has no concern with the soundness of the loan or with the protection of the investor . It has had one obvious objective : namely , that of serving as an instru-. ment of coercion to force foreign governments into desired debt-settlement arrangements . Such dubious exercises of power by our President are as unfortunate as they are irresponsible . Had the United States government wished , by the threat of closure of our money markets , to coerce European governments , Congress should have authorized the necessary action by the President . Such a law would probably have required a constitutional amendment to be valid . This supervision creates a false impression in the minds of the public , which does not carefully read official announcements . The uninformed suppose that a loan which has been passed upon by the State Department must be sound and fairly priced . This may be considered by the State Department as a non sequitur , but , at least , it is a plausible assumption . WHO HAS PRIORITY IN GERMANY ? When , in the exercise of this type of supervision , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ given publicity . In passing on the post-Dawes German loans , the State Department pointed out that while it " interposed no objection " to the loan on political grounds , it desired to call attention to the possible conflict between Article 248 of the Treaty of Versailles and the terms of the loan . Article 248 gives to the Allied governments priority of claim on German revenues until reparations demands are satisfied . This priority was waived in favor of the Dawes Loan of 1924 , but not in favor of the numerous other loans of German subordinate political units . Certain American lawyers , but not all , at once developed a specious line of reasoning which makes the rights of holders of all post-Dawes bonds paramount to the rights of the Allies under the Treaty of Versailles . The Allied governments , however , have not expressed acceptance of this view and the French have rather clearly indicated their dissent from it . Why should the Allied governments relinquish their claims on Germany in favor of subsequent American creditors while the United States government holds out for its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and war debts are entirely unrelated ? It will be said by those opposed to government regulation that the investment banker adequately safeguards the interests of his client . To challenge this assertion is not to impeach the integrity of investment bankers . Their standards are perhaps higher than those of most other business men , but they are sellers , they are human , and they sell under the rule of " let the buyer beware . " One must be guided by the lessons of history and not the claims of advertisers . The experiences of investors in Russian , Turkish , Egyptian , Mexican and most Latin-American loans , as well as most wartime government financing , speak for themselves . FOREIGN INVESTMENT POLICY Capital should enjoy freedom to flow internationally whither it will , subject to the prohibition of fraud and the publication of full information . In this respect the norms of national policy should incline toward the doctrine of Calvo and Drago , who opposed the use of armed force for the collection of foreign debts rather than toward the tendencies manifested in President Coolidge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he said , " The person and property of a nation are a part of the general domain of a nation , even when abroad . " A sugges ' tive draft of an ideal policy in this respect is found in the following resolution introduced by Congressman Rathbone : It is hereby declared to be the policy of the United States not to intervene nor to resort to armed force nor to exert pressure whether economic , diplomatic , or . otherwise upon any such sovereign foreign government or political subdivision thereof for the purpose of enabling citizens of the United States who have loaned or advanced money or other valuable considerations to such foreign governments or to nationals thereof to collect or recover such loans or advances from such governments or from any political subdivisions or 113 ? tionals of the same . Given state protection against fraud and lack of information in their purchase of investments , investors should be made to understand that their government will no more safeguard their ventures against the incompetence or bad faith of foreign governments than it will protect investments against t @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the par , of our government would make for sounder an more discriminating foreign investments . A ert ernment which can not be trusted absolutely to ine , e all its obligations without foreign pressure shout not be entrusted with loaned money .                     