@@487414

WHERE shall I begin ? What does it mean to be at war ? Sunday morning I went to a big hospital . I Walked into a room occupied-by- a single patient . He had shining black hair , expressionless eyes , a nose , an upper lip . Below that was a gaping red hole  --  the lower jaw and everything down to the gullet had been shot away in the Ebro battle . He could not talk , smile , eat , or smoke . In one ward a doctor dressed a wound . Shrapnel had torn away the soldier 's nose ; in its place was a pool of puss . And so on and so on . This was the division of plastic surgery . I saw photographs of men just after steel had smashed into their features  --  hideous creatures without cheeks , or chin , or jaw . Pictures taken a month later showed the same faces scarred forever to be sure but healed and restored to human shape . The hospital physicians performed miracles with limited materials . Two thousand patients @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? December , 1937 ? still lay there helpless . A man who obviously was once big and strong had been cut down to his knees and was now learning to walk on the stumps . A specialist told me of neuroses developed by legless and armless men . Theformer want never to leave their beds . The latter look darkly into a future where they will have to be fed , dressed , taken to the lavatory . To see their faces one after the other , score- after . score , a hundred , more , tells one what men give to fight fascism . This was the Sunday of a week in which Barcelona was bombed forty times . Wednesday morning I walked out of my hotel , coatless , to promenade on the sunny boulevard . Not a cloud . A Spanish acquaintance passed and remarked , " Good day for a raid . " I was called back into the hotel to answer a telephone call . The director of a children 's home was inviting me to a festival . Then she said quickly , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and hung up . I had not heard the sirens . A group of Spaniards stood in front of the hotel ; some hugged the walls . All of us watched the people on the other side of the street who from balconies , windows , and pavement were following the fascist air squadron . We could not see it . The shells of the anti-aircraft guns ' kept bursting high above in large bolls of cotton against the blue sky . Suddenly those opposite began to point . There was a rush across the broad Paseo de Gracia . We descried distinctly five gray bombers , one of which lagged behind . " Hit , " the Spaniards yelled . " Ha ! You see it can not keep up . " December 24 , 1938 Faces burned with eagerness . I was with two British Conservatives , and I could not help comparing London 's panic in September , 1938 , when they thought they might be bombed , with this indifference to a danger so tangible and this sizzling desire for the destruction of the enemy after more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ young fellow were almost popping . He jumped every time the smoke of a shell showed anywhere near a raider . The evening 's official communique said , " One bomber visibly lost height and speed . " Ambulances dashed by , their horns signaling madly although all other traffic is forbidden during a raid so that the special services . may have the freedom of the streets . Later we coaxed a chauffeur to disobey official instructions and take us before the end of the attack to the Via Durruti , where one bomb had fallen . An officer in charge told me it weighed 200 kilograms . It had damaged buildings on both sides of the wide thoroughfare  --  the usual splinters of plate glass everywhere , already being swept together into heaps , crumbled masonry , blood , apartments whose front walls were on the pavement . But in one room a picture had remained in position and a dressmaker 's fitting figure was whole and upright . The ladder of a fire engine rested on the third floor of a bank , and firemen were lowering the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Stretchers red with blood filled the courtyard . I went into the cellar . A woman whose stockinged feet almost touched me as I went through the door and two children of about five lay on an indined plane . The little boy had on a polka-dotted white blouse ; he was ' bloated and gave an almost pleasant impression of a large doll . An attendant moved his forefinger horizontally indicating that these were unclaimed victims of earlier visitors from Majorca . He led me into the next chamber . It was dimly lighted . The dead were on the stone floor . Assuming that I was in search of a relative he lit his cigarette lighter , stooped , and threw a few rays of light on the face of each dead as I moved slowly along the row of feet . Where the head was gone or the face pushed into the skull and beyond recognition he stretched out his arm to light up the body . The bodies had been laid close together , for there would be more and space must be economized , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was 39 . One girl lay there almost intact as far as I could see . Her face now had a greenish pallor . She was the kind of Catalan beauty that a man will look at as she approaches and follow with his eyes as she passes . Another girl 's stockingless legs had been broken below the knees and above the ankles . There was a man in a cheap brown suit , in each thigh a bright red deep saucer of flesh . An attendant in white apron entered carrying in front of him a shallow wicker basket filled with the sort of stuff the butcher throws away . That had been a human being . It was number 40.687 , Their relatives would not miss them until evening , for they had gone to work , or to shop , or to pay a friendly visit , or do an errand . Outside the all-clear siren had sounded . The streets were again filled with people going about their business , smiling , flirting , bearing food bundles . The next moment any one of them could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nerves , especially when stomachs are never full and often empty . But if Mussolini or Hitler could spend an hour in Barcelona he would know from the faces and conduct of the people that raids will not break their morale . One of the English Conservatives  --  he had spent three weeks with Franco last May  --  has since announced that that air attack made him pro-Loyalist . It makes Loyalists more pro-Loyalist . For the alternative is to love the murderers of those people stretched out in the morgue . This raid occurred at 10:45 a.m. and lasted three minutes . At 12 : 40 I was in the Ministry of Economy and Finance getting an interview on the textile industry when the alarm went again . From a fourth-floor balcony I could see five giant bombers over the city and hear the distant heavy thud of falling bombs . More dead in the morgue . As the anti-aircraft shells tried to find the airplanes , two men by my side cried , " Ha ! Ha ! " A woman bookkeeper in black said " Oi " and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at 7:20 p.m . One doctor in the sanitary service estimated 325 dead that day and several hundred wounded . As I was going to bed , the guns once more started firing , and the lights went out in the hotel . During the night the anti-aircraft batteries blazed away many times , and the siren was heard so often that from bed I could not distinguish whether it heralded the beginning or the end of an attack . The next morning we were told that six raids had taken place during the night . At midnight a seaplane was shot down and fell into the sea . After breakfast they came twice again . Italian Savoias all . Eleven raids in twenty-four hours . The date was November 23 , the day that Chamberlain arrived in Paris to discuss belligerent rights for Franco . It was Mussolini 's way of throwing his shadow across the Paris talks : nothing could be decided about Spain without him or against him . The same day a " rebel " warship stopped the Greek freighter Mount Cynthos en route to England with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This constituted " an assumption of belligerent rights " not yet granted , the British Under Secretary for Foreign Affairs declared in the House of Commons a few days later . The piracy and the Barcelona air raids were political . But these attacks have always had an economic aim too . For centuries Catalonia and Italy have been commercial rivals . Barcelona was the competitor of Genoa . Mussolini is trying to ruin Barcelo'na 's trade and Catalonia 's excellent industries . Here is one instance of several on which I collected concrete details : in June , 1938 , according to the Frankfurter Zeitung , the Italian Snia Viscosa , an artificial-silk corporation , purchased a site in Majorca for a rayon factory . At the small Catalan town of Blanes is an important mill which converts cellulose into rayon thread . In the course of last summer Italian bombers three times attempted to destroy this plant , which lies outside the city limits . On August 14 a fascist hydroplane dropped four 250-kilogram bombs on it . Only one exploded , but it struck the central shop @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ damaged all the rest . Blanes might have competed with Majorca . Modern bombers usually find their targets . A Latin American air attach ? saw the first November 23 raid from the roof of his hotel and stated privately that the machines had dived and deliberately released their explosives on civilian sections of the capital . The following day we had no water . A few days later a bomb ripped open a gas main . On the twenty-third the SS . Wisconsin and the SS . Erica Reed , both flying the United States flag , were tied up at Barcelona quays . The Italians avoided them . This morning while I was in a store buy-ing a necktie , there came the loud dull clap to which all ears are attuned . A woman said , " Bombas . " Everybody remained calm . No one moved and no one talked . A few adults outside ran into the subway . But after five minutes , and long before the " all-clear " siren , pedestrians filled the avenues . On returning to the hotel I asked a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " What nationality ? " I asked . He said , " Now come , British , of course . " Forty air raids in one week . Last evening I was dining with foreign officials on a special mission to Republican Spain . A page boy brought in two objects : one , part of a German bomb ; the other , the time-delay fuse of a Soviet anti-aircraft shell stamped with Russian letters . Spaniards know whose guns and ammunition keep their casualties down . The knowledge helps to make politics . If the Loyalists could buy abroad for cash sufficient pursuit planes and anti-aircraft artillery , air raids would be far less costly in human lives and in crippled bodies . The international device which denies them these defensive weapons is one of the major atrocities of a cruel age . The United States arms embargo is part of that mechanism . Hands very far from this city have the blood of innocents upon them .                     