@@486461

0NE dominant question underlies political discussion today : Is the New Deal , despite the worthy intentions of President Roosevelt , the highroad to fascism , or is it the embryonic realization of Wilson 's grandiloquent but empty New Freedom ? Does it hold a promise of real industrial liberty , or is it , as the Communists and other radicals would maintain , the first step in the process of enslaving labor ? The usual answer to such misguided doubts is a reference to Section 7-a of the National Industrial Recovery Act , which specifically guarantees to employees the right to organize and to bargain collectively through representatives of their own choosing . How can skepticism survive , such ocular demonstration of the beneficent purposes of the NRA ? Indeed , it is this very section which has produced the finest flowers of contemporary tory frenzy at the NRA as a surrender by government to the forces of organized labor , and has been correspondingly hailed by President Green and labor leaders generally as a " new charter of economic freedom . " Perhaps , on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ heavily upon either tory fears or labor enthusiasms . This would not be the first time that American labor has prematurely celebrated what it mistakenly believed to be the dawn of a more glorious day . Twenty years ago , when Congress passed the labor provisions of the Clayton Act , Samuel Gompers hailed it in language not essentially different from that now used by William Green , and with even more exaltation . Yet , as we all know , the net result of these famous provisions , as finally interpreted six years later by the Supreme Court , was precisely nothing . Today as in 1914 there is every indication that the precious new grant is destined in due time to be explained , interpreted , circumvented , and nullified out of existence . The whole drift of events is , for friends of labor , unpleasantly reminiscent . Just as counsel for the Anti-Boycott Association hastened to declare in 1914 that the Clayton Act made Few changes in the law , and those of but slight importance , so today counsel for the employers assert categorically of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ labor has not heretofore enjoyed . " Just as the New York Times , in 1914 , commenting on Gompers 's claims of victory and contrasting these claims with those of the employers , remarked that " the mystery will hardly be solved short of a decision of the Supreme Court several years hence , " so today the papers speak of the " somewhat blind " language of Section 7-a that needs " clarification . " Just as labor then thought it had won the fight against the use of injunctions in labor disputes , only to discover that it had not in the eyes of the law advanced a single step , so today labor celebrates the overthrow of the hated company union , only to be met with the claim that " the law draws no distinction between the company union and any other union . " All this , however , does not begin to tell the story . For although he abjures the use of the term , General Johnson has in effect approved the view that the indispensable weapon of the " closed shop " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reality of the right of collective bargaining  --  is , per se , a violation of the law . Nor is this attitude toward the closed shop the whole of the NRA 's threat to labor . For even the right to strike , labor 's last line of defense , is gravely menaced . In terms too plain to be misunderstood , General Johnson.has declared that " the plain , stark truth is that you can not tolerate the strike " ; and that if labor does countenance this " economic sabotage , " it will be destroyed . Further , the strike is not only intolerable but unnecessary , since , according to the General 's up-to-date version of the " iron law of wages , " " labor . .. will get in these codes the maximum of what the particular economic situation permits , and no amount of militant pressure can change that result . " In a word , Section 7-a , as officially interpreted , aims to confer upon labor the privilege to organize and to bargain collectively , but denies every effective use of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rights , the New Deal actually endangers them . These destructive interpretations , moreover , are no accidental or haphazard ones , but the product of a clear and well-integrated philosophy . Under the new dispensation , as envisaged by General Johnson , unions are to survive not as militant organizations of workers , as in the past , but merely as the necessary machinery to insure that the arrangements entered into by labor leaders under central , government-dominated auspices will be observed by the millions of the rank and file . This , the General outspokenly declares , is the " new function of labor organizations " ; speaking before the assembled leaders of labor he frankly confessed , " We can not stand another vast collapse . You are the principal prop against collapse . " It is not difficult to see in these developments the foreshadowing of an attempt to bring about universal compulsory arbitration , for which machinery is already being evolved , Labor is to be fed  --  and tamed . It is to be given a comfortable cage , but its claws are to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has not been officially outlawed as yet , but the whole logic of General Johnson 's argument leads inevitably to that conclusion . But what of the solemn declarations of Section 7-a ? Surely , you will say , the Supreme Court can not permit these plain guaranties to labor of rights long struggled for and slowly and painfully achieved to be thus subverted . The Clayton Act was notoriously and shockingly ambiguous in its labor provisions , whereas President Roosevelt himself is represented as having declared , when adopting the coal code , that Section 7-a was couched in English so plain and clear that it required no interpretation , and as refusing on that ground to permit explanatory additions . Alas ! such hopes are doomed to disappointment . Disagreeable as it may be for liberals , the fact must be faced that Section 7-a simply will not stand the test of unsympathetic legalistic attack . It does , it is true , very clearly bar the compulsory company union and the " yellow dog " contract ; but its basic provision , to which so many hopes are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ organize and to bargain collectively through representatives of their own choosing , " leaves much to be desired . So far as President Roosevelt is concerned , one must bear in mind that he was striving anxiously to avoid any action that might possibly be construed as favoring either side , that he is a very good lawyer indeed , and that , as every lawyer knows , it is safer to quote than to paraphrase . The fact remains that Section 7-a , despite its supposed immunity from misunderstanding , does not anywhere define the scope or implications of that " right to bargain collectively " which it so roundly guarantees , nor does it tell precisely who are the " employees " who have the right , or just what is meant by " representatives of their own choosing . " All kinds of possibilities lurk in these undefined phrases . Does the right to bargain collectively , for instance , imply , as a necessary incident , the right to strike , which is the substance of labor 's bargaining power ? Nothing in the words of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the legality of the sympathetic strike or the secondary boycott . Does the act , when it says that " employees " may bargain collectively , mean that all the employees in a whole industry may bargain as a unit ? Or only the employees in a restricted locality , or , still more narrowly , only the employees of a given company or a given plant or mine ? The act does not say . The Supreme Court , however , in Duplex v. Deering , has already held that the words " employers " and " employees " ? at least , as used in the Clayton Act  --  did not mean employees throughout an industry , but only those immediately concerned . " Congress , " said the court , " had in mind particular individual controversies , not a general class war . " Confronted by superficially similar language in the present act , is it altogether unlikely that the court will give these terms a similar individualistic and restrictive interpretation favorable to the advocates of " company unions " ? Again , Section 7-a says employees @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Does this mean ( " that the representatives chosen by the majority can speak for and bind the whole group ? Or does it preserve the right of minorities and individuals to bargain separately ? And does it , as General Johnson argues , therefore exclude the possibility of a closed-shop agreement , because such an agreement necessarily infringes on the right of individuals who may not wish to be represented by the union to select representatives of their own or to bargain individually ? The language is far from clear ; and it must be conceded that there is nothing in the wording of Section 7-a that imperatively and unmistakably requires a different interpretation . Of course there is another side to the picture . A court that was sympathetic to labor would have no difficulty at all in reaching the conclusion that Section 7-a was intended to confer upon employees , not individually but as a group , organized , if they so desired , as widely as their employers , the right to select duly designated representatives ; that these representatives might bargain for a closed shop @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ representative institutions , would have to acquiesce in the group action . As respects the closed shop , moreover , there is the fact that Section 7-a itself expressly forbids making " membership in a company union " a - condition of employment , but does not contain any such express prohibition as to membership in a non-company union . Indeed , a provision applicable to all labor organizations wasexpressly cut out of the act in its original form , and the restriction to " company " unions alone substituted . These striking considerations would seem to imply , in accordance with well-settled and elementary canons of construction , that there was no statutory objection to an agreement making membership in a non-company union a condition of employment  --  that is , to a closed union-shop agreement . But this is , after all , a mere technical hurdle . There is no reason whatever to believe that the Supreme Court will prove more liberal than General Johnson , who speaks not only as National Recovery Administrator and as a lawyer , but with all the authority of one of the framers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ much real ambiguity in Section 7-a , and with such powerful evidence of the intent of some , at least , of its framers , it needs no soothsayer to predict that the Supreme Court will not reverse the entire trend of its labor decisions and outdo the Administration itself in radicalism . And it is the Supreme Court , in the last analysis , sitting at a day far removed from present turmoil and unbound by anything President Roosevelt may personally desire or declare or any provision that the various codes may embody or omit , that will be the arena for ultimate decision . Nor is the court 's freedom of action in this field in the least impeded by those overwhelming political and economic necessities which press so powerfully upon it to sustain the constitutionality of the act as a whole . Is the battle , then , already lost ? Need we resign ourselves to the traditional weary ritual of futile controversy , followed in the fulness of time by the inevitable adverse decision , with only the inevitably powerful and cogent dissenting opinions as consolation ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so easily of the New Deal , or tamely surrender its very effective machinery to the enemy . If nothing can be done about the issue of constitutionality save the offering of prayer , there is a great deal that can and must be done about Section 7-a . There is absolutely no reason that this vital and crucial issue should be delivered up to the legal casuistry , the prejudices , and the economic limitations of lawyers and judges , indulging in the unsanctified mysteries of statutory " interpretation , " or even to the fortuitous wording of Section 7-a itself . There is nothing holy about that wording ; Congress , which reassembles in January , enacted it and Congress may amend it , and by a few words set the whole problem at rest . What is needed most of all is an express , copper-riveted , lawyer-proof and court-proof declaration ( assuming such were possible ) explicitly defining and conferring upon labor the right to enter into closed-shop agreements , and explicitly guarding against the threatened attack upon the right to strike , including the right to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a real Magna Charta for labor , and no mere rhetorical substitute . The writer does not mean to suggest that labor has not , so far , gained greatly under the NRA , nor that there are not brilliant potentialities for further gain . But so far it is all fool 's gold , apt to vanish in the cold gray morning . Its durability is contingent upon further achievement , and not least upon the achievement of a firm legal position . Here is a job for Congress , and it is one which , in the long run , no other work that confronts the next session exceeds in importance . It is one that will have to be undertaken even if other features of the Recovery Act are scrapped by Congress , or , contrary to general expectation , held unconstitutional by the Supreme Court , for Section 7-a and the problems it raises would in any event survive independently . Certainly such a move to amend Section 7-a will precipitate trouble and force a " show-down , " but a show-down on labor policy is precisely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ straightforward manner can the danger of exploitation of the Recovery Act in a manner destructive of the interests and aims it was intended to foster be safely avoided . In the Driftway TWO aspects of the passing of prohibition interest the Drifter . One is that prohibition had to die to win . Not only did nothing in its life so become it as its death , but its one solid , substantial success came at the moment of its dissolution . In New York City , at least , and the Drifter surmises elsewhere , the only considerable drought in the life of the Noble Experiment occurred as its spirit was passing away on the night air of December 5 and during the obsequies which occupied the next few days . According to general testimony , liquor was never so hard to get in fourteen years as in the interregnum between the folding up of the speakeasies and the time when legal dealers were able to acquire licenses and obtain adequate stocks . It was one of those ironies which keep life from becoming dull because of its expectedness  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when our war profiteers went around mumbling one to another , " Peace is hell . " THE other aspect of the end of prohibition with which the Drifter is impressed is the way in which the bootlegger was allowed to pass from the scene unhonored and unsung . Republics are notoriously ungrateful , but never has ours been more indifferent than toward its bootleggers . The men who through the heat and burden of fourteen years assuaged our thirst and revived our cheer were abandoned without a remembrance or a reward . It was reported even that the bootlegger of the State House at Annapolis , Maryland , was told he was through eight hours before prohibition ended . A policeman was sent to him with a curt notice to quit . There were no engrossed resolutions of thanks from thirsty legislators ; no committee waited on him with a gift of a gold-headed cane or a diamond-studded watch ; nobody even gave him the address of the nearest employment office or relief agency . OF course the Drifter realizes that there were some difficulties in the way of publicly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dry Decade from becoming arid . It is understandable that President Roosevelt could not invite them all to spend a week-end ' at the White House . 1VIere numbers would have made such a gesture impracticable even had public policy permitted it . It is possible also that it was not advisable for chambers of commerce in our leading cities to arrange large public dinners as testimonials to their local bootleggers as these worthies retired from office . Some of the leading men of the profession might have preferred not to sit in the glare of the speakeasy speakers ' table . Yet the Drifter feels that Something Should Be Done , even if anonymously , to commemorate the services of a group which did its bit in time of need . He proposes , therefore , a public subscription to erect in Washington a monument as large , expensive , and ugly as any other that shall be dedicated to the memory of the Unknown Bootlegger . THE DRIFTER                     