@@487824

IN 1917 Professor James McKeen Cattell was fired ( let us not be too nice in these matters even though we are moving in the upper intellectual circles ) from Columbia University for activities connected with our entrance into the World War . This action cost Columbia another of its most eminent professors , because Charles A. Beard resigned in protest . It remains to be seen whether Yale University will lose any of its staff as a result of its failure to reappoint Jerome Davis , associate professor in the Divinity School . For Professor Davis 's case promises to equal that of Professor Cattell in its importance for professors who dare to twist the tails of a university 's sacred cows . When questioned on the Davis case , President Angell declared that the question of academic freedom was in no sense involved . It was purely a financial matter- , even Yale has suffered from a reduction of the life stream of a modern university  --  hard cash . " Mr. Davis , " President Angell 's statement for the press added , " has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the classroom and outside . Neither the action of the board of permanent officers of the Divinity School nor that of the corporation is based upon dissent from his views . " In the light of this unequivocal statement a brief review of the case is in order . Mr. Davis came to Yale as assistant professor in 1923 , with assurances that his academic future was bright . In 1925 Dean Charles R. Brown wrote him that he had every reason to hope for promotion to a full professorship at the end of a three-year term . But it was not until 1930 that the Yale Corporation , on the unanimous recommendation of the Divinity School , promoted him to the rank of associate professor . Since then Mr. Davis 's further promotion has been coming up periodically , with a good deal of acrimonious argument in between . The Yale Corporation has opposed it for some time ; the President has not favored it ; and a year ago the Divinity School itself refused to recommend more than reappointment at the same rank . Things evidently had been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ October 13 , 1925 , President Angell , in a conversation reported by Mr. Davis , " mentioned the public censure and possible dismissal which would result if extensive protests continued as a result of outside speeches . " On December 28 , 1925 , the President chided him in a letter for " your apparently unqualified acceptance of the sort of material which Mr. Fay and Mr Barnes Sidney B. Fay and Harry Elmer Barnes have been publishing on the responsibility for the war . " On December 30 , 1926 , Howell Cheney , a member of the Yale Corporation , wrote to Dean Weigle of the Divinity School that " New Haven men are particularly exercised by Professor Davis 's efforts to unionize the non-union factories and employees in New Haven " /n- November , 1927 , President Angell received a letter from E. M. Roberts , president of Chase Roberts and Company of Long Island City , asking . " Do you think that a man who associates with and believes in Anarchist , Bolshevist , and Communist ( different names but all mean anarchy ) is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( Mr. Roberts may represent the Yale point of view in politics ; it is to be hoped that his is not typical of the Yale epistolary style ) Late in 1935 an outraged mother who preferred not to sign her name complained to Mr. Angell : " Jerome Davis turned my son against his God , his home ? Father and Mother . Shame on Yale , paying traitors to ruin Americans ! " It is quite likely that every college president receives letters of this sort . But the best of them keep a wastebasket handy . President Angell , for some reason or other , let them get under his skin Incident followed incident . But the denouement which Mr. Davis had been expecting for five years was at hand . Last January a committee of which Mr. Davis was chairman invited Senator Gerald P. Nye to speak at Yale . Senator Nye had just charged the late Woodrow Wilson with falsehood in connection with his testimony on the secret treaties . This , to a number of Yale alumni , was lose majeste of an unforgivable sort @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ canceled but wrote a letter  --  on January 15 ? to Dean Weigle which riddles his denial that academic freedom had anything to do with Mr. Davis 's dismissal . " Here is another little piece of sand in the gear box , " he wrote , " which comes to me from one of our outraged alumni , in Reading , Pennsylvania . I must say that I think Jerome is becoming an increasing nuisance and my patience is inevitably wearing rather thin . " Jerome Davis has been well known for many years as a speaker and writer in liberal causes . He championed the recognition of Soviet Russia long before such championship became respectable . He has been active in urging  --  although not , as charged , in organizing  --  trade-union activity . He has published many volumes which have received the critical approval of his professional peers . His students protest that he is a stimulating teacher , one who " fills an invaluable place on the campus . " But the President of Yale University found him a nuisance . And as a result he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ALL tales from Indiana of Lazy Jeff and old Squirelly  --  those less well-known brothers of Paul Bunyan  --  pueblos in New Mexico , the Georgia barn that saw the birth of Eli Whitney 's cotton gin , the New York sky line , logging in Wisconsin , tobacco-curing in South Carolina , gold-panning in Colorado , the legend of the origin of Uncle Sam , a white Colonial church in Connecticut  --  these and a vast collection of kindred material in text and pictures make up a portrait of a country in the WPA 's " American Guide . " As the major undertaking of the Federal Writers ' Project , the " Guide " was planned first of all to give work to unemployed writers , secondly to create a project on which their previous experience and training would not be wasted , and lastly to produce not an ephemeral boondoggle but something of intrinsic value . The scheme involves a description for each locality of its history , legend , people , topography , means of livelihood , architecture , and whatever other indigenous peculiarities go to make @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for each state , a condensed version for the country as a whole will be published this winter in six volumes representing six geographical divisions . A preliminary exhibition showing excerpts from the text and examples of the illustrations is now on view at the New York Public Library . The stuff of America is in this exhibit , from our clipper-ship and covered-wagon past to our gasoline-station present . One gets an armchair view of the country from the photographs , some of which  --  the sand dunes of Death Valley in California , navy planes lying in double-V formation against the clouds , a wrought-iron gate in a Delaware churchyard  --  are superb . Particularly those by a WPA worker named Highton are as good as any photography , excluding portraiture , being done by Americans today . Although the text suffers from occasional baedekerisms , it retrieves itself nobly at other times . The nameless author of the chapter on Nebraska has the touch of a genuine historian as he projects himself back into pioneer days and feels the shock of an icy gale when a shack door @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ irreverence , rare in guidebooks , actually makes good reading of a description of MacMonnies 's statue of Civic Virtue in City Hall Park . Some 6,000 people have been at work on the " American Guide " ? reporters , photographers , magazine writers , map-makers . When the project found them , one had been sleeping in subways for a week , one had taken his hat from an ashcan , one had had nothing to eat for three days and fainted when he received his first salary check . These men are now being given work , as nearly as possible fitted to their training , that keeps them employed from twenty-four to thirty-nine hours a week and pays a weekly wage of from $21 to $30 . They have produced in the " Guide " a further proof that , whatever else has been the record of the Roosevelt Administration , the four arts projects are something in which it can take unqualified pride . 