@@486445

WORLD peace in the present age depends largely upon the sort of economic policies maintained by the important nations . Economic control means military control in the end . To establish military peace we must first establish economic peace , and this latter step is a prerequisite to extensive and permanent disarmament . The world today , under American leadership throughout the past ten years , is in a virtual state of economic war . There can be no real progress toward confidence , genuine friendly relations , or permanent peace while retaliations and bitter controversies continue to rage . Nor can this country under these conditions count upon permanent stable business and immunity from frequently recurring panics . . In vain have some of us repeatedly warned the American people during the past ten years of the utter folly of pursuing narrow pre-war trade policies like the prohibitive tariff  --  policies which have become entirely academic since we have become a great creditor nation with an overproductive capacity of twenty to twenty-five billions of dollars . Who could well imagine a more shortsighted and disastrous economic policy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ afford great artificial stimulation to domestic production and at the same time impose the severest restrictions upon trade among nations ? Since the introduction of the income tax , the demand for high tariffs has been mainly based on considerations of protection . No one would urge tariff taxation from the standpoint of equity , because it is essentially a class tax . No one would urge it to reduce transportation costs , because it substantially increases such costs . No one would urge it as a means of encouraging export trade , because it seriously ob-structs export trade . No one would urge it as a means of reducing domestic production costs , because it materially in-creases such costs . No one would urge it in reduction of living costs , because it boosts living costs . No one would urge it as a means of promoting fair and friendly trade meth-ods and practices , because it invites or challenges trade re-prisals and retaliations . No one would urge it as an aid to the payment of debts owed to us , with interest , because it seriously obstructs such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would increase the prices of their own products . Even the chief beneficiaries are not so enamored of high tariffs as honestly to approve tariff protection for materials they must purchase , and they strangely reject the principle whenever it adds to the cost of their raw materials . In the face of such pre-war high-tariff shibboleths as " protection is panic proof , " and " high tariffs are a guaranty of prosperity " ? a guaranty of high wages , high living stand-. ards , and steady employment of both labor and capital , and a sure cure for agricultural ills  --  we see the exports of our great surplus-producing agricultural industry at the lowest ebb since 1914 , prior to the enactment of the Underwood tariff ; we see mining on its back ; 6,500,000 laborers  --  or with their families 20,000,000 ? indefinitely out of employ-ment , and 2,000 factories erected abroad , while billions of gold and credit remain idle in this country . The world 's trade is $240,000,000,000 less than it would have been under the pre-war rate of increase . Of course one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our policy of super-protection and its hurtful effects upon industry and foreign trade . It is fair , however , to charge that our high-tariff policy is the greatest single underlying factor . The more unthinking element clings blindly to the notion that , because pre-war high tariffs were not charged with the chief responsibility for panic conditions , such a charge can not now be logically made . Those who still profess this view typify the blind and dumb leaders who after the war shouted for 100 per cent " economic nationalism , " and who continued thus to shout until within thirty seconds of the breaking of the great panic in October , 1929 . This brand of economic thought has been in control of our government and has furnished the nation its leadership since 1920 . Is it not high time that the American people should halt and take stock especially of their economic policies and leadership ? The Fordney tariff act was intended to be as nearly prohibitive as possible of all imports in the minutest degree competitive . All staple commodities of this class have thus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people during the post-war period have been bent on luxuries , semi-luxuries , and curios , and have ransacked the earth for them ever since 1920 , along with special designs , patterns , styles , and samples which the rich insist upon purchasing , tariffs or no tariffs , there is and for some years has been more or less importation of this class of dutiable goods . These , together with imports of sugar , wool , and certain other products not produced here in sufficient quantities , have comprised virtually the only dutiable imports into this country during the past ten years . The Hawley revision , which was an upward revision , piling Pelion on Ossa , embraced items of import comprising more than $917,664,294 , or two-thirds of our total dutiable imports for 1928 , amounting to $1,573,000,000 . Many of the Hawley-Smoot rates , as in the case of certain cotton and woolen fabrics , were intended to shut out competitive fabrics of special designs , even though the import price of the latter was considerably higher than the home price of our comparable domestic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most instances were purely paper rates intended , as in the past , to fool the farmer . Still other rates were intended to stop cracks and crevices in our tariff wall , especially in cases of remote and speculative competition . The principal Treasury receipts under the Fordney act were , in the order named , from sugar , tobacco , wool and cotton manufactures , unmanufactured wool , silk manufactures , chemicals , pottery , flax and rayon manufactures , glass , and so on . At least 75 per cent of the total duties obtained under the Fordney act averaged more than 55 per cent ad valorem . These amazing tariff heights have been greatly increased by the Hawley-Smoot act . I dare say that for the calendar year 1931 the entire rates of this tariff law will average around 55 per cent  --  which is almost unbelievable in the present modern age . If , in this wild orgy of constant tariff increases , other nations , bitterly resenting our policy of endeavoring to sell but refusing to buy in return , in retaliation or in self-defense @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our own conduct chiefly to thank . Our present tariff and much of our commercial policy are based upon the Fordney-McCumber act of 1922 and the Hawley-Smoot revision . Its primary , indeed its only , purpose is to safeguard American producers against competition in the American . market . It is true that , for the benefit of exporters , Section 317 was incidentally inserted in the Fordney act , carrying a threat of penal tariff retaliation as the only means of enforcing our newly proclaimed doctrine of " equality of trade " expressed in the unconditional mostfavored-nation clause in our newer commercial treaties . Ours , therefore , is a defensive commercial policy , to which a paradoxical touch is given by the presence in the tariff act of eleven discriminatory provisions which fly in the face of the " equality-of-treatment " doctrine . The Fordney tariff law and its Hawley revision give our government no authority to negotiate or enter into any sort of reciprocal tariff agreements or arrangements , either general or special , involving tariff concessions or reductions . The policy of both laws is to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foreign-trade opportunities and advantages that might be derived from the rationalization of our tariffs and reciprocal tariff-concession agreements . Numerous nations during recent years have followed our leadership in the erection of extreme high tariffs , while many others have taken the same steps in retaliation against us , with the result that tariff barriers today constitute the outstanding impediments to legitimate and desirable international trade . The major portion of our exports after 1921 were only made possible by our foreign loans of some seventeen billions of dollars , while the world 's trade is scarcely more than one-half the amount that its normal growth would have constituted , had not this growth been interrupted by the war and the ensuing commercial policies . It is astonishing to note that world trade for 1931 , adjusted to 1913 prices , will be below the level for 1913 , eighteen years ago . The trade of the United States , according to the present rate of decline , will likewise be below the 1913 figures . The people must rid themselves of the high-tariff fallacy that imports displace to a serious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ outstanding purpose of international trade is a mutually profitable exchange of surplus commodities . Every informed person knows that there is a large range of desirable or necessary commodities the production of which is not economically justifiable , or which are produced in wholly minor quantities compared with home-consumption demands . Can any position be more absurd or suicidal than that of America , with its immense surpluses , demanding the privilege of invading the markets of all other nations and selling in competition with their home industries , and at the same time insisting upon the privilege of an embargo tariff at home that will shut out the chief portion of commodities either not competitive at all or not seriously competitive ? Those favoring the present extreme protective policy dismiss foreign trade with the remark that it only amounts to an average of 8 per cent or 10 per cent of our total home production . This is scarcely a half-truth , though it has deceived millions of people . How does this claptrap impress the cotton grower , who must export and sell abroad from 50 to 60 per @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wheat grower , who must export 25 per cent of his production ; our rye grower , who exports 53 per cent ; our tobacco grower , who exports 40 per cent ; our lard producer , who exports 30 per cent ; our producer of petroleum products , who exports 30 to 35 per cent ; our automobile manufacturers , who must export 500,000 and more cars ; the coal industry , the machinery , leather , furniture , copper , oil , lumber , silk and woolen textiles , medium and coarser cotton textiles , shoes , cement , naval stores , paints , many chemicals , lead , rubber manufactures , electrical machinery , tools , books , and a long list of other great industries which produce surpluses on an increasing scale ? Americans saw cotton plunge down to a level of seven cents a pound during the awful war days of 1914 , when the foreign markets were cut off . They have more recently seen our cotton , slump to a still lower level on account of the collapse of foreign markets . The automobile @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other surplus-producing industries in this country , which prior to the present panic were told that our exports , averaging only 8 to 10 per cent , were of no consequence , now realize to their great sorrow that the slump in our foreign markets has resulted in depression unrivaled in our history . When hired speakers or other uninformed persons shout to the American people that high tariffs protect the wages and living standards of our more than 30,000,000 wage-earners , they should say of less than 5,000,000 of our wage-earners ; and these are only potential tariff beneficiaries for the reasons just stated . Among these high-tariff beneficiaries are not included the tens of millions of wage-earners in the coal , copper , and most other mines , on railroads and steamships , in the building and engineering trades , in telephone and other utility occupations , in the professions , in printing , in most of agriculture , in the automobile industry , and in dozens of other great industries patently deriving no net tariff benefits . Nothing could be more false and misleading than the out-of-date and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pauper labor " from other countries would pour into America under a policy of moderate tariffs . Strange , however , to relate , the Fordney act and other high-tariff enactments were secured under the pretense that American agriculture and other industries were being overwhelmed with just such products from abroad , when the truth was that our excess of exports over imports for the four years 1919-22 was $9,600,000,000 . For 1920 our agricultural exports , excluding forest products , exceeded imports by $731,000,000 , whereas imports today actually exceed exports . American agriculture as a whole has been fundamentally worse off each year since it was first loaded up heavily with every kind of paper tariff in 1921 and 1922 , to say nothing of the new batch of additional rates , chiefly paper rates , later piled on through the Hawley-Smoot act . Though manufacturers in 1929 were able to sell abroad articles of manufacture either in whole or in part in the amount of more than $3,000,000,000 , while imports of dutiable finished manufactures only amounted to $595,000,000 , the blind forces of reaction continue to cry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " In order to restore permanent stable business conditions it is necessary among other things to increase the prices in world markets of primary commodities such as cotton , rubber , wheat , raw silk , tin , copper , etc . To this end and for the many other reasons stated , there should be launched under American leadership a threefold movement , first , gradually to bring down tariff walls here and everywhere to a moderate and competitive level and to restore a healthy international trade in these and other commodities . A permanent world economic conference could accomplish much in developing a spirit of moderate tariffs and a liberal commercial policy ; it might also in many instances bring about agreements eliminating by mutual consent unfair trade methods and practices which are productive of economic strife . Secondly , there should be a plan to reduce tariffs by commercial treaties with two or more countries , in return for reciprocal reductions , with the unconditional favored-nation doctrine made as nearly as possible the basis . This would gradually bring down many tariff rates the world over . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bodies of other countries , under our leadership , should according to their own separate and independent judgment proceed at once with the readjustment downward of rates unjustifiably high and even the repeal of others where there is no competition , with a level of moderate or competitive rates and a liberal , fair , and friendly commercial policy as the ultimate objectives .                     