@@453655

IEIRANCE , of all European countries , has r staged the most amazing revival . Confronted by mortal danger , the French people have belied those prophets of despair who called her decadent , even moribund . They are rallying with fighting spirit around the symbols which have made their country great . France has always been something of a riddle to foreign observers . She is something of a mystery to herself . Her tradition is full of paradoxes , and her own sons have spoken of her now with boundless enthusiasm , now with sardonic bitterness . As with all truly human beings , her strength and her foibles defy logic . The easy slogans about national character lead to a maze of contradictions . When I was in France in the spring of 1038 , all was gloom and uncertainty . Early in April the Blum Cabinet had fallen . Frantic yet unsuccessful efforts at forming a National Union Government after the seizure of Austria by the Nazis had ended in failure . Austria 's surrender had been a terrible shock to French prestige . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in foreign policy thatfinished ' the Socialist regime of the Front Populaire , while the lingering ruins of the great International Exhibition stood as a painful reminder to French bourgeois pocketbooks that the government of Leon Blum had been expensive . And the French do watch their pennies . France felt herself weak and at the mercy of Adolf Hitler , who in Mein Kampf had left no doubt as to his de- termination to cripple the country he considered the greatest obstacle to his own domination over Europe . Was Hitler a new Napoleon , more formidable since he had at his disposal the best-disciplined , most highly industrialized , and most scientifically-minded nation of Europe ? Some Frenchmen even resented this apparent plagiarism of political methods . One important industrialist , in commenting upon the Austrian coup , remarked in all seriousness : ' This seizure came as a complete surprise . Only a Latin , we supposed , could do a thing like that . ' Other Frenchmen , when told about this remark , said that many of their countrymen had admired the way it was done @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was something of the professional soldier 's admiration for a brilliant stroke of the sword in their expression . But , since it came from outre-Rhin , it was the more alarming when you contrasted such cold-blooded determination with the indecision and weakness of France . As a gifted French business man mockingly said to me , looking out upon the sunny Champs-Elys ? es : If Hitler came riding down this avenue , the sides would be lined with people cheering him on . ' A desperate mood , and no doubt a whimsical exaggeration , but characteristic of the French state of mind in the spring of 1938 . But things had not as yet come to the worst pass . The Daladier government of moderate radicals , augmented by some conservatives , came into power in April . Little was changed at first . In June , French people were saying that all was futile , I hat the Daladier crowd were worse than the Front Populaire . True , some twenty billions of capital had been flowing back to France in the course of May , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after a brief spell of relief , the flight of capital recommenced ; unemployment continued ; government deficits were met by the printing press , and the prices went on rising . The country seemed less prepared to meet a challenge of the axis powers than ever . The Daladier government dragged along its depressing course , until in September the defeat of Munich seemed to seal its fate . Munich was the more shocking to the amour-propre of France as treaties bound her to the support of Czechoslovakia . Clearly France lay helpless at the feet of Hitler . Disgust and bitterness ran high as capital fled and production halted . Two months later , all that was changed . Capital began to return , industries were starting up , unemployment was falling . What had happened ? M. Paul Reynaud had taken over the Ministry of Finance to carry out his Three-Year Plan . Who is this man , too little known as yet to the outside world , but the real power behind the new financial and economic policies of the French Government of today ? To understand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the man . Small of stature , Paul Reynaud is , like many small men , laden with energy . He is frank and open , and dresses like an American , without a vest . As you enter his room he comes forward to meet you , his steel-gray eyes fixed upon you in a friendly grin . He grips your hand firmly , unhesitatingly . I noticed that his suit was rather informal , darkish green , with a shirt to match , his tie of a dark red , well chosen to set off the green of the suit . There is nothing stuffy or pompous about him , nothing of the Monsieur le Ministre which so often greets you in French officials , even before they ar rive . ' One can readily believe that he is welcome in certain fashionable salons , along with M. Lion Blum ; the two men , politically so far apart , maintain very amicable personal relations . Paul Reynaud is the scion of a well-to-do family from Barcelonnette , a small town near Grenoble . One likes to think that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ combined with the intelligence and resourcefulness of the French Midi , reinforced by the verve and magnanimity of Spanish blood from Barcelona . At any rate , the proprietary families of Barcelonnette derive their wealth from a strange , outlandish source : they have owned and developed many of the large department stores in Mexico . These transoceanic business contacts , presumably started in the days when the ill-fated Maximilian sought to set up his imperial throne in Mexico under the aegis of the Third Napoleon , have undoubtedly given them a wider horizon than is commonly found in small provincial towns . Paul Reynaud did not go into the business of his family . He became a corporation lawyer , and soon went into politics . His political life , however , has been that of the lone wolf . His domineering temper , backed by a very superior intelligence , has always chafed at the curbs which group loyalties inevitably impose . In France , where all politics is a matter of personal loyalties , diffused through small groups , this is even more of a handicap than elsewhere @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ soon became what is known as a dOput ? ministrable , a member of the Chamber of Deputies who might be considered for a cabinet post , particularly as regard for his ability was reinforced by regard for his very considerable fortune . It is rarely a handicap in politics to have extra money to spend , least of all in France . Though roughly and generally associated with the conservative groups on the right , his ever-readiness to strike out along his own path , as his candid , rational mind suggested , has given him a unique position . For years it has been the role of Cassandra . Reynaud takes considerable pleasure in the many occasions when his hardheaded pessimism made him right . He was in the United States just before the great crash ; on the boat he predicted it to one prominent American banker . His reasoning , as always , was rather simple , almost rustic . ' It is unsound to borrow money at 10 per cent to buy stocks yielding 2 per cent . ' But , unlike many other men who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the long duration of the crisis . In March 1931 , when ho was in the ministry of Laval , he almost ridiculed Tardieu 's optimism that saw prosperity just around the corner . He wrote a letter to Le Temps in which he said that France would be in the throes of the depression before long ? a most unpopular idea at a time when many Frenchmen were flattering themselves that they were not going to be troubled by the disasters of the spendthrifty and reckless Americans , the Empire-burdened Britishers . In this same period , Paul Reynaud took a vigorous stand in favor of devaluation . He thought it unwise for France not to follow suit when the pound sterling , la mattress ? des Ichanges , had been devaluated , and positively foolish after America had also abandoned the gold standard . But his own conservative friends were unalterably opposed to looking the facts in the face , and at one of these bitter debates a cabinet colleague almost cried as he shouted at Reynaud , ' You have destroyed a cathedral ! ' Paul Reynaud has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the war , when it became apparent that the economically crippled German Republic would not be able to pay reparations , Reynaud was one of the few who advocated the acceptance of Rathenau 's scheme to have the devastated regions rebuilt by German workers . As usual , his was a voice crying in the wilderness . Reynaud 's grasp of economic and monetary problems is so incisive that one naturally wonders about the sources of his deeper insight . For in our complex society the ablest men are always those who realize the need for advice and counsel from specialists . For all the mocking about the brain trust , it is generally acknowledged that the underlying idea was sound , indeed of permanent significance , though there is no particular advantage in having such advisers flaunted before the public . M. Reynaud has a few brilliant younger men associated with him as his personal staff ? an arrangement which is facilitated by the French tradition that each cabinet minister shall have a rather extensive personally appointed secretariat , his cabinet . M. Reynaud also owes a great deal to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wide international experience and real insight . M. Istel is somewhat critical today of Reynaud 's policy ; he feels that Reynaud has become too conservative , under the influence of his great staff of professional civil servants in the Ministry of Finance , and that he tends to subordinate the economic problems to fiscal considerations . In fact , Istel insists that France today is pursuing an actually deflationary policy ; he points to the fact that bank deposits have risen from 115 to 130 billions , while loans have declined from 65 to 26 billions , if calculated on the basis of relative gold content of the franc . In keeping with this , Istel claimed that real wages in France had fallen between 1936 and 1938 . Nor would he allow that French capital had returned as a result of the government 's policy . He pointed out that most of the French capital came back because the enterprisers actually had to have the cash , and that at best it was only a small percentage of what had left . M. Istel estimates that 140 billions actually @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the French economy was laboring within a strait jacket of capital shortage . It is difficult to assess these views definitively , as economists violently disagree on some of the fundamental issues involved . What matters politically is that M. Reynaud , as always , followed his own head in deciding what policy to pursue . This is as it should be ; advisers who become controllers are very dubious assets . II Whether you agree with him or not , you have to acknowledge that Paul Reynaud has one of the keenest heads amongst European politicians today . This superior intellectual equipment is re6nforced by great industry and strength of will . Ho works in a very interesting fashion . Not trusting to the vagaries of even an excellent memory , he continually makes notes about points which seem to him of special significance . Menu cards are often covered with his handsome , strong writing . These notes he makes the basis of more elaborate office memoranda , written out by hand too , on large foolscap . These memoranda show a man of intense creative energy , for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They also reveal a very systematic mind ; invariably they are carefully organized , with each point labeled 1 , 2 , 3 , and A , B , C. Such memoranda for new legislation or alterations in present policy arc given to his special collaborators , one a brilliant young lawyer , the other an economist-statistician , whose task it is to draft legislation based upon these general conceptions . As a result of his industry , Paul Reynaud has become the dynamo behind the present government , continually pushing it into new fields of emergency effort by presenting the cabinet with carefully worked out proposals for legislative and administrative action . As every governmental activity has a fiscal aspect , the Minister of Finance is , of course , in a peculiarly advantageous position for such continuous initiative . Unlike our system , with a separate budget bureau under the President , the French system assigns the budgetary problem to the Minister of Finance , so that Raymond Poincare , when he wanted to reconstruct the finances of France in 1926 , took on that ministry in addition to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ result of Reynaud 's vigorous and dynamic leadership , the Ministry of Finance has once more become the ' planning centre ' of French economic reconstruction , and here the crucial decisions for the Three-Year Plan are made . The Three-Year Plan reveals that France is no longer living under a functioning parliamentary system . Mockingly , a French historian remarked to me , ' The trouble with our parliament is that it works when it does n't work , but does n't work when it works . ' From the spring of 1938 until November 15 of that year , parliament abdicated its powers to the government , gave it plein pouvoir ? that is , the full power to make ( Morels lois . These decree laws may , of course , like any laws , be changed or abrogated by parliament when it reassembles , but , as the winter showed , the French parliament found it no easier than the German parliament to abrogate such emergency measures once they were on the statute books . And after Hitler seized Prague , in March of this year , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has recently used to prolong the life of the present parliament until 1942 . Should we conclude that France has already abandoned parliamentary democracy ? There are not a few observers who would claim that . There is , indeed , no precedent in the history of the Third Republic for such governmental extension of the life of a parliament which happens to support it ? in peacetime . But may it not be argued ? as it certainly is argued ? that , though no mass killings are taking place , Europe is actually at war ? Certainly , from a fiscal standpoint , the situation is dominated everywhere by gigantic and possibly bankrupting efforts at armament outlays which vastly exceed national resources . M. Paul Reynaud 's entire policy is in fact dominated by considerations of foreign policy and national preparedness . On the wall opposite his desk , in the ornate office of the Tuileries Palace , Paul Reynaud keeps constantly in view the map of Europe which Nazi propagandists have dotted with red spots , claiming half of Europe as rightfully theirs . I was much struck @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for I have myself reprinted this map in my Foreign Policy in the Making . It reveals at one glance the aggressive conception of Nazi domination throughout Europe . You would not expect such a map in the office of the Minister of Finance . It shows that he looks upon his job as that of fortifying France for the inevitable hour when she meets Nazi ambitions on the battlefield . As he said in his great speech in which he urged French workers not to support the general strike : ' A year ago , on my return from a trip through Germany feeling the imminence the peril , I said publicly that the fate of liberty in Europe depended upon the production of our war-material factories , and in order to develop them I demanded unanimity in Franco . You know what it has cost us not to have succeeded in establishing it . All I have done in the three weeks since I have taken over the Ministry of Finance I have done in order to make you strong . I do not want my country to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dubious ally . ' When Paul Reynaud took over the Ministry of Finance , on November 2 , 1938 , he had less than a fortnight left for transforming his ideas into decree laws . For the government 's plain pouvoir expired on the fifteenth , as I have said . Nor could Reynaud be sure of the support of his cabinet colleagues ; many distrusted him , considering him a social conservative and a nationalist , not without good reason . In fact , the Ministry of Finance was not offered to Reynaud by Daladier until Reynaud had tendered his resignation , demanding that the plan of the then Minister of Finance , M. Marchandeau , for an exchange control should be abandoned . Reynaud 's argument was very simple : ' Exchange may be a solution for Herr Schacht and the German economy , because they owe a lot of money , and so exchange control meant simply that they would not pay any more . But we are a creditor nation , and hence exchange control would amount to telling the others that they need not pay any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ how to stop the flight of capital after Munich . Reynaud was of opinion that you should stop it by making capitalists feel safe in France , not by forbidding them to go elsewhere . After considerable haggling , primarily over Reynaud 's insistence that the forty-hour policy must be modified , he became Minister of Finance , having won out in his fight for a recognition of the view which he had already pressed in the spring when negotiating with Lion Blum for the establishing of a National Union Cabinet : ' You can not pursue a policy of vast and expensive social improvements and at the same time expect the country to get prepared for a life-anddeath struggle with a power twice the size of your own in men and resources . ' In the months past Reynaud has coined and popularized some sharp slogans : the state spending vast sums for public works he denounced as Santa Claus , and the forty-hour week he dubbed the ' two-Sunday ' week . His entry into the Ministry of Finance meant good-bye to the ideas of the Front Populaire . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or anyone else , if necessary . In response to the dangers of Fascist-Nazi aggression France had produced another fighting incarnation of her Jacobin tradition , the tradition which had produced Robespierre , Gambetta , Clemenceau . Undisturbed by oratory , though capable of it to a high degree , Reynaud felt sure that an attempt at a general strike such as the Socialists threatened was merely bluff and would fail miserably . Reynaud had , in fact , been ready to meet such a strike in April . But the time was not ripe for it then , in the opinion of Daladier and the Radical Socialist command , and that is why Reynaud had refused to shoulder the responsibility for the Ministry of Finance at that time . For him , it was all or nothing . Since he conceived the Ministry of Finance as the central planning office from which to set right not only the budget but the national economy , he had to wait . III In order fully to appreciate what Paul Reynaud has done , it is necessary to remember the condition of France @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and sealed . The fatal weakness of the country was manifest enough , but what were its distinguishing features ? France 's difficulties were partly economic , partly fiscal . The lack of morale and the lack of military preparedness were factors of only secondary importance , one can say in retrospect , for both were rectified as soon as the economic and fiscal difficulties had been faced . The fiscal weakness had its roots in the attempt to combine far-flung public works with armaments on an unprecedented scale . To deal with this problem , Reynaud put a stop to new public works , thus saving two or three billions , on the assumption that the slack would be taken up by armaments . In a careful exposition of his policy , before the Senate on December 28 , 1938 , he made perfectly clear his conviction that these public works stood in the way of effective armament . He recalled Lloyd George 's famous remark that it is better to pay a worker who works than to support an unemployed man who does nothing . A seductive idea , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , he argued , such publicly supported work projects draw needed workers away from industries which produce consumable goods . He pointed to the rising scale : 4 billions in 1931 , 4/ in 1934 , 6/ billions in 1936 . He cited another illustration : in 1928 , when France was prosperous , she spent 74 millions on rural roads ; in 1938 , after seven years of depression , this item had risen to 279 millions . Likewise , in 1928 , 80 millions were spent for schoolhouses ; in 1938 , 544 millions . He cited the various forms of government aid for agriculture and industry which had been adopted . He was not unsympathetic ; he frankly admitted that ' the reasons given for each one of these projects are quite respectable when considered by themselves . . . . But it is the entirety of these interests when taken together which is contrary to the public interest , because it is fatal for the finances of the nation . ' So out they went . Another phase of fiscal difficulties was the increase in the number @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out , the government had created 240,000 jobs . To cope with this situation , another decree law provided that no new officials would be recruited for the time being ; a special committee was created to see where jobs vacated by retiring officials might be eliminated altogether . This technique has , as a matter of fact , been pursued in Switzerland with a considerable measure of success . The new committee was significantly called the Axe Committee : it was to slash where possible . Of course , it is clear that an expanding government service can not avoid putting on more men to do the work , but there existed a widespread feeling in France that many more men had been put on than were necessary . Much more difficult than the fiscal was the economic problem . The economic weakness had four major aspects , all of which were , in Paul Reynaud 's view , traceable to dubious interferences on the part of the government which should be rectified . This is not , of course , a difficulty peculiar to France . All reasonable persons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interference is well-nigh inescapable where frictions develop in the economy . But our insight into social processes is so limited that we often find upon making an experiment that the secondary and tertiary effects of a measure calculated to correct a certain evil bring in their train greater evils than the one originally causing the disturbance . Lazy and reactionary minds draw from this experience the conclusion that it is best to let well enough alone and do nothing , but the good sense of most men urges them on to new and more elaborate experiments . The factor making for greatest weakness in the economy was , in Paul Reynaud 's view , the forty-hour week . The reason he so definitely rejected the forty-hour week was that it increased the cost of production throughout the economy . It also tended to introduce rigidities into the labor market , so that men would stay in a relatively less important industry rather than move where they were most needed . In his speeds before the Senate , Reynaud specially referred to the fact that the railroads had absorbed 70,000 agricultural workers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ did not at first make any frontal attack upon the forty-hour principle ? in fact , he insisted repeatedly that the principle stood entirely unaltered . He attacked two features , however , which he called ' vices of application . ' One was the practical impossibility of securing men to do overtime , even where it was urgently required in bottleneck industries ; the other was the fact that ' in the majority of cases it was not a question of forty hours of work , but of forty hours of presence . ' He cited an establishment under the Ministry of Finance where the actual work hours had fallen to thirty-two . The problem of overtime was very serious ; it clearly had to be adjusted to the changing demands in industry . For instance , there was a shortage of labor in airplane factories , yet the thirty-five- hour week was sufficient to keep the railroads in operation . In order to cope with these difficulties , it was provided that men should work six days instead of five , and should work overtime without undue increase in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decree laws were clearly directed against labor and against the trade-unions that had secured the forty-hour week . The unions sought to coerce the government into abandoning these plans by declaring a general strike . We all know today that this strike failed miserably . Why , then , was it declared ? Did the trade-union leaders not know their own men ? The prevailing opinion of well-informed men seems to be that the trade-union command , Jouhaux and his associates of the powerful C. G. T. ( Confederation Generale de Travail ) , as well as the Socialist leaders , knew very well that it could not succeed , but unfortunately the trade-union secretaries throughout the length and breadth of the land did not realize the position they were in . They did not see why they should back down , instead of fighting such ruthless action against their most cherished achievements . It must also be remembered that the Communist-Marxist elements are a powerful group in the French trade-union movement , and they perceived here a golden opportunity for embarrassing the more conservative elements within the unions , first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and afterwards by attributing their failure to weakness and indecision . Hence there has recently been a marked increase in Communist strength throughout the industries in the ' free sector ' of production . But Paul Reynaud did not propose to be daunted by such considerations ; for him it was decided that France could not be put on a war footing with the forty-hour week , and that settled it . The second great weakness of the French economy was the marked lack of capital and a corresponding rise in interest rates . This capital shortage , in the opinion of Reynaud and his advisers , was due to the flight of capital as well as to the government 's own capital requirements . Like a sponge , the government absorbed all available resources , and thus retarded the starting of new enterprises , as well as the modernization of old ones . In order to open up private credit and break this vicious circle , the government simply made a declaration in which it promised to float no more loans for six months . Some taxes were also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the abandoning of public works . The third troublesome aspect was the continuous rise in prices . This Reynaud believed to be due to increases in the cost of production , plus such special factors as the agricultural price-fixing arrange-merits . On the monetary side , it was reflected in the continuous printing of new money to cover the government 's deficits . In order to loosen up this price structure , control of wholesale prices was given up , and only that of retail prices retained . The idea was to benefit production , and allow producers the margin of profit . To the outsider , it is not very clear how appreciable advantages can be derived for any length of time from such a paradoxical arrangement , but then it was readily admitted by those concerned that very large unsolved difficulties were looming in this field of governmental planning . Though it was generally acknowledged that the rigidities in the labor market were probably the most serious obstacle to the smooth running of the entire industrial machine , no very drastic steps were taken immediately to cope with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which is common to all highly industrialized countries . The so-celled bottlenecks of industrial production are looming large in Germany , England , even the United States , and professional economists everywhere are coming to insist that you may have large unemployment along with a serious shortage of skilled labor ? indeed , para doxieally enough , the labor shortage may to a considerable extent be responsible for unemployment . The failure of one highly specialized factory manufacturing a particular gadget may hold up a great deal of industrial production which depends directly or indirectly upon that particular gadget . All that the November decrees did was to charge the Axe Committee with studying these bottlenecks and devising plans for a more effective distribution of labor . Iv What lies happened to France as a consequence of these decrees ? An answer to this vital question is not easy to give , particularly since opinion in France is sharply divided . Leftist papers and magazines have been exceedingly critical , and have insisted right along that the Reynaud decrees are a pseudo-Fascist plan for benefiting the rich at the expense of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ increased work as part of a general indictment . The actual evidence is somewhat contradictory . Workers in the armament industry and its auxiliaries are much better paid than , say , textile workers . But they also have to work harder . Reynaud and his aides seem to be well pleased with the result of their measures . On the sixth of March , Reynaud drew a balance sheet of the first four months of his Three-Year Plan in a speech which was broadcast throughout the land . Proudly he contrasted the effect of his decrees with the effect of Poinear6 's twelve years earlier . He had brought about a decline in the interest rates , which his great predecessor had failed to do . At the same time , savings-bank deposits had increased over 3 billions , as contrasted with 200 millions . He noted an ever-increasing return of gold ? in fact , he could point with pride to the fact that France , of all continental countries , was the only one gaining additional gold reserves . In keeping with this general picture he noted a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expressed in markedly lower interest rates . To show how speculation had been reduced , Reynaud gave the example of three brothers : one had bought pounds sterling in November , and had lost 275 francs and interest on 20,000 francs ; another had put Isis 20,000 francs into a savings bank and had earned 200 francs interest ; the third had put his confidence in the French Government and bought treasury notes , and this patriot had gained 4000 francs in addition to his 300 francs interest . I for one fail to see how this shows the end of speculation , though I can see how it does prove that the French Government 's credit has risen sharply . I fear that those who point with indignation to the large profits made on the stock exchange , particularly in stocks of the armament industry , have a good deal to support their position . It is another question whether such gains can , at the present time , be considered a very valid argument against the policy of Reynaud . The increase in production and the relative decline in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ efficacy of his measures . He did not dwell upon the fact that in some industries men must now work up to 55 and even 60 hours . No sooner had Paul Reynaud drawn his rather encouraging balance sheet than Hitler administered another crushing blow to France and Britain by seizing Prague . Feeling apparently unprepared , the Daladier government neither declared war nor resigned . Instead , it asked on March 10 for another plein poucoir . Parliament readily granted the new powers , because it felt utterly unable to cope with the tasks of further retrenchment in social reform , further armament , and war preparation . But , whatever Hitler may have gained in destroying Czechoslovakia , he certainly galvanized France and her government into making more comprehensive efforts . Thus the second step of Paul Reynaud 's plan ' was reached on April 21 , when a new batch of decree laws carried further the ideas initiated in November . It was now admittedly a matter of putting the French economy upon a war footing . On the fiscal side , the drastic suppression of all public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the same time , ruthless reforms in local finance were instituted in some of the big cities , and the government and administration of Paris and Marseille were completely overhauled . Bucking even the pressure of the formidable farmers ' organizations , the government limited its price guaranty for grain to such amounts as were needed for domestic consumption . Anyone who knows French politics must appreciate the revolution this step involved . Another radical measure touching the tenure of civil servants was pushed through when it was provided that government employees could be transferred to private enterprise or retired , either on half salary or upon the payment of a capital sum amounting to ten times the annual salary . Provision was made for coercing industries to take on such officials where the government considered it desirable . Finally , a heavy sales tax of one per cent on all sales was adopted to pay for the additional armaments . This tax , I was told , is expected to yield six billions . No wonder bankers like M. Istel are suggesting that France is deflating , in spite of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ important , it is amusing to learn of a rather ingenious device for tracking down income-tax evasions : a fixed scale of probable income has been established , according to which certain external signs , like the number of servants , automobiles , and the size of the home , are indicative of a certain amount of income , and if the declaration is less than that an explanation is required . More power to the miser ! Altogether , it is clear that M. Reynaud is not afraid of drastic steps involving a more radical departure from nineteenth-century individualism than the Socialists ever dared propose . It shows that the integrated totalitarian war machine in Germany is forcing France ( as well as England ) into adopting certain similar methods . In the economic sphere , the ideas of the November decrees have likewise been enlarged and expanded . The forty-hour principle was openly discarded in the April decrees , and the forty-five-hour principle substituted for it . What is perhaps even more important , workers are obliged to do overtime at a rate only 5 per cent higher than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 8 hours at 8 francs an hour , and hence receiving 64 francs for his ordinary workday , would , if asked to do two hours ' overtime , receive an additional 16.80 a day . And he is more or less obliged to work overtime if asked . The April decrees further provided that there should be no increases in wages , owing to rising prices , if the wages received for forty-five hours of work were sufficient to buy what the wages for forty bought before . Still , retail prices in Paris had not risen more than 1.76 per cent between November and March . In those industries where the armament boom has had no appreciable effect ? like textiles , for instance ? the workers continue to be badly off . This , I was told on excellent authority , is the main reason for the spread of Communism in the so-called free sector of the economy . But the workers are not alone in feeling the rigor of the war economy in the making . A rather drastic measure was introduced to compel management to collaborate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Labor was given power to forbid an industry in a given department ( administrative district ) or field to hire additional labor without consulting the Minister . This big stick , called the droit de priorit6 , has so far been used , however , only as a threat to manipulate the distribution of labor . It is clear that the weak spot in this picture is the price system . Reynaud and his aides seem confident that they will be able to deal effectively with this difficulty . But in view of the insuperable difficulties which have been encountered elsewhere , even in totalitarian regimes , it is well to await developments . Paul Reynaud is confident of his strength . Smilingly he told me that he had , of course , been warned time and again , by friends and enemies alike , that where Bluzn , Flandin , and Marchandeau had failed , he would fail too . But , ho added , ' I shall not fail . ' Reynaud 's confidence in his program is a very important help in making it a success . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Finance , France had been paralyzed by fear and disillusionment . Why , then , is he not Prime Minister ? The answer can be found only in political and personal terms . As pointed out before , he is not a good politician in the ordinary sense . His support in the Chamber of Deputies is not nearly so great as that of the regular Radical Socialist Daladier . It is the emergency in which France finds herself that is giving Reynaud his chance . Without it the politicians would probably not bother with so inconvenient a man . In the Republic of Good Fellows ( Comrades ) which de Jouvenel has so sardonically described , he is an outsider . But this does not mean that Paul Reynaud suffers from false modesty . Like any man with the will to do things , he has what the French call the taste for power . I doubt whether there is any love lost between Reynaud and Daladier or Sarraut . And as for Bonnet , I feel certain that Reynaud holds him in contempt for his weak-kneed foreign policy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made it a condition of his staying with Daladier that Bonnet should go . But Daladier seems inexplicably attached to this dubious compromiser . Reynaud 's weakness in the Chamber of Deputies is enhanced by his electoral difficulties . Holding the seat for the very centre of Paris , the first arrondissement , which stretches behind the I'alais Royal , lie almost lost the last election by his uncompromising stand in favor of devaluation . I talked with quite a few of the small shopkeepers in the district ; his electoral support seemed greater than at the time of the last election . But , since the government has decreed the continued existence of the present parliament , it does not immediately matter . Should wo be justified in concluding that France , governed by the constitutional dictatorship of the DaladierReynaud Cabinet , is resembling the German Republic in the days of Dr. Heinrich Briining ? The analogy is tempting and often made . But there are several profound differences , apart from France 's much longer tradition of effective self-government . First , and perhaps most important , there is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over the government . There is no Treaty of Versailles to rail against . There is no president , supported by an army , who at bottom is hostile to the republican regime and under the influence of a clique of reactionaries seeking to hamper the actual government . And it is fortunate that a simple government decree can postpone elections rather than have them multiplied . All these considerations , and many less important ones , suggest that no rash analogies should be drawn between the two situations . Probably the most decisive difference , however , is the great Jacobin tradition in France which merges progressive and conservative forces in time of national peril . As Paul Reynaud said , at the time of the general strike , Personne en France n ' a de droit contra In Nation . ' Reynaud , the ardent nationalist , has never wavered in his patriotic fervor . Ever since Hitler came into power , Reynaud has felt that France must arm . He expressed himself as strongly in favor of France 's mobilization when Hitler went into the Rhineland . During the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decisive measures ? close the frontier , persuade the U. S. S. R. not to send oil or gasoline . At the same time , he showed his superior statesmanship by urging France to back the League of Nations to the limit as long as the League was a functioning tool of international order . What I have been trying to show is the powerful impact of the personality of one man , Paul Reynaud , upon the revival of France . I hope to have made it clear that he stepped into the breach at a moment when all seemed lost , and , whether we like it or not , we must acknowledge that developments thus far have justified him in proudly asserting : The facts testify without a possible doubt that the road taken since November is a good one . These facts demand that we persevere with courage upon the path we have chosen , though unquestionably it is a hard one . It will lead us to a good issue if we pursue it with tenacity . It is today not only a question of bringing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and a supreme one at that , of putting the country into shape for resisting victoriously any external attempt at violence and hegemony . These remarks concluded the balance sheet presented to the country at the end of the first period of the new policy , in April . They apply with even greater force today . Paul Reynaud may not be too democratic a democrat . But in times of storm the sails have to be trimmed . The French Minister of Finance today has no illusions on that score : It is a question of knowing what power of discipline , of energy , and of efficiency a threatened democracy is able to muster without ceasing to remain a democracy .... This is the meaning of our enterprise . If , through misfortune , we fail in it , all the defenders of democracy , without regard to party , are the losers .                     