@@488062

THE SIMPSON REPORT and the British government 's declaration of policy on Palestine , issued at London on October 20 , were received with a storm of criticism in Jewish circles . Sir John Simpson reported that the arable land available was strictly limited , that the Arabs have not been receiving sufficient consideration in its allocation , and that Jewish immigration should be better regulated and in some categories entirely stopped until the landless Arabs are better provided for . Lord Passfield , speaking for the British government , in the statement of policy emphasizes British responsibility under the mandate for fair and considerate treatment of Moslems as well as Jews , takes a firm position in favor of the restriction of Jewish immigration , flatly approving the suspension of last May , and states the purpose of the mandatory power to set up a new form of government consisting of a high commissioner and a legislative council , twelve of whose members are to be elected . Finally he declares that the government will carry out its policy firmly , irrespective of " any pressure of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ denounces the declaration of policy as " a repudiation of the solemn pledge given by the British government to the Jewish people , a violation and breach of the mandate . " Dr. Chaim Weizmann is also resigning in protest against the British policy as president of the Jewish Agency for Palestine and head of the Zionist World Organization . A T LAST THE PRESIDENT has taken official cognizance of the unemployment crisis . During a year of profound depression and deepening distress the chief contribution of the Administration , in addition to a series of widely advertised conferences last fall , has been to issue a number of fatuous announcements of prosperity tomorrow . The President now appoints a committee consisting of six Cabinet officers and the governor of the Federal Reserve Board to formulate " plans continuing and strengthening the organization of federal activities for employment during the winter . " We are grateful for this acknowledgment of the seriousness of the situation . That aside , it is hard , in view of past performance , to hope for much more from the Administration than a further development @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unemployment thus far . There is the same talk of devising plans , as though unemployment had just come upon us suddenly , the same talk of collecting data , the same talk of cooperation with this , that , and the other group . Never was there greater opportunity for a President to rouse public attention to the social menace of unemployment and to initiate those great measures of industrial planning and unemployment insurance that are essential to prevent the recurrence of present conditions . John D. Hunter , superintendent of the United Charities of Chicago , declares : " We are face to face with the worst winter the United Charities has known since 1866 . " Despite the President 's failure to lead , State and city governments , employers large and small , and charitable organizations are all bestirring themselves , both in direct relief undertakings and in efforts to enlarge the volume of employment . It is impossible to prosecute immediate measures with too great zeal , but we can not afford to let slip the present opportunity to make better provision against the future . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ never ' entered his head , when he indited his message of greeting and felicitation to American Lutherans , a propos of the four hundredth anniversary of the first reading of the Augsburg Confession , that what he wrote would be ' interpreted as an affront to Roman Catholics , and it was rather silly of the Reverend John J. Burke , general secretary of the National Catholic Welfare Conference , to rush forward with a denunciation of the message as " an insult to many millions of American citizens . " Mr. Hoover belongs to a sect noted for its tolerance , and the last thing he would think of doing is to insult anybody about religion or anything else . Nevertheless , he ought to remember that whatever a President says is certain to be carefully scanned , and if he must say something from time to time about history , economics , or other subjects with which he manifestly is not familiar , his words should be scrutinized by some friendly but competent person before they are made public . Assuredly there must be someone in his battalion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ making so bad a break as that of identifying Luther with " the principle of separation of church and state . " One way out of the difficulty would be to have a secretary sign the                     