@@486418

EUROPEAN REACTION to the stand Congress has taken on the question of revising the war debts should serve as a warning to Washington . Editorial comment in the press of Berlin , Paris , and London has lately been increasingly bitter toward us . Moreover , Berlin observers report that Adolf Hitler , who has promised outright repudiation of reparations , has been considerably strengthened by the adamant attitude of Congress . Chancellor Briining may fall unless he can soon counter Hitler 's promise with a definite guaranty of relief from Germany 's creditors . But France is hardly likely to extend such relief unless assured in advance that the United States will not insist upon full payment of the war debts . From London has come the suggestion that England and France take joint action on this question without regard to our position . Following up this semi-official suggestion , Wickham Steed proposed that England and France upon their own initiative proclaim a two-year extension of the Hoover moratorium . He described his proposal as " one sure way of bringing home to the American people a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nations . " If the Steed proposal were carried through , we should not only collect no debts what-ever during the two-year period , but we should be in a weak position in any future negotiations looking toward an adjustment of the debt problem . Europe may yet be swept by revolution , as some people believe , as a result of our callous and unintelligent attitude , but even if we escape the consequences of such disturbances , we shall very probably suffer in other ways from growing European hostility . THE TESTIMONY of Mr. Lamont and Mr. Mitchell before the Senate Finance Committee covered a good deal of ground , and it will be difficult to draw conclusions from some aspects of it until more testimony from other bankers is in . Mr. Lamont 's remarks were reassuring in tone . He pointed out that in no case up to date has there been any default in the service on any private German governmental debt , including all the municipal issues , and he asserted his confidence that none of these issues would be repudiated . Mr , Mitchell @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this attitude toward private credits , expressed the correct opinion that the generation which has grown up since the war was becoming increasingly resentful of paying reparations , and would eventually revolt against them if they were continued . On the whole , the answers by both bankers were much more intelligent than most of the questions addressed to them . ' Some of the Senators on the committee seem to be trying to prove both that the international bankers favor the cancelation of war debts solely because they want to make their own private foreign bonds more secure , and that they have already sold all these private foreign bonds to unwary investors ! THE WORST MAN President Hoover could possibly have chosen from the Senate , Swanson of Virginia , he has picked for one of the places on the Commission to the Disarmament Conference . It begins to look as if Mr. Hoover were deliberately trying to sabotage the conference by appointing men who have neither the ability nor the desire to make it a success . Senator Swanson is an imperialist and a big-navy man . Henry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ambassador at Mexico , nearly precipitated a bad break between that country and the United States ; he is at best a routinized , big-business diplomat . Hugh Wilson , if clever , is also a typical career diplomat of limited vision . It only remains now for Mr. Hoover to appoint a man like James J. Davis of Pennsylvania to represent the Republican members of the Senate , and the mischief will be complete . The only hope left is that Mr. Stimson will head the delegation . He really desires disarmament . There is not the slightest sign that the others do . As for putting a woman on , or a marl who is really passionate for disarmament or who is identified with the peace cause  --  such as Alanson B. Houghton or Nicholas Murray Butler  --  why , Mr. Hoover wo n't think of such a thing . Unless all signs fail , he has insured from the start that ours will be a reactionary delegation without the possibility of leadership . And yet , as President Butler has said , the Geneva conference may settle the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Colorado has introduced a bill in the Senate appropriating $125,000,000 for the fiscal year which ends June 30 next , and $250,000,000 for the following twelve months , for the benefit of the unemployed , and creating a Federal Board of Unemployment Relief , comprising the heads of the Children 's Bureau , the Director of Extension Work in the Department of Agriculture , and the Chief of the Vocational Rehabilitation Service , the . Children 's Bureau of the Department of Labor to be charged with the administration of the act . Forty per cent of the amounts appropriated are to be divided at once among the several States according to the proportion of their population ; the rest , after deductions for the expenses of administration  --  which should be very light  --  is to be held in reserve for emergency allotments . These are to be made whenever it appears that " the combined moneys available from local and State funds within the State , supplemented by the moneys apportioned to the State ? ? . will fall below the estimated need for emergency relief . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ every effort has been made by local authorities to meet the emergency without calling for aid . The original payments are not to be in excess of two-thirds of the amount available within a State by local and State agencies or private gifts . It strikes us that Senator Costigan 's bill is sane and well drafted and that it offers an excellent method- of beginning federal aid . - THE JAPANESE , having induced the League of Na- tions and our State Department not to interfere with their aggressive operations , are now making ready to " consolidate " their position in Manchuria . We are told in dispatches from Tokio that this task will probably be undertaken in the middle of January . First , these dispatches say , the " bandits " and Chinese " irregulars " must be driven from the Chinchow area . In other words , the Manchurian war is to go on until the military conquest is completed and the last vestige of Chang Hsueh-liang 's influence eradicated . The State Department is said to have protested against the renewal of the Japanese military @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ department 's action are being withheld from the public . According to the United Press , General Jiro Minami , the former Minister of War , has been appointed governor general of Manchuria , although the correspondent of the New York Herald Tribune more cautiously quotes the Japanese press as saying he has been sent to Mukden to " prepare for the establishment of a government-general in Manchuria . " Perhaps both of these statements are incorrect , or in any case premature . More certain is it that the Japanese have picked their own man , Tsang Shih-yi , to be Chinese governor of the territory for the time being . They kept Tsang an involuntary guest for three months before " appointing " him . In his first interview with foreign correspondents he was surrounded by Japanese " advisers . " It is fairly safe to presume that Tsang , unlike Chang Hsuehliang , will take care to do Tokio 's bidding . CHIANG KAI-SHEK , the militarist who was to regenerate China in the name of Sun Yat-sen , has fallen . The manner of his falling was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consequences . Marshal Chiang rose to prominence and power with the repeated victories of the Nationalist armies which swept northward from Cantonin 1926 . The ground had previously been prepared for them by the teaching of Dr. Sun and the clever agitation and propaganda work of Michael Borodin , the Russian . But no sooner had Chiang established himself at Nanking than the reaction against the nationalism of Sun Yat-sen and the communism of Borodin began . The Kuomintang under Chiang immediately set about the task of purging itself of its radical elements , the purging consisting partly of driving Mrs. Sun , Eugene Chen , and other radical leaders out of the party , and partly of wholesale beheadings of Chinese peasants and " bandits " suspected of Communist sympathies . Nevertheless , radical propaganda continued to make deep inroads among the common people , especially among the students . Three years of unceasing student agitation against Chiang Kai-shek has now finally driven him from power . This is the first instance in the recent history of China of a war lord being overthrown not by another war lord , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ holds vast significance ; it may mark the end of militarist government in China . T HAS BEEN OBVIOUS since the " standstill " agree- ' ment was arrived at by Germany 's " short-term " private creditors that , barring a radical change for the better , these creditors could not hope to have their claims paid as a group except over a long period of years . The problem has been that of either putting all these claims on an equal basis or separating them into a few clear-cut categories and assuring an orderly liquidation . Recent reports indicate that this will be done by the formation of a trust company to take over the separate claims and exchange for them its own 5 per cent bonds . These bonds are then to run for a maximum of ten years and are presumably to be retired serially at the rate of 10 per cent of the total amount each year . At the moment this appears to be the most reasonable way of dealing with the problem . The suggestion has been thrown out that the bonds are to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of issue , " which would seem to imply the hope that they could be rediscounted by the Federal Reserve banks . Such a proposal should not , of course , be given the slightest consideration , even if the bonds of the proposed trust company were much sounder than they seem likely to be . The Federal Reserve system must not under any circumstances be made the dumping ground for long-term securities or frozen credits . The bonds of such a trust company would , however , have a general market  --  something which the individual claims do not have . But no plan for liquidating the short-term credits , no matter how ingenious technically , can hope to succeed or to prevent leaks unless steps are taken to restore genuine confidence in Germany 's financial soundness . , AST SUMMER the representatives of twenty-eight na- tions at Geneva approved a new convention designed to control the international traffic in habit-forming drugs . The plan contained in this agreement , while by no means perfect , was rightly acclaimed by the State Department as " the most advanced step yet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " The convention is to take effect when ratified by four drug-manufacturing nations and twenty-one non-manufacturing nations . Unhappily , not one government has to date ratified the agreement . For some peculiar reason , and notwithstanding the State Department 's enthusiasm for the convention , President Hoover not only failed to ask the Senate to ratify it , but neglected even to mention it in any of his messages to Congress . In The Nation of July 29 we pointed out that the weakness of the new plan lay in its failure to control or regulate the production of raw materials . We expressed the belief that , inasmuch as Turkey is the largest producer of raw narcotics for the illicit drug trade , the announced intention of Turkey to accept the new convention , and also to sign the 1912 Hague treaty and the 1925 Geneva convention , would go far toward remedying the weakness of the 1931 agreement . But Turkey has not yet acted . Early ratification of the agreement by the United States would unquestionably encourage other countries , including Turkey , to take similar action @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ force by recent information regarding the death of Juliette Derricotte in a Southern Negro hospital last November . Miss Derricotte was a credit both to her race and to the Y. W. C. A. , of whose national board she was a member . On November 6 she and a companion were injured in an automobile accident at Dalton , Georgia . Her friend , Miss Johnson , would certainly have died from injuries ; but the death of Miss Derricotte , according to recent investigations by Walter White for the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People , was not inevitable . Mr. White declares that the color line barred Miss Derricotte from the local hospital ; that she lay for six hours in a private house to which sick colored people are " referred , " and then , though in great pain , was carried fifty miles to Chattanooga ; and that the colored hospital at Chattanooga lacked ordinary X-ray equipment . " The real kindness of the white doctors in Dalton , in whose offices the colored women received treatment , " says Mr. White , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is directly responsible for 11/Iiss Derricotte 's death . " The fact that the victim of caste in the present instance was a person of culture and prominence vividly illuminates the handicaps under which thousands of Negroes , more obscure , are compelled to suffer without the public ever hearing of them . DURING THE HOLIDAY SEASON it is proper to give a thought to employees of the Post Office Department . Weary postmen with bulging sacks over their shoulders can be seen delivering Christmas and New Year 's mail at any hour of the day . But in the branch post offices there are clerks who do not appear on the streets and are no less to be relieved if possible . Several of them have written letters to The Nation describing their plight . Significantly enough , each begs that his name not be used or refrains from giving it : " I 'd lose my job if it were found out that I am telling you this . " Briefly the subcarriers complain that they receive no salary but are paid by the hour for work done and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ average earnings per subcarrier per day in one representative station amounted to $2.35 ; that hours are from 6 a. m. till frequently 7 p. m. or sometimes later ; that uniforms are furnished by the employees themselves . Recommendations recently issued by First Assistant Postmaster General Coleman prove that such conditions are not imaginary . The deficit in the department , he declared , makes economy imperative ; no increased pay rolls , as a result , nonew help , no vacancies to be filled unless the most urgent need can be shown , every possible employee who can be spared now is to be " dispensed with . " " Regular clerks and carriers should appreciate the effort of the department to protect them in their positions and they must cooperate in maintaining the services under present conditions , even though they are required to accept less desirable assignments . " This is the government 's answer to the unemployment crisis . How fortunate that we have rugged individualism to console the Post Office employees in their working and non-working hours ! BERTRAND RUSSELL , who took ship lately @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States . Americans are too hospitable , he declares ; they feted him to death and , he undoubtedly might have added , urged on him too constantly indifferent liquor and dull sociability . If we have sent away forever a good friend , a sound scholar , a first-rate conversationalist we have only ourselves to blame . The way of Americans with foreign , and particularly British , visitors of almost any degree of excellence is past understanding . Most of the visitors , it is true , come frankly to make money ; they find , often enough , that they can sell for a good price their second-rate wares to uncritical women 's clubs and " literary " societies ; in the process they are " entertained " to the point of exhaustion by persons in search of a lion . This is highly demoralizing to the foreign visitors and to the Americans who welcome them . The latter are treated to inferior wares and made to like them ; the former yield to the temptation of palming off their thinnest ideas an undiscriminating audiences , with sometimes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In the case specifically of Lord Russell , he has added nothing to his eminence as a philosopher and mathematician by lectures on current morality and the future of sex . We trust he will not - keep his promise never to come back to the United States , but that when he does come , it will be to eschew the swing around the lecture circle . w E ARE SOMEWHAT SURPRISED but very much gratified to learn that Thomas Stearns Eliot has been appointed to fill the Charles Eliot Norton Professorship of Poetry at Harvard during , the academic year of 1932-33 . Cynics may remark that Mr. Eliot possesses a rare combination of qualities in that he is at once an Eliot , a Harvard graduate , and , by choice , a British subject . They may add that this combination is exactly the one which would appeal to certain prejudices rooted in the academic mind . But the fact remains that he is a man of extraordinary talents and that he is , despite his present conservatism , not quite the type which usually receives official recognition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ become a defender of a highly intellectual kind of authoritarianism in politics and religion as well as in literature , but he has achieved a solid fame without ever saying or writing anything which seems likely to be popular . He is the most conspicuous survivor rainong the group of young men who set out some ten or fifteen years ago to remake the literary tradition , and he has gradually become the most generally accepted leader of what he would certainly refuse to call " the young intellectuals . " The appointment should be gratifying to him and will certainly contribute largely to the intellectual life of America .                     