@@494051

An English People 's Front ? ENGLISH LIBERALS AND SOCIALISTS are asking the 4 question whether the victory won at Bridg- water in a by-election by Mr. Vernon Bartlett heralds a new epoch in the politics of this island . He stood as an independent progressive , had the support of the local Liberal and Labor Parties , was ignored by both the national machines , and none the less captured a safe Tory seat by a comfortable majority . Was it merely a personal triumph and a local phenomenon , or does it mean that events and the instinct of the masses will compel the reluctant parties of the Left to form the alliance that offers the only hope of victory ? Your correspondent hesitates to give rein to his own hopes , but the facts shall speak for themselves . Bridgwater is the last constituency from which one would expect a quick reaction to events , above all to external events . It is one of the greenest patches of England ; the rich soil of its plowed fields alternates with marsh and moorland . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Lake poets ; every village has its Tudor church , and for the rest ? what is there ? I remember a big brewery and a pottery that still does good traditional work , a Quaker settlement with a textile factory and that is all that distantly approaches modernity . An ancient memory of former Whig ascendancy and Nonconformity still lingered when I knew it twenty years ago , but its politics for half a century have been steadily Tory . Yet without the aid of any party machine this typical rural constituency broke with its Tory past . If one could be sure that this , given a Liberal-Labor alliance , might happen anywhere , one might face the future with hope . But candor compels me to report that two far from typical factors played their part in this election . Even these rural voters were horrified by the news of the German pogroms . Under the influence ofthis fresh impression , a majority of them cast their ballots against Mr. Chamberlain 's policy of fraternization with this barbarian power . But would they do this a month @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is not sure . Again , Mr. Vernon Bartlett was an exceptionally able and popular candidate , for a big proportion of the electors already knew him as broadcaster and journalist , and respected both his ability and his independence . He faced a rather immature and commonplace opponent . In estimating the significance of this election one has to remember that the previous essay at Oxford was only mildly encouraging . There a strong candidate , Mr. Lindsay , the Master of Balliol , who came very late into the field as an independent progressive ( after the Peace of Munich but before the Nazi pogroms ) reduced the Tory majority by half , but failed to win the seat . The factor of time may be significant . Oxford polled under the first impression of relief , because war had been averted ; Bridgwater had seen something of the consequences of the Anglo-French capitulation . My own impression is that the instinct of the masses is sound , but that it can achieve little without bold leadership and effective organization . The Liberals are now ready to welcome an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tories , for the alternative that faces them is gradual extinction . This is the attitude both of their leaders and of their rank and file . The Labor Party presents a more complicated spPoaele . Though a few of its leaders are known to favor the idea of a People 's Front , its governing bodies as a whole seem immovable , incapable alike of a generous gesture or of a shrewd calculation . But under this inertia the rank and file grows visibly impatient . Spontaneously at Oxford and Bridgwater the local parties , each well aware that they had no chance of victory without Liberal aid , broke all the party 's rules and contracted an alliance , while " Transport House " ( to give the Party 's headquarters its usual name ) frowned in silence . Even more significant was the behavior of a brilliantly successful unofficial conference attended by t2.0 constituency Labor parties which met in London on October 23 . It was a rebel gathering , called primarily to devise help for Spain , because the official Party had this year refused to summon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chairman and recall now with some amusement our fears that few would dare to attend it and our caution in drafting resolutions . By a large majority it insisted on passing an emphatic declaration which called on the Labor Party to take the lead in forming an alliance of all the democratic forces . The case for this alliance will be readily understood . It is Mr. Chamberlain 's policy to bring the two Western democracies into a four-power concert with the two powers of the Axis . Russia will be driven into the isolation of her steppes , and Spain handed over to Italian domination . With France encircled and the whole of Central Europe within the orbit of the German Reich , it is dear that the two democracies would have to accommodate themselves to the will of the stronger military combination within this concert . No effective resistance will be possible in the future , if Spain is sacrificed and Russia finally alienated . This issue dwarfs every other , an irresistible case for the creation of a united opposition . No sober student of politics would argue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the next general election . It has no magnetic leader . Its general staff inspires neither interest nor confidence . Finally , it makes no progress in winning rural seats ; yet without some of these it can never achieve even a bare majority . Why , then , does it refuse to consider an alliance with the Liberals , who hold some rural seats and might with the aid of Labor capture more ? They still have a vigorous press and retain even in urban constituencies an appreciable , if dwindling , following . They command a capable team of officers , whose moral qualities stand unusually high , since this party has been purged of its self-seekers by many successive splits . The jealousy that is a common failing of politicians may account in part for the dislike with which the Labor leaders view any suggestion of an alliance . In this case it is reinforced by class antagonism . Moreover , Labor believes that if it waits a few years the Liberals will disappear and it will be left as the sole party of Opposition . Why , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? That consideration weighs most heavily with the right wing . The Left tends , on the whole , to favor an alliance both with the Liberals and the Communists , whose energy and devotion far exceed their negligible numerical strength . But part of the Left sincerely and all the Right with less single . ness of mind raises another objection ; this alliance with a middle-class party would indefinitely postpone any hope even of a gradualist advance to socialism . This argument would be formidable only if Labor had a hope of attaining power at an early date . But the assumption that the Liberals would veto every advance in a socialist direction is , I am sure , mistaken . If that is so , the moderate instalment they accepted would then be defended against the Lords and the powers of finance by a more formidable army than Labor alone could muster . The real objection to this alliance is something subtler than any of these reasons : Labor in its upper ranks shudders at the prospect of victory . Certainly it would entail in the present state @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ influential Labor leader said the other day that he opposed every suggestion of an alliance , because he was convinced that on the very day a People 's Front ministry was formed , Hitler would bomb London . The same timidity prevails in France . M. Leon Blum said last week that no Jew and no Socialist ought to accept the premiership if it were offered him , since by so doing he would expose his country to Germany 's enmity . This may seem an exaggeration , but did not Hitler warn Englishmen against permitting Mr. Churchill , Mr. Eden or Mr. Duff Cooper to hold ministerial office ? The plain fact is that the independence of the Western powers is in danger , so long as they stand isolated in a position of military inferiority . The first condition of independence is the free exercise of a nation 's right to choose its governors . Alike in England and in France , the fear that this brutal power inspires has for a moment edipsed many minds the will to use this right . While the official Labor Party hesitates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what is widely interpreted as a bid for the leadership of a progressive coalition . His is an attractive personality . He won general respect by his resignation on the Italian question . Little is known of his views on social questions , though the warm if vague phraseology of these speeches suggests that he regards himself as a Tory Democrat friendly to social reform . Few perceive in him as yet the strength and dynamic purpose required for an adventure of this kind . The Tory rebels in the House , who number from forty to fifty men , are cautious in the extreme , and few of them in any of the many crucial debates of recent weeks have dared to defy party discipline by voting against the government . They fail , moreover , into two groups . A few are progressives as advanced as any Liberal . But the majority are diehard imperialists of the school that followed Mr. Churchill in opposing a very moderate measure of self-government for India . To split is against every Tory tradition : this tendency has always been a Liberal habit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ grow silently behind the scenes , with Lord Baldwin 's support , until Mr. Chamberlain finds his ascendancy undermined . Then , without a struggle or a secession , Mr. Eden might glide into the leader 's chair . But such an event is still a long way off . Mr. Chamberlain is the tougher personality of these two , and he has formidable forces on his side . The first of them is the dread of war , which some can rationalize in the noblest moral terms , while others are content to shiver without disguises . That any evil is preferable to war was for a brief moment after the Munich meeting the feeling of a majority ( though not a large majority ) of this nation . This sentiment is the more easily entertained when the evil in question falls on others . Second , one has to reckon with Mr. John Bull , who boasts that he knows nothing about Czechs and cares less . Spaniards are even further outside his range of vision . Finally , behind Mr. Chamberlain there are small but powerful financial groups @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Spain and Central Europe , when the Fascist powers have completed their military operations . This anticipation of profitable business lessens the temperate disapproval which these persons might normally feel towards fascism . Finally , resistance would have entailed an alliance with the Soviet Union , which John Bull and the City would both view with extreme repugnance . Against this school of thought which finds Mr. Chamberlain a reliable , if not a brilliant leader , stand the Tory aristocrats , for whom the day of rebellion is always tomorrow . They do not share the sympathy of the Left for the Spaniards and Czechs . But rather tardily they have seen the peril to the British Empire , if all its strategical outworks are surrendered . The empire is their prime concern , but they inherit the instinctive power of judgment which tells them that the empire can be defended only by an active manipulation of the European balance of power . With the Liberals and even with Labor 's right wing these Tory aristocrats could combine , but for Labor 's left wing they are impossible allies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for a People 's Front . Your correspondent inclines to the belief that before this year ends some steps towards a united Opposition may be taken , but he dare not risk a detailed forecast . 