@@487885

THE boycott against the Nazis which has grown spontaneously in many parts of the world attracted unprecedented public notice in New York City recently when R. H. Macy and Company , the city 's largest department store , decided to state its position in a full-page adliertisement published on October 2 in the New York daily press . This advertisement was apparently the result of many criticisms of Macy 's policy of buying in Nazi Germany , and of the consequent withdrawal of patronage by customers . The episode takes on its special interest because of the rejection by the leading New York morning papers of an advertisement offered in answer by Samuel Untermyer , as president of the American League for the Defense of Jewish Rights , to statements contained in Macy 's advertisement . The background of this situation may be briefly summarized as follows . Since the establishment of the Nazi regime last spring and the publication of its acts and policies , many customers of Macy 's have written fetters protesting against the store 's buying goods in Germany . These protesters received letters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a letter written by a customer on July 30 objecting to Macy 's advertising of German cheeses , and protesting against Macy and Company 's buying of goods in Germany , Percy S. Straus , president of R. H. Macy and Company , wrote as follows : I have your letter of July 30 in which you protest against our advertising German cheeses . I think you are right . We should not advertise them . As to whether or not we should carry German merchandise , that is a different matter , which has been discussed at a meeting of the chief executives of this corporation . It was the unanimous expression that individually all of us , both Jew and Gentile , were sympathetic to showing our disgust of the Hitlerite attitude toward the Jews , but as trustees for the stockholders and employees of Macy 's , we could not permit our emotions to control our actions . Were we without responsibility in the matter , our first reaction would be to stop buying German goods , but facing our responsibility , we have so far deferred taking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from all foreign countries approximate about 5 per cent of our business , and Germany 's share of this has grown steadily less as the effect of such censorship as yours is making itself felt . All our German goods are clearly marked with the country of origin . Therefore you yourself can exercise your own censorship in this store . On October 2 , in the full-page advertisement entitled " Three Personal Letters Concerning the Sale of German Goods by Department Stores in the United States , " Mr. Straus , quoting a letter he had written on September 15 to an unnamed customer , wrote : Dear Mr. ? : I have your letter of September 13 and am glad you have written me so frankly . In view of your desire not to purchase German goods , I feel that I should explain to you as explicitly as I can exactly what our policy is , and am confident that when you understand it fully , you will realize that our sentiments are no different from your own . I have no desire to conceal the fact that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ small quantity of goods of German manufacture . However , our purchasesin Germany have rapidly diminished and are now being confined to that type of merchandise which we can not obtain elsewhere , particularly such things as china and glassware , in which we have open-stock patterns , which we are obligated to maintain for hundreds of customers who need replacements . Ninety-five per cent of all our sales are of American-made goods . Our total importations from all foreign countries approximate only about 5 per cent of our business . All German goods which we sell are clearly marked with the name of the country of origin , and no one need buy German goods . We do not press them for sale or advertise them . This had been our policy up to the moment . I may tell you that it has been the policy , according to my information , of all the other important New York stores . See ( 4 ) below . We know of no important store which has entirely discarded the sale of German goods . The subject of our handling German @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ultimate policy will be determined by considerations which will in our judgment contribute practically toward accomplishing results which we desire to see realized as much as you do . As a loyal Jew , it is hardly necessary for me to tell you that personally I bitterly resent the treatment of the Jews in Germany , just as you do and just as should any American , be he Jew or Gentile . We are , however , deeply concerned with helping the position of the Jews in Germany , with whom we have the greatest sympathy . In so far as we are now making any purchases in Germany , we have instructed our buyers to purchase goods , when available , only from Jewish manufacturers , many of whom we are advised are still permitted to function in Germany . If we boycott such firms their plight will be harder than it is now . The question of general policy in this matter is a very large and serious one , involving many considerations and obligations . My emotions as a Jew are exactly the same as your own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of all our responsibilities to allow our emotions to govern actions which may have far-reaching results , possibly against Jews themselves , without the most careful investigation and deliberate reflection . We trust that you will realize , therefore , that at heart we have the same purposes which you have , namely , in the interests of humanity to do what we can to help the plight of the Jews in Germany . In our efforts to contribute effectively toward accomplishing that result we can not allow ourselves to be led into impetuous actions simply because our emotions are stirred with a sense of outrage . We realize that hundreds of thousands of Jews still remain in Germany . My own influence will be exerted toward making the present unbearable lot of these Jews more presently tolerable , and to support influences which will restore to unoffending Jews in Germany the exercise of all the rights to which as human beings they are entitled . Signed PeRCY S , STRAUS , president In reply , Samuel Untermyer composed an advertisemententitled " An Open Letter in Reply to the Advertisement of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Percy S. Straus , Esq. , president , R. H. Macy and Company , and offered it to the morning papers for insertion on October 3 . The Times , the Herald Tribune , and the American refused to print it . Reasons given to The Nation for their refusal vary . The Nation deems the matter of such public interest that it here gives space to Mr. Untermyer 's suppressed advertisement . AN OPEN LETTER in Reply to the Advertisement of R. H. Macy and Company Entitled " Three Personal Letters " Concerning the Continued Sale by Them of German Goods PERCY S. STRAUS , ESQ. , PRESIDENT , R. H. MACY AND COMPANY : If you had been as frank Iwith your anonymous customer as might have been expected , his answer would doubtless have been very different . If , for instance , you had , as you should have , told him : 1 . That you had no right to speak for the " department stores in the United States " and that all of them ( including non-Jewish stores ) , unlike your company , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ goods made in Germany . Some of them , including non-Jewish-owned stores , have discontinued the practice or are about to do so ; 2 . That unlike your company , they no longer continue to maintain agencies in Germany for the purchase of goods there ; 3 . That unlike your company , they have not recently bought " blocked marks " in Germany at a heavy discount , which your company is said to have used in making purchases in Germany ; 4 . That the decision of the New York department stores to which you refer , against refusing further to handle goods made in Germany , is said to have been influenced largely by your leadership as the most important store in the group , supported by another Jewish-managed store in New York City ; that so long as you persisted in continuing to buy German goods you would haVe maintained an unfair advantage over them if they had failed to follow your lead ; that they preferred not to subject themselves to such unequal competition from your com- . Pally ; 5 . That you are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sympathies as to Judaism , to which you so feelingly refer , since you must know that among the signatures of the department stores to your published announcement are those of non-Jewish stores that have ceased to buy goods made in Germany ; 6 . That Jewish manufacturers are no longer permitted to function in Germany , except very recently and in rare instances , and only under the most stringent Hitler ? control and conservators who have supplanted and superseded the Jewish owners , and that these few concerns have been forced to discharge all Jewish employees ; 7 . That there has long existed the most rigid boycott by the German people of the identical concerns from which you say you continue to make part of your purchases , solely because of their- Jewish ownership ; 8 . That Germany has no monopoly in the manufacture or sale of gloves , textiles , chinaware , or any of the articles you continue to buy there . Apparently it is only a question of price , and as the other department stores in New Yolk would doubtless gladly follow your @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and dealt elsewhere , you would be under no disadvantage in doing so ; 9 . That the " dangerous precedent " of the boycott , to which you so feelingly refer , is in no respect dangerous nor is it a " precedent " in that it is a purely defensive counter-boycott against a vastly more impressive and all-embracing boycott that is being enforced against all Jews in Germany . It follows the precedent that was set by Germany when it brutally inaugurated and actively continued to prosecute the boycott of Jewish manufacturers and shopkeepers and professional men by the entire German nation for the avowed purpose of destroying their means of livelihood and of ruining and exterminating the German sews ; 10 . That your statement that " all German-made goods we sell are clearly marked with the name of the country of origin " can be , and I supposed it had been , overwhelmingly disproved to your satisfaction . I do not by this mean to imply that you have knowingly been a party to the continuous violations and evasions of law that have been and are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some of which have been , as you are well aware , called to the attention of the federal authorities . Although this incredible " crime of the centuries " is aimed at every loyal unoffending Jewish citizen solely because he or one of his grandparents happened to be a Jew , this is not , as you seem to assume , a Jewish question . It far transcends in principle and importance all limitations of race and creed . It is the struggle of civilization and humanity against a reversion to the bigotry , fanaticism , and barbarism of medieval times . Germany 's crime against all womanhood regardless of creeds in ousting women from all business occupations and condemning them to the fate of breeders of children and household drudges is enlisting , as it is bound to enlist , the outraged protest of men and women the world over , as is its suppression of voluntary organized labor and its rigid exclusion of all Jews from labor unions . With a gagged press and with freedom of speech made a crime punishable by death , this is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reach into Germany . When the world refuses to deal with Germany , when its factories are closed and its workmen unemployed , its people may awaken to the enormity of the crime its government is perpetrating against civilization . That is the only effective weapon against it and the only language it can be made to understand . No self-respecting man or woman of any race or creed will , in my judgment , buy German-made goods or patronize a store where they are sold . It may seem to you ungrateful that your fellow-citizens do not appreciate your self-denial in lending the patronage of your company to the defeat of the boycott , by buying goods in Germany and thus prolonging the misery of German Jews and adding to the prosperity of that benighted country whose persecutions of your fellow-Jews you denounce in such eloquent terms , whilst at the same time you continue to maintain your agencies in Germany and to buy German goods . In that connection they are curious to know the amounts of such purchases within the last ninety days and what proportion , if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whom they are told that few , if any , are still in existence and that those have been forced virtually to abdicate their control . This movement has as yet barely begun in this country . It is much further advanced in foreign countries throughout the world . A campaign for funds , strictly confined to the prosecution of the boycott , will be launched throughout the country by the undersigned organizations . It has no connection whatever with appeals of any other organizations for funds to support other movements . The proceeds will be used strictly for boycott activities . WORLD Jawisa ECONOMIC FEDERATION and its American branch AMERICAN LEAGUE FOR THE DEFENSE OF JEWISH RIGHTS by SAMUEL UNTERMYER , president Letters were interchanged between Mr. Straus and Mr. Untermyer in which each stated his position without any meeting of minds . These letters add nothing essential to the published material . In fairness to R. H. Macy and Company , The Nation deemed it proper to learn at first hand its position . This position may be summarized as follows : Percy S. Straus , president of R. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no newspaper to suppress Mr. Untermyer 's " open letter . " Mr. Straus saw a proof of the advertisement for the first time the day after the morning papers had declined it . Mr. Straus states that with respect to many of the points referred to in Mr. Untermyer 's " open letter , " Mr. Untermyer is misinformed . As to Macy 's itself , Mr. Straus emphasizes that his store is following exactly the same policy as that adopted by all the other important stores in New York . That policy was determined upon following the recommendations of a committee of store managers , upon which committee Macy 's was not represented . Macy 's had previously indicated its willingness to follow the action of a majority . It has been represented to Macy 's by those promoting a German boycott that it would be good business for Macy 's to lead such a boycott . Macy 's took the position that it never had attempted to capitalize public calamity for profit , and would not do so now . Mr. Straus considers it important to draw a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , for any reason which appeals to him , to buy goods , and that , on the other hand , of a large mercantile establishment which undertakes to cater to the demands of all its customers in refusing to sell goods which its customers want . Macy 's has followed the policy of the other New York stores in declining to establish an absolute boycott . Macy 's reasons are twofold : First : Public Policy . Action on the part of a large business house which tends to accentuate racial cleavage in the United States is un-American . The policy of a mercantile establishment ought not to be directed to inculcating or to opposing the views of anyone on the ground of race , creed , or politics . Second. - Mercantile Policy . It is the obligation of a department store to furnish to customers the goods which they have been accustomed to find on its counters and which the customers desire to find there . Macy 's is , accordingly , buying in Germany only such goods as may be demanded by its customers which can not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ either advertised or pressed for sale . Mr. Straus states that there is steady diminution of the demand for German goods at Macy 's store , and , accordingly , that the amount purchased by Macy 's in Germany is constantly dwindling . Macy 's on its own account has also initiated a policy of stimulating the manufacture in the United States and other countries of certain qualities of goods which for the present are made satisfactorily only in Germany . This procedure is under way , but necessarily the results of it can not be realized immediately . Macy 's present purchases of German goods constitute but a small fraction of 1 per cent of its total purchases . If present tendencies continue , the small supply of German goods which Macy 's offers will in the course of another year dwindle to almost nothing .                     