@@487352

F OR years the scramble of the powers for possession of the world 's oil reserves has been recognized as a probable factor in the next world war . With the exception of the United States and the Soviet Union , none of the leading countries have anything like an adequate supply of petroleum within their own boundaries . Great Britain has overcome its natural deficiency by its control of rich fields in Iraq , Persia , the East Indies , and Mexico , but the other great industrial nations , notably Germany , France , and Italy , are almost completely dependent on imports . That this inequitable distribution of one of the world 's most necessary raw materials should be a cause of international friction and animosity was only to be expected . That it might become one of the primary factors in establishing an effective system of international organization was foreseen by no one . Yet it can scarcely be denied that the subject of oil has become the pivot around which all hope of building a system of collective security turns . The sanctions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only be fully effective after a considerable period of time . Meanwhile , Mussolini has virtually a free hand to push his campaign in Ethiopia . Should he conquer a large portion of the country before the next rainy season sets in , the chances are that he will be able to obtain even more favorable peace terms than are now offered him by Laval and Hoare . Japan 's occupation of Manchuria has shown how difficult it is to exercise effective pressure against an aggressor after it has obtained the fruits of aggression . If Italy is to be made to furnish an example of the unprofitableness of war in violation of international law , the existing sanctions must be materially strengthened . And no step is likely to bring Italy to its knees more quickly than the inclusion of oil among the commodities which are to be barred from the aggressor . Modern warfare simply can not be conducted without an ample supply of petroleum products . The Italian armies in the deserts of Ethiopia depend on motor transport for their food , water , and munitions . Tanks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A large number of Italy 's merchant and naval ships are oil burning . Italy itself produces no petroleum , and only a very restricted amount is obtained from Albania . For its remaining supplies it is wholly dependent on League powers and the United States . Rumania and the Soviet Union , two of its largest suppliers , have definitely declared themselves in favor of an embargo . Great Britain , controlling the Iraq fields , has also indicated that it will support such action at the meeting of the League Sanctions Committee on December 12 . The hesitancy with which the League has viewed a step which , if successful , should firmly establish the principle of collective security is attributable to two factors : ( 1 ) fear that Mussolini will be driven to war against the " sanctionist " powers ; and ( 2 ) anxiety lest the United States  --  the only non-League power in a position to export oil in large quantities  --  furnish Mussolini with the petroleum required to wage his illegal campaign . Both dangers are real ones . But it is difficult @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that he would embark on a hopeless war against England and Franceand the other League powers . Uncertainty regarding America 's policy has been more important as a restraining factor . The report that the Standard Oil Company had agreed to supply Italy 's war requirements in exchange for a thirty-year monopoly has dramatized a very real danger . We are not in a position to pass judgment on the accuracy of this report . As was shown in the celebrated Rickett case , the mere fact that certain Standard Oil officers have made a denial is not to be taken as conclusive . It so happens , for example , that on the same day that the Standard Oil Company of New Jersey was issuing its pious statement declaring that it had turned down Italian war orders , the Vacuum Oil Company , an affiliate of the Socony-Vacuum Oil Company , was reported to have completed arrangements for the construction of a modern oil refinery at Naples at a cost of six million dollars . But even accepting Standard 's protestations of innocence at their face value , the fact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do business with Italy until the government takes drastic steps to prevent such transactions . The President , Secretary Hull , and Secretary Ickes have each urged on several occasions that American firms dealing in " war materials " should refrain from trade with either Italy or Ethiopia . Nevertheless , American exports of crude oil to Italy rose over 400 per cent in October . The Administration 's position is seriously weakened by the fact that it has no authority to enforce its policy on American business interests which wish to trade with the belligerent countries . Uncertain of public support , it has weakly assumed that the " implements-of-war " clause in the neutrality resolution could not be stretched to include such essential raw materials as oil , scrap iron , and cotton . The only step which the government has taken thus far to enforce its policy has been that of exerting pressure on companies owing money to the Shipping Board not to deliver oil to Italy . This action has admittedly proved ineffective , largely because the Administration has no control over mortgagors who are in good @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in default , only two tanker companies are in arrears . These are the American Tankers Corporation and the National Motor-ship Corporation  --  the Sun Oil Company . Unless the Administration is willing to allow a handful of oil companies to obstruct the League in its determined effort to substitute law for anarchy , it must take action under the " implements-of-war " clause or seek immediate legislation empowering the President to restrict the sale of war materials to belligerents . To wait until the regular session of Congress would be fatal , not only because it would give Mussolini at least another month 's supply of oil , but because it would create vested interests in this country which would fight tooth and nail against any effort to curtail their profits . Three years ago the Administration found power to launch its recovery program by invoking emergency legislation passed during the World War . Today another emergency exists which may have an even greater effect on history than that of 1933 . The effort to create a world organization capable of enforcing peace may fail , but it must not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the burden . What Business Wants A GOOD case can be made for the thesis that the protection of private property in the Constitution provided , at the time it was written , adequate safeguards for the individual . The acquisition of property was open to all , and property once obtained was individually controlled . As long as a continent , fabulously rich in lands and resources , remained to be filled , the basic law protecting property protected in some measure the equality of individual opportunity . With the advance of the Industrial Revolution the nature of property changed . The corporation began to take the place of the person , the individual control over property began to decline , and an individualist civilization gave way to the capitalistic era . The basic law of the Constitution was stretched by the Supreme Court to protect the new kind of property . The due-process clause of the Constitution and states ' rights became the new charter of business . Even so , business , in demanding its complete independence , submitted itself to the stringent economic laws of laissez @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ free market , and on the whole it fostered competition . The frontier still was moving , and the individual still had the freedom of the beckoning West . Then came the turn of the century and the rapid emergence of finance capitalism . Corporation property ceased to be private in any sense of the owners ' personal control over it , and corporate interests began to coalesce , to the point that today 200 corporations control 60 per cent of the corporate wealth in the country . At the same time business undertook to evade the stern principles of laissez faire . It undermined competition by mergers and market agreements , it promoted the utterly uncapitalistic doctrine of price stability , and finally in the depression it refused to take its losses and insisted on being bailed out by government money . Hoover and Roosevelt spent billions to sustain property values , and both have preached the revolutionary doctrine of price stability . Thus property is no longer individual , and its possession no longer expresses accurately what Madison would recognize as the unequal faculties in man . It has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and it raises a problem not dreamed of by the writers of the Constitution or by the Supreme Court in the latter part of the last century . The chief political struggle in the country is to gain public control over this new type of property through the government , since it no longer can be controlled individually . Business now invokes for finance property the freedom guaranteed to individual property by the Constitution and to the property of competing corporations by the Supreme Court in the days of laissez faire . The National Association of Manufacturers at its annual meeting knew this to be the issue , but hid it behind this language : " Whether collectivism or a dictatorship shall succeed our representative constitutional democracy . " Even in this language the issue is clear . The government , which in the new era must bail out business , make it safe , and stabilize the national economy , is not to control what it finances . For our " representative constitutional democracy " was notable as a hands-off-property regime from the start . The platform for American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any possibility of misunderstanding . Fiveof the seven planks say " hands off " in five different modulations : plank two ? " the limitation of government power over business " ; plank three ? " divorce of politics from bank or credit regulation " ; plank four ? " curtailment of expenditure to the proper and , necessary functions of government " ; plank five ? " prevention of destructive taxation " ; plank six ? " maintenance of constitutional guaranty . " Of the remaining planks one is for the return to the gold standard and another for " greater freedom of enterprise , " whatever that may mean . The N. A. M. resolved to work for the repeal of unemployment insurance and uniform old-age pensions as being " of a depressional character " and impracticable . In another resolution it attacked the government for " setting labor against industry . " So bold a claim for the right to rule without check could not be made in a fascist state , and it can be made in America only so long as the Supreme Court feels it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ property . The pretense of the N. A. M. that the constitutional safeguards for property were designed for , or must be applied to , the interlocked corporate holdings which are typical of today 's finance seems to us an unpardonable affront to American traditions . Commenting on the seven-plank platform , Lammot du Pont declared : " We can truthfully state that by following these principles our country can make way for reemployment and prosperity . " The seven principles we note were all loyally observed during the Harding-Coolidge-Hoover era . They produced the depression . Yet they remain all that these business men know or feel they need to know of a social order . The Law and the Alien HEN Congress meets early in January , one of the first things on the agenda will be consideration of anti-alien legislation in various forms . A number of bills were introduced at the last session with nothing to recommend them but the intemperate " patriotism " of persons who believe that an alien , per se , is an undesirable character and ought to go back where he came @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ perhaps in the country as a whole has been for strengthening rather than tempering our already stringent anti-alien laws ; year by year interpretation of immigration legislation , fortified by court decision , has moved in the direction of less discretion on the part of the Department of Labor , charged with the enforcement of the statute , until in most respects the procedure is entirely mandatory and the immigration authorities have no choice but to deport aliens who fall into certain classes . In an attempt somewhat to modify this harsh and shortsighted procedure , the Department of Labor is sponsoring the Kerr bill , which endows the Immigration Bureau with discretion in certain cases . The bill is designed to alleviate , in the cases of aliens of good moral character , the severity and injustice which have operated to separate wives from husbands , parents from children , and in too many cases to disregard the common usages of humanity . Aliens who originally entered the country without inspection but who are no longer subject to deportation may in certain cases be permitted to regularize their residence and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ temporarily , are subsequently entitled to permanent residence may at the discretion of the department be permitted to remain without the inconvenience of first having to leave the country . In cases of illegal entry , where the procedure has been to detain aliens for indeterminate periods at the pleasure of the local or federal authorities , arrest is regularized , and an alien can not be held for more than twenty-four hours without a warrant . Criminal aliens under the Kerr bill would be subjected to harsher treatment than is now accorded them ; provision is made for the deportation of any alien convicted of possessing or carrying any concealed or dangerous weapon  --  with the amendment that he must have been convicted of a crime . It will be seen that the proposed bill does go a certain way toward the modification of laws which have too often seemed inexplicably harsh . It is concerned mainly with the vast majority of deportation cases  --  those , for example , in which an alien has entered the country unlawfully or has a criminal record . It does not touch in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interest to persons who like to think of America as an asylum for political refugees or a place where speech and thought are not subject to prohibitory legislation . During the Years 1925 to 1935 , 218 persons were deported who were classed as " dangerous radicals " ? in contrast , of course , to the many thousands who fell into other classifications . In 1932 there were fifty-one such deportees ; in 1933 , seventy-four ; in 1934 , twenty ; and so far in 1935 there have been seventeen . Although in numbers these cases are insignificant , in principle they are the most important . None of the legislation so far proposed would give the Immigration Bureau discretion in cases of this sort ; under the present law membership in the Communist Party is mandatory ground for deportation . For an alien to ally himself with any group suspected of Communist affiliations  --  from the Unemployed Councils to the Federal Council of Churches , which " The Red Network " classes as dangerous  --  is a risky business if he happens to live in a community suffering @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any other challenge to the status quo . Jittery local officials do not like aliens who make a disturbance . They do not like citizens ditto , but citizens are harder to deal with . The alien needs special protection if he is to enjoy the citizen 's share of traditional American rights . It is fitting , therefore , to credit the Department of Labor with its sponsorship of the Kerr bill and to urge that the bill itself be passed as speedily as possible . It is equally fitting to suggest additional legislation , or a modification of existing legislation , which would permit departmental discretion in cases of political deportees . There have been an uncomfortable number of deportation cases in which cause and effect have too neatly operated : the cause being some sort of championship of simple rights , like the right to eat , or work , or picket , or organize in a labor union , and the effect the shipping off of an alien to the country of his origin , where he would be unwelcome , or strange , or even in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ask that a Department of Labor , trying to bring a little humanity into the immigration laws against the hostility of an anti-alien Congress , should propose such legislation . But the pressure of public opinion should be exerted on the Congress itself , in an attempt to secure the same legal rights for aliens that are now granted to citizens . Broadway Is Prosperous F aVER since the moving picture established itself as the most popular form of mass entertainment , the theatrical business has been part of the luxury trade . Certain special audiences have been built up by one or two insurgent groups , but " Broadway " depends almost exclusively upon those who can afford high-priced tickets . Nevertheless , Broadway is booming again , and its prosperity doubtless indicates a return either of better times or , at least , of confidence " in the higher brackets . " No business suffered more in the early days of the depression . Overbuilding , even for boom days , got those producers who were interested in real estate hopelessly involved , and when the Shuberts went into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ come . At the same time audiences dwindled , production fell off , and there was one year during which gloomy wiseacres prophesied the end of New York as a great theatrical center . Today , however , it is deliriously prosperous . That does not mean , of course , that the death-rate is not high . Even in the palmiest days something like 80 per cent of all productions lost money . But that is taken for granted ; it is hits that count , and at the moment there are fifteen current plays established in the money-making class . " Jumbo " tops the list with takings of about $69,000 for the last week in November . As usual , other musical shows , including " Porgy and Bess , " achieved the highest gross receipts , but there are eleven highly prosperous plays , among which " Pride and Prejudice " takes the lead . As Variety , from which these statistics are taken , points out , last year produced only thirteen hits , or two less than have appeared during the first third of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the successes are by no means to be found only among the lighter or more obviously " popular " offerings . Several , like " First Lady " and " Boy Meets Girl , " are more or less frivolous and merely colloquial comedies , but others , like " Pride and Prejudice , " " Winterset , " and the two holdovers , " The Children 's Hour " and " Tobacco Road , " are not what is ordinarily called sure-fire theater . Neither , for that matter , is " The Taming of the Shrew . " Another interesting phenomenon is the growing extent to which the moving-picture companies are helping to finance plays which they hope may later prove suitable for screening . A great deal has been said about the possible bad effect upon the stage of Hollywood subsidies , and offhand the danger would seem to be great . Undoubtedly the moving-picture industry has done the theater a great deal of harm by luring many of its most promising actors away and also by employing too much of the energy of outstanding playwrights . There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the stage might become a mere " feeder " to the movies . And yet it must be admitted that so far the record is less than conclusive , largely , no doubt , because the movie magnates still seem to be in a state where they do not know exactly what they want . Warner Brothers has an interest in " Boy Meets Girl , " which has obvious picture possibilities , but the MetroGoldwyn-Mayer company is interested in " First Lady , " " Pride and Prejudice , " and " Winterset . " All three are plays which the stage is lucky to get .                     