@@486404

NOW THAT CONGRESS is in session again , persons who either will not or can not understand the deep realities of American politics are once more proposing a Congressional armistice on controversial economic questions for the duration of the depression . This seems to us a dangerous proposal . It is not because we want to see Congressional action blocked by unnecessary political bickering , but because we believe that an effective " adjournment of politics " would simply mean that Congress would be swallowing whole , and without adequate consideration , whatever program for economic relief the Administration might hand it . Moreover , we find it difficult to believe that a Congressional armistice could be made effective . With their chances of success in the 1932 elections so brilliant , it is hardly likely that the Democrats would join with the Republicans in any legislation that might bring more credit to the Administration than to themselves . No , we expect to see the Democrats play a passive , non-cooperative game , fearing to take positive action of any sort lest it lead them into error @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ We have much more hope for the Progressives . The tactical position of this group is greatly improved compared with what it was last winter . Moreover , the Progressives are more determined than ever to put through their own pro-gram . That they have the strength of their own resolution , if not sufficient voting strength , was shown by their defiance of the absurd attempt of the regular Republican organization to coerce them into supporting George Moses of New Hampshire as presiding officer of the Senate by threatening to deprive them of their committee chairmanships . I T IS GOOD NEWS that there is to be a vote on pro- hibition in the House in the coming session of Congress , and that an effort will be made to give the Senate a similar opportunity to vote during the coming winter . More than that , Senator Bingham of Connecticut is proposing both a popular referendum on prohibition and also to introduce an amendment to the Constitution for the repeal of the Eighteenth Amendment . Our readers are aware of our opinion of Senator Bingham ; we fear that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as we have been of the belief for a long time past that the people ought to be allowed to vote on this great question , we can not but hail a move to secure that vote from whatever source it may come . Exactly how a popular referendum may be secured we do not know , nor do the dispatches tell us what Mr. Bingham has in mind . But we are very sure that there will be no real difficulty in the way of devising a procedure if the leaders put their minds to the task ; it did not take Congress very long to find a way of registering all Americans between the ages of twenty-one and thirty-one after we went into the World War . There is no greater need today than to provide a means for the direct expression of a popular will . TN February will be convened the general disarma- ment conference for which the world has been waiting these last twelve years . Upon its outcome largely depends the question of peace or war in the immediate future . Success is by no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there are brought together at Geneva some of the world 's wisest statesmen and ablest citizens . We had thought that the Hoover Administration was aware of the tremendous importance of the approaching discussions . It was reported that Dwight Morrow had been asked to head the American delegation , and we had hoped , when his untimely death removed Mr. Morrow from consideration , that some man of like caliber would be chosen in his place . But apparently this is not to be . It is already fairly certain that the delegation will include Ambassador Gibson and other men who have represented us at the preliminary conferences in such a way as to arouse grave doubt of their sincerity as proponents of disarmament . The chairman , it is reported , will be Henry P. Fletcher , former chairman of the Tariff Commission . We do not know just what qualifications Mr. Fletcher has that fit him for this fateful mission . The admirals and generals will be at Geneva , too , not as delegates , but under the euphemistic title of " technical experts . " In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shall find a group of mediocre Americans making a hopeless mess of this disarmament conference which means so much to the future happiness of the world .                     