@@487329

THE PURCHASE of the historic New York Evening Post by J. David Stern came just in the nick of time to preserve the oldest daily newspaper in the metropolis . Otherwise it was to have been purchased and scrapped by its immediate rivals . Mr. Stern thus adds to his two dailies in Camden , New Jersey , and his Philadelphia Record what was once the most distinguished daily in the United States . We rejoice that this newspaper , of which The Nation was a part from 1881 to 1918 , has again come into liberal hands after the dark and degrading days of the Cyrus H. K. Curtis ownership . Although we regret his championship of currency inflation , Mr. Stern is a genuine liberal  --  and a staunch supporter of the New Deal . If we mistake not , his Philadelphia Record has been one of the few dailies , if not the only one , to increase its business during the depression . More than that , to its superb fight against the N ; are machine may be attributed in considerable degree the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thought remotely possible . His success in Philadelphia has been all the more remarkable because of the bitter war upon him by allhis contemporaries . He has his work cut out for him to make the Evening Post pay , but we have full faith that he will succeed if anyone can . No one in our press has fought better for social justice and true American ideals . C OME MONTHS AGO it was announced that Presi0 dent Roosevelt had set up an Executive Council to guide the various sections of the national-recovery machine and more especially to coordinate their diverse and often conflicting activities . The council was composed of virtually all the Cabinet members and administrators in Washington . Frank C. Walker , treasurer of the Democratic National Committee , was appointed secretary of this new agency . Since the announcement little has been heard of the Executive Council , and if coordination of the recovery program was its chief duty , it appears to have been a failure . Mr. Roosevelt has now set up another body , to be called toe National Emergency Council , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and making more efficient and productive the emergency activities of the government , and for the purpose of assisting in carrying into effect the provisions of the various emergency acts . " Except for the change in names , there seems to be no substantial difference between the two councils ; they have practically the same membership and practically the same general duties to perform . President Roosevelt 's announcement held forth the promise , however , that other functions and duties would be given the Emergency Council , so that it is possible that something more than a mere substitution of titles is involved . T HE EXECUTIVE ORDER establishing the Emergency Council also provided for the immediate abolition of the numerous volunteer agencies over the country which were charged with the task of enforcing the recovery laws . These agencies have for the most part been irresponsible bodies with no standing in law . Not only will the Roosevelt order make for more efficient administration of the recovery program , but it will place responsibility where it belongs , that is , upon the Administration in Washington and its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ find local business men who violate the NRA codes sitting upon the very boards whose duty it is to enforce compliance . A second section of the order , one providing for the opening of a publicity bureau in every county in the country , has less to recommend it . There has been no real complaint as to the quantity and availability of information regarding the progress of the New Deal . On the , other hand , there has been considerable complaint as to the quality of the information . As an example we need cite only the obviously inflated claims of the Public Works Administration that 3,000,000 men have been put back to work with the help of public-works money . If the President does not trust the press of the country or the 400 trained reporters in Washington , he and his associates are always free to present their facts directly over the radio . This plan to cipen several thousand publicity offices smacks too much of propaganda and ballyhoo to be accepted unquestioningly . THE Fascist Grand Council , speaking for Mussolini , is demanding that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time if Italy is to remain a member . The Grand Council would have the political welfare of Europe placed in the safekeeping of the larger Powers ? Italy , England , Germany , France , and probably also Russia . It would also strip the smaller Powers of whatever influence they have in the League . As we pointed out a few weeks ago , the substitution of a block of major Powers for the League in the negotiation of a new European settlement would be tantamount to setting up England and Italy as arbiters of the Franco-German problem . Such arbitration would inevitably favor Germany as against France , for if it were to accomplish anything at all it would have to bring about a change in the status set up by the Treaty of Versailles , and any such change would be looked upon with horror by the French . Moreover , the French have wielded such wide influence in the League , and indeed have managed to use the League as the chief bulwark of their foreign policy , primarily because they have had the support of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now calmly suggests that this support be taken from them . The Italian dictator is , of course , interested not in the League but in improving the international position of Italy . Under the present alignment Italy is merely another Power , and not a very influential one at that . Under the Mussolini plan it would share with England the-responsibility and the glory  --  if any  --  of guiding the destinies of Europe . UNFORTUNATELY for the Fascist dictator , the Eng- lish are not very enthusiastic over his scheme . Though there is evidence that Sir John Simon toyed with the idea of a four-Power arrangement to supersede the League some months before Mussolini proposed the Four-Power Pact last spring , Sir John and Ramsay MacDonald are at the moment reluctant to press the matter . They fear that the French , who would suffer most under the Fascist scheme , might choose to fight rather than allow their Continental system to be broken up . There is no certainty that this would happen , but the risk is there and the English hesitate to take it . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not withdraw from the League before the end of two years in any case , there is plenty of time in which to study the Fascist proposal before arriving at a definite decision . Such caution may save the League , but it contributes nothing toward a solution of the problems that confront it . France and its satellites have not hesitated to show what they think of Mussolini 's latest move . However , it is not expected that France will reject the plan out of hand , for that might precipitate a crisis , and the French are sensible enough to know that a crisis at this time , with the English statesmen still undecided which way to jump , might prove disadvantageous to the French . And meanwhile , the disarmament problem is left in the lurch while the nations jockey for position , and the world , as Frank H. Simonds has said , definitely enters upon a new " pre-war era . " T HE FUKIEN REBELLION in South China is taking on more serious proportions than the Nanking Government at first anticipated . Chiang Kai-shek @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such supporters of the rebellion as Eugene Chen and General Tsai Ting-lcai . Chenis perhaps the only surviving leader of the great nationalist movement of 1926-27 who is still faithful to the original principles of that movement . General Tsai is the commanding officer of the Nineteenth Route Army , which won worldwide applause for its valiant stand against the Japanese at Shanghai . The Fukien rebels have apparently come to some sort of understanding with the Communists in Central China and also , which is more important , with the Cantonese . For the moment neither of these understandings takes the form of an open alliance ; rather they seem to amount to tentative agreements to remain at peace until Marshal Chiang Kai-shek shall be driven out . The Cantonese of today are more conservative than they were six or seven years ago . Yet they , no less than the Fukien rebels , are strongly opposed to the militarism and reactionary policies of Marshal Chiang and his associates in the dominant wing of the Kuomintang . If Chiang elects to stand his ground , forcing the Cantonese into the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ renascence of the nationalist uprising of 1926-27 , which was guided by Madam Sun Yat-sen , Sun Fo , Eugene Chen , and Michael Borodin , the Russian adviser , as well as Marshal Chiang , who was himself at that time a radical . Backed by this movement , Chiang and his Cantonese army swept up out of the south and overthrew the war lords of the Yangtze Valley and Peking . Now that the nationalist hero has himself turned war lord , he seems likely to encounter a similar fate , ANARCHIST UPRISINGS in Spain , following on the Sl heels of the elections and the meeting of the new Cortes , provided an abrupt and violent counterbalance to the victory of the right at the polls . The Cortes  --  the first to be elected according to the provisions of the two-year-old Republican constitution  --  met recently and elected as its Speaker Santiago Alba , politician of the old regime , who is said to have been blind to the republic 's light as late as last August . The crimson chamber where he presides holds 473 deputies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the right , while the Socialist-Republican groups which held the power in the last Cortes have only half as many . But this conservative victory does not mean , as so many people seem to think , that the monarchy is coming back , or that the Roman Catholic church has reestablished the hold it had before the coming of the republic . It is true that for the moment the Catholics and the temperamentally conservative  --  the monarchists , the landowners who saw their property threatened , the people who would not like what Socialists did even if they were proved . to be the finest governors on earth  --  have pulled themselves together and put blinders and a check rein on the revolution . But they have neither sapped its strength nor taken away from under its saddle blanket the burrs that made it jump . Agrarian troubles , absentee landlordism , maldistribution of wealth , church-state wranglings , illiteracy , regional separatism , were all so deeply imbedded that the best efforts of the first republican government succeeded only in picking at their surfaces . The ' rights @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in power . So far they have announced no program for dealing with any of them . This absence of a program is made more dangerous by the lack of agreement within their own ranks . Some of them are Monarchists , some Independent Rights , some Agrarians , some Traditionalists . There are at least five parties in the right coalition , any of which may split off at any time . The whole confused situation makes excellent fuel for the left extremists , and there is more than a possibility that the rights may find themselves forced to call on the only disciplined party in the country , the Socialists , to help them out of their chaos lest the Anarchists blow up the whole place . Whether or not the Socialists will be willing to be boy scouts in such a situation is another question . N TER HALF A YEAR of fourth-dimensional existence under well-paid Nazi officials , the German trade unions are to be definitely dissolved . The forty-six national unions will be merged into a single vertical industrial union in which all employers of labor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hold membership . " Beyond the customary reminders in shops and factories , " says the official announcement of Robert Ley , head of the National Labor Front , " no pressure will be exerted on any individual to join the union , although the attention of both workers and employers will be called to the advantages and disadvantages that may arise out of their attitude toward the National Labor Front . " Simultaneously the work camps of the voluntary and conscripted labor service will be placed under the control of the Labor Front , and only those who can prove that they have rendered voluntary labor service for the commonweal will receive employment in the future . To supply a keenly felt want for more uniforms in the Dritte Reich , the members of the Labor Front will wear plain blue uniforms to work as well as for social intercourse . " In the future , German labor , " so reads the announcement , " will wear the badge of respect and will proudly show the world that work in Germany is no disgrace , that it is an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Fatherland . " T HE TIME is evidently near at hand when the estimable members of Washington 's famous Gridiron Club will have to engage in deep thought about a matter of public policy . At the annual dinner held last Saturday night the President of the United States , as is customary , led the list of official guests , followed by every other ranking public official , including the members of the Cabinet  --  except one . This one , of course , was Frances Perkins , the Secretary of Labor . Secretary Perkins was not invited because she was a woman , and the rules of the club forbid the presence of women at this particular sacred gathering . There are two minor points which may be dismissed at once . First , Miss Perkins made no complaint but took her omission as a matter of course and with great good humor . Second , since she has been for a number of years an active politician , it is unlikely that the program of the Gridiron Club entertainment , hearty thOugh it might be , would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ although Miss Perkins is the first woman Cabinet officer , she will probably not be the last , unless the Gridiron Club elects to solve its difficulty by maintaining a lobby in Washington to keep women out of high public office . No , the problem is here to stay . Women will continue to get themselves appointed to important government posts . The last strongholds of the male are being invaded by them . The Gridiron Club might do very well to yield gracefully , invite Miss Perkins and a number of other important women next year , and save itself the embarrassment of having to change its rule when Mary Smith , or one of her sisters , shall close a long , honorable , and distinguished career in public life by being elected President of the United States . Another Repeal J AMES JOYCE 'S " Ulysses , " for eleven years the most famous of our bootleg classics , is legal at last  --  at least in so far as the government of these United States is concerned . Prohibition , to be sure , did not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as they were with cocktails , and copies of " Ulysses " carried on the hip gave young collegians a kind of prestige comparable to that achieved by a pocket flask . Perhaps , indeed , some of them scanned its difficult pages for the same reason that they scorched their tender palates with white mule , and we should not be surprised if a certain decline in reckless Ulysses reading took place among the young . In any event , however , Random House , its only licensed publisher , did not prepare for repeal with as much foresight as the distillers did , and the public will have to wait until sometime in January for its first legal copies . When the great day comes , we hope that it will be celebrated with as much restraint as was December 5 . All lovers of law and order , all upholders of true temperance , will pray that there be no orgies . Youth must show that it knows how to use its liberties , and it will be an ill augury if the streets are filled with young @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's meditation . Federal Judge Woolsey says that the court is bound to consider both the work as a whole and the intention of the author ; and perhaps more important , that one must consider only its effect upon a person " with average sex instincts . " Holding that " Ulysses " is a " sincere and honest book " not written with pornographic intent but constituting a " serious experiment " carried out with " astonishing success , " he cites the legal definition of " obscene " as " tending to stir the sex impulses , " and declares Joyce 's work innocent in this respect . Commenting further on the contention that sex plays a disproportionately large part in the thoughts of the characters , he adds a sly sentence which should go down in the annals of judicial humor : " It must be remembered that his locale was Celtic and his season spring . " We can not , however , help noting that we wish it had been possible  --  though we know it was not  --  to add a paragraph something like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to pretend that the real question at issue is whether or not ' Ulysses ' is likely to ' stir the sex impulses . ' At least half the recognized diversions of civilized mankind are intended to do that to a greater or less extent , and society recognizes the process as not only permissible but necessary to its welfare . Only hypocrisy could insist that the law makes any pretense of interfering with such diversions , for if it did , then it would be necessary not only to proceed against almost every love story , but to raid the very dances sponsored by the Young Women 's Christian Association . The real question is whether or not Joyce 's rare use of four Anglo-Saxon monosyllables constitutes a threat to society sufficiently great to engage the attention of the law . Since the prominence of these same four words in the epigraphy of the public-school outhouse makes them familiar to every literate person long before he is acquainted with the meaning of most of the other words in ' Ulysses , ' I hold that the police and the courts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                    