@@431082

 | An American Comes Home Condensed from Harper 's Magazine Ludwig Lewisohn Author of " Upstream , " " Expression in America , " Etc . The SUDDEN impoverishment of Americans living in Europe through the devaluation of the dollar made them feel a total discouragement about their country . In the days of favorable exchange even the bestmannered of them had been a little jaunty . Now they were humiliated . Added to this experience were harrowing tales from home , and no American of long foreign residence but feared the shock of his return . But one returning American , at least , found everything the contrary of what he had supposed . It is Europe that is frayed - shabby and down at the heels . Our streets of all kinds are , to the eye long accustomed to Europe at its best , clean and elegant . Burnished is the word that came to me again and again . The people are like their environment : the bestdressed , best-shod , the brightest of eye of any in the world , and women in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ touch of chic that is unthinkable in any other country . On the great thoroughfares of great cities there is a polish and an elasticity that you look for in vain on Bond Street or the Place Vendome . Considering that our economic structure is breached and gashed , this bladelike burnish of all the surfaces of life bespeaks of high moral qualities in our population . It is the common people of America who sustain our civilization , and I find these men and women to be less hardened , less cruel and rapacious , better-spirited , more conscious of freedom and more tolerant than the peoples of other Western lands . n broad levels of American life we have what is virtually a classless society . Thus the elderly maid-ofall-work who , in moments of the stress of settling , soothed both the mistress and the master of my modest home by calling them " dearie " and " child , " simply was without class consciousness in the European sense . I attribute such qualities to certain traditional virtues which have not wholly perished from the land . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1924 , but the America of my youth , a land frugal , democratic , determinedly hopeful even in adverse circumstances , an unpretentious land in which the processes of living are less difficult than in other lands . I find , indeed , that here and here alone  | there is order , liberty and peace . But this new America , while indulging in new childlike gayeties , such as radios in motor cars , is a more aware and more intellectually flexible America . At a meeting of women with toil-worn hands , clad in dowdy , provincial frocks - a meeting in a small New England town - one arose and made a declaration for herself and her sons repudiating the doctrine of " my country , right or wrong , " and was applauded warmly and without dissent . Where else in the world today could that have taken place ? Certainly not in any country of Continental Europe except Scandinavia . In Europe the physical facade of civilization is crumbling , dirt and disorder gain daily ground ; and bitterness , hatred and despair drive more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ action , threatening to topple civilization down the slope of war into an unspeakable abyss ! In America where , to be sure , want and suffering have been of briefer duration - yet sudden and cruel - the entire structure of civilization is as complete as ever and men and women support their difficulties with a kind of stringent cheer and unobtrusive gallantry . There is the precise kind of virtue in our people and our polity that makes for a humane civilization and it is the precise kind of virtue which the European nations are losing . In Europe the appeal is to force and fanaticism . Where reason and decency still prevail , men like Oswald Mosley , organizations like the Croix de Feu , batter incessantly at their gates . And who almost alone offers their like any effectual resistance ? The proponents of another brand of force and fanaticism . The Fascists expel or murder the fellow-citizens they do not like ; the Communists starve them into abjectness by allowing them only 60o grams a month of basic foodstuffs at prohibitive prices . Soon after landing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American liberals . The subject of their discussion was the New Deal , which they mercilessly riddled in all its aspects . I am too ignorant of economic technics to have countered their arguments , nor did I desire to do so . Doubtless a thousand errors have been made . But what , fresh from the imminent vision of barbarism , riots and the victims of unspeakable torture-chambers , of the press of three-quarters of a continent turned into the mouthpiece of some of the bloodiest tyrants in history - what struck me was that they seemed to entertain no suspicion of the fact that , whatever technical economic errors the present Administration  | may have committed , they are still living within a civilization where ( as this very assembly showed ) the rights of criticism , free discussion , attack on the government , democratic speech , and hence essentially democratic control , were still unquestioned . This was the first public assembly that I had attended in years where there were no uniformed policemen in the hall and for which no special permission had to be obtained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made him take a sadistic delight in bedeviling his betters . Have they , I asked myself , no notion of what is going on in the world ? Evidently not . The menace of both Fascism and Communism is not that they seek to control economic production and the distribution of material goods , but that they threaten the soul of man . The peculiar virtue of America in this age is that , in seeking to reconstruct the economic system , it chooses the via media of a humane civilization . Because manufacturers or farmers are put on quotas of production , because workers are assigned shorter hours and standardized wages , no one has dreamed of suggesting that these manufacturers , farmers or workers are any of them , on account of their status in the economic order , either devils or angels ( the exact equivalents of " bourgeois " and " proletarian " in the demonology of Communism ) or that the regulation of their economic activities has anything to do with their prayers , opinions , the way they order their lives or the education @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ virtue of the American system and tradition : it is able , if preserved , to introduce changes in the economic system and at the same time guard the civic liberties without which life is unendurable . And to this virtue I attribute the moral energy which keeps our people brave and comparatively serene in the midst of threatened disaster and frequent want . And so one American at least , returning to this humane civilization from a world full of spinning dervishes foaming at the mouth and offering to men a choice between their specific Koran and the sword , is glad to declare his reattachment to the American tradition and the American way of life .                     