@@487870

T UST before sitting down to write this summary of the J week 's news I read over the European dispatches of the last few days , the special articles in the Sunday newspapers , and the comments of several editors and columnists . No week since the period of pre-war crisis has produced a bigger crop of guesses and contradictory rumors along with some open confessions of total confusion . As far as straight news goes , the week 's record is easy to read . Several German air raids were made at the Firth of Forth and Scapa Flow . Only a handful of planes took part each time , and no large-scale damage was done , although four British ships were struck by bomb splinters and sixteen seamen were killed . Several German bombers were brought down . The western front came out of its state of suspended animation early in the week when the Germans recaptured most of the area taken by the French early in the war . The French troops fell back , and the High Command announced that it had previously @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ settle down to defensive action along a " prepared line . " After this brief interlude relative quiet again settled on the front . The impressive meeting of the Finnish President and the three Scandinavian Kings produced a new atmosphere of confidence in the Baltic . The conferees agreed only on a common program of neutrality , but Dr. Paasikivi has gone back to Moscow with considerable new The NATION backing in the form of Scandinavian solidarity and international good-will . The small army of Finland is mobilized , and various protective measures have been taken by Norway and Sweden , but the Finns expect to arrive at a compromise which will give the Russians some of the strategic advantages they want and yet preserve Finland 's independence and neutrality . But the most important happening of the week was the signing at Ankara of the British-French-Turkish pact of mutual assistance , which had been held up while the Turkish Foreign Minister stayed on in Moscow trying to find a basis for agreement with Russia . No official report of the Russian conversations was ever published , but it was understood @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which Russia might be involved , acceptance of Russian neutrality if Turkey should be attacked by an ally of Russia , Turkish efforts to persuade Rumania to cede Bessarabia to Russia and the Dobruja to Bulgaria , and the closing of the Dardanelles to belligerent warships . Turkey refused on the ground- that to accede to these demands would- have violated existing agreements ; actually they would have meant the end of Turkey 's control of the Dardanelles and its effective independence . Turkey then hastened to sign the agreement with Britain and France . Its chief provisions are : a pledge by the two Western powers to aid Turkey if it becomes a victim of aggression by a European power ; a pledge by all three that they will fight if any one of them is attacked in the Mediterranean ; a pledge by Turkey to help Britain and France if they get into war as a result of their guaranties to Greece or Rumania , and to maintain " at least benevolent neutrality " if any other aggression involves October 28 , 1939 them in war ; and a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war against the Soviet Union under any circumstances . There were other events : Russia announced that it was ready " in principle " to fulfil its promise to supply war materials to Hitler , and various German missions were in Moscow dickering over supplies and terms . Italy and Germany signed an understanding covering the transfer of Germans in South Tyrol to the Reich . Berlin dispatches offered these two agreements as evidence that Hitler could count on the support of his two partners . Peace talk went on sporadically , but no official move was made . So much for the news . But what does it all add up to ? Will Hitler try once more for the peace he so greatly . needs ? Or will he attempt an overwhelming air and submarine attack and/or a mass thrust on the western front ? And if he decides to strike , what will be the result ? If twelve planes over the Firth could damage se4 eral ships slightly , what would 500 planes accomplish ? Or is it possible that Hitler lacks the high-grade fuel needed for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ land offensive , will his troops plunge head-on against the Maginot Line or force their way through one of the neutral states ? Will he perhaps try to overwhelm Holland , using it as a handy air base for raids on England and forcing France , if it tries to halt him , to push through neutral Belgium ? Or will the Germans dig in on the west and wait for the spring , meanwhile launching an offensive or a diplomatic drive in the southeast ? And what about Russia ? Does Stalin intend to back Hitler or check him , to supply him actually or only " in principle " with oil and food and metals ? And how far does he plan to push his control in the Baltic7Did Stalin put forward the demands that ended his own negotiations with Turkey as a mere gesture to satisfy Hitler ? Or is the new pact a genuine defeat for Stalin ? And if it is ; will he take Bessarabia in spite of it , assuming that Turkey will not fight and that the French and British can not ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relations with Germany ? Such questions have been multiplied to a wearisome total and asked over and over in the press and on the air . Few detailed answers have been offered , although hardy prophets have ventured divergent guesses . Only one belief is shared by correspondents and radio commentators alike  --  a belief that the first phase of the war has ended and that new momentous events are in prospect . Most of them expect at least one more unsuccessful effort by Hitler for peace . on his own terms  --  and then a major attack ; they do n't believe internal conditions in Germany will permit him to accept a prolonged state of siege . Perhaps he does n't hope for peace , but since peace457 would give him victory without further struggle and since war offers only uncertainty in the field and possible collapse at home , a peace drive must be made . Already rumors of new moves for a settlement are whispered around the world , and most of them come by one route or another from Berlin . Hitler can not ask for ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that are likely to work most successfully in Western Europe  --  or in America . But more and more we hear stories of the horror that will overwhelm Europe and the West if the war is not stopped now . The devastation of war itself is only the first and most obvious threat and the only threat that Germany can officially encourage . But other more permanent terrors are promised by the conscious or unconscious spokesmen of the Nazi peacemaker . Sven Hedin , famous Swedish explorer and friend of Hitler , in a recent radio address expressed the new Nazi formula for peace . He had talked to Hitler , he said , on his recent visit to Berlin , and he could not , of course , reveal what the Fiihrer had said . But he could assure the world that if the Nazis ' offer of peace should be finally rejected , unlimited and unimaginable frightfulness would be visited on their enemies . And the horror of modern warfare would be followed by the greater horror of Bolshevism driving westward across the Continent . Only a quick peace @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nations led by Britain and Germany could stem this awful tide . We are going to hear this warning again , from other sources . But no matter what the words or whose the voice , the plea will be Hitler 's plea . Naturally he can not himself openly threaten a Bolshevik attack on the West ; the niceties of friendship even between dictators forbid such tactics . Nor can he revive now in the midst of war the old dream of an alliance with Britain . But when we hear these threats and suggestions , it is important to recognize them for what they are  --  a last desperate attempt by Hitler to salvage his conquests and prevent the collapse or annihilation of his regime . Trouble Ahead in India G REAT BRITAIN 'S diplomatic victory in Turkey threatens to be offset by a colossal blunder in British policy toward India . As a result of the statement issued by Lord Linlithgow , the British Viceroy , in reply to an Indian request for a definition of British policy , the Working Committee of the Congress Party has ordered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there are eleven in all ) to resign in protest against Britain 's imperialist position . The Congress Party leaders have long been debating their policy in the event of a war between England and Germany . Normally , we might suppose that the Indian people would take advantage of Britain 's preoccupation with the war to push their long-suppressed demands for immediate independence ; there is still much resentment over Britain 's failure to keep the pledges made in the last war . During the last few years the Congress Party has been building up its position to a point where it could readily take over the government of the country . But left-wing Congress leaders such as Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru have consistently maintained that Nazi aggression is a greater threat to the world , and ultimately to India , than British imperialism . The Congress did not accept this position unreservedly . An official statement issued shortly after the outbreak of the war declared that while " India 's sympathy is entirely on the side of democracy and freedom , she is not able to associate herself with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ present limited freedom is taken away . " But the Congress agreed to defer final decision " to allow full elucidation of the issues on the present and future position of India . " This resolution was issued with the full support of Gandhi . The Liberal and Labor press in England joined in urging the British government to state its war aims with regard to India and , if possible , to make wide concessions to Indian nationalist feeling . A golden opportunity was thus presented to the Chamberlain government to assure itself of full support from India 's 300,000,000 people , and to obtain an ultimate settlement of the troublesome Indian problem . What was needed , above all , was a clear statement of war aims which would show that Britain is fighting , not for its immediate interests , but to make a better world , of which India would be a part . It was necessary also that the government hold out some definite hope of Indian freedom , either immediately or at the end of the war . A friendly statement which recognized the legitimacy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concessions had been granted . , Instead of making a generous gesture designed to win Indian support , Lord Linlithgow seems to have gone out of his way to insult Indian public opinion . While he reiterated previous statements that the goal of British policy is that " India may attain due place among the dominions , " he emphasized the British contention that division of opinion among the Indians prevented immediate action in this , direction . On the question of general British war aims , which was the point particularly stressed in the Congress resolution , the Viceroy could only offer the feeble comment that His Majesty 's government had not themselves " defined their objectives in the prosecution of the war . " Speaking in the House of Lords , the Marquess of Zetland , Secretary of State for India , was even more blunt . He deClared that , greater freedom would not be in the true interests of the Indianpeople and urged the Indians " to strive - after agreement among themselves " before appealing for independence . The effect of these statements on the moderate Gandhi @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ characterized the declarations as a manifestation of the traditional British policy of divide and rule , and asserted that they " show clearly that there will be no democracy for India if Britain can prevent it . " Gandhi 's reaction was bound to be mild compared to that of the majority of the Indian Congress Party , which is considerably to the left of its leader . The action of the Working Committee of the Congress Party may foreshadow a new civil-disobedience campaign unless Britain repairs its mistake and meets India 's just demands with a specific , dated guaranty of the dominion status it has vaguely promised so often in the past . In this connection the British government might well consider the effect on the United States . On most issues American public opinion is on the side of Great Britain . But there is little sympathy here for Britain 's Indian policy . Repressive measures against India under present conditions would do much to alienate pro-British opinion in this country . The Indian people have repeatedly indicated their willingness to work with the English as equals in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Chamberlain government is unable or unwilling to accept this proffer of friendship , Britain needs a new government . The Colonel House Hoax U NDER other circumstances , the story of the " secret letter " sent by Colonel Edward M. House to Lloyd George might be dismissed as a joke at the expense of the Honorable J. Thorkelson of Montana , General Moseley 's friend and the Bund 's favorite Congressman . Mr. Thorkelson is an indefatigable extender-of-remarks in the Congressional Record . In the Record of October 11 he placed a document of almost six full pages , a letter addressed to Lloyd George , signed " Col. E. M. House , " and dated " British Consulate , New York City , June 10 , 1919 . " It is assumed that when Congressmen insert other people 's letters in the Congressional Record they first make sure that the missives are genuine . But when Congressman Thomason of Texas rose on the floor two days later to ask Thorkelson if the letter was genuine , the gentleman from Montana first said he felt the letter was " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , when asked whether he would say it was genuine , answered , " No , except as far as history speaks within the letter itself . " The letter purported to show that Colonel House was trying to get a bribe of $100,000,000 for Woodrow Wilson as part of a plot to bring the United States back into the British Empire . Friends of the late Colonel House understandably felt this was a bit of a whopper , October 28 , 1939 and pressed Thorkelson for proof of authenticity . On October 18 the Montana Representative rose in the House to admit that the letter was not written by Colonel House and asked unanimous consent to delete " British Consulate , New York City , and the names of the writer and the addressee . . . from the Record . " Thus Thorkelson admitted that the letter was not written from the British consulate , that it was not sent to Lloyd George , and that it was not signed by Colonel House . Congressman Hoffman of Michigan wanted to know why the letter should be left in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ putting something in , " he asked , " if we do not know who wrote it ? " Thorkelson 's answer was , " Because the substantive matter of the letter itself deals with facts . " But an examination of these " facts " discloses that , among other things , Thorkelson is not particularly gifted with a sense of humor . " The cost of converting an American into a colonist of His Majesty , " Colonel House was supposed to have written to his fellow-conspirator , Lloyd George , " is now 53 cents . Our expenses we have met by a levy on the population . " Lloyd George is advised to flatter Wilson but is warned : " The adulators , however , should be instructed to consult the inventories I have prepared ( appendices 45-83 ) , which show that he is now surfeited with diamond stomachers , brooches , and bracelets . . . . " It is suggested that " His Majesty condescend to grace with His Royal ' countenance all stamps of a value of .30 cents and under . . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 310 appendices , and its analyses are sternly mathematical and deliciously precise . Colonel House is supposed to have written that " the intrinsic patriotism of American industrialists .. . rarely exceeds 1.96 per cent of the normal average of the population . Investigation has clearly demonstrated " ( a ) that profits increasing in geometrical progression augment in arithmetical progression the coefficient of allegiance to the country of their origin , and ( b ) that profits decreasing in arithmetical progression diminish in geometrical progression that coefficient of allegiance . . . . " The plot is worked out to the finest detail . The British Ambassador is to be made Governor General , " the Rt . Rev. Dr. Manning . . . first . Primate . " Elihu Root is to become Lord Chief Justice of the Colony , and Nicholas Murray Butler and Thomas Lamont are among those to serve on the colonial privy council . " As a special mark of royal and imperial condescension " Washington is to be renamed Georgetown , but " lest sectional jealousy be thereby excited , " Chicago and Boston @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Guelf . These are a few of the " facts " that so impressed Thorkelson . While Thorkelson was defending the - " substantive authenticity " of the letter on the floor , a telegram arrived from Seward Collins , editor of the Fascist American459 letter was written by Dr. guished New York net4olog nationalist affairs , " and that authorship before the Senate Comm on January 11 , 1930 . The document William B. Shearer , the shipping lobbyis arms conference , as " an amazing secret ( ti6h document . " Dr. Maloney explained that he wrote it Cls skit , a satire , and that it had appeared " as a jest in serial in Canadian newspapers . " The Silver Shirt publish house , from which Thorkelson finally admitted he ob-4 tained the document , added the House-to-Lloyd George touch as its own contribution . The " letter " was finally withdrawn from the record at Mr. Thorkelson 's request after it had been denounced as " the most scurrilous , the most reprehensible , and the most un-American document " ever printed in the Congressional Record @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ House " visit its official condemnation " on the Montana Congressman . We second the motion .                     