@@142828

When a total eclipse of the sun passes any considerable distance across land , the gloating of astronomers who enjoyed clear weather during totality is usually mingled with groans from others foiled by clouds . Last week no groans were heard after the eclipse which crossed a great reach of the Pacific , touching almost no land ( TIME , June 14 ) . It was unfortunate that this celestial performance , which had a maximum totality duration unequaled in more than 1,200 years , should confine its watchers to three small , makeshift observation areas , only two of which were on solid ground . But none of these areas had bad weather . <P> At tiny Canton Island , near the sunrise end of the shadow path , confused frigate birds came in from the sea when darkness fell . In Peru , at the sunset end , bats flitted around the fast-working scientists . Radio crews of NBC at Canton Island and of CBS in Peru were able to broadcast lyrical descriptions . The sun 's corona was almost circular , a form associated with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Exulted white-thatched Clyde Fisher of Manhattan 's Hayden Planetarium : " This was the most beautiful of four totalities I have observed . " <P> Calculated maximum totality at the noon point in mid-Pacific was 7 min. 4 sec . Astronomers James Stokley of Philadelphia 's Franklin Institute and John Quincy Stewart of Princeton did not quite reach this point in the S. S. Steelmaker , a freighter belonging to a subsidiary of U. S. Steel Corp. , but with sympathetic co-operation from the captain they did get close enough to expect a duration of 7 min. 2 sec . Actually they were in the shadow cone for 7 min. 6 sec. - longer than the mathematical maximum-because while the shadow fled eastward the ship was also moving east at eight knots . <P> Reported Dr. Stokley by wireless : " The whole scene had a peculiar hue as if illuminated by an arc light . . . . The camera was grinding and the ocean was getting darker , but I could not notice any definite shadow on the sea . Then I heard the whistle blown by the ship 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appeared the brilliantly clear , greyish-black disk of the moon and around it the sun 's corona . At least seven prominent streamers were apparent , as well as several smaller ones . The longest extended about twice the moon 's diameter . Four spots of red solar prominences appeared plainly during the eclipse . The planet Venus , which appeared even before totality , shone ; also Mercury and several stars of first magnitude . The sky appeared a deep blue as did the water even at the beginning of the eclipse . I could see to the west all the way under the moon 's shadow to where the sun shone more than 150 miles away . This low saffron brightness ascended steadily during the eclipse . At the centre it went all around to about 10 above the horizon , above that changing gradually to a dark blue . After totality the shadow was seen in the high haze to the east for several minutes . "                     