@@491949

NEW-TI Douglas high-speed light bomber , secret entry in a coming Army competition , crashed in Los Angeles on a test flight on January twenty-third . John Cable , the test pilot , jumped , but there was not time for his chute to open , and he was killed . The plane fell in a parking lot , demolishing nine cars , and burst into flames . The badly injured mechanic was dragged from the wreckage before the fire reached him . The Douglas Company said he was " Smithin , a mechanic , " but . when the police and the newspapers tried to identify " Smithin , " they learned that , actually , he was Capt . Paul Chemidlin , of the French Air Ministry . This revelation was blanketed in the newspapers by the return of the seaplane , Cavalier , survivors , but the next afternoon , when a test pilot at the Curtiss-Wright plant at Buffalo dived a Curtiss Hawk 75A pursuit ship at well over 500 miles an hour , a world record , it was disclosed that it had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ buying 100 of these ships . The Senate Military Affairs Committee , already suspicious that the Administration 's foreign policy was directed toward our active participation on the side of France in any European crisis , already resentful at the attempt of Ambassadors Bullitt and Kennedy to " stampede " the committee with alarming reports of war in Europe tomorrow , summoned the Secretary of War , the Chief of Staff , and other officials in closed session . The hearings developed that a French air mission had been given access to our latest military planes over the protest of the Army and Navy general staffs . On the afternoon the Douglas bomber fell , our ambassador to France was two days on his way back to Paris after a long " vacation " at home . It was Bullitt , it appeared , who had brought the French air mission , Bullitt who had aslcedithe War and Navy departments to give them what they wanted , Bullitt who had induced the President to , override Army and Navy , when they refused . A Rebel From Old Philadelphia MHE startled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " exclaimed Hiram Johnson on its floor , " do you not , gentlemen , think the American people have the right to know if they are being led down the road to war ? " President Roosevelt called the Senate Military Affairs Committee into a secret meeting at which he is supposed to have told them that " our frontier now is in Franee " ? a statement which he denied three days later as a deliberate lie . If the American frontier now is in France , then William Christian Bullitt , more even than Franklin D. Roosevelt , moved it there . During the rebellion of 1919-21 which won dominion status for Ireland , a prim woman tourist who carried a large petit-point bag was abroad a great deal on the streets of Dublin . She was an incongruous figure as she minced around barricades arid dodged lorries , and the Black and Tans fretted for her safety . They politely reminded her of the perils to bystanders inherent in a civil uprising . She thanked them kindly . Had they thought to trail her , they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and passing them to men loitering in doorways . But she was just too neat and proper a person to suspect of anything so subversive . For months she was a walking ordnance department for the embattled Irish . ' The tourist was William Christian Bullitt 's cousin , and she furnishes a better key to the character of the man than all the eminent ancestors from whom he is descended . Bill Bullitt at that time was less than a decide out of Yale and had already done some rebelling of his own . Finding the atmosphere stuffy in exclusive Rittenhouse Square , Philadelphia , where he had been reared , he had turned a scornful back on it and was trying to be proletarian . Five years later he was to publish It 's Not Done , a sensational novel about the Square , lampooning its folks and folkways . At the university he had engineered a small movement to ridicule what he considered a snobbish group of campus intellectuals . Of the star performers in his genealogy , he was prouder of Capt . William Christian , who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and of Fletcher Christian , who led the mutiny against tyrannous Captain Bligh , than of the father of George Washington . Augustine Washington was , after all , only a contented British subject . Of the leading families of Virginia into which Bullitt 's forebears had married , he liked to think most often of that of Patrick Henry , whose sister married a Bullitt . Pocahontas , who did a bit of dissenting , too , was a grandmother of Bullitt 's  --  with a confusing number of " greats " before the title . 11 Secret Assignment From the President W HEN the World War broke out , Bullitt was in Europe . By the time of the Easter Rebellion , he was back home and well on his way with a personal campaign to stop all wars . He felt . that he had to do something . For he had seen each army marching to slaughter confident that God was on its side , and the immense illogic of it all had filled Bullitt with a futile agony . Reasoning that newspapermen really got behind the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ finding what really caused wars and or developing a preventive technique . When the United States got in , he was drafted into the Department of State as an adviser on Central Europe , which he had visited regularly since childhood . President Wilson found him of aid in drawing up wartime notes and speeches , and let associates know that he thought highly of the young man . Bullitt thought highly of Wilson too . Abandoning his one-man campaign against bloodshed , he enlisted in Wilson's. and , after the Armistice , went to Paris as a member of the President 's Peace Conference party . While at Paris , he welcomed a secret assignment from Wilson and Lloyd George to go to Moscow and find out if the Bolsheviks , of whom everyone at Paris Ayres afraid , were strongly enough entrenched to deserve recognition . On his return from Moscow , he reported that they were . Wilson suppressed the findings and decided to ignore the Bolshevist government . Bullitt resigned , and in a hitter letter excoriated the President as a betrayer of the common man and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bringing lasting peace , cause many more wars . Later , Bullitt spread his version of the Paris meeting on the record of the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations . His testimony , which gave the country the first inside account of the conclave , was a major factor in the defeat of both the treaty and the League of Nations in the Senate . It likewise plummeted Bullitt into political obscurity , where he remained for more than a dozen years . When he turned up in the public eye again , in 1932 , he was attached to Gov . Franklin D. Roosevelt . Rittenhouse Square to Red Square AFTER Roosevelt 's election , Bullitt returned to Rus-AFTE as the first . American ambassador to the new regime . It was a triumphal re-entry . The new envoy was lionized and he settled down to enjoy from a box seat one of the greatest mass social experiments in history , an experiment of which the American ambassador did not disapprove . But as the envoy learned more and more about how the heirs of Lenin were carrying out Lenin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reluctant decision became that Lenin 's social aims had been perverted into a tight little tyranny , run as ruthlessly as any other dictatorship . He got away from it all when he was made ambassador to France in 1936 . Blatt is one of the more spectacular and elusive halfbacks in the New Deal backfield and is a chap who will , as the sports pages say , bear watching . For he is no sophomore flash , as so many of the New Deal stars are . He was well known as a political broken-field runner when the boss quarterback himself was calling signals for the scrubs . Between these teammates there is a close , hearty friendship and a strong temperamental affinity . The President is known to rely upon Bullitt 's judgment . so heavily that the ambassador 's mailed and cabled reports from abroad are supplemented several times a week by a chat by transatlantic telephone . In addition , Bullitt returns to the United States several times each year to take part in White House councils , to the displeasure of the State Department , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which Bullitt made of the whole foreign service , at the President 's request , and which will be used as a yardstick in instituting reforms , has not increased the ambassador 's popularity among the career men . In the whole roster of the State Department the President could not have found an adviser who Would have been so responsive to his own champagne personality as Bullitt . Both men , born patricians , have the same basic enthusiasm for remolding society for the benefit of the throng , and the same lordly impatience with delay . Both // forces , are impulsive , high spirited and energetic , and apt to eut corners without giving a hand signal . In each are natural instincts for dramatic timing and bold gambling , and a perverse fondness for unsettling routine . Alike in personality and in political and social outline , they even smoke the same American brand of cigarette . Iu the ability to achieve political ends by the exercise of personal charm , they have few equals in any country . Witty , ingratiating and genuinely friendly , MLitt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ French politicians and , according to informed ? persons , holds a more sensitive finger on the French pulse than any American envoy since Doctor Franklin . His opinion is among the first sought . A well-authenticated Paris story has it that his unique status enabled him to prevent an open break between France and Poland during the European crisis of last September . These military allies were so far estranged over the Poles ' readiness to march into Czechoslovakia with Hitler that the French foreign minister and the Polish ambassador were scarcely on speaking terms . They finally reached a point where they asked the American ambassador to act as a sort of post office through which they could communicate impersonally with each other . Like all modern ambassadors , Bullitt is a kind of glorified foreign correspondent whose editors are the President and , sometimes , the Secretary of State . Bullitt 's beat is France , but France is n't big enough to keep a - Bullitt occupied and he poaches freely on the beats of our other ambasiadors and ministers . His unique career as both an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ connections ; has given him a wider acquaintance in Europe than any other American diplomat ever had , probably , and these friends turn up at the American embassy in Paris often . His reports , a compOund of fact , rumor and personal judgment , have determined American foreign policy . In the Czechoslovakian crisis , President Roosevelt sent a note to Hitler pleading for a peaceful solution . Berlin rejected the plea and the White House wanted to write a second one . The State Department strongly opimiefl , protesting that American public opinion would not support further playing with the European buzz saw . The President telephoned Bullitt t in Paris for his counsel . The ambassador not only urged Mr. Roosevelt to send the second note but offered to take the blame if the American public was outraged . Nor is Bullitt cut off in Paris from domestic policy . Virtually every American who goes abroad includes Paris in his itinerary , and few of them fail to get an invitation to an embassy party . Bullitt entertains there on the grand scale and misses no chance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ things are going in their neighborhoods . The ambassador checks their opinions with his gleanings front a heavy personal correspondence and with what he reads in American newspapers , and magazines . In some quarters of Washington it is thought that Roosevelt will designate Bullitt as his successor , if he is still in a position to pick a crown prince . The odds , however , are against this , as Bullitt does not share his chief 's love of the hustings and would perish emotionally in the acerbity of an elective campaign . He is incapable of calm in the midst of accusations and innuendoes . At a mere misstatement concerning his motives , the blood mounts to his face , and his bald , freckled head is suffused with a lovely crimson . He works his best when safely protected from the barbs of political sharpshooters . His position in Paris is perfection itself , for he is able to do the work of democracy in surroundings of manners and magnificence . Friends say that on his visits to the United States he rages inwardly when he has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ complexion turns a beet red when he sees some culprit spit or toss a grim wrapper on the sidewalk . He loves graceful living , and one of the motivating forces of his career is a belief that , in some degree , at least , the enjoyments that are his by virtue of fortunate birth can be extended to ordinary people . That Bullitt had other disabilities as a candidate for public office was demonstrated last year when the Administration was trying to repair the disastrous breach in the ranks of Pennsylvania Democracy . Unable to agree on a candidate for governor , Senator Gaffey and an insurgent group opposing his leadership solicited the President 's help in picking a compromisecandidate . Twenty-four hours before the Democratic state committee was to meet in Harrisburg , a mixed delegation called at the White House . Present were Gaffey , Governor Earle , J. David Stern , and David L. Lawrence , chairman of the state committee . Lawrence represented himself and his fellow insurgents , Matthew H. McCloskey and John B. Kelly , both Philadelphia contractors . During the huddle , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ general agreement that he could save the state if anyone could . To sound him out , a transatlantic call was put in . It caught Bullitt at Havre , where he was preparing to embark for the United States , and the sailing was delayed an hour while the ambassador talked with the White House . Bullitt declined the offer , but the Pennsylvanians were not . satisfied . Apparently hopeful of drafting him , the visitors returned to Harrisburg , where the committeemen had already gathered for the next day 's session . All that remained , it seemed , to assure the sue cess of a draft-Bullitt movement was the approval of Kelly and McCloskey . The movement was killed somewhere in the inner council . The generally accepted story is that Kelly and McCloskey wielded the ax , because Bullitt had been twice divorced and his second wife was the widow of John Reed , the American Communist who became one of the Soviet saints . Nor were they too sure where Bullitt himself stood on Communism , and his novel , with its emphasis upon seduction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the churches . Bullitt 's friends say that this was a yarn handed out to the press by the Gulley faction , which never did like Bullitt and which had prevented his nomination on general principles . Whatever the truth is , Bullitt was eliminated . What happened in Pennsylvania was one of the major blows the New Deal suffered in the November vote . The quick-tempered Bullitt was lucky to have missed the campaign . Even had he won , he would never have recovered from the abuse that the candidates underwent . The ambassador 's grandfather , John Christian Bullitt , who was a lawyer and was married to one of the Virginia Langhornes , went up to Philadelphia from his home in Louisville , in 1548 , to assist in the liquidation of a closed bank which owed large sums to the Bank of 46 THE SATURDAY EVENING POST March it , FIPig Kentucky . Deciding that Philadelphia was the legal center of the country , he moved his family there and became one of the leading lawyers in the country . He is best remembered for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which is still referred to as the Bullitt Charter . A statue of John Christian Bullitt now stands in front of the City Hall . The man it commemorates amassed a comfortable fortune , but dissipated most of it in helping to beautify his adopted city and in trying , vainly , to oust grafters from the municipal government .. The ambassador 's father , William Christian Bullitt , Sr. , who was also a lawyer , served in the Pennsylvania Legislature and made a fortune of his own in Virginia and West Virginia coal . His firm was selling agent for mines which produced a high-class steam coal sold to the navies and merchant ships of many nations . This Bullitt also was a crusader against municipal graft , with the same lack of success but to no diminution of his fortune , and his heirs are independently wealthy . The invincible spirit of the Bullitt clan is illustrated by the bitter-end attitude which two of its members took toward medical orders regarding the use of tobacco . The ambassador 's great-grandfather was told by his physician that lie would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Without hesitating , the attorney closed his desk and retired to the family homestead near Louisville . Here he lived out his string in contentment , puffing to the end . When the ambassador 's father was in his fifties , he developed an illness which was partly brought on by a lifelong devotion to cigars and cigarettes . The only concession he would make to his doctor 's plea that he stop smoking was to give up his cigars . As his illness grew worse , his life was prolonged for a while by administrations of oxygen . As long as he was able , the elder Bullitt held an oxygen tube in one hand and a cigarette in the other , inhaling from them alternately . Leaves From a Family Tree The family dates back , on American soil , to Joseph Boulet , a Huguenot , who emigrated from Nimes in 1637 . M. Boulet , whose name underwent several changes before it finally became Bullitt , settled on the Maryland bank of the Potomac , at a site now known on maps as Bullitt 's Point . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , so that Ambassador Bullitt may , if he wishes , claim descent from  --  besides the Washing , - tons , Isanghornes and Henrys  --  the Dandridges , Harrisons and others of old Virginia . Lady Nancy Astor , who was a Langhorne , is a cousin of Bullitt 's , and other relatives of one kind or another are married to high foreign personages . His mother , whose maiden name was Louisa Gross Horwitz , was a granddaughter of Dr. Jonathan Horwitz , a Baltimore physician and friend of Thomas Jefferson 's . Doctor Horwitz , an ? migr ? from Berlin , married Deborah Andrews , daughter of a Revolutionary officer . During Jefferson 's presidency , he was twice sent abroad on diplomatic missions . His son , Orville Horwitz , married a daughter of Dr. Samuel Gross , one of America 's first great surgeons , whose statue stands on the grounds of the Smithsonian Institution . Ambassador Bullitt , who likes to claim Jewish blood , may possibly be correct , although genealogical studies of the line in this country fail to bear him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1600 's from the Rhenish Palatinate , and were Lutherans who supplied the church with many pastors . If the Horwitzes were originally Jewish , as the name suggests , the evidence lies in Germany . In America , they were all Episcopalians , and their headstones stud High and Low Church graveyards throughout the East . One of the disadvantages of a proud heredity  --  a custom of assembling relatives for an accouchement  --  was impressed upon the future ambassador on the day he was born  --  January 25 , 1891 . When he was only an hour or so old , someone left him temporarily on an upholstered chair . His great-aunt , Lady Osler , wife of the famous physician-author , Sir William Osler , plumped down on the chair and narrowly missed squashing the breath out of his spindly body . Before he was a year old , he was taken to Rome to be fondled by a maternal aunt , the Duchess d'Assergio , who lived in the Bernini Palace , and trips abroad were frequent thereafter . Along with the other Rittenhouse Square children , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ classes and was photographically preserved for the family album iu a Lord Fauntleroy suit . His French , which today is as authentic as any Parisian 's , was carefully tended by his mother , who was a clever linguist . Occasionally , at meals , conversation was limited to French . The boy 's curiosity was piqued by a custom his mother had of keeping a large roast of beef always ready in the pantry for hungry beggars . He knew , too , that when his father read in the newspaper about a destitute family , he usually had clothing and groceries sent around anonymously . But , in general , it was an era in which the upper and middle classes felt secure and the poor managed , presumably , to get along somehow . One of young Bullitt 's first contacts with poverty was at a golf club to which his father belonged . Here his clubs were carried by a caddie who was ragged and undernourished . Bullitt got the caddie talking about his home circumstances and compared them , in some amazement , with his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dinners which the Square gave annually for poor children , and at which proper little rich boys waited on table . The design was charitable and educational ; the Square lads were supposed to gain from the experience a sense of their responsibilities as future leaders . Young Bullitt went through with his end of the serving , finding the dinners displeasing and smug . His parents had selected Groton to prepare him for Yale , but when the day came for him to leave he sat down on his luggage and announced that he would like to be excused from going . Asked why , he replied : " Every Groton fellow I know is a snob . " He did not then know Franklin D. Roosevelt , who had graduated from Groton in 1900 . The boy was sent , instead , to the Delancey School , then the leading prep academy in Philadelphia . The Delancey fellows came from rich families , too , and Bullitt found there a lad named George Earle , with whom he fought constantly . The Bullitt-Earle series of battles was fairly even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Welsh , the professional boxer , for private instruction . After that , Bullitt enjoyed an edge . Many years later Earle , who was bored with being a rich man 's son , was persuaded by Bullitt to enter polities and , after a brief diplomatic career , was elected governor of Pennsylvania . Growing Up At Delancey , too , Bullitt first gave evidence of the candor that was to mark him as an adult . One day his German instructor accused him of copying . " Mr. T ? , " replied Bullitt , " you 're a liar . " Ordered to apologize , the pupil refused , and the instructor tried to have him expelled . Bullitt had been making such good grades that the authorities modified the penalty by merely barring him from the German class . It . was easy punishment to take . Bullitt 's parents financed two summer vacations for him in Munich , where he lived with a German family and took instruction in the language from a tutor . Up to this stage , Bullitt had given every indication that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do a few wealthy boys in every community . But Bullitt did not attach . himself to Socialism at Yale . There he was elected to Phi Beta Kappa , he majored in psychology and was advised by teachers that a bright career in that type of research awaited him . But there were competing interests . Bullitt was an eager student in a foreign-affairs class conducted by Prof. Charles Seymour , who has since become president of Yale . Ile was also president of the Dramatic Association , taking part in plays , and he was an ambitious heeler , or reporter , on the Yale News . Of all , newspaper work attracted him most and he won an editorship of the News after turning in more original news than any heeler in campus memory . His campus prominence brought him membership in the Pundits , a club of intellectuals , writers and wits which revolved about Prof. William Lyon Phelps . Bullitt broke with the Pundits when a friend he had proposed for membership was turned down . The only reason Bullitt could see for the , blackball @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in reprisal he quit the Pundits and organized a rival 48 THE SATURDAY clique called the Mince Pie Club . The only members , besides Bullitt , were his rejected friend and three other exPundits  --  one of them Cole Porter  --  who shared his resentment . The club met once a week over meals at which the namesake pie was always served , and its only bylaw was a caricatured slap at the Pundits . The rule provided that whenever a new member was suggested , the vote had to be unanimously negative . Mince Pie , never more than a defiant gesture , died when its members graduated . In 1911 , during his junior year , Bullitt suffered an attack of mysterious abdominal pains and his sight and hearing began to fail . He was removed from college and examined by a Philadelphia . physician , whose verdict . was very gloomy indeed . Bullitt 's chances of living six months , he said , were nil , and he would probably die blind . Another doctor thought that living in California might possibly help . With a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the Coast and settled in a bungalow colony near Redlands . He lived past the six-month deadline , but showing no improvement , returned to Philadelphia in the spring of 1912 for an exploratory operation . It showed that he was suffering from intestinal adhesions , a hang-over from a boyhood appendectomy . After being patched up , he was told that if he subsisted on a strict diet of spinach and milk , he might get well . A few months of this dull fare resulted in a boredom so unbearable that. , in desperation , Bullitt walked into a restaurant one day and ordered lobster and champagne , as a final fling . By some quirk in therapeutics , the rich meal made him feel better than lie had since leaving New Haven , and he joyously repeated it many times . Ile was able to return to college the following September , and graduated with honors in 1913 , only a year behind his class .. Since then , champagne and lobster has been one of his favorite combinations , and he has been an enthusiastic gourmet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be a lawyer but because Bullitts had been in the law for almost 300 years , Bill Bullitt went next to the Harvard Law School . During his freshman year things began happening which were to give shape to his career . One was the unexpected death of his father . The other was a conversation he had with a couple of his friends who were partners in a law firm . The partners had lost a decision and were discussing plans to appeal it . Bullitt asked if they considered the decision unfair , and was told that they did not . " But you 're going to appeal it anyway ? " exclaimed the freshman law student incredulously . " Why not ? " was the reply . " Our client likes the idea and is willing to stand the expense . " In a fashion that was typical of him , Bullitt then and there decided that he could not be a lawyer , His father 's death , in March , 1914 , gave him ample excuse for dropping his law studies . His mother was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a trip abroad , to some country which she had never seen . Russia was selected as the destination , and Bill , then twenty-three , went along to divert his mother and keep her company . They put up at the National Hotel in Moscow . From its windows he looked out one night in July , 1914 , to watch crowds from the Kremlin running past the hotel , shouting , " War ! War ! Down with Austria , ! Hurrah for Serbia ! " There was a wild , exultant fervor about the mob that gave the pajama-clad young man the shudders . Bullitt and his mother were among the last tourists to get out of Russia and into Germany , via Poland , before the frontiers were closed . The trip from Moscow was an eye opener . In towns and villages all along the route the peasants were mobilising for the Hindenburg-Ludendorff slaughter that awaited them a month later in the Tannen.berg swamps . The mobilization was almost festive . Everywhere the troops were sent away with the assurance that the Deity was backing their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hotel while a military parade , headed by the Kaiser and the Crown Prince , passed down Unter den Linden . Everywhere they encountered the slogan , " Gall rail ens . " The Germans had a holy cause too . From Germany , mother and son crossed to London and , through the intervention of relatives in the government , were admitted to the Guards ' Chapel for an impressive religious spectacle . The officers of the first 100,000 expeditionary troops , later to become known its the Old Contemptibles , were receiving the blessing of the church . In a pew near that of the royal family the young American sat , awed by the majesty of the scene and frightened by the forces that had been set loose in Europe . A Safe  --  Cracker to the Rescue Eager to get closer to the war , he tried , through a cousin , Lady Strafford , to be sent with the first contingent as a correspondent . Failing , he headed for Paris on his own . A spy scare was on , and at the Southampton pier @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ having concluded that since he had come from Russia by way of Germany and was now going to Franco , he was a suspicious character . He was released and permitted to board ship after the authorities had telephoned two persons whose names Bullitt had mentioned as references . One was an uncle , Col. Ronald Brooke , who was commandant at Aldershot ; the other Bullitt 's granduncle , Doctor Oster , who was then Regis professor of medicine at Oxford . The authorities omitted searching their suspect , and if they had , they might have detained him . In his pocket was a suspiciously large amount of cash . He was carrying it to Paris for a London bank , which , up to then , had been unable to make good on letters of credit held in France , since all the French banks were closed . When Bullitt arrived in Paris , lie delivered the money , then went to the Champs-Elys6cs apartment of his maternal grandmother , Mrs. Orville Horwitz , who had recently died in her villa at Dinard . Paris was panicky . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Bullitt thought , some luxury-loving German officer would undoubtedly make the apartment his headquarters . Sooner or later , he knew , the wall safe would be discovered and the contents , including his grandmother 's jewels , would be confiscated . Lacking the combination , he combed the neighborhood fora locksmith , without finding any . Many shops were closed because of the German scare and virtually all able-bodied locksmiths were in the army anyway . An appeal to the police resulted in the loan of a convict safe-cracker who , tinder the eye , of a guard , fingered the dial for an hour Or so and finally divined the combination . The eracksman and his guard split a bottle of Grandmother Horwitz 's best vintage with Bullitt and returned to prison . Bullitt buried the jewels in a friend 's back yard , from where he later recovered thorn . A few days after the jewel incident he forgot his convictions so far as to try enlisting in the French Army . Fortunately for him , his decision to fight for France coincided with an order closing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the army ranks . After that he spent his days and nights absorbing the war atmosphere and trying to make some sense out of what he saw and heard . He made no progress . French colonial troops came back bearing German ears and fingers as souvenirs , and in the cabarets the celebrators cheered as the gruesome relics were waved aloft . He saw journalists received in chancelleries and dining out with high army officers and cabinet ministers . Plainly , they were in the know ; he would be one of them . On his return to Philadelphia , he na  --  vely took a course in typewriting , and when he got a job on the Public Ledger , he found that his employers expected no writing from him at all . At a salary of ten dollars a week , he was assigned as a district reporter to a water-front section populated with foreigners and Negroes . The novice , whose heart had been set on writing pieces about world affairs , found himself telephoning in stories about raids , shootings , cutting scrapes and Polish weddings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He worked in a world of desk sergeants , beat cops and ambulance interns , and their professional callousness sickened him . So did the poverty of his district and its contrast with the Rittenhouse Square to which he returned each night . He tells of a boy in his district committing suicide because he was unable to buy new shoes for an Easter promenade with his girl . That evening the reporter attended a ball given by the Stotesburys . Pacifists Rampant In an off period , the cub dropped in at the office and tapped out a short disquisition on European affairs which he submitted for the editorial page . It was printed and an associate editor encouraged him to write more . The office , which had looked upon Bullitt as just another wealthy dilettante dabbling in journalism , began to take notice of him . His knowledge of Europe was surprising . Within six months , Bullitt had accomplished the marvel that journalism students dream about ? the friendly associate editor had gone to another paper and the pupil had been given his job . His importance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war , he wrote political articles and covered such sport events as the Willard-Moran prize fight . Then his paper sent him abroad on the Ford Peace Ship . Oddly , the peace zealot would have no part of this cargo of pacifists . His first dispatch , dated at sea as the ship approached Norway , satirized the junket , and he continued to ridicule it . " What is so rare as a day on which pacifists are pacific ? " he began his first report . " The pilgrims had every reason to be calm today . They wore filled with turkey and surrounded by beauty . The hills of snow and pine leaping out of the blue Christiansand Fjord under the pink fingers of the sunset would have made a dinosaur a household pet . But the pacifists were spoiling for their daily battle . . . A meeting called by Judge Lindsey , after dinner , unanimously adopted a. new peace platf orm . Speeches redolent with the fatherhood of God and the brotherhood of man soared upward . A general embrace seemed imminent . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the pacifists . They all seemed to feel that something had been forgotten . What was it ? Of course ! They had overlooked the evening fight ; and to he a pacifist and to forget one 's evening fight is more serious than to be a baseball fan and miss the world series . Col. S. S. McClure leaped into the breach . The Colonel is a trifle disgusted with the pilgrims . Earlier in the evening he had exclaimed : ' There is one word in the world I hate  --  pacifist . I came on this boat a pacifist , but I have become a militarist . If I wanted to raise soldiers in the United States , I would just parade this shipload of pacifists across the nation . They would insure enlistments by the million . ' " War From a Box Seat As the pilgrims headed homeward in late January , Bullitt headed his story with this doggerel : By bedlam 's bats and bugs of yore , By Bellevue and by Matiezvan By all the mad , paretic corps , With intellects entirely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Eva Tanguay , on the stage ; By vacuous and vacant donuts , And all the world 's nobody-homes ; With gibberings and ghoulish squeaks , I swear that I 've been nuts for - weeks . In 1916 Bullitt married Ernesta Drinker , a Rittenhouse Square girl who was the daughter of the president emeritus of Lehigh University . They spent their honeymoon in Germany , Austria and Belgium , where they traveled as guests of the High Command . In Brussels , Gen. Von Bissing entertained them at a staff dinner . In Germany , the Bullitts met Von Bethmann Hollweg , Zimmermann , Von Jagoar , 1 Hellferich and other leaders . The Germans , anxious for a good press in America  --  one that would depict them asi unconquerable  --  proudly exhibited the workings of their military machine to the Public Ledger man . The climax of the sponsored tour was a specially arranged flight over the enemy lines on the Eastern front to see the dread effect of the German attack on the demoralized Russians . Once out of German territory , Bullitt duly reported to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and gave high praise to the courage of the German people and their sacrifices in behalf of victory . He also declared flatly that America was headed for war with Germany and recommended the immediate construction of a thousand destroyers and a thousand airplanes . Then he wrote a series about the prewar plotting of the Central Powers and , in the words of one commentator , " threw new and terrible light on the sordid political system I hat has plunged so many countries into war . " The fact was that while Bullitt admired Gorman methodicalness , had n't cared much for the Germans themselves . Some of his annoyance was perhaps traceable to indignities suffered at the border as he was entering Germany . The guard , after searching his baggage , bad confiscated eleven bottles of hair tonic  --  Bullitt was just beginning to grow bald  --  and had forced him to disrobe . His bare body was A Washington Seer When the United States got into the war in 1917 , the War Department put in a claim for Bullitt 's services . He tentatively accepted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to sift secret reports on the Central Powers and co-ordinate them . He had his boots and uniform bought when Secretary Lansing requested him to head the State Department 's spy system . Bullitt declined because he disliked spies , but accepted a secondary suggestion that he take charge of the department 's Bureau of Central European Information . Here Bullitt served until the war was over , supplying material for many of Ii President 's state papers . Examples of the extent to which Wilson relied upon the young attaehe 's knowledge of European conditions and his judgment of the German mind are contained in the Seymour compilation , Intimate Papers of Colonel House ( Houghton Mifflin Company ) . For a long time before the Armistice , Wilson was cannily trying , through his public utterances and official messages , to disrupt the German spirit by playing the Socialists and Liberals against . the Imperialists . In broaching his famous Fourteen Points for peace in a speech to Congress on January 8 , 1918 , he cut a deep fissure in the ranks of war-weary Germany . But his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , accomplished the Brest-Litovsk peace with Russia . This temporarily squelched the elements in Germany which were calling for an end to the slaughter . The House papers comment : " ' It will not be long , ' wrote W. C. March n , t559 Bullitt , who was making a special study of the problem for Colonel House , ' before President Wilson can again appeal to the German Socialists and Liberals . But today a scathing indictment of German policy in the East would serve merely to unify the people behind the government . For the present , therefore , we had better fight and say nothing . ' " Each day Wilson would receive from the State Department a collection of excerpts from speeches and from the press of the rival German factions , together with Bullitt 's analysis of the trends . Of this work , the House book comments : " The memoranda based upon this collection ( of Socialist speech passages ) and upon an analysis of the German press , copies of which were sent to the President , when they are compared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ admirable insight on the part of the State Department official , Mr. W. C. Bullitt , who compiled them . " A Problem for the Map Maker Thus , in one sense , Bullitt actually did do something to justify his fouryear-old resolve to put a stop to war  --  he had at least had a part in bringing one war to a close . Toward the end he began to notice something familiar in the phraseology of the notes addressed to Wilson by Prince Max of Baden , who was German chancellor at the finish . Investigation verified a suspicion he had been entertaining that the chancellor 's notes were being written by Kurt Hahn , a young German who was a friend of Bullitt 's . The American recognized many expressions in the German communications which he and Hahn had bandied over beer steins during the Reich honeymoon visit of 1916 . The end of the war was a moment of spiritual exaltation to Bullitt . He had been in the thick of things diplomatic , had done a good job and had found in Wilson an idol who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ State Department . attach15 , now twenty-seven , was immensely pleased when he was selected as a member of the President 's Peace Conference party . When the liner George Washington , carrying the peace delegates , sailed for France on December 4 , 1918 , it sailed as to a crusade for the brotherhood of man , and no one reveled in the spirit of the expedition more than Bullitt . But before the vessel got to France , he had discovered a flaw in his idol . One day Wilson summoned several of the party , including Bullitt , to his cabin to discuss with them the remaking of the map of Europe along lines of simple justice . Like the schoolmaster he had been , the President sat back in a chair with his finger tips meeting at his vest and discussed new boundaries and new nations . As Bullitt recalls it , the President said at one point , " Of course , Bohemia will go to Czechoslovakia . " Bullitt 's Adam 's apple rose and snapped back . " Mr. President , " he said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about the three million Germans in Bohemia ? " " What 's that ? " asked the President , frowning . Bullitt repeated the query . " Are there three million Germans in " Bohemia ? " Wilson asked . " There are , sir , " said Bullitt . " That 's curious , " was the puzzled reply . " Masaryk never told me that "                     