@@469430

EVERY war of any consequence is fol-lowed by its military reaction . Immediately it is ended , martial minds begin to work . They strive to discover the formula for success and to analyze the causes of defeat . If , as is nearly always the case , the war has followed no established pattern , it is regarded as abnormal in character . No war , in fact , has been normal since the Napoleonic Campaigns , which set the pattern for over a century . Military tradition dies hard . The reactions of 1918 were more immediate and more thorough than usual . In reorganizing armies in the light of war experience there was hardly a nation which did not hasten back to the model of 1914 . Aircraft , tanks , and artillery were dismissed . There was unanimous reversion to the tricky foundation of enormous masses of infantry . Infantry was rechristened " the decisive arm . " No matter that heavy machine guns had become four to six times as numerous as in 1914 , that for each heavy machine gun there were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ explained how infantry , whose movement was paralyzed by fire in 1914 , can regain mobility in the presence of fire defense nearly trebled. * * Basing the calculation on the British Army , the theoretical capacity for fire of an infantry battalion compares roughly as follows : 1914 . Two heavy machine guns 1,000 rounds . SOO rifles 12,000 rounds . 13,000 rounds per minute . 1934. 10 heavy machine guns 10,000 rounds . 32 light automatics 16,000 rounds . 700 rifles 10,500 rounds . 36,500 rounds per minute . This refusal to face reality is no new feature . It is as typical as the almost superstitious faith placed in the equipment of the winning side . After 1870 , for instance , the British adopted the spiked helmet , in which the Prussians had fought so brilliantly . In it seemed to lie the germ of victory . Today many armies of the post-war states of continental Europe have adopted French patterns . Horizon blue is the winning color . And as the reality of war gives way to the clamor of theory , some change of tactics @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these the soldier pins all his hopes of success . So in 1914 the French staked all confidence of victory on two things ? the seventy-five and the offensive a outrance . The one was a technical achievement insufficient in itself to affect the issue . This childlike faith in a single weapon showed that the lesson of 1870 was forgotten . Then the Chasse pot , so immeasurably superior technically to the needle gun of the Prussians , was hopelessly defeated by leadership and training . The offensive a outrance was a staggering error in tactics . it permeated the French army like a disease which grew in strength as it increased its scope . It showed a disregard of every principle of tactics even more firmly established by the astonishing power of modern arms . The theory of the offensive a outrance was the refinement of the mind of Colonel de Grandmaison . It was the outcome of an deleted material In the face of modern armaments mobility is attainable in only two ways : by overwhelming fire with fire , or by some form of mechanized armor . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is again for large masses of infantry of the 1914 pattern . Provision , moreover , is being made for the future . In Rome and Berlin , in Budapest , Prague , and Belgrade , mass marriages are subsidized . Marriages mean children . Children eventually mean infantry . Infantry is cheap and is easily trained . But alone it is singularly ineffective . Quite early in the War it was discovered that it was no longer the infantry which attacked , but the artillery . It was necessary to destroy the enemy and demolish his defenses before the infantry could advance . A shield of fire ? the rolling barrage ? replaced the old infantry firing line . The infantry supported this shield with a function which was confined to advance and contact . When the limit of gun range was reached the advance had necessarily to cease . The idea was that a hole could be blasted in the enemy 's defense through which the infantry might advance unmolested . It was an expedient , and as an expedient it was a grotesque failure which reached its climax @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hundred and twenty thousand gunners . They fired four and a quarter million shells ? a total weight of a hundred and seven thousand tons ? in the initial bombardment . The gains both tactically and strategically were negligible . The price in blood was eight thousand two hundred and twenty-two casualties for each square mile gained . And square miles of what ? The intense bombardment churned the naturally waterlogged ground into a morass in which gunssank up to their hub caps , in which mules foundered girth deep , and in which overburdened men literally drowned . Dark figures black against the dawn sky advanced at a slow walk in lines of perfect symmetry . The machine gun took fearful toll . A stalwart machine gunner had but to feed and fire his gun to mow down the waves in swaths . He loosened the traversing screw . He swept slowly down the lines . His Number Two had but to see that the belt fed straight as the gun swung chattering on its mounting . A wisp of steam from the water jacket climbed slowly in morning air @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ essential to victory . " You ca n't make an omelette , " they said , " without breaking eggs . " " Blood , " they quoted , " is the price of victory . " How Clausewitz must have writhed in his grave . But that blood was not the price , for victory had not been won . It was merely a deposit on account . But at times some got through . They landed in shell holes . Under some natural leader little groups of men crept forward , outflanking the guns , stalking the gunners . That was how they gained their ground . And from the beginning those little groups might have gone out alone ? not in the symmetrical lines which offered such perfect targets . Then came the " blob " formation ? little irregular knots of men ? and the tactics of infiltration . " Soft spot " tactics they were called . They were an improvement on the symmetrical line . The price of victory in blood was somewhat reduced but it was still fantastic . The dice were too heavily @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the nineteen thirties is essentially the infantryman of 1914 . In a body he possesses greater fire power , but he is more than ever burdened with the load of his accouterments . Technical improvement has THE NATURE OF passed him by . He carries over sixty pounds dead weight of weapons , clothing , equipment , and food , more even than he carried twenty years ago . As far as his weapons are concerned , there has been no startling change . His rifle and bayonet are still the rifle and bayonet of prewar days , although various armies are flirting with the idea of providing their individual infantrymen with some sort of automatic weapon . To the military mind this possible improvement presents a problem of its own : it is assumed that it will be virtually impossible to keep the automatic-armed infantryman supplied with ammunition . To do so , it is said , would require in the individual infantryman the intelligence and ability to control his own fire under battlefield conditions . This argues a far higher standard of training , and in a short-service conscript @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enough to raise a shudder . The question of ammunition supply is vital , but such is the conservatism of the soldier that this very same argument has cropped up again and again through the centuries . Within the writer 's memory it was used against that admirable little trench weapon ? the Stokes gun . " How arc we going to supply it ? " The same thing was said forty years ago at the introduction of the magazine rifle , and earlier still of the breech-loader itself . It has probably been said of every weapon which requires ammunition replenishment ? from arrows for Assyrian bows to stones for Arcanian slings . But the military have always disliked new weapons , like Lord Napier , in the 1850 's of the last century , who objected to the conical bullet . It would destroy the infantry spirit , he said , by turning them into " long-range assassins . " And yet the automatic rifle is coinTHE ing . In fact , in one army at least it has probably arrived . The advent of the automatic rifle multiplies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ how to retain mobility in the face of fire is aggravated . The solution seems to lie only in the tank and the armored car . The armored vehicle is hailed as the infantryman 's salvation . The completely mechanized army is , therefore , a dream of the not too distant future . So far no country has had the boldness to institute completely so sweeping a change in conventional organization ? or else financial stringency has limited progress toward that end . But footslogging cannon fodder is already outdated . In terms of slain infantry , victory demands an ever increasing price of blood . It has now reached a price which no army and no nation can afford to pay . III Hitherto strategy has necessarily been based on roads and railways . It has been linear . Linear movement demands columnar formation . The slow snakelike column of marching infantry can move readily neither sideways nor backward . Like a snake , it is vulnerable along its length . The cumbersome unwieldiness and the tenderness of columns demand battle on a linear front wide enough to protect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the battle into a siege . Speedy cross-country movement opens up new possibilities in the conduct of war . To-morrow , we are told , we shall see invasion by powerful fleets of battle vehicles on a wide front at many points . There will be fast and deep penetration ? one hundred , two hundred miles in a day . The mechanical army will fight area battles , front , flanks , and rear , everywhere . It will make for centers of supply and production . It will seek to paralyze the resistance of its opponents with quick movement . Experiments have been made in mechanization , but infantry is still conceived as the mainstay of the force instead of becoming its accompaniment . However , on his own legs the infantryman does not move fast enough for this role . The speed of even the heavy tank , the thirty-tonner , has been increased to twenty miles an hour or more and its radius of action to a hundred and fifty miles . During the War it was a monster whose slow movements enabled it to be accompanied @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ infantry . To fit the picture the evolution of a new infantry is prophesied ? a true light infantry , a corps d'glite of the footslogger . Athletic , fast-moving , intelligent he must be . Lightly accoutered he will be , and armed with an automatic weapon whose fire he is capable of controlling for himself . He will have to be capable of independent action . He must be able to " infiltrate , " to penetrate where penetration is possible . Such action will call for intelligence and boldness . He will be the accompaniment rather than the mainstay of the mechanized force . He will be the landing party of the land fleet . The new light infantryman , we are told , will not be called on to travel on his own legs . He will be provided with speedy transportation which is proof against the bullet . He will be brought into action unfatig-ued . The natural obstacles , the forest and river , the swamp and mountain range , will then come into their own again as defenses . They can hold up the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The mobility and intelligence of flesh and blood are required to swim and clamber , to creep in mud and thread a way through trees . According to this program , we shall see the new infantryman brought to the scene of action under cover . He will carry nothing but his arms . He will be assisted by mechanized artillery served by gunners no longer clinging to jolting caissons . The dead rumble of artillery is gone . Well sprung and rubber-tired , the gun travels across country drawn by its tracked car in which the personnel ride in comfort . The new infantry ? fast-moving , unencumbered long-range assassins ? will crack the defense . They will guard the passage through to the more favorable country beyond . They will be taken on hoard again . The mechanical force travels fast . A hundred , two hundred miles a day in penetration fast , deep , and paralyzing . This stirring vision foresees war lifted from the filth of trenches . It is to be reinstated as a dashing affair of swift movement . The tank and the armored @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ impasse . A parallel has been drawn between land and sea fleets . The battleship is presumed to have its counterpart in the heavy tank whose size and power make it capable of surmounting almost any obstacle . Heavily armed and armored , it is the backbone of the land fleet . It is accompanied by its destroyer force of fast light tanks ? tiny two-man affairs whose speed on good ground may be as much as fifty miles an hour . By dispersion of the armored force casualties are reduced and the artillery defense broken down before it can do much damage . There are also the land cruisers , immensely fast-moving armored cars , wheeled for easy cross-country work , capable of very long distances . But the parallel is too facile . It is quite unsound . At sea there is no limit to the size of a ship . Heavier armor has been met by heavier armament . Heavier armament by in THE NATURE OF creased speed . On land such a race is not possible beyond certain limits . It is impossible to construct a land vehicle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the three-inch field gun , which is approximately standard the world over . The defense of the tank against the gun can not lie in size and armor-plate . Primarily , the tank is a weapon with which to overcome the machine gun and the rifle bullet . Only secondarily must it stand a fair chance of escaping the effects of gunfire . Its refuge lies in speed and maneuverability . At Cambrai in 1917 one gun destroyed tank after tank , picking them off one by one at short range as they followed one another in succession over a ridge . That was an exceptional target . It was the fulfilment of the gunner 's prayer . Now it is conceivable that the field gun to-day is at the mercy of the mechanized attack . It can not be relied on to be ranged , laid , and fired quickly enough . But it is no longer to the field gun that one looks for anti-tank defense . The most effective answer to the tank during the War was the tank itself . To-day mobility is met with mobility . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the mobile antitank gun ? a machine gun firing a thirty or forty millimeter armor-piercing shell any one of which is capable of putting a tank out of action . Mobility in defense will depend for a time at least on even greater speed in the attack . But the limit will soon be reached . The war vehicle must conform to certain essentials . It must be able above all things to protect its crew , to carry an armament , and to travel across country . Fulfilling all those conditions , unlimited speeds are unattainable . Again the dice are weighted in favor of the defense . The defense tank armed with a one and a quarter-inch machine gun in a turret amidship can deliver a stream of two-pounder armor-piercing shells at the rate of a hundred and fifty a minute . One in five is a tracer . It leaves a phosphorescent trail permitting the gunner to follow the track of the shell . On either flank of the tank there arc sponsons each with a half-inch machine gun firing armor-piercing bullets , three hundred rounds a minute @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The defense tank , itself as fast as the attack , has little to fear . It has one objective , the destruction of hostile tanks where and however they appear . The tank is extraordinarily vulnerable . It has innumerable tender spots ? its engines , its gasoline tanks , its ammunition magazines , its human personnel , its very tracks . It is not hard to render it immobile , and with mobility goes its one excuse for existence . Those visionaries who see in the mechanized force the remaking of war are doomed to disappointment . The limitations of the armored vehicle are imposed by its own character . Within limits there is a definite place for the armored force , but it does not offer an infallible solution of all problems . This faith in the unlimited power of machines is as touching as the childlike faith in the horse , which leads armies to experiment with transporting their cavalry , horses and all , in motor vehicles . It is like some child who is reluctant to put down some dear but worn-out toy which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the more dear for all that . In the intensified study of Napoleon 's campaigns , which followed the Franco-Prussian War , it became the universal fashion to put an artificial strategic value on cavalry . Koeniggratz and the charge of Margueritte 's Chasseurs d'Afrique at Sedan were forgotten . The Boer War and the war in Manchuria with cavalry immobilized by fire were disregarded . The cavalry school resorted to the astonishing argument that those wars were not normal . They went farther . No war , they said , had been normal since the Napoleonic campaigns . There followed the Balkan Wars with similar complaints of abnormality , and at last 1914 , which from the cavalry point of view , was the most abnormal of all . The blind cult of the horse had obliterated reality ; the one greatest factor of war was forgotten ? the bullet . It is doubtful if large masses of cavalry will ever again take the field . In 1914 a total of fifty-eight divisions were mobilized . A majority of the high command on all sides were cavalry officers . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Russia the original twenty-four divisions rapidly became fifty-four . They were immobilized not by shell and bullet but by sheer weight of fodder . The railways were congested with its mountainous bulk . In it was embedded one of the prime military causes of the revolution . It had become impossible to feed the troops . It is a strange reflection on the military mind that a supply question should finally decide the obsolescence of an arm which has militarily been obsolete for forty years . Of the twenty-five and a half million tons of supplies shipped across the Channel by the British during the War , the largest single item , exceeding even ammunition , was fodder at five million four hundred thousand tons . Gasoline takes the place of fodder in the supply field . Large as it looms , its bulk is more apparent than real . Considered in terms of mobility , it requires transport infinitely less in bulk and tonnage than oats and hay . Highly intensified mechanization assists supply , but it is absurd to suppose that it is the one answer from on high @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Machines can be rendered inoperative and men driven underground by the bullet . Blood still remains the price of victory . IV The press , more sensational in its descriptions than accurate in its deductions , has been responsible for some astonishing statements of the capabilities of aircraft in war . The flight of a Lindbergh , a Wiley , or a Post is followed by wistful complaints of the vulnerability of New York from the air . How absurd this is should be apparent . Both functionally and technically aircraft of 1934 differ little from the aircraft of 1918 . Faster perhaps ? but an airplane 's ability to remain in the air still depends on its capability for movement . More reliable ? but still at the mercy of the weather , still subject to technical failure or failure of personnel ; and in battle a single bullet may still effect complete destruction of both craft and crew . Aircraft to-day have a longer range , but the distance-flight mark bears little relation to the radius of action of aircraft in war . In peace-time , having reached @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ return . In peace fuel may take up all the available load . Those are not the conditions of war . Five hundred miles , less than a tenth of the distance-flight mark , would be a fair guess as the very limit of the bomber 's radius under war conditions . Essentially , aircraft are the same machines . Their weaknesses , though lessened , have not been overcome ; their strength still lies in speed , surprise , and in their capacity for three-dimensional movement . In function aircraft are bound to be more or less subordinate to movement by land and sea ; for air fighting is not an end in itself . It is only a means to an end . It is a commonplace that a navy can not completely carry out its primary function , which is control of the seas , until the fleet of the enemy has been destroyed . Hence destruction of the hostile battle fleet is a primary objective . Similarly , an army 's primary objective is the destruction of the enemy 's army . It is argued , therefore @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fighting services , it is also true that the primary objective of an air force is the destruction of the enemy 's air force . This argument fails to take into consideration the peculiarities of aircraft . There is nothing in air fighting which corresponds or can correspond with the defensive land battle behind barbed wire and in trenches , or with the bottling up of an enemy 's fleet by blockade . If it is difficult to bring a reluctant sea fleet to action , it is even more difficult to force action on an air fleet . Nothing can compel it to take to the air . Nnr can the attacker wait indefinitely for it to do so . Once brought into action , air forces are hard to defeat decisively . A Trafalgar or a Sedan in which a whole air force is crushed at one decisive stroke is inconceivable . It is in the attack on civil populations that aircraft can take effective independent action . There is presumably no doubt that civilians will be drawn more completely into the next war . To what extent they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on how fresh are the memories of the previous war . They will necessarily , however , be nearer to the battlefield . The perfection of mechanical contrivances has lessened distances . To be completely safe the civilian will have to live much farther from the seat of operations . It is supposed that there will be a mass air attack , possibly simultaneously with a declaration of war by a heavily equipped opponent . It would have all the advantages of surprise . It would be designed to destroy points of importance by a bombing attack which would so disrupt the national life that further resistance would be useless . It would so shatter undisciplined civilian morale that the victim would uncompromisingly offer his surrender . Those who argue the probability of such an attack point to the standard example of an initial surprise ? the attack of the Japanese torpedo boats on the Russian fleet lying within the security of Port Arthur . That , however , was a nonrecurring chance to strike at a single definite objective . The very nature of the situation precluded counter attack in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possible gain enormous . Such conditions are not common to air war on civilian populations . An air fleet which is apparently superior may have to face technical surprise either from the ground or in the air . During the War it was shown conclusively that the fate of air battles depended less on numbers of craft and the individual skill and gallantry of the fighting pilots than on the technical differences of the machine engaged . Should the attacking force fail of complete success , its air forces will have broken themselves against the bulwarks of the defenders . No longer will its ships be available for its fighting forces on the lower levels on land , on the sea and under the sea . Its own home country will be open to retaliation . A French authority on air warfare has arrived at the conclusion that the best form of the offensive is the mass attack from the air on the enemy 's Borne country , but that such an attack will be possible only provided three essential conditions are fulfilled : Provided the attacker possesses or obtains a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , or local ; provided targets exist whose destruction would so disrupt everyday life as to compel surrender ; and provided those targets are inadequately protected . Certain countries clearly offer themselves as better subjects for such action than others . The highly centralized countries , those which are most closely populated and highly industrialized , where there are exposed centers of distribution and manufacture , are ideal as objectives . Great Britain , for instance , offers a better target than Russia ; France , than Spain . But such attractive objectives are generally those which are most likely to be in a highly organized state of defense , both on the ground and in the air . The simultaneous fulfilment of all these condidons is unlikely at any time . The technic of anti-aircraft ground defense was at a great disadvantage when the War began . In the last years of the War it was definitely overtaking the offensive power of aircraft . During 1917 three hundred and forty-nine planes raided London by day and night . During 1918 only fifty-one came , and all by night . Daylight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In the last great raid on London , on the night of May 19 , 1918 , thirty-five Gotbas started out . Only thirteen managed to reach their objective . Three of the thirteen were shot down in aerial combat , three were destroyed by gun fire , one was forced down . Six of the luckless thirteen managed to struggle home . The success of the defense was final . There was no further bombing of London . In the intervening sixteen years the science of defense has received universal attention . It has been developed to a degree of efficiency unknown ; for these are matters of the highest secrecy . We know , however , that the anti-aircraft gunner to-day makes claims which we who observed his work with contemptuous amusement during the War would regard as frankly extravagant . He grids the sky with fog-piercing searchlights ; he has intricate arrangements of intersecting beams , of long base height and range finders , of electrical sound and direction detectors , his system of protective balloon hung nets , his motorized automatic anti-aircraft guns , his tracer projectiles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . And as ground defenses have improved , so have those of the air . In last year 's maneuvers in Great Britain , in which ground defense hardly figured at all , of forty-seven daylight raids only sixteen were able to reach their targets and return unmolested by the defense planes . In seventy-nine raids only twenty-three returned unintercepted . In each case the performance was less than one third of completely successful attack as far as molestation from the air alone was concerned . Everything was in favor of the attack . The countryside was undarkened . The distances to be traversed by raiders were very short , cutting down any warning the defense might get . In wartime the raiders ' difficulties would include all the known and unknown infinitely complicated factors of ground defense and actual air fighting . Fighting and pursuit planes to-day have climbing power and speed far higher in relation to bombers than during the War . Radio-telephone communication gives them another advantage which they did not possess in the War . They can now be directed and put in touch with their quarry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ improbable , at least in the early stages , the unfortunate citizen in spite of all dangers offers too good a target to be let alone . In the spasmodic bombings of the War mere material damage could not possibly have repaid the cost in effort and casualties . The moral effect however was incalculable . In 1918 three hundred thousand Londoners were being driven to refuge in tube stations every time the alarm was sounded . Trains stopped running . Munition plants were shut down . Essential services were interrupted . People had hysterics . Children 's nerves were shattered . This was damage which could not be measured in terms of money or casualties . In future the breakdown of morale may well be a primary objective of air attack . V Chemical warfare has been forsworn by most of the nations of the world . Gas defense , however , is universally practiced , and there is no nation which does not maintain a chemical warfare research department . These , it is claimed , are insurance against surprise . For , with all forswearing , gas will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the so-called " voluntary " society ( it has compulsory membership ) ? the Osoaviachim ? the League for Aviation and Chemical Warfare . In France gas has been included as an essential item in the enormous eastern frontier defense works . They are not a solid fortress line extending in unbroken mass from frontier to frontier , but a well-disposed series of strong points . Intentionally the French have left " trouees " much like the famous troudes de Charmes of pre-I914 days , which are designed to canalize the attack and reduce it to an easily destroyed form . In war the troudes will be drenched with gas and a high concentration maintained sufficient at least to handicap the attack . From gas in the defense it is but a short step to gas in the attack . World opinion , moreover , is prepared . Andeven if world opinion were not in so receptive a mood , we already know that small matters of international law are no restraint . There was a theory that offenders would be permanently outlawed from the comity of nations . As @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pas le bid supreme car audessus it y a la paix . " But the nation in extremis is concerned only with its very existence . Winning the war becomes its only aim . And yet chemical warfare at the time of its forswearing offered to the world the only hope for a warfare which might in any way be termed humane . To cause death is not the wish of even the most bloodthirsty general . Disablement serves his purpose far better . Then the human body which has been trained and brought up to the fighting front must be with infinite care and labor taken back again . It must be tended and supplied . It blocks roads and railroads with ambulances and hospital trains . From a tactical point of view temporary disablement serves the purpose as well as permanent . For this , gas is ideal , but for some reason there is supposed to be something ungentlemanly about it . Its use was proclaimed in 1915 with all the horror accorded to a new weapon . The wave of indignation which swept the world was equalled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the godly friars , Bacon and Schwarz . Aside from the absurdity of raising the point of legality in such an essentially lawless proceeding as war , by international law it is legal , and by custom it is considered more sporting , to rend the body and shatter the mind with prolonged bombardments of high explosive and to finish off with machine-gun fire and the tearing stab of cold steel . These kill and maim , injuring body and soul beyond hope of recovery . Even if the latter are not refs apart by the actual impact of metal , mere noise destroys the mind and kills the spirit . Men are driven insane . They claw their faces and dribble saliva from their lips . They die without a scratch on them . In the face of experience it is impossible to maintain that gas is less humane in its action than other weapons . In the British army there were 180,000 casualties* front gas . Of these 6000 died ? or approximately three per cent as against the twenty-five per cent of deaths among casualties* from other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cent of all casualties* were caused by gas , only two per cent died . Of the seventy-three per cent of other casualties the mortality was twenty-four per cent . Nor are there dreadful after effects . According to the report of the Surgeon General ( U. S. Army ) gas , contrary to accepted belief , does not increase its victim 's susceptibility to tuberculosis , nor does he commonly suffer bora any permanent injury . About a quarter of those wounded by weapons regarded as legitimate suffered permanent injury . Unfortunately , from the standpoint of more humane warfare , gas is a much overrated weapon . It is only effective under certain well defined conditions . It is a weapon of siege war where men fight in enclosed positions . It can be discharged where there is the man power to bring the cumbersome cylinders within range , and when there is time to await a favorable wind . It can be fired in drums from projectors or from guns in the form of shells , where targets are long enough in one position for the ammunition to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ targets , its dispersion is too quick , its action too slow , and its stopping power too small to make it universally effective . * Admitted to hospitals Thisis not to say that gas , though ineffective , is not dangerous . Obviously it has its perils , but its scope in warfare is not to be compared with the effectiveness and destructiveness of high explosives or machine guns . Of the total British wounded only about three per cent were gas casual . ties . On this basis gas as a weapon did not justify the enormous amount of labor and energy put into it . Tactically the principal advantage of gas lies in its psychological and fatigue value . As knowledge and skill in anti-gas defense improves , so does the psychological value recede into the background . Fatigue , however , remains . The mere possibility of gas means that every soldier , already overburdened with some sixty pounds dead weight of arms and equipment , must add an extra two or three pounds of respirator to his load . His already complicated technical training must include @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under the severe physical strain of fighting , he may be called on to wear his respirator . It deprives him to some extent of vision and totally of speech . He can not eat , drink , or sleep unless there is some provision for gas-proof shelters . There comes a time when the drawing of every breath becomes hard physical labor . But beyond fatigue the well-trained soldier has little to fear . Even the blister gases like mustard gas or Lewisite , with their low-killing power and their high nuisance value , can be overcome . During the War whole areas could be rendered untenable to friend and foe alike by drenching with a blister gas . Such was the case at Bourlon Wood and later at Armenti ? res . But to-day protected troops will be able to hold their positions . The very cloth for their uniforms is treated with anti-gas chemical before it is sent to the tailor . While the fear of gas has been trained out of troops , it still has a film hold on the psychology of peoples . During the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ far beyond its actual potentialities . There is no way in which gas can be used against a civil population except from the air . It is doubtful if such an attack is feasible . The quantity required to have any effect would be too enormous . For instance , to immobilize London for only two hours with mustard gas ? which would be the most likely agent ? would in theory require not less than one thousand tons of gas . In actual practice the amount might be from five to ten times as great . To distribute even the theoretical thousand tons would call for a fleet of not less than a thousand bombing planes . Such figures stagger the imagination . It is possible that there might he spasmodic gas bombing with a view to demoralize rather than to destroy . Its physical effect could only be trivial . Dr. Freeth , an expert on gas warfare , did not exaggerate when speaking in London he said , " There have been astonishing statements about the dangers from gas to the civilian in the next war . If @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sufficiently to close the window , put out the fire , and wait until the properly constituted authority had taken the necessary steps he would have little to fear . " There remains the possibility of chemical surprise . The possible extent and direction of invention must always be unknown . The unknown belongs to the realm of interesting conjecture . The probabilities , however , are vital , and Professor Norris * deals in probabilities when he gives it as his opinion that it is unlikely that new substances have been discovered which * Professor James F. Norris . Formerly President of the American Chemical Association . Liaison Officer for Chemical Warfare in London during the War . For some years consultant to the Anti ? gas Research Department of the U. S. Army.would be particularly valuable in gas warfare . During the War all known fields were explored to discover poisonous substances . If since then nothing chemically new has been discovered to make new gases available , there is no surprise in store . But the sober view of Professor Norris is as little likely to carry public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ citizen seems almost to welcome the terrorism of sensation . At least it serves to make the payment of taxes more palatable . Time and again in the history of armaments a new weapon has been invented to supersede all existing weapons . Time and again early optimism has been profoundly modified by trial and experience . Eventually there comes an effective answer to every new weapon . Future air attack will have to face perfected defenses . The armored vehicle may well be rendered obsolete by the anti-tank machine gun and the armor-piercing bullet . Gas is subject to rigid basic limitations which may reduce it to a position of minor tactical importance . These weapons are useful but not infinitely so . Each has its well-defined position of greater or less importance in the intricate pattern of the armament mosaic . Each contrives to make the conduct of war more complicated . Future war appears to hold no escape from stalemate in the field . The four years of the Great War offer one instance only of a notable campaign . Allenby 's campaign of Megiddo was brilliant in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Elsewhere stagnation was the rule . Victory in the field is unattainable without movement . Movement can not be achieved in the face of modern weapons . The circle is closed . War holds the same promise of bitter futility .                     