@@153654

Of the highly varied and highly delicate problems which frequently confront the U. S. State Department , one is what color to paint parlors and bathrooms in the some 300 U. S. embassies , consulates and legations in foreign countries . Another equally delicate problem lately has been what to do with a sprightly , bluish-haired widow whose 25 years as the wife of a career diplomat who was President Roosevelt 's first cousin obviously entitled her to something . Last week , the Department of State neatly solved both problems simultaneously with the announcement that Mrs. Warren Delano Robbins had been made an assistant chief of the Foreign Service Buildings Office . Mrs. Robbins ' job will be to specialize in " the furnishing and decoration of diplomatic and consular establishments abroad . " <P> If there is anyone thoroughly qualified to decide what shall go into the interior of foreign U. S. public buildings , Irene de Bruyn Robbins , who was reared by Belgian parents in the Argentine and whose hair turned prematurely white some years ago , should be so qualified . Her marriage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ diplomatic marathon in the course of which Mrs. Robbins , who knows how to sew , cook and speak five languages . opened and closed 33 houses in climates varying from 104 above zero to 44 below . In Berlin , Mrs. Robbins computed that she entertained 1,500 dignitaries in one year . In San Salvador , she once ordered stuffed turkey , got a fowl packed with old newspapers . In 1931 Warren Delano Robbins was installed as White House ceremonial officer , perhaps not the best post for him after the 1932 election , because sprightly Mrs. Robbins definitely preferred her husband 's socialite friends from New York 's tory Tuxedo to the seriously social-minded people who constituted Mrs. Roosevelt 's idea of compatible company . However , in 1933 the President appointed his cousin Minister to Canada and the Robbins moved to Ottawa . <P> When Warren Delano Robbins died in 1935 he left an estate which , surprisingly encumbered by debts , did not add up to much over $15,000 . Relict Robbins was forced to sell her comfortable Georgetown house , top off her career with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Inc. which lasted until her friend , Mrs. Sumner Welles , got her the appropriate but temporary niche of social secretary to the Inter-American Peace Conference at Buenos Aires , where Mrs. Robbins was the President 's unofficial hostess . Chore of decorating U. S. buildings abroad used to be done unofficially by the " Ladies of the State Department " who pondered plans sent them by the Foreign Service Buildings Office . In last week 's shakeup , Frederick Larkin , a widely traveled onetime Birmingham , Ala. contractor , considered an authority on architecture and construction , was made head of the Foreign Service Buildings office . As the State Department 's decorator , Mrs. Robbins will get $6,500 a year , a substantial expense account . Her first job : to decorate embassies currently being planned in Vienna , Berlin and Finland . Said Mrs. Robbins whose tastes ( see cut ) are striking :                     