@@487827

ADOPTION by the League of Sanction No. 4 , calling for an embargo on the export to Italy of key war materials which may be used for war purposes , places the United States in an extremely difficult position . Although this country does not export rubber , bauxite , aluminum , iron ore , nickel , manganese , tin , or any of the other items specifically barred from Italy under the new measure , it furnishes other supplies which are of even greater value to Italy in its illegal war against Ethiopia . The League deliberately included only those commodities in its embargo which are now obtainable exclusively from member states . But it drew up another and much longer list of essential products that are supplied primarily by non-League powers , chiefly the United States , and voted It sound out the nonmemter nations regarding action on these items . According to the figures of the Department of Commerce , Italian purchases of cotton waste , iron and steel scrap , copper , benzol , toluol , and xylol from the United States in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ volume of similar purchases in the first half of 1934 . These products are not included in the list of " implements of war " barredfrom export to belligerent countries under the President 's interpretation of the neutrality act , although the increase in exports is clearly attributable to war preparations . A simple chemical treatment is all that is needed , for example , to transform cotton waste into gun cotton , while Italy 's armament industry is completely dependent on the importation of steel scrap and copper . In continuing to supply these products to Italy in war time , American business is subsidizing Mussolini 's defiance of international law . N AN ATTEMPT to meet this challenge , President Roosevelt has sought to discourage all business with the belligerents by declaring that individuals and corporations carrying on such trade do so at their own risk . While this marks a significant advance over the concept of neutrality which the United States adopted at the beginning of the World War , its effect thus far has been extremely meager . The Ford Motor Company and several smaller concerns have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Italy and Ethiopia , but the great majority of American business establishments have shown very frankly that they do not intend to let such considerations as keeping the country out of war interfere with potential profits . The Standard Oil Company of New Jersey , for instance , has declared that it intends to ship to Italy " so long as there is no objection on the part of the United States government . " The General Motors Corporation , through its Near East subsidiary , is at present engaged in filling orders for 218 trucks and automobiles , valued at $235,000 , destined for Italian Africa . Scrap-steel exports to Italy are said to have stopped , but unusually large orders are reported from Austria and Germany and are almost certainly destined for Italy . Despite the President 's proclamation asking American citizens not to travel on the ships of warring countries , the Italian liner Rex recently arrived in New York with eight hundred American passengers . Obviously , something more strenuous than a polite request is necessary if American business is to be prevented from entering into engagements @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President has power under existing legislation to stop this indefensible trade . If he is unwilling to take the responsibility , he should call a special session of Congress and ask for a strengthening of the neutrality legislation . WITH DEVASTATING LOGIC , former Supreme Court Justice Jeremiah T. Mahoney , president of the Amateur Athletic Union , answers the protests of Nazi officials that the Olympic games at Berlin will be conducted according to the Olympic code . Charging that the German government is acting as self-constituted host to the Olympic games , that sport in Germany is government-controlled and therefore subject , like any other activity , to the anti-religious principles of the Reich , that German Jews have been discriminated against in sport as in other walks of life , that foreign Jews can not be assured of welcome in Berlin , and that the anti-religious bias extends not only to Jewish athletes but to Catholic and Protestant groups which do not subscribe to Nazi doctrine , Mr. Mahoney supports his charges with chapter and verse . His letter making cleat his position is addressed to Dr. Theodor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suspect as a non-Aryan and holding his position only as a result of the protests of the international sports community . Mr. Mahoney points out that Dr. Lewald , in spite of his official status , refuses to guarantee that placards insulting to Jews will not be displayed at the games ; he cites case after case in which Jews have been barred from German athletic clubs ; to Dr. Lewald 's protest that Jews are being trained for the Olympics in two training courses of from three to six weeks , he answers that the regulation training period of an Olympic champion is more like two years . And he winds up his letter by assuring Dr Lewald that he will put the weight of his office and his influence behind the movement to vote the United States out of the Berlin games next year . THE MOVEMENT against American participation is growing fast The Committee on Fair Play in Sports , under the chairmanship of George Gordon Battle and Henry Smith Leiper , has presented a letter of protest to Brigadier General Charles H. Sherrill , American member of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at its convention in Atlantic City joined with numerous other labor organizations in demanding that no American teams be sent to Berlin . The question will in effect be decided at the convention of the A. A U. early in December , when the resolution passed in 1933 urging withdrawal unless the Olympic code was observed will be reconsidered in the light of German declarations and actions since then The A A. U decides the membership of all non-collegiate teams ; if it supports withdrawal , the Intercollegiate American Amateur Athletic Association may be expected to follow its example . It is estimated that 50 per cent of the delegates to the A. A. U. convention in December will be opposed to participation  --  th'e Pacific Coast , Southern , South Atlantic , and New Jersey associations are already officially committed to the boycott . To bring the remaining groups into line it is only necessary for the American public to make clear , by protests and direct representations to athletic officials , its belief that fair play will not tolerate the Hitler Olympics . ANGELO HERNDON is on his way @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the chain gang . The Herndon defense has exhausted all the avenues of the judicial process to avert this vicious sentence against a young Negro whose sole crime was an attempt to organize Negro and white workers . The case has twice been presented to the United States Supreme Court and twice refused on the ground that the court has no jurisdiction . Herndon 's fate now rests with the Governor of Georgia . Two hundred and sixty-four delegates to the Herndon Action Conference in New York City on October 17 took a pledge which every person interested in the rights of workers may well echo : " We solemnly promise that we will never cease working , day and night , North and South , to inform all toilers of this nation of your faithfulness and your courage , and to rally them in one great triumphant movement to set you free . " Governor Talmadge can not be forced to hear this protest too often . And while the Herndon case is now out of the courts , the Gallup , New Mexico , miners charged with the murder @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ April , are still very much in the hands of the law . Seven of the ten men tried were acquitted on October 17 ; three were convicted of second-degree murder and have been sentenced to from forty-five to sixty years at hard labor  --  obviously the equivalent of a life sentence . Five of the acquitted defendants are to be deported , one to Spain and four to Mexico ; the remaining two are being held on charges of " aiding a prisoner to escape . " The case will be appealed to the highest court if necessary , and the National Gallup Defense Committee announces that it needs not only support in the form of protests but funds to carry on . BELIEVING that the hearings before a referee in San Francisco were a farce , Tom Mooney 's counsel appealed to the United States Supreme Court for a writ of habeas corpus . The court replied , as it did last spring , that every recourse in the California courts must be exhausted before the case could be considered in Washington A second similar appeal is now waiting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fifth week , are expected to last another month . Evidence of the Oxman perjury is piling up , and the complicity of the state 's officials in obtaining perjured testimony is daily becoming clearer . It has , of course , been clear for eighteen years . Everything about the Mooney case has been clear for eighteen years . Mooney was convicted on the alleged eyewitness testimony of three persons : Frank Oxman , a California cattleman , now dead and repeatedly proved to have been a liar when he said he saw Mooney at the scene of the bombing ; John McDonald , who has on numerous occasions vainly admitted that he lied when he said the same thing ; and Mrs. Edeau , who did not even say she was present , but who declared that her " astral body " was there and saw Mooney . If all this hocus-pocus had-not kept a man in San Quentin prison for eighteen years , it would be funny If it were not spread upon the records of various courts of law as fact , it would be incredible . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ repetition tiresome must be reminded that spending a lifetime in jail for a crime not committed is also wearing  --  and for those forces of society which keep a man there it is shameful . F MOST TRUSTS are big rackets , New York City 's 1- poultry racket is a little trust . Bloody and crude in its methods , it exacts $2,000,000 a year from the housewives of the city by price-fixing monopolies maintained by the use of gangsters and corrupt labor leaders . One of the labor leaders , whose name figures on the public-enemy list of the New York police , was ousted recently by his rank and file . But his injured feelings were assuaged by a generous coat of whitewash from the Butchers ' International on the eve of the A. F. of L. convention ; and as soon as a troublesome court injunction is lifted , the rank and file will lose their charter and Brother Charlie Herbert will get a new one . The opposition to Brother Charlie , of course , was labeled ( ( communistic " and will be dealt with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the latest public official to enter the lists against the racket . Under a new amendment to the Packers and Stockyards Act , all dealers and handlers of live poultry in the New York market will have to obtain licenses from the Department of Agriculture . ' Whether licerfing will end the evil remains to be seen . Evidence is necessary to refuse licenses , and witnesses are afraid to talk . Licensing holds the possibility of new litigation and new corruption . It might even be used against legitimate union activities . One of the scandals of the Walker regime was the refusal of the department to license eighteen independent dealers who refused to pay tribute to the poultry ring . Benjamin F. Schreiber , who had been Jimmy Walker 's campaign manager , appeared as counsel for the poultry trust in opposing the issuance of licenses to the independents . Conviction of sixty-six defendants under the anti-trust laws in 1929 failed to break up the racket . An NRA code had little , if any , effect on its efficacy in maintaining exorbitant prices for feeding , trucking , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ licensing plan will have better luck . THE PERSONAL SUCCESS of Pierre Laval , who was elected to the French senate from two districts , must count as an indorsement of his foreign policy , though not an impressive one Voting for the senate is by indirect ballot and does not register public opinion with any precision Strong surges of political change would be felt , but the time has not come for an overwhelming left-front victory , though certainly the vote showed no change from the drift in that direction . Socialists and Communists between them gained six seats , though at the expense of middle parties rather than of the right , which maintained its numbers Marcel Cachin , veteran Communist leader and editor of L'Humanzil , , becomes the first Communist senator , a sign of the changing order in France , where the cloistered senate was presumed to be safe from any rude proletarian incursion Despite his success Laval appears to be on the way out unless he scores a spectacular personal triumph as a peacemaker in Europe . A more moderate victory would not stem the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . ARTHUR HENDERSON died in the tragic knowledge that the two causes to which he had dedicated his life had gone into a long eclipse One was disarmament , the other the Labor Party . His greatest achievement was to build up that party to its strength in 1929 . With patience and diligence he devoted himself to fostering it in local districts , knowing that without deep local roots it never could hope for national power . Until the depression the future of the Labor Party seemed blessed , and it was reasonable to anticipate the day when it would win a majority and set about the gradual socialization of Britain . But the defection of MacDonald ruined the edifice which Henderson had built so painstakingly , and he turned to the field of disarmament . He already had made a name for himself as Foreign Secretary , to the surprise even of his closest friends . He threw himself into the new service without stint . He tried to rally world opinion , to cajole and even threaten governments . But here again destiny was against him . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Italian aggression have made disarmament an almost archaic conception ? Henderson was not a pacifist ; he not only supported conscription during the war but accepted membership in the War Cabinet of four , acts for which his ardent contribution to disarmament has largely atoned . Never doctrinaire , his was a plodding , sincere , and reasonable mind , free enough to bowl over traditions in Downing Street when he was Foreign Secretary but not alight with the fires that burned in MacDonald in his pacifist days , or in Lansbury during his brave leadership of the little band of Labor members in the present Parliament . He will long be remembered as one of the greatest political organizers of the post-war era . THE FOLLOWING SEQUENCE of events took place recently in the New York office of the Associated Press , a world-wide news service of great prestige . On October 7 the A. P. reverted without notice to the six-day week for its editorial employees . On October 9 the A. P. unit of the Newspaper Guild adopted for submission to the membership a resolution appointing the American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ collective agreement with the Associated Press . This resolution was introduced by Morris Watson , leader of the guild in the A. P. and vice-president for wire services on the guild 's National Executive Board . On October 17 the National Executive Board sent a letter to the A. P. requesting a meeting . It was marked for the attention of Kent Cooper , general manager . The letter , sent by registered mail , arrived at the A. P. office on the same day after business hours . On the following day Mr. Watson was called to the office of the executive news editor and fired . The news editor told Mr Watson that he was dissatisfied with his work . He added , " You are dissatisfied with the A P. and I am convinced that you will be happier elsewhere . " The discharge of Mr. Watson , who had been on the staff for seven years and , until he became active in the guild , was regularly assigned to cover important stories , raises the issue of collective bargaining even more sharply and clearly than the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the case is clearly within the provisions of the Labor Disputes Act . NEARLY ONE HUNDRED PERSONS a day were killed in the United States in 1934 by automobile accidents , a total of 33,980 , or 23 per cent more than in 1932 . This is a rate of 26.9 per 100,000 of population , as against 23.3 for 1933 . It must be remembered that automobile fatalities are far down on the list of causes of death : the rate for diseases of the circulatory system , including heart affections , was 293 in 1933 , for cancer it was 126 , for pneumonia 87 , and for nephritis 78 . But since automobile deaths may be regarded as in large measure preventable , the figures are sufficiently horrible to cause national concern . It is interesting to note that the death-rate tends to be lower in the areas of most congested traffic . Illinois is nineteenth on the list , Pennsylvania is thirty-second , and New York thirty-ninth . The dubious honor of having the highest death-rate goes to Nevada , with Wyoming , Arizona , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 45 , 44 , and 42 respectively . It will be seen that in general the rate is high in states possessing long stretches of open road and little traffic congestion . It is high , in other words , where high speed in driving is possible . During the last five years  --  when fatalities have steadily increased  --  moderate- and low-priced cars have been increasingly capable of more speed . And it is plain that the faster you go the harder you hit , the more difficult it is to keep a car under control , and the more likely is some fault in the mechanism to produce fatal results . It is an interesting support for this theory that in Rhode Island , where the death-rate is lowest-14.6 -- a speed of forty-five miles an hour on the open road'is rigidly enforced . 