@@487346

WE greet with enthusiasm the announcement made by Mary van Kleeck at the International Industrial Relations Institute that a group of technicians are already at work on a social-economic plan for raising the standard of living of the American people . The personnel of the new group has not been disclosed , but it is said to include experts from the fields of architecture , engineering , economics , education , and pfiblic health . The fact that the group is not working under the auspices of the government or any of the more conservative foundations , while it may be an embarrassment financially , is perhaps the best guaranty of independent and constructive thinking . Unhampered by the necessity of compromising with existing political and economic interests , it will have a free hand in determining the productive possibilities of the American economy and the goals for progressive political action . By focusing attention directly on the problem of improving standards of living , it should prove even more useful than the survey made by the Brookings Institution or that recently conducted by Harold Loeb . While @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ specific economic or political program at present , it begins , rightly we believe , by challenging the prevailing theory that our poverty is the result of abundance . Actually , of course , we are faced by a shortage rather than a surplus . The Department of Agriculture has estimated that if each person in the United States were to have a " liberal " diet , containing all the necessary elements of nutrition , it would be necessary to increase the 1929 production of milk by 53 per cent , of butter by 108 per cent , of leafy green and yellow vegetables by 79 per cent , of citrus fruits by 84 per cent , and of eggs by 43 per cent . Some additional production of lean meat is also indicated , though there could be a substantial decrease in the output of the cheaper starches and fats . To meet the full food requirements of the American people would require approximately 40,000,000 acres more than were utilized in 1933 . Curiously enough , while the government itself was putting out the statistics showing this shortage , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a further reduction in acreage of precisely this amount-40,000,000 acres . In the other spheres of our national economy the deficit of production is even more appalling . A large but unknown proportion of our houses are unfit for human habitation . This is true not only in the cities but also in mining communities , mill villages , and agricultural regions . To provide adequate housing for all the people of the United States within the next ten years would tax our vaunted productive resources to the limit , if indeed it could be done within that period . A serious shortage exists even in cotton textiles . But the deficiency is most critical , of course , in the development of education , public health , and the arts and sciences . In the face of an increase of 24 per cent in high-school enrolment in the past few years , the number of teachers and school administrators has actually decreased . Thousands of rural schools have been completely closed , and at least 2,000,000 children deprived of the education required by law . The inadequacyof medical care , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scandal . The Committee on ' the Costs of Medical Care showed that families having an income of less than $3,000 annually were obtaining less than half the medical attention they should receive , while preventive public-health service is almost non-existent . Similarly , the dearth of cultural and recreational opportunities for families of moderate income in this country would seem incredible to the modern Russian , German , or Scandinavian . How long it would take , even under favorable political conditions , to increase production sufficiently to give the American people a " liberal " standard of living is , of course , difficult to determine . The I. R. I. research group believes that it would require a year to bring farm and industrial production back to the level of 1929 . Assuming the plan in actual operation , at least three more years would be needed for exploration and research " to enable the collective group of workers , including scientists and technicians , to begin the period of expansion . " The next six years would be devoted to expansion , but no prophecy is made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time . Preliminary indications of what this program would involve are available only with respect to agriculture . It is estimated that a ' mere beginning in the production of the necessary crops could be made during the one-year emergency period , and that at least three years would be necessary to increase the amount of milk so that it would be sufficient for the needs of a " liberal " diet . In the case of citrus fruits an even longer period might be required . Whether the increase in agricultural production would bring larger returns to the farmer depends of course on the correlation of the agricultural plan with that for increasing the productivity of industry . One of the most immediate needs of the agricultural population , particularly in the South , is adequate housing . Obviously this will require time , but it has been suggested that in the interval fabricated houses might be built on a temporary basis which would at least allow more comfort than is now possible . Even a longer period would probably elapse before educational and cultural needs could be fully met @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ teachers would go a long way toward remedying the existing deficit . Lest fancy and enthusiasm take us too far astray , however , it is necessary to realize that more than lack of a plan stands between the United States and the type of society which the planners envision . Planning itself is not a panacea for the difficulties of the modern world . As a technique it possesses great potentialities , but there is no guaranty that it will be utilized for social ends . It may be used either to coordinate the activities of men in their common interest , or to tighten the strangle-hold of unscrupulous interests . In other words , the problem of power must be solved before true social planning can be brought into operation . But meanwhile much profitable exploratory work can be done , and if the planners can show us clearly enough the possibilities which lie before us , the problem of power should be easier of solution . Security or War in Europe T HE past few weeks have found Pierre Laval taking up Barthou 's unfinished program for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he has sought to persuade Warsaw and Berlin to reconsider their rejection of the proposed Eastern Locarno . In much the same language as that used by his predecessor , the French Foreign Minister has asked Germany , somewhat pointedly , whether it intends " to subscribe to or avoid its European duty . " This duty , he hastened to add , lies in the preservation of existing frontiers . In his plea for a general non-aggression pact M. Laval has , of course , the full backing of the Soviet Union , which was among the first to suggest agreements of this type . He also has the support of the British government , which , although not directly involved , has instructed its diplomatic representatives to use their influence in favor of the project . Recent revelations of the strength of the German air force have undoubtedly sharpened Britain 's interest . Despite the assistance of the other leading Powers , however , the French must look upon this renewed invitation to the Reich more as a means of embarrassing Hitler than as a serious attempt to win @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ where to spurn a pact pledging mutual non-aggression will be construed as evidence of aggressive intent , but approval would involve repudiation of an important part of his avowed program . Under the circumstances the chances are overwhelming that Germany and Poland will both reject the proposal . Poland , while not allied with Germany , obviously neither nor or dares to court Hitler 's displeasure . In case the Eastern Locarno collapses , M. Laval will have an additional incentive for pushing negotiations with Italy , where once more the outlook appears promising . Agreement is reported to have been reached already on the majority of the issues between the two countries , including Italy 's claims in Libya and Tunis and the troublesome question of naval parity . In each case France appears to have given way at least in part to long-standing Italian grievances . Still unsettled , however , is the even more difficult problem of Italy 's relationship to Austria . While France would naturally be inclined to support the Italian government in its self-appointed task of preserving Austrian independence , to pledge such backing would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foundations of the French security program . The situation has not been improved by the filing of the Jugoslav protest to the League of Nations charging the connivance of Hungary in the assassination of King Alexander . Immediately upon receiving news of the protest , Premier GOmbiis of Hungary left for Austria on a " hunting trip , " and it is expected that as a result of his prowess both Austria and Italy will support Hungary when the question comes up for discussion before the League . Until this difficulty is somehow bridged  --  and no one sees just how this can be done  --  the Franco-Italian agreement will remain uncompleted . Meanwhile there is the question of the Saar , with the plebiscite now scarcely a month away . The agreement signed at Rome on December 3 by representatives of Germany and France will undoubtedly do much to relieve existing tension . Arrangements have been made which will enable Germany to pay for the mines without additional strain on its meager gold reserves , and in exchange for this concession the Reich has agreed to respect all rights acquired @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ insurance , and to refrain from discrimination on account of race , religion , or political belief . Yet encouraging though this agreement is , it can scarcely be said that all danger of conflict has passed . Cer ? tain details regarding the payments remain to be worked out , while other important points have been completely ignored . Although Germany is almost certain to obtain a majority in the Saar as a whole , what will happen in case part of the territory votes to remain under League control ? Is it not still possible that France may feel called upon to suggest that the district be divided in order to carry out the " will " of the electorate ? That France has not given up hope of influencing the poll was indicated , indeed , by Laval 's repetition of the previous announcement that another opportunity will be given the Saar to vote on union with Germany in case it decides to retain League control in the forthcoming plebiscite . Before this vote is taken , France will doubtless seek to make certain that the encirclement is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Germany 's refusal to join an Eastern Locarno would make an international understanding the more imperative . Whether this will take the form of a military agreement between France and the Soviet Union , as M. Archimbaud hinted , or merely the development of existing non-aggression pacts is an open question . Some arrangement for Soviet adherence to the original Locarno treaty in exchange for French support of an Eastern non-aggression pact appears most likely . While this step would differ from a pre-war alliance by being incorporated within the framework of the League peace machinery , it savors enough of the old Triple Entente to raise the question whether it would not in fact help to perpetuate the war system . Yet what alternative is there ? If the situation is merely allowed to drift , the drift will inevitably be to war . Clearly there is no guaranty that a conflict can be avoided through dependence on international action , but the active cooperation of the two most powerful countries in Europe might at least postpone the debacle long enough to give the forces of peace another opportunity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Health Insurance T HE President 's promise that legislation for compulsory health insurance will be pressed in the new Congress indicates how far and how fast we have traveled . Only two years ago this month the Committee on the Costs of Medical Care completed its now famous report . It was greeted with general public approval and with the unanimous and violent opposition of organized medicine . At the meeting called to make it public , advance proofs of Dr. Morris Fishbein 's editorial in the Journal of the American Medical Association were distributed to the assembled newspapermen . Dr. Fishbein said that the committee 's program would mean " the destruction of private practice , " and that it was backed by forces " representing the great foundations , public-health officialdom , social theory  --  even socialism and communism  --  inciting to revolution " ? surely one of the most surprising united fronts on record ! Incredible though it now seem , the Committee on the Costs of Medical Care advocated , not compulsory insurance , but merely voluntary arrangements by groups of patients and doctors to meet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ annual payments by all who subscribed instead of in large and unexpected amounts by those who happened to be ill . Thereafter any attempts by the public to budget the cost of sickness were scornfully opposed as " socialized medicine " by this most bourbon of the professions . With the single exception of the 1 Iichigan State Medical Society , not one plan has been put forward officially by American physicians to protect the public from the economic hazards of illness  --  and themselves from the notorious insecurity of their own incomes . Today Dr. Fishbein and his confreres are sitting on the sidelines watching a procession pass them by which they themselves should have led . They have painfully admitted the possibility that some degree of socialization is inevitable , but its form and manner of introduction are being determined by their old opponents . Two of the leading figures on the staff of the Committee on the Costs of Medical Care ? Edgar Svdenstricker and I. S. Falk  --  have been chosen by the President 's Committee on Economic Security to prepare the official report on health insurance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ likely that this subject would be left out of the Administration 's program for social security . Although the President 's original speech on security mentioned health insurance , Administration spokesmen had said less and less about it and more and more about unemployment insurance . Last June the American Medical Association passed a resolution declaring that " the immediate cost of medical service should be borne by the patient able to pay at the time the service was rendered " ? a flat denial of the principle of insurance . Following this , individual members of the profession tried to convince the President and members of the Cabinet committee that the great majority of doctors were opposed to health insurance . The Administration 's subsequent hesitation and hedging brought an unusual number of letters to the President and his advisers from influential laymen and a few doctors urging that health insurance be kept in the program . The President 's latest statement to his advisory committee made it clear that it is still there , though perhaps not in quite as positive a form as many of us would like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the most immediately practicable and financially possible form of economic-security legislation . Sickness , because it is more predictable than unemployment , is more readily insurable . Then , - too , health insurance calls for no great outlay of money . It would merely spread the costs of existing medical and hospital facilities thinly and evenly over the bulk of the population instead of placing the burden on the weakened shoulders of those who are ill at a time when they are least able to bear it- The arguments for immediate health-insurance legislation are unanswerable . Sickness comes like a thief in the night to all of us  --  employed or unemployed  --  and robs us of our security . That protection against this hazard should have been so long delayed in the United States is a shocking example of our social immaturity.                     