@@141832

Visiting in Manhattan last week was a kindly , frosty-chinned churchman of 79 , an Icelander and a Jesuit , whose Norse ancestors included such worthies as Queen Aud , widow of Olaf the White , King of Dublin , Thrd Gellir the Godar , who re-formed Iceland 's Althing ( Parliament ) in 965 , Loftur Guttormsson the Rich . Hrlfur Bjarnason the Strong and Svenn Thrarinsson who was a procurator and royal farm manager in 1857 . When a son was born to Svenn Thrarinsson , he named the babe Jon Svensson . But Jon 's mother nicknamed her child " Nonni , " and when the boy grew up he popularized that name in Europe in many a book about himself . Spry at 79 , " Nonni " Svensson , S.J. turned up at Fordham University last week , willingly rehearsed his story for the Press . " Nonni " did not live long on the Icelandic farm of his birth . At 12 he was one of two healthy boys chosen to be educated in France at the expense of a rich nobleman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ youths got no farther than Copenhagen because of the Franco-Prussian War . Cared for by the bishop and clergy of that city , " Nonni " was converted to Catholicism , then skipped off with a troop of gypsies , was found by police after many an adventure . The two young Icelanders finally arrived in France in 1871 , by which time " Nonni " had discovered a vocation for the priesthood . He studied at a Jesuit college in Amiens , there entered the Jesuit novitiate , was packed off by his superiors to Germany to teach Latin , history , modern languages . Not until he was 56 did " Nonni " Svensson begin writing books about himself , but after that he wrote copiously : four volumes alone concerning his childhood , twelve altogether , which have sold 6,000,000 copies in 30 languages . <P> Two years ago Father Svensson 's German provincial returned from a trip to Japan , asked the Icelander if he would not enjoy a similar jaunt . Permission was granted by the General of the Order in Rome , providing Father Svensson @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reputable doctor 's assurance that his health was perfect , pay his own way . Father Svensson in good shape save for a touch of rheumatism in one leg , raised money for his trip by lecturing in France , Switzerland , Germany , set out for Japan via the U. S. and Canada . <P> For Fordham University , Father Svensson 's arrival last week was eventful . The erect , twinkling-eyed Icelander turned out to be wearing the fedora hat of the late great priest-chancellor of Austria , Monsignor Ignaz Seipel , with whom Father Svensson lived in Vienna and at whose death the Jesuit was present . Fordham 's Jesuits made a quick deal with their colleague , bought him a new hat and acquired Monsignor Seipel 's for the University museum .                     