@@487785

THE SIMPSON REPORT and the British government 's declaration of policy on Palestine , issued at London on October 20 , were received with a storm of criticism in Jewish circles . Sir John Simpson reported that the arable land available was strictly limited , that the Arabs have not been receiving sufficient consideration in its allocation , and that Jewish immigration should be better regulated and in some categories entirely stopped until the landless Arabs are better provided for . Lord Passfield , speaking for the British government , in the statement of policy emphasizes British responsibility under the mandate for fair and considerate treatment of Moslems as well as Jews , takes a firm position in favor of the restriction of Jewish immigration , flatly approving the suspension of last May , and states the purpose of the mandatory power to set up a new form of government consisting of a high commissioner and a legislative council , twelve of whose members are to be elected . Finally he declares that the government will carry out its policy firmly , irrespective of " any pressure of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ denounces the declaration of policy as " a repudiation of the solemn pledge given by the British government to the Jewish people , a violation and breach of the mandate . " Dr. Chaim Weizmann is also resigning in protest against the British policy as president of the Jewish Agency for Palestine and head of the Zionist World Organization . A T LAST THE PRESIDENT has taken official cognizance of the unemployment crisis . During a year of profound depression and deepening distress the chief contribution of the Administration , in addition to a series of widely advertised conferences last fall , has been to issue a number of fatuous announcements of prosperity tomorrow . The President now appoints a committee consisting of six Cabinet officers and the governor of the Federal Reserve Board to formulate " plans continuing and strengthening the organization of federal activities for employment during the winter . " We are grateful for this acknowledgment of the seriousness of the situation . That aside , it is hard , in view of past performance , to hope for much more from the Administration than a further development @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unemployment thus far . There is the same talk of devising plans , as though unemployment had just come upon us suddenly , the same talk of collecting data , the same talk of cooperation with this , that , and the other group . Never was there greater opportunity for a President to rouse public attention to the social menace of unemployment and to initiate those great measures of industrial planning and unemployment insurance that are essential to prevent the recurrence of present conditions . John D. Hunter , superintendent of the United Charities of Chicago , declares : " We are face to face with the worst winter the United Charities has known since 1866 . " Despite the President 's failure to lead , State and city governments , employers large and small , and charitable organizations are all bestirring themselves , both in direct relief undertakings and in efforts to enlarge the volume of employment . It is impossible to prosecute immediate measures with too great zeal , but we can not afford to let slip the present opportunity to make better provision against the future . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ never ' entered his head , when he indited his message of greeting and felicitation to American Lutherans , a propos of the four hundredth anniversary of the first reading of the Augsburg Confession , that what he wrote would be ' interpreted as an affront to Roman Catholics , and it was rather silly of the Reverend John J. Burke , general secretary of the National Catholic Welfare Conference , to rush forward with a denunciation of the message as " an insult to many millions of American citizens . " Mr. Hoover belongs to a sect noted for its tolerance , and the last thing he would think of doing is to insult anybody about religion or anything else . Nevertheless , he ought to remember that whatever a President says is certain to be carefully scanned , and if he must say something from time to time about history , economics , or other subjects with which he manifestly is not familiar , his words should be scrutinized by some friendly but competent person before they are made public . Assuredly there must be someone in his battalion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ making so bad a break as that of identifying Luther with " the principle of separation of church and state . " One way out of the difficulty would be to have a secretary sign the communications in Mr. Hoover 's behalf , as other sovereigns do . A message of congratulation could then begin with the formula " I am directed by the President to extend to you , " etc . If the extension then went too far , the secretary could be made to shoulder the blame and the President 's reputation for wisdom and discretion would be unimpaired . RITISH HIGH-HANDEDNESS in the treatment of American commerce during the first years of the World War stands sharply revealed in the belated volume of diplomatic correspondence for 1916 just issued by the Department of State . The publication of the volume was delayed , it is said , because of fear that its revelations might have a bad effect on the London naval conference . The fear was well grounded . The documents show , for example , Great Britain arbitrarily preventing hosiery knitting needles made in Germany @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time the only source of American supply , notwithstanding that Great Britain itself was importing the same articles . Mediterranean and Portuguese fruits were allowed to be shipped freely to the Netherlands while American shipments were restricted . Secretary Lansing did not mince words in denouncing these and a long list of similar acts as " violations of fundamental principles of international rights , " and , in the case of the American steamer China , demanded and obtained an apology for the seizure of thirty-eight Germans by a British cruiser and their eventual release . All this while , it will be remembered , the British government , ably assisted by Ambassador Page , was moving heaven and earth to bring America into the war . The papers also reveal a near break of diplomatic relations with Germany over the sinking of the Sussex , and throw some further light on President Wilson 's peace overtures to the belligerents . S ECRETARY WILBUR comes under the fire of the People 's Legislative Service for retaining the presidency of Stanford University , with its heavy public-utility investments , at the same @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The university , it appears , has some $7,000 , - 000 , or about one-fourth of its endowment , in utility bonds , and the companies are also strongly represented on the Stanford board of trustees . Now Secretary Wilbur , plainly enough , will think no differently on the power question whether he is or is not president of Stanford , and of course no one would for an instant suggest interested or improper motives ; but the well-known relations thus called once more to attention illustrate afresh the difficulties of public regulation . In appointing F. E. Bonner as executive secretary of the commission , Mr. Wilbur naturally sought the advice of his old friend Paul Downing , president of the Pacific Gas and Electric Company . Just as naturally he is bound to be affected to some extent by the views of his power associates on the university board of trustees . The companies may be depended on to look after their own interests before the commission . The public must depend on an alert and informed commission to protect its interests . Its membership ought to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ EWSPAPER OBSERVERS are agreed that the Democrats will make substantial gains in the Congressional elections ; Democratic leaders are certain they will ; Republican leaders reluctantly admit their party will suffer a number of losses . It appears merely a question of whether the Democrats will win the House or fall short of control by a few seats . Should they win , it might be worth while for Mr. Hoover to begin looking about him for another residence that will be vacant after March 4 , 1933 , for the records of elections in the last sixty years show that except upon one questionable occasion ( the Tilden-Hayes affair ) the party in power that has lost control of the House of Representatives in a mid-term election has invariably lost the White House in the ensuing Presidential election . In 1882 the Republicans lost the House ; in 1884 Cleveland , a Democrat , was elected President . In 1890 the Republicans again were swept out of power in the lower chamber ; in 1892 Cleveland was elected for his second term . In 1894 the Democrats were routed in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , won the Presidency . In 1910 President Taft saw his party deprived of control of the House ; in 1912 Wilson , a Democrat , was voted into the White House . - In 1918 the Democrats , despite Wilson 's partisan plea to the country , failed to hold the House ; in 1920 Harding , a Republican , was elected President , And in 1930 the Democrats stand a good chance of wresting Congressional control from a Republican Administration . ? AL STORM BEHIND CLOSED DOORS is about all we hear of the President 's Law Enforcement Commission . Rumors of disagreement emerge from time to time , but little is definitely known of the deliberations . Chairman Wickersham announced , after the session of early October , that since adjournment would be taken until after Election Day there would not be time to formulate any definite statement on prohibition  --  which is evidently the moot question  --  before Congress convened in December . Judge William S. Kenyon , one of Mr. Wickersham 's colleagues , a few days later promised to report on prohibition soon after Congress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eighteen months . It was one of Mr. Hoover 's first children , and one wonders if he has ever been tempted to disown it . Aside from the somewhat vaporous outpourings of its chairman , and several rather technical recommendations concerning the enforcement of the prohibition laws , it has made no public report of its work . It was created as a fact-finding body and is suspected of having degenerated into a factional political group ' which will not , or dare not utter a yea or a nay . Meanwhile Chairman Wickersham has distinguished himself by advocating careful inquiry into the results of flogging as a punishment " to determine the desirability of employing it in the war against banditry and racketeers . " One can only hope this is not a fair sample of the commission 's conclusions when they shall finally be made . DWIGHT W. MORROW is doing his best to destroy the Morrow myth . Since he accepted the post of Ambassador to Mexico , there has been growing up a tradition of a calm , quiet , courageous business man who will apply @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ His anti-prohibition speech of last spring brought him praise for its honesty , even from those who disagreed with him . The opening addresses of his formal campaign for the senatorship , however , though admirably non-partisan in form and manner , none the less resolve themselves into a defense of the Hoover Administration and its do-nothing industrial policy , and a plea for the Republican ticket . The war is responsible for the depression , and courage and faith are the candidate 's prescription for ending it . The President is a potent factor for peace . Now , if Mr. Morrow thinks as highly as he seems to do of President Hoover 's administration of our affairs , he is perfectly entitled to say so , but he is little likely thereby to add to his reputation as a profound thinker or a farseeing leader of public opinion . If he has original or important ideas on our present distresses , he has concealed them with great success . PARLIAMENTARY GOVERNMENT in Germany has been given a six weeks ' reprieve . The dictatorship has been postponed , at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ respite . Had it refused to give Chancellor Bruning the support he needed for certain minor but very necessary measures there is no question that President von Hindenburg would have ordered its dissolution and would , under Article 48 of the Weimar constitution , have placed dictatorial powers in the hands of the Cabinet . The Reichstag by a surprising majority approved the legislation needed to legalize the Bruning Government 's acceptance of the $125,000,000 international loan , and the 1930-31 budget with its necessary enabling acts ( which were adopted with the help of the Socialists , although in July the Socialists voted against these measures and thus led to the dissolution of July 16 ) , and it also rejected the numerous motions of non-confidence . Nevertheless , the Briming Cabinet is not yet out of the woods . There is still the task of obtaining parliamentary approval for the drastic financial-reform program , debate on which will probably begin December 3 . The plan , principally because of its wage cuts , hits the working classes so much harder than it does the industrialists and the moneyed classes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ support it . Without Socialist help the plan can not win in the Reichstag . M EANWHILE THE STREET FIGHTING , sym- bol of deeply felt political unrest , continues throughout Germany . How many persons have been killed and injured in these minor riots and brawls can not be accurately stated , but it has been estimated that about 60 have died and perhaps as many as 800 have been wounded or injured since January 1 . Following the September 14 elections there was a marked increase both in the number and in the intensity of these riots . Hoodlums have doubtless contributed to this state of affairs  --  the lowest elements in a community are only too eager to take advantage of opportunities such as those offered in Germany today  --  but the street fighting can not be explained away on the grounds of hoodlumism . There have been too many fascists and Communists openly participating in the fighting . The political background of the street battles has been everywhere apparent . Native German caution and level-headedness may be expected to prevent this effervescence from boiling over , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Germany stands in danger of an explosion that might readily be felt throughout the Western world . ' T HE INDIAN DELEGATES to the London Round Table Conference reached Marseilles on October 17 . According to a dispatch from George Slocombe to the London Daily Herald , as reported in the New York Times , they have been engaged in drawing up a " minimum constitution , " representing the least they can accept at London . Mr. Slocombe quotes Sir Tej Bahadur Sapru , Moderate leader , as saying , " If all other parties to the conference realize that India will not be satisfied with anything less than the immediate granting of self-government and that we have come prepared to negotiate on this basis , settlement is possible . " Of course , " the immediate granting of self-government " means what it means , but if it means what it says , Indian Moderates would appear to have moved surprisingly far toward the position taken by the Nationalists , and agreement at London will seemingly require concessions hitherto deemed impossible by the British government . Conciliation is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Congress organizations , swiftly followed by the arrest and trial of no less than 350 Nationalists in Bombay . Thoughtful and informed men in Great Britain are profoundly concerned . WE WERE MUCH COMFORTED the other morn- ing by Henry Ford 's optimism . He was quoted as saying he thought " that the world is getting to a good , sound basis of working conditions . I think that industry has never been so promisingly active as it is today . " Germany , he noted , " seems to be very prosperous and busy . " In France " everybody is working . " Conditions in England " are infinitely better than two years ago . " Mr. Ford probably has access to inside information that is denied the rest of us . We really should , therefore , discount the sad tales of economic depression coming to us from Europe . It does not seem possible that Germany can have 3,000,000 unemployed workers and be faced with a financial crisis if it is actually " very prosperous . " The Berlin correspondents are probably in league with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up a big bluff in declaring that " a large class of the German people is meeting with increasing want and privation . " Labor in England has probably invented the unemployment crisis there for political purposes and falsified the foreign-trade statistics , which show a continuing slump . Nevertheless , Mr. Ford ought to be commended for supporting his convictions by raising the wages of Ford workers in Germany . THE . MITION takes pleasure in noting the addition of the new Yale undergraduate publication , the Harkness Hoot , to the ranks of the lively periodicals . The Hoot has more dignity than its name might indicate , but it is none the less outspoken in its revolt . Its editors , William Harlan Hale and Seldon Rodman , two seniors who were active last year as editors of the Yale Literary Magazine , announce that they " observed with intense disappointment that publication 's total lack of influence in the undergraduate world , its self-conscious removal from campus interests , its artiness and preciosity . . . . Always conservative , the Lit. has become meaningless to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on tradition " only as a basis to start from , not to fall back upon . " It regrets the absence of inspiring personalities , with a few exceptions , among the Yale faculty , crushes William Lyon Phelps by adroitly quoting his own banalities under gaily malicious titles , and reveals its serious side by publishing a thoughtful article by Mr. Hale on the outlook of that generation now " Twenty or Over . "                     