@@494060

The Catholic Church in Politics V : The Church and Some Social Issues IN THE PREVIOUS ARTICLES we have discussed inter-ference by the Catholic Church with freedom of speech , press , religious liberty and censorship . Catholic Action in the field of American education , involving the cornerstone of our form of government ? the separation of State and Church ? is perhaps the most subversive of all its dealings with democratic institutions . The Catholic philosophy of education is totally at variance with our traditional system . Catholic schools exist primarily for the purpose of teaching the religion of Christ , according to Father George Johnson , general secretary of the National Catholic Educational Association . Moreover , " teaching " in the Catholic sense of the word is different from the American meaning of the term . A subject is taught in the Catholic schoolroom , not as a matter of information , but as dogmatic ethics . Canon law commands that Catholic children shall be taught nothing contrary to the Roman Catholic faith . But most important is Catholicism 's outright denial of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ full and perfect mission to teach , " says the present Pope , " does not belong to the State but to the Catholic Church , and the State may not prevent nor interfere with her in the exercise and fulfilment of that mission . " This claim to the exclusive right to teach extends to non-Catholics as well as Catholics : " ... embraces every nation without exception , and all men , whether within or without her membership , and there is no power on earth that may lawfully oppose her or stand in her way " ( Encyclical " Divini Ilius Magistri " ) . In its efforts to press this claim the Catholic Church has denounced secular education through pulpit , press and its elaborate system of propaganda agencies . " The doctrine of the Church 's supremacy in the field of education , " declared Bishop Nussbaum of Michigan , " ... must be preached in season and out of season , even though it invites persecution and arouses the ire of pseudo-scientists and pagan educators at what they consider a most arrogant claim . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is part of the Canon Law . However , in cases where Catholic schools are not available , parents may obtain permission of their bishop to send their children to the public schools , and hard times have forced large numbers of Catholic children to enter public educational institutions . There are already 34o state-supported Catholic " merged " schools in the United States , conducted jointly by parochial and state authorities . The large majority of these " merged " schools are housed in buildings owned by the Church , either loaned or leased at a vary low rental to school boards . Most are used forparochial purposes when the school is not in session . The school day begins with mass or recitation of Catholic prayers . Most of the teachers , Soo of the 632 employed , are garbed members of Catholic religious orders , whose salaries are paid out of public funds . The campaign in this country for the support of Catholic schools by public funds is not new . It has been going on for nearly a century . For a long time it was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the plea of emergency measures to meet the changed economic conditions , proposals for state aid have been introduced in many legislatures . Catholics complain that the depression has taken a heavy toll from their resources and that their schools are burdened with heavy debts ; that they are obliged to contribute to the cost of secular education as well as their own , placing a burden of taxation upon Catholic parents which they can not in conscience make use of . This , they charge , is a " limitation upon their religious freedom . " They point to their 8,208 parochial schools , 1,306 high schools , 5,075 colleges , academies and seminaries , 326 orphanages with schools attached , and claim that they save the nation millions of dollars yearly in educating nearly 3,000,000 Catholic children . No mention is made , however , of the state aid they receive in the way of tax exemption on their vast properties . An exact figure for the entire country is impossible to obtain , for in many states priests are instructed not to release information as to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conservative estimate . In New York City , where the record of tax-exempt properties is published yearly , tax-exempt Catholic Church property is assessed at more than $200,000,000 , representing 22 percent of the total . Catholic educational institutions alone account for nearly $508,000,000 . The Catholic hierarchy and laity are divided on the question of state aid . Some believe the school burden can not be borne any longer . Others hold that state supervision and control is a worse evil . This rift was recently revealed at the New York State Constitutional Convention . Official Catholic support of a proposal that the state supply 5o percent of the maintenance costs of parochial schools , at the same time denying the state any authority over the schools or curricula , was withdrawn when it was sensed that prohibition of state supervision would not be attained . Great though the benefit:of public moneys would be , the risk of allowing the state to regulate the conduct and teachings of Catholic schools could not be countenanced . Proposals'were therefore substituted to extend to Catholic schools all " health and welfare " services @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ polls on November 8 , as was pointed out before the election by leaders of Protestant denominations which also have church schools , open the way to a breakdown of the vital democratic principle of the separation of State and Church . The determined opposition of Catholic authorities to our American public schools is unmistakably outlined in a recent pamphlet " May an American Oppose the Public School ? " by the Jesuit Father Paul L. Blakely ( America Press ) with imprimatur of the late Cardinal Flayes and his board of censors : Our first duty to the public school is not to pay taxes for its maintenance . justice can not oblige the support of a system which we are forlaidden in conscience to use , or a system which we conscientiously hold to be bad in principle and bad in its ultimate consequences . ( p. 5 . ) The first duty of every Catholic father to the public school is to keep his children out of it . ( p. 5 . ) But for the Catholic father who , without episcopal sanction , sends his child @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at a Catholic institution , there is no excuse in heaven or on earth . He has begun the career of Herod ; it will be no fault of his if he is not guilty of soul-murder. ( p. 8 . ) Secular educational authorities are alarmed at the inroads made by agents of the Catholic Church in the matter of federal legislation in this field . The whole future of public education in this country , they believe , will be entirely changed if proposals made in the report submitted by President Roosevelt 's Advisory Committee on Education are enacted . Catholic Action had a great deal to do with the Committee 's proposal that certain services and financial aid which the federal government is to grant be made available to pupils in " nonpublic " schools . The chairman of the Committee has been quoted as stating that the members were not polled on this proposal , and that the recommendations were inserted in the report at the insistence of Father George Johnson , who threatened otherwise to file a minority report . The discussion of this proposal at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a bitter attack on these educators and on the chairman of the Association , Dr. George D. Strayer of Teachers ' College , Columbia University . Columbia , the official organ of the Knights of Columbus , described the Association 's debate as " the insolence of gentlemen who have attained extraordinary degrees of ignorance " i and characterized these educators as " educational racketeers , " " professional highbinders who have muscled in on public education in the United States . " Catholic influence must be reckoned with in any proposals for federal legislation in the matter of education . Of the 435 members of the House of Representatives in the Seventy-fifth Congress , zoo , or 23. percent , arc Roman Catholics . Of the fifteen Democrats on the House Committee on Education , however , 6o percent are Roman Catholics-0 percent of the whole . Positions on this committee are appointive , and at the beginning of Congress in 1937 , when the names of seventeen new Democratic members who had the endorsement of educational leaders were urged for this committee , only one of those so endorsed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ during the Congress , seven were Roman Catholics . THE CHURCH AND COMMUNISM Only by a dear understanding of the Catholic Church 's traditional opposition to democratic principles can its frenzied drive against communism be fully explained . All of the evils of the communist doctrines , Catholic authorities state , are the direct outgrowth and the logical conclusion of the Protestant Reformation . Out of the Reformation came the " liberalism " which first divorced religion from the state . " There would be today neither socialism nor communism , " Pope Pius complains , " if the rulers of the nations had not scorned the teachings and maternal warnings of the Church .... If we would explain the blind acceptance of communism by so many thousands of workmen we must remember that the way had already been prepared for it by the religious and moral destitution in which wage-earners had been left by liberal economics . . . . It can surprise no one that the communistic fallacy should be spreading in a world already to a large extent de-Christianized " ( Encyclical on Atheistic Communism ) . For @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ voice against the " satanic scourge . " In the United States Catholic Action has fought the Reds with intense zeal . Bishops and priests have faithfully transmitted the Vatican 's warnings . The Catholic press has carried the message in a steady stream of vituperative articles and editorials . Catholic school children have been taught that " Communists are people with whom you should have no dealings , and to whose arguments and speeches you should never listen , and whose books and papers you should never read . " Most of the rhetoric used by the Catholic Church against communism is directed to its alleged anti-religious theories . Next , the Church complains that communism would abolish its age-old doctrine concerning the sacredness of property rights . Furthermore , the Catholic Church alleges that communism would destroy the Roman concept of the family , which provides the Church with one of its strongest holds upon its members . Catholicism is built around the family unit " fixed and determined by the Creator , " and the Church regards its inviolability as fundamental to its existence . The traditional Catholic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ famous encyclicals on Labor , one by Pope Leo XIII ( " Reruns Novarum " ) and the other by the present Pope ( " Quad.ragesimo Anna " ) . Despite the many expressions of sympathy of both Popes for the deplorable social and economic conditions of the poor ( who are advised " to be content with frugal living " ) great care is taken in these Encyclicals not to offend the privileged class . The inequalities and miseries which derive from our present economic system , we are told , " are the consequences of sin " and can never be banished . There are many Catholics within the Church who sincerely wish to see a better social order and who deplore the methods the Church has adopted to combat communism . Many are outspoken in their criticism . They warn first of all against the ineffectiveness of the Church 's drive , pointing to the increasing drift of many Catholics into radicalism . They see in the Protestant refusal to join in the crusade at the Pope 's invitation distrust of the Church 's motive and dislike of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was frankly admitted by Bishop John F. Noll of Fort Wayne , Indiana , active in the anti-communist drive , who declared publicly that " now is the time for business and the Church to stick together in their common fight . " Until Father Coughlin appeared on the American scene no bishop or priest had attempted to apply the papal social and economic doctrines . He has done more to popularize the doctrines of Pope Leo and Pope Pius than has any other Catholic leader . Despite the fact that he has had to fight the American hierarchy ( all four Cardinals opposed him openly ) , Coughlin 's following among the laity is large , enthusiastic and loyal . Opinions differ as to his value to the Church in America , but no one would deny that no other American Catholic has had such great influence with his fellow Catholics . To many of them , he is the Pope 's mouthpiece in America . Non-Catholic America looks upon Father Coughlin as a menace , and as a potential leader of the Fascist movement here . They breathed a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon President Roosevelt in 1936 , his wings were clipped by Rome . Since then he has come forward again and today he commands a vast radio audience every week . Mr. George Seldes recently pointed out Father Coughlin 's anti-Semitism ( The New Republic , November 2 ) . The charge was amply verified on Sunday , November 20 , when Father Coughlin broadcast an assortment of wild charges seeking to link " international Jewry " with the Russian revolution and repeating in general the sort of nonsense found in the forged " Protocols of Zion . " He was blown out of the water by a series of denials from such disparate sources as the Non-Sectarian Anti-Nazi League , Trotsky , Kerensky and the United States Secret Service . Catholic authorities have vied with other professional Red-hunters in pinning the Communist label on even the mildest liberals , if their views disagreed ever so slightly from those of the Church . They have even raised the Red cry against some people for taking the mime stand , and endorsing the same causes , as certain outstanding Catholics have done @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ progressive wing of the American Catholic laity is sensitive to the allegation that the Church has allied itself with fascism . Some of its apologists attempt to argue that Catholicism is forced to ally itself with Fascist dictators as a lesser evil than communism . But the intrinsically authoritarian character of Catholicism itself ( especially in the United States ) , along with the frank pro-Fascist statements of many spokesmen for the hierarchy , greatly weaken their argument . The spread of fascism , culminating in its victorious " peace " of Munich , might well be said to have had its starting point at the Lateran Palace in 1929 , when Pope Pius XI entered into his famous pact with Mussolini . Warnings of the far-reaching consequences to religion and democracy of that solemn tie-up between Catholicism and fascism at the time went unheeded by American Catholics . Catholic leaders still deny that the alternative which faces us is democracy or fascism , and insist that the real danger is first communism and only secondarily fascism . Yet the fact is evident that the Catholic Church does not fight fascism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ claims that the American public is being misled regarding fascism : " Italy , Portugal , Germany and nationalist Spain are classified alike as evil Fascist states . And a public that does not analyze statements or trace their source is told that fascism is the greatest evil facing America today . " Fascist Italy and Nazi Germany were defended by Judge Herbert A. O'Brien in his commencement address at the St. Brendan Diocesan High School , and tribute was paid to his " words of wisdom " by Bishop Thomas E. Molloy of Brooklyn : " Daily in our newspapers you can see stories against Catholic Italy ? Italy where our holy Pope resides . And yet Mussolini saved Italy from going communistic along with Soviet Russia . And then we 're constantly picking on Germany . What harm has she done us ? I 'll tell you the real reasons behind the constant criticism . It 's to get a few radical votes for office seekers in New York . " The Fascist movement in Quebec , which is causing so much alarm to the English-speaking population , has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , speaking to a large Nationalist meeting in Quebec , said : " I favor totalitarian states . Dictators have put an end to widespread abuses and political corruption , which are common in democratic countries . " The Catholic Church was responsible for the passage of Quebec 's anti-Communist " padlock " law and uses it to silence any criticism of Catholicism . Reverend C. E. Silcox , secretary of the Social Service Council of Canada , addressing the Canadian Institute of Economics and Politics , frankly expressed the fear , more or less concealed until now , that ultimately Roman Catholics in Quebec will refuse to permit any public criticism of the Church . " We have observed the way in which the law of blasphemy is 168 quickly invoked to silence opposition in Quebec to the Roman Catholic Church , while the most damnable blasphemies on the Jewish faith are tolerated , and sometimes encouraged .. . . No matter how much we may despise communism , we consider the law infamous , unBritish , rankly intolerant and destined to create the very thing it professes to crush @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the world are united in support of Fncrist General Franco , whose victory would mean the supremacy again of the Catholic Church in Spain . We have the word of Cardinal Goma y Thomas of the Spanish hierarchy that General Franco , a devout Catholic , would not go contrary to his Church . The Church in Spain has not only opposed outright the Popular Front government of 1936 but also from the beginning the Constitution of the Spanish Republic . The people of Spain have always been taught by their catechism that it is " mortal sin to vote liberal , " that modern democracy along with communism , socialism and anarchism are to be condemned because " they are contrary to Catholic faith and justice and to all virtue and as such condemned by the Church . " We must remember that General Franco 's rebellion against the Republican government of Spain was offiTHE NEW REPUBLIC daily justified by the Catholic Church long before he started it in July , 1936 . The Vatican excommunicated the framers of the Republican Constitution in 1931 because it contained provisions hurtful to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the result has again been a long aftermath of blood and hittPrness . Even in Catholic schools and colleges in the United States a large bloc of the nation 's youth are taught by the catechism that the Pope , because of the supremacy of the Catholic Church over the civil state , has " the right to annul those laws or acts of government that would injure the salvation of souls .... " If all else failed , Franco could have fully justified his rebellion by quoting Pope Leo XIII : " . . . if the laws of the State are manifestly at variance with the divine law , containing enactments hurtful to the Catholic Church ... then truly , to resist becomes a positive duty , to obey , a crime . " 