@@255791

CATHEDRAL CLOSE-Susan Goodyear- Scribner ( $2.50 ) . <P> When British readers discovered last year that " Susan Goodyear " was the wife of the Very Reverend Walter Robert Matthews , successor to Dean Inge of London 's St. Paul 's Cathedral and former Dean of Exeter Cathedral , Cathedral Close , a first novel which up to then had won only critics ' praise , leaped suddenly into the best-seller class . The reason for this sudden popularity was a curiosity to find out how much truth lay behind the scandal which forms the theme of the story , and if the scandal occurred at Exeter . U. S. readers , while immune to this news interest , will still rate Cathedral Close a competent , well-characterized story giving a vivid authentic picture of an environment little less unique than English royalty . <P> Of the four canons living within the Close of Silbury Cathedral , The Canon was short , paunchy , 60-year-old Carmichael , who after 24 years of devoted service embroils the Cathedral in the worst mess that ever rose out of a canon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the first scene with misgivings about the new Dean-a rawboned , sympathetic Cambridge scholar named Mallinson , whose wife , a tall , witty , Virginia Woolf sort of character , is the author 's voice for a detached account of Cathedral life . Added to these central characters are the staff of functionaries who make up the tightly-organized , beautifully-landscaped , fabulous world of a great English cathedral . Lay characters appear in sufficient numbers to afford a gossip circuit between the Cathedral and the town-a female psychiatrist belonging to the " generation of blue-stockings who were defined as women who were no longer ladies , but had not yet become gentlemen , " a neurotic old maid on a manhunt , uninhibited servants . It is a lay character also who brings about Canon Carmichael 's fall-a beautiful , intelligent German girl who marries a Silbury business man . When the Canon meets her he turns pale and mutters that she reminds him of someone . The reminder is of a German peasant girl whom he deserted 25 years back when he was offered a canonry . Since that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ make him go to pieces . But it has never occurred to him that a child might turn up . Servants get hold of the first clues . With these and Silburians ' devious skill in putting two &; two together-the Canon 's increasing nervousness , physical resemblances , further note-comparing by returned English tourists-the news soon gets around . After hearing the Canon " s full confession ( a mixture of contrition and lyricism about nude bathing in a mountain stream ) , Dean Mallinson makes a heroic effort to spike the gossip . For a time he thinks he has suc- ceeded . But when the gossip starts again , the Cathedral rocks with it . To save the Cathedral 's honor , not Carmichael 's soul , frightened Cathedral officials decide to send the Canon to another church on the pretext that his health is bad .                     