@@487412

THE business community seems to be dividing into two camps . One is prepared to reconcile itself to the New Deal , to compromise with it , and to work within the framework of our democratic system to modify or sabotage its reforms . The other seems to be growing not less but more intransigent , fiercely classcOnscious , aware of its kinship with fascist forces abroad , and ready to consider ' the same methods at home . This division among American capitalists is reflected politically in the battle now going on within the Republican Party between its standpatters and its ( mild , very mild ) liberals . In the field of journalism the same cleavage finds expression . The Chicago Tribune and the New York Herald Tribune may serve as illustrations of how far apart in spirit and outlook the two wings of anti-New Deal conservatism can become . The former is pro-Munich in its foreign policy and indefatigably the red-baiter at home ; the latter regards " appeasement " as illusory and is as outspoken as any liberal paper in its defense of civil @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of American Industry exemplified the tendency toward conciliation . Two recent events in New York City are examples of the other current , and indicate how bitter the diehards are becoming . One was the luncheon given Congressman Dies by the New York State Economic Council . The other was the sixty-sixth annual meeting of the New York Board of Trade . We think these two gatherings merit the attention of thoughtful people the country over , but with the exception of the - Daily Worker even the New York press printed only partial accounts . Fear of giving publicity to certain fascist organizers , a belief that dangers can best be fought by pretending that they do not exist ; and a dread of offending important business advertisers combined to keep the whole picture from the public . The list of the sponsors of the Dies luncheon and of their guests indicates that the Texan is no publicity-seeking clown to leaders of American business and finance ; apparently they take his " revelations " seriously and appreciate , as well they may , the work he did in the last election @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Economic Council is one of the chief sounding boards for big business in this state , and its president , Merwin K. Hart , recently returned from rebel Spain full of enthusiasm for Franco . He has accused the President of " communizing the United States , " and he signed the recent round robin against lifting the embargo on shipments to Spain . Guests at his luncheon included such business men as Major General Harbord of RCA , Thomas H. McInnemer of the National Dairy Products Corporation , William C. Dickerman of the American Locomotive Company , and Louis K. Comstock , head of the powerful Merchants ' Association , as well as such professional patriots as Captain John B. Trevor of the American Coalition of Patriotic Societies , Archibald E. Stevenson , and Fritz Kuhn . Congressman Dies referred to the Bund as " founded on racial hatred " and coupled it with communism among the forces threatening America , but these passing references we are sure did not spoil the pleasure that Kuhn and his party of Nazis derived from the rest of his speech . The guest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ becoming . But the Dies luncheon pales beside the Board of Trade affair , where the main speaker was Major General George Van Horn Moseley , a military nobody who has been trying to be a man on horseback ever since his retirement in September . He signalized his retirement by a statement attacking the New Deal which Secretary Woodring attributed to pique over his failure to become Chief of Staff . On Armistice Day he made an anti-Semitic speech before the National Christian Convention in Cincinnati . General Moseley himself is unimportant , and the speech he made in New York might be dismissed as too irresponsible to merit attention had he not been addressing one of the city 's representative business bodies . He proposed that we accede to a Japanese " Monroe Doctrine " in the Far East , pleaded for better relations with the axis powers , sneered at the new national-defense program and the effort to unite with Latin America against fascist - aggression , and called.for.the extermination of " domestic enemies . " The domestic enemies he identified as the New Dealers " and here and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ literally . He warned that " Christian patriotic groups are demanding immediate action .. . once these patriots go to battle they will cure the disease definitely and make those massacres now recorded in history look like peaceful church parades . " General Goring himself could not have surpassed his appeal to the America outside New York City and the District of Columbia : " In fact , if both New York and Washington were burned down tonight it would not cause a ripple in the America that I am talking about . In fact , in Washington it might be one definite way of reducing bureaucracy . " The Board of Trade applauded . Meetings of this kind attended by those who have a great deal of money and power illustrate how real the threat of fascism may soon become . They also demonstrate that those who are worried about appeals to violence , class prejudice , and un-American ideas should keep their eyes on Wall Street , not on Union Square . DISPATCHES from Lima in the past few days make it clear that things are not going at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is true that the first official act of the conference was to adopt unanimously a resolution , favored by Secretary Hull , committing the Americas to liberal trade policies . But such resolutions have been adopted before , and have offered no barrier to the penetration of the regimented trade policies of the totalitarian states . It is also true that the United States succeeded in sidetracking Chile 's proposal outlawing diplomatic intervention for the recovery of confiscated or expropriated property . But this again was a rather hollow victory , for the fact still remains that any such action by the United States would be deeply resented throughout Latin America . These paper triumphs have been offset , moreover , by the persistent opposition of the Argentine delegation to the proposals advanced by the United States on continental solidarity . The failure of Hull 's draft " Declaration of Lima " to win general support at the conference is the more discouraging because of its comparative mildness . It fell far short of establishing an " American - League of Nations . " It was not even a multilateral pact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ merely to set up machinery to put into effect the consultative provisions of the convention signed at Buenos Aires on December 23 , 1936 . Argentina 's suspicion that the proposals for continental solidarity may be merely another device for furthering North American imperialism was not lessened by Alfred M. Landon 's explicit reaffirmation of the Monroe Doctrine . Although his speech may have salutary effects on the totalitarian dictatorships in Europe , it sounded far too much like the statements of past Republican leaders to reassure . countries which are disturbed lest the Good Neighbor policy have a two-year time limit . Mr. Lan-don 's failure to suppport the Good Neighbor policy explicitly , in the name of the Republican Party , must have caused very real alarm to the Latin Americans . Some sort of compromise between the Argentine and the North American position on the question of continental solidarity will doubtless be worked out before the conference closes . Just what it will be is difficult to predict , though it will presumably be along the lines of the proposal of the Brazilian delegation . While this represents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ offers little , if any , protection against the influx of totalitarian ideas and practices and provides wholly inadequate machinery for collective resistance to armed invasion . It is to be hoped that the rather disappointing legal results of the conference will be supplemented by definite gains in good-will and understandingbetween the United States and the Latin American republics . Such results , in the long run , will do far more to preserve democracy in the Americas than any resolutions that could possibly have been adopted . Nazi Blackmail R. SCHACHT , who although no longer Minister of Economics remains Hitler 's favorite emissary when any financial sleight of hand is required , has just returned to Berlin after an " unofficial visit " to London . His mission , it would appear , had at least three objectives . He was to explore the possibility of using the miseries of the refugees as a lever to boost German exports ; he was to find out how seriously the British government intended to pursue its " trade-war " plans ; finally he was to make preliminary soundings about a further @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is immediately related to Germany 's foreign-trade position , and their urgency can best be appreciated by reference to the November trade figures . These reveal a very serious deterioration by comparison both with October and with a year ago . Exports in November were 8 per cent under those for the previous month , and while imports also declined the adverse balance mounted . For the nine months of the current year the excess of imports amounts to almost 400,000,000 marks , whereas last year there was an export surplus of 422,000,000 . These figures are immediately important , showing as they do the strain on the weakest link in the German economic chain  --  foreign trade . The mounting deficit means a rapid exhaustion of foreign-exchange reserves and the necessity of cutting down imports still further . Hitler will be obliged to ask for a further tightening of belts , for , as he recently admitted , the limits of food production inside the country have been reached . Still more alarming for the Nazis is the fact that unless they can replenish supplies of foreign exchange by increasing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the armament factories . How serious they consider the situation is indicated by a report mentioned in the London Economist that production for export countries with unrestricted currencies has recently been given priority even over military requirements . It is against this background that we must consider the proposition which Dr. Schacht is reported to have presented to George Rublee , director of the Intergovernmental Committee for Refugees , for assisting the emigration of the Jews . The exact mechanism to be adopted remains obscure . According to one version , Jews leaving Germany would be permitted to take with them a small fraction of their wealth in the form of certificates only exchangeable- against German goods . Another suggests that the method employed would be an international loan , based on the security of such refugee assets in Germany as the Nazis decide not to steal outright , which would be gradually liquidated through the sale abroad of German goods additional to normal exports . Whatever the actual means proposed , the end is clear enough . It is to play on the humanitarian sympathies of foreign peoples and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ position . Stripped of its trappings the scheme is nothing less than a demand for mass ransom  --  a demand just as monstrous as the attempts which have been made to force relatives and friends abroad to buy the release of individuals . It is an attempt to apply , on an unprecedented scale the methods of the kidnapper . Hard though it may be to reject a straw which seems to offer the faintest hope to those in dire distress , The Nation believes that any plan involving ransom , however disguised , should be unhesitatingly rejected . If from humanitarian motives we-consent to be blackmailed , we merely encourage the blackmailer to repeat his tactics on Catholics , Protestants , or other vulnerable groups . We nullify the pressure that has been put on the Nazis by the trade boycott  --  and how real that pressure is the trade figures show  --  and we demonstrate to gangsters and would-be gangsters the world over that terror is a clever financial trick . We can not believe that any organization interested in helping refugees , whether Jewish , Christian , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scheme . We rejoice that the joint boycott council of the American Jewish Congress and the Jewish Labor Committee has rejected flatly Dr. Schacht 's plans and heartily indorse its proposals for an intensification of the boycott . To Hitler 's attempts to exploit the miseries of the refugees in order to feed his military Moloch there is only one answer to bemade:f . ' Millions for reliefbut not one cent for tribute . " Help for China A NNOUNCEMENT that the Import-Export Bank is prepared to advance credits to finance the export of American products to China , which has now been followed by the decision to continue the extension of credit to China against gold held in this country , is heartening news . The amount of the credit is small in comparison with the need , but shipment of $25 , - 000,000 worth of trucks , gasoline , and machinery will be of great aid to China in its desperate struggle . . Responsible observers have been almost unanimous in asserting that China needs two things above all- else if it is to hold out against Japan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ armies the mobility possessed by the Japanese ; and ( 2 ) an industrial base in the vast western areas still under Chinese control . These credits shouldbe of- substantial assistance in achieving both objectives . The political significance of the two decisions is even greater . For the first time in years the United States has taken the lead in an important move to check aggression . Action by the United States should spur Great Britain and other countries which have been considering similar advances to China . At the same time it serves as a warning to Japan that the outside world does not fully concur in its ambition to dominate the Asiatic continent . Announcement of the credits has come at a particu larly opportune moment because it is evident that in the past few weeks China itself has found new defensive resources . Recent reports tell of Chinese triumphs in all sections of the country . Only about a fortnight ago the Eighth Route Army won one of the great victories of the war in Shansi . Chinese guerrilla units are reported to be operating on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regular army has recovered virtually all the territory it lost in the preceding month . A counteroffensive now under way in South China has recaptured the port of Waichow and carried the Chinese to the outskirts of Canton . Most significant of all is the announcement that Chiang Kai-shek has officially adopted the guerrilla and mass-warfare tactics favored by the Eighth Route Army , and is taking action to free the government of defeatist elements . This implies a new unity between the right- and left-wing elements in the government . It also implies greater cooperation between China and the Soviet Union , which should be definitely beneficial for China . Nothing could be more disastrous , however , than for the United States to assume that in advancing the $25 , - 000,000 in credits it has discharged its obligation to China . Realism is sadly needed at this point . It is distinctly notgood.business to lend money andthen proceed to assist an enemy to destroy the security for the loan . Yet the fact is that the United States is pursuing at the moment just such contradictory policies . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the other it is furnishing Japan with more than half of the war materials necessary to continue its invasion of that country and , through purchases of silk and other Japanese products , providing some $125,000,000 annually to be used for buying war supplies . Thus our positive influence , from an economic standpoint , is still definitely on the side of Japan . China has shown amazing courage and tenacity in holding out against a powerfully mechanized Japanese army for nearly a year and a half . But it can not hold out indefinitely if the economic resources of countries like the United States and Britain continue to work predominantly on the side of Japan . In the interest of realism and justice the President should utilize his power under Section 338 of the Tariff Act to ban Japanese imports , and Congress should push through the proposed embargo on all war materials to the aggressor nations .                     