@@491183

C AN any good thing result from what is happening in Spain ? Whether parliaments and dictators , the haves and the have-nols have learned that , though many things in this world are had , nothing is quite so bad as war , is a question . But I believe that swords already half drawn elsewhere in Europe will he sheathed temporarily as a consequence of Spain . For the preview of Armageddon there has shown that " nobody is ready and everybody has just become aware of it . " In Italy , in 1926 , Gen. Giulio Douhet published his sensational hook , Mastery of the Air . With rigorous logic he explained how future wars would be won by aerial action . Simultaneously arid without warning , the centers of population , factories , railroads and roads in the enemy country would be destroyed by huge fleets of bombers . The slow-moving foot All December and January , Insurgent bombers shuttled back and forth and dropped their loads of TNT on Madrid . Did the Madrilefios sue for peace ? No , they shook @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " Swine . " Conflagrations were fought successfully by the fire department . Streets were cleared of debris . Madrid has now had a front line in it for more than a year , and during that year it has been bombed and shelled heavily . The results are 3000 killed and from 15.000 to 20,000 injured . A quarter of the city is in ruins . In spite of broken windows , burning houses , gutted buildings , life in Madrid continues . Fires , a commonplace . attract no spectators . Children soon accepted the explosions as in the natural course of events and play at war in the wreckage . The grown accommodate themselves more slowly . Dignity is lost as they scuttle across exposed streets . But bombing is quickly over . After each hurried rush for shelter , one knows it is safe to go about business as Franco has given the world one lesson of vast importance  --  that the murderous use of aviation on the euphemistically called political and economic objectives is futile  --  not only barbarous , but waste of a powerful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ found wanting . Bombing , far from softening the civil will , hardens it . Peace is not made willingly with murderers of women and children . Mussolini has not overlooked the lesson . He has announced to the world that Italy , the birthplace of Douhet , the prophet of aerial terrorism , scorns waging war on the civil population . There is still another objection to this type of warfare . Barbarism , like disease , is contagious . Terrorism from one side of the lines is answered by terrorism from the other side . The general who thinks he orders only the hostile capital bombed is , in reality , also ordering the bombardment of his own capital . There is always an answer to atrocities and terrorism . That answer is retaliation . When the son of Primo 011 , , , 1101,35 , soldiers , stopped by the destruction of roads and railroads , would never reach the frontier battlefields . The civil population , their water supply broken , their homes and shops faced with total destruction from the sky , would force their leaders @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ translated into five languages . Military men the world over cull terroristic bombing the Douhet theory . It obtained sufficient credence in Italy to induce the general staff to experiment with its practicability with 1000 airplanes in their Grand Air Maneuvers north and south of the Apennines in August , 1931 . Small wonder that Douhet 's theories have become articles of faith among youthful aviators . By them they prove that generals on the ground are old fogies and all the money spent on soldiers and battleships is wasted . The first general in history to transport his troops by air would not be expected to overlook this simple method of winning his war . Nor did he . Franco was blocked at Madrid in November , 1936 , unable to advance his 40,000 men against 120,000 militia . The latter , stiffened by foreign aid and protected by trenehes which extended into the city of 1,000,000 inhabitants , held bravely . Italian and German bombers were available . The Douhet theory was applied . usual . Artillery fire is much worse ? it continues . Last summer the cafes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and vermouth . In the evening , youth strolled in the shaded streets . The tramways still ran . Housewives shopped for groceries or stood in queues when supplies were scarce . Young men looked for work . Life  --  work , love , marriage , giving birth  --  continues in Madrid . The effect of heavy bombs was disappointing to the attackers . A number of small bombs caused more damage than the same weight in a single egg . In narrow streets , air concussion caved in ancient buildings . But modern construction withstands attack astonishingly . The American-constructed skyscraper of the International Telephone and Telegraph C.'ompany has been hit more than 130 times by bombs and shells , and the elevators still run . The effect of incendiary bombs also has been disappointing to the theorists of peacetime . The usual fire-fighting methods of any city , reinforced for extensive duty , have been able to put out fires as fast as they are started . Curiously , the most effective use of incendiary bombs proved to be in tho battle lines in the country . There , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the enemy fighters forced to flee . de Rivera was executed by the Government , the Insurgents retaliated with the execution of Largo Caballero , Jr. , son of the Government premier of the same name . When the Govermnentair forces bombed Salamanca , the expected retaliation on Valencia took place within three days . In Spain the belligerents have learned through trial and error the futility of assassinations arid aerial terrorism as methods of war . Such methods accomplish nothing in a military sense and always lead to retaliation . Although both sides try to point the finger of shame at the other , there has been , in the past year , very little effort spent on such futile savagery . Franco even claims that all the bombing of Madrid was directed at military objectives , but most observers believe that the presence of bona-fide military objectives only gave him an excuse to attempt a genuine effort at terrorization of the eivil populace . Regardless of the truth or falsity of these claims , the bombing of Madrid was massive enough and sufficiently long continued to provide a test @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ connections to the rest of Spain since November , 1936 . In his Jarama offensive south of Madrid , in February , 1937 , Jpantsh Proving Ground . Loyalist Troops on the Battle Front more . 11.00Cler CAPA-I'LX Franco brought one of the two remaining highways into the city under artillery fire and rendered it . unusable . For a year more than 800.000 inhabitants and more than 100,000 soldiers have been supplied with necessities , principally over a single motor road . Easily preventable , according to Douhet , and an impossibility , according to the more conventional soldiers , who have contended that an army can not be supplied more than sixty miles from a railroad . According to the Douhet theory , bombing the bridges and fills on the road shortly would stop all traffic . Franco has tried and is still trying to do it . He has succeeded partially . Traffic is far from normal and frequently interrupted . Food is supplied on a basis of only twelve pounds per month per person . There is no coal and no gasoline for private ears . Electricity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is little or no tobacco to be had and beer days in the cafes are noteworthy . Food queues are long and the supply is frequently exhausted before the end of the queue is reached . The shortage of necessities is a worse trial than the bombing . Why has Franco been unable to stop all traffic on the 150 miles of highway to Madrid ? Simply because damage is repaired quickly . Detours are used . Bridges destroyed are replaced with temporary structures . Thousands of ruined trucks line the highway from the railroad stub out of Valencia to Madrid , but the steady stream of supplies still rolls in . Insurgent fighting planes chase trucks in the daytime , but at night they move with little interference . So another facet of the logical theory of Douhet , so finely spun in peace , is proved false in war . It is 110i from lack of effort that Franco has failed to starve Madrid into surrender . It has been impossible . There is a single rail line running from France along the Mediterranean , through Barcelona to Valencia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to move over this single track . It has been interrupted frequently from the island of Majorca . Here Franco bases huge fleets of Italian bombers which patrol the sea lanes and bomb the docks at Valencia and Barcelona as well as the railroad . But the line still operates and such ships as get through the blockade still unload at docks . Shortage of coal has hindered rail operation more than destruction by bombers . On the other side of the trenches , Franco has a single rail lino connecting Northern and Southern Spain . Why have not Government bombers destroyed this ? They have done their utmost , but traffic continues . The Japanese have had the same experience in China . The railroad between Shanghai and Nanking was bombed daily , but trains continued to run at night until Japanese troops actually fought across the right of way . The Can ton-Hankow railway has likewise continued to operate , although interruptions from the air have been frequent . It appears that the practical capabilities . of aerial bombardment do not equal its theoretical possibilities . The work of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ! Americans for many years have been subjected to the affirmation of an axiom to the effect that the best defense against aerial attack is our own air force . In Spain this has not proved true in its literal sense . It is true to the extent that our own air force is able to protect us by destroying the enemy air force on the ground on distant airdromes . It is not true if it is understood to mean that our defensive pursuit can await the attackers and take off and destroy them in the sky . Valencia gave up all attempts to hold pursuit aviation near by for protection from bombardment eight or ten months ago . In the World War , all airplanes defending Paris were sent to the front to stay in May , 1918 . The city was defended more successfully from that time onward by antiaircraft artillery alone . The Arehies were then free to operate without fear of firing on friendly aircraft . The reason our own pursuit in our back yards can not protect us is not complex , though it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ matter of time and space  --  time for warning , time to reach a fighting altitude , and distance to be flown before interception . Defending airplanes are presumed to be able to leave the ground fifteen minutes after receiving warning . This assumption is generous . It presupposes that . the squadrons are alerted  --  that is , pilots on hand and engines wartned up periodically to insure safe take-off . When planes are widely scattered on the ground and hidden from enemy bombers , the time allowed for take-off must be increased to more than fifteen minutes . After taking off and forming into squadrons , the pursuit must climb to 15,000 or more feet . Another seven oreight rainutes gone . Thus a minimum of twenty-two minutes ' warning is required to give the defenders time to get off the ground and make ready to fight . Translated into warning distance , the warning system , if the attacking bombers approach at 250 miles an hour , must give warning when the enemy bombers are ninety-two miles distant . Daubto.Time Death Still other complications enter . The defensive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ altitude . While climbing seven or eight minutes it moves toward the enemy about twenty miles , thus adding to the distance beyond which warning is required and increasing it to 112 miles . But this figure allows no factor of safety . What if the pursuit misses the bombers by ten miles  --  not at all improbable  --  and has to turn and chase them ? If the pursuit chases at a speed of 300 miles an hour while the bombers continue at 250 miles an hour , they will overtake their prey at a rate of fifty miles an hour . To gain ten miles will require twelve minutes of flight . In twelve minutes the bombers will have gone fifty miles farther . Consequently , the point of interception must be moved out fifty miles , and the distance from which warning is required is increased to 162 miles . But even this figure is incomplete . No allowance has been made for the distance flown by the bombers while the pursuit is flying out the additional fifty miles to the interception line . The bombardment flies forty-one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ miles must be added to the distance from which warning is required . It is necessary to have warning stations 203 miles out from the defended city . These computations apply only to the speeds used . Higher speeds will increase the necessary warning distance . A greater difference of speed between pursuit and bombardment will decrease it . Valencia is less than seventy miles from the Insurgent lines and Barcelona about 145 miles distant . It is easy to see why defending pursuit aviation is helpless against raids on these cities . It explains some of the Chinese difficulties at Shanghai and Nanking . It explains why every arms factory in Europe is years behind in orders for antiaircraft artillery . - gel- jai ! Madman 's Buff When this figure is applied to our own situation , it can be seen that there is not an important city on the Pacific coast that can he defended by keeping aerial fleets on near-by airdromes , prepared to take off and combat enemy bombers . The same considerations apply to Washington , Baltimore , Philadelphia , New York and all other ports of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Great Britain , had the same prohlem in mind when he said : " Britain 's line of defense no longer rests along the chalk cliffs of Dover be t on the wooded banks of the Rhine . " As all airplane speeds increase and as bomber speeds approach those of pursuit , interception becomes more more difficult . The two groups of al - planes approaching each other at rates close to 600 miles an hour are more apt to miss than to meet . The problem is much like attempting to have two bullets , fired from opposite directions , meet in their course . The slightest error in calculations of speed and direction will render meeting unlikely . Successful interception of bombardment by pursuit , held on the ground for that purpose , is even now so improbable that it is hardly more than a waste of aerial force to retain airplanes far from the front for that purpose . Night . makes the problem completely insoluble . Two instances of successful night combat have been reported from Spain . But these were accidental encounters on moonlight nights close @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aviation protecting London and Paris lost more men and planes at night by accidents in taking oil and landing than they destroyed of the enemy . More than this , they interfered with antiaircraft-artillery fire . The latter , unable to distinguish friend from foe at night. , held their fire for fear of shooting down their own fliers . Our axiom must he reversed : The poorest defense for our cities against air attack is our defensive aviation , if held at home . On the other hand , aerial defense by bombardment of hostile aircraft while they are on airdromes far back in their territory is effective . In Spain , during one three months ' period for which figures are available , more Government planes were destroyed on their fields by Insurgent bombing than were lost in the air . This supplies the reason for the development by the United States of the Flying Fortress . With their tremendous range , they can be housed beyond tho reach of enemy attack and can go far // out over the sea or land and bomb hostile carriers , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ distant to reach our territory . Great successes and dismal failures have been exhibited by antiaircraft artillery in Spain . Both can be accounted for by the degree of training of the gunners and relative excellence of the equipment , Antique French guns , first used by the Government , failed completely . New German equipment , with robot-operated direction finders which send aiming data electrically to the guns , have scored remarkably . The Englishman , Air Commodore Charlton , after a visit to Insurgent Spain , wrote that the German gunners , is the first three or four salvos , would pip off a bomber at 12,000 feet practically every time , if it was flying a straight course . In the early days of the war , Insurgent coniniuniquas indicated that 70 per cent of the Government planes destroyed were victims of German antiaircraft artillery . So effective is it that a whole spy system is used to trace the locations of the guns and warn Government aviators to avoid them . The German antiaircraft artillery of SS ram caliber  --  about three and one half inr'hes  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Government now has a large amount of Russian antiaircraft artillery modeled after the German . Due to poor manufacture , as well as indifferent training of the gunners , it has not performed well . Against low-flying planes , Spain is a proving ground for the German 20 mm. ? about .8 inch  --  automatic antiaireraf t cannon . This gun , with two barrels , fires high-explosive projectiles , 360 rounds a minute . Each shell is equipped with a supersensitive fuse which will explode on contact with airplane fabric . It is remarkably effective . The gunner follows the smoking tracers like the spray of to hose and quickly gets his stream of Ere on the airplane . The success of antiaircraft runs in Spain has started all Europe feverishly building quantities of them . European nations see that cities and rear areas can not be protected by airplanes ; only the antiaircraft guns are always ready and wailing . Great Britain bought the entire output , for three years , of certain types of antiaircraft guns of the Bofors factory in Sweden . France has revised its production @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ antiaircraft weapon . Their experience has proved that the antiaircraft gun must be constructed for its special use . The Airplane 's Right Arne What of the United States ? We j have in our three-inch antiaircraft gun and American-built robot fire director be equal , if not the superior , of any rein and director in the world . But our devotion to a lopsided theory of air defense has led us to economize on production . There are forty-two of these guns in the entire United States , hardly enough to defend the docks of New York . Britain plans the installation of 900 in theLondon air-defense areaalone . Of the smaller type of automatic ea n non , which has proved so successful in Spain , we have none . False dependence is placed on our half-inch antiaircraft machine gun . It is not effective because it does not have an explosive bullet . An airplane ean he hit . fifty times with a machine gun and still fly ; a single hit with a small explosive shell suffices to disable it . Antiaircraft artillery is no competitor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its complement . With the homeland well defended by antiplane gunners , the air force is freed to fly out after the enemy . Furthermore , our own planes need the antiplane gunners to defend their fields when the squadrons are nesting helplessly on the ground . A belated recognition of the value of antiaircraft artillery has induced the present Congress to provide funds for a start toward building for our necessities in this respect . Antiaircraft artillery is a military precaution to which no one , pacifist or militarist. , can object . It is entirely defensive , a protection for our cities and our people . Antiaircraft equipment is complex and slowly built . When a war starts , it is too late to begin building . The first attack may be from the air , but the last armament we shall have ready is the one we need first  --  the antiaircraft artillery . The fu tile Amines of the World War have become a deadly threat to the ubiquitous airplane . The Spanish Sky Struggle The original Spanish air force , consisting of some 400 obsolescent and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ part . The early arrival of German and Italian planes shifted superiority from the Government to Franco . Then Russian help changed it back to the Government . The early German and Italian planes were obsolescent types and included a large number of German Junkers three-engined commercial transports modified to carry bombs . The Russian fighters , built to American specifications very similar to the Boeing P-12 and P-26 , quickly obtained mastery of the air , although they are now obsolescent in the United States . According to press reports , Mussolini and Hitler agreed to furnish Franco with airplanes which would at least equal those sent the Government by Russia . The result is that latest model German and Italian airplanes now are operating in Spain and the Insurgents have a definite superiority in the air both in quantity and quality . Russian-built machines of obsolescent American design almost have proved the equal of the latest German and Italian aircraft . The latest models of American planes are so much improved over those in use in Spain that the United States is safe in claiming preeminence in airplane quality @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ small and large . Franco has more than 600 airplanes , a majority of them modern two-engined German and Italian bombers , The Government air force exceeds 400 , with a majority of Russian fighters in its composition . In numbers and quality the two air forces are amply large to furnish conclusive lessons of the power of aerial action in war . Enthusiasts attempt to discount the results in Spain as not representative . Some say Franco does not want to take Madrid ; ho prefers to keep a third of the Government army trapped there . As well to say that Franco does not want to win the war . Others claim that air forces have not been used properly . The latter contention typifies the theorist for whom facts have no meaning . Some of the ablest soldiers from four European nations have been advising in Spain . Everything that air forces can do has been attempted . The failure of bombers to cut roads and railroads has surprised everyone . The success and vital importance of their action in support of infantry has been a surprise equally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bomber pilots have contended that large formations and heavy armament of four to six machine guns per bombermade it an impossibility . The pursuit pilots held that they would find a blind spot on any bomber , and pointed to the hummingbird , which does not fear to attack a crow . Spain has settled the dispute . When modern pursuit meets modern bombardment , they are able to find a blind spot and down them , although it is no simple or safe affair . Another difficulty has intervened . Bombers are now so fast that the pursuit must be in the air where the bombers are operating . Unless they actually meet , the bombers can run to safety from the fighters . In the early stages of the war , some converted Douglas transports without any defensive armament , in Government hands , dew at will without pursuit protection . Their speed was their protection . It may be that types such as the American Flying Fortress have no blind spots and will be able to defend themselves without help . But modern bombers , operating over the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ require the accompanying single-seaters to guard them . With aerial progress have come new disabilities . Complex , high-speed airplanes require long training for their operation . The green pilot , who must give all of his attention to flying , is helpless in a fight . The stressed aluminum skin of modern aircraft is another danger . A bullet , entering , makes a half-inch hole and , leaving , an eight-inch gap . Speeds of 300 miles an hour seize the frayed edges and start ripping the skin off . High landing speeds spell death when a pilot must make a forced landing or when he must land on small fields . In war , temporary fields may be small pastures , and temporary fields are the only ones used by pursuit . Permanent airdromes , unless far behind the lines , are targets of frequent attacks . Retractable landing gears can be disabled by a bullet that will not destroy the plane , but a ninety-milean-hour landing on the plane belly spells finis for both pilot and ship . Complicated , factory-built airplanes can not be repaired in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Many pilots in Spain plead for a return to simpler construction in military aircraft . The ace , the modern knight ; is gone . Planes fly in squadrons , regiments and brigades . The single fighter has no chance against a hostile formation . And with the passing of the ace has departed chivalry of the air . The Russians started shooting pilots hanging from their parachutes when they had been forced to jump from a disabled ship . Now all do it . One of our county-fair stunts proves of value . Delayed opening of the parachute gives the pilot a chance of falling fast enough toward earth to avoid being still a target as he dangles helplessly from his silken umbrella . Teamwork in War Although airplanes have been unable to win the war by bombing cities , railroads , factories and docks , they have become of vast importance in support of the fighting soldiers . When a position is attacked , the artillery shoots for two or three hours to soften it . After the artillery fire has stopped , the bombers come to clean @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tanks and infantry start their hazardous advance . Hekl up by machine guns which have not been discovered , another call brings the fliers and their bombs to flatten the opposition . It . was by the co-ordinated employment of all his weapons in this manner that Franco captured the 200 miles of north coast held , since the outset of the revolt , by the Government . He used 35,000 men in these operations against the defender 's 70,000 . Insurgent su- , periority in leadership , training , disci-1 pline , artillery and aviation more than made up for the disparity in numbers . His German advisers proved their superior military ability in comparison with the Government 's Russian aides , The latter escaped to France by air , along with the Government commanders . who fled as they left their men with orders to fight to the death . Bilbao was protected by the " iron ring , " a series of concrete trenches and machine-gun nests completely surrounding the city . Seven months ' labor of 70,000 men and 10,000 political prisoners had been expended on it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and deserted by its defenders , Captain Murga , the engineer officer who had designed it and supervised its construction , was tried for treason and executed . Victory With Wings At the capture of Santander , the Italian divisions , kept in the second line during the Bilbao offensive , led the attack and re-established their reputation , badly tarnished after the failure at Guadalajara . Their rapid success , fighting through the Cantabrian Mountains against superior numbers , was also due to the co-ordinated use of all the weapons of war to help the infantry . On the defensive , aviation is used to bomb and machine-gun the attacking troops advancing in the open . If the defender has aerial superiority , he may be able to halt the attack until reinforcements can he rushed up . On the north coast of Spain , Government air inferiority made this procedure impossible . But at the Brunete battle west , of Madrid in July , 1937 , Franco stopped the Government attack by the immediate use of his aviation . During this battle 320 airplanes were counted in the air @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a large amount of antiaircraft artillery which was moved in at once , he brought reinforcements by truck and counterattacked . The early Government success was halted and then the lines pushed back . This operation , the greatest Government effort of the war , failed principally because the Government could not maintain air superiority . The side with air inferiority has an almost insuperable handicap . Air support has become almost as important to the foot soldiers as artillery support .. Without . it , they are discouraged , take cover , and feel that their high command has left them helpless . Although attacks on scattered troops often do not do a large amount of damage , the moral effect is overwhelming . Perhaps better-trained troops than the Spaniards would endure the feeling of naked exposure to death from the sly with stoicism ; we know , at least , how profound the moral effect has been in Spain . The United States has developed a special plane , designed primarily for the attack of troops on the ground , either when marching or in battle . For want @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " No other nation makes a specific type for this purpoie . The American air force has developed a whole scheme of 98 employment for its " attack . " The Spanish war has justified its existence and proved its necessity . Government airplanes , used in accordance with American doctrines , won a complete aerial victory over the Italians at Guadalajara . The Government troops only occupied ground that aerial action had forced . the Italians to evacuate . The battle lines north of Madrid are shaped like the head of an old man leaning to the northwest . The visor of his cap forms the Brunete salient . Madrid rests along his nose . The Jura= salient makes his chin . His head follows the Guadarrama Mountains . From the back of his neck , the Guadalajara road runs straight down a narrow valley to Madrid . Franco had been stopped at the stubborn nose , had driven in and formed the chin in his effort to surround Madrid . At only one other point was the old man vulnerable . A drive straight down through the neck @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by which Madrid and its defenders was supplied . Here was a chance to win the war , Atid Mussolini 's legions were to gain the - tory . Two Italian divisions , of about a000 men each , in motors , with some unmotorized Italian and Spanish troops , tanks and about 100 airplanes to support them , were given the task , Guadalajara was about forty-five miles from the front lines . In two days the motorized divisions should reach there , and Madrid would fail . The Government lines broke after a short artillery bombardment and the long columns of motors started their march . But the weather was bad . The Italian airplanes could not rise from rain-bogged fields . In four days the Italians advanced only twenty miles . The Italian Debacle The Government had not reacted and all still looked hopeful . A bridge destroyed by the heavy rains bad held up the columns . Suddenly the Italians , huddled in their trucks in the rain , were attacked by Russian fliers . Five hundred bombs were dropped and several hundred thousand rounds of ammunition fired @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to withdraw . On the days following , continual aerial attacks stopped the withdrawal . Trucks could not move off the blocked roads in the mud . International Brigades and Spanish troops moved up from Madrid in trucks and attacked . The Italian defeat was complete . They withdrew slowly , twelve miles in eight days , and re-established their lines a little forward from where they had started . In this operation the Russian fliers performed exactly in accordance with American attack doctrines . The long columns were perfect targets . The Italians , in trucks , were unable to fire back . After the first attack , pandemonium reigned and order was never again restored . While some infantry , artillery and tank lighting took place , it was nothing more than rear-guard action by the Italians to gain time and save their equipment . For tho first time in history , airplanes had won a battle by themselves . The infantry did little more than occupy the ground after the air attack had forced the Italians to leave . How slight the pressure of the International Brigades was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they completely lost contact with the Italians for two days of a retreat which was moving only at the rate of a mile and one half a day . Since Guadalajara , troops in large numbers have stopped moving on the roads in daylight unless they are protected by their own aircraft . Air attack has driven them to the friendly concealment of darkness . Small movements are made in daytime , either in small groups on foot , widely dispersed to minimize the effect of bombing , or else in trucks which move one or two at a time . The doughboy will be pleased to know that all troop movements off the battlefield are made in trucks . Gone are the days of long marches on foot . The ancient military habit of forming beautiful , long , straight columns , so powerful in appearance , but so weak against air attack , no longer obtains in Spain . Russian tanks battled with Italian tanks at Guadalajara . The little Italian three-ton tanks were no match for the heavier Russian , which weigh about eleven tons . In the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as on the sea , to the heaviest armor and armament . Some of the Russian tanks have both machine guns and antitank guns as armament , and the latter proved their value in the tank battles . The small Italian tanks have too little armor to withstand machine-gun bullets at close range . Their greatest advantage is their smallness , which makes them a difficult target . Both contenders have from 200 to 250 tanks . In general , the performance of all tanks has been disappointing to tank enthusiasts . They have not been used in large masses , so experience in Spain does not furnish a test of Russian and British theories of the employment of several thousand tanks in one operation . Shortly after the Government had received a large number of Russian tanks , a great tank operation was planned . So confident was the Government that all the foreign correspondents were invited to witness the expected success . Naturally , the plans for the attack were known to Franco long before it took place . His preparations included the digging of a tank trap , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trees and brush , in front of his lines . Behind the lines , antitank guns were spotted . The tanks , sixty of them , started up the bill to win . the war . Twenty-two dropped from sight in the trap . Another twenty foil victims to the antitank guns . Eighteen of the sixty returned to the Government lines , having accomplished nothing . Since that fiasco , tanks have not been used independently . Instead , they go along with the infantry and have their way prepared for them , as the infantry does , by a preliminary artillery and aerial bombardment . Used in this way , they have been very valuable ; their armor is heavy enough so machine-gun bullets do not disable them . They can reduce isolated machine-gun nests for the infantry . The exposed doughboy is heartened by the companionship of the steel monsters . Trouble for the Tanks In general , whenever tanks have met antitank guns , the tank has been immobilized . At one period Government , tank crews had suffered such heavy losses that tanks frequently were disabled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ courage to use the monster which they feared was to be their coffin . Tanks are blind . If they pass through the lines they leave many of the enemy behind them and soon are trapped . They dare not go forward farther or faster than the infantry . Against the antitank gun the tank is subject to another disability . When it is moving over rough ground , it sways and rocks so badly that its ' guns fire wildly first in the air and then in the ground . The stationary antitank gun firing at the tank can hit fifty times to its one . Another enemy of the tank devised in Germany has not been tried in Spain . This is the antitank mine . Shaped like a small flat sofa cushion , it is buried just under the ground , or covered over with grass or brush , and explodes on impact . These are placed in staggered rows about five feat apart , so that no tank can pass over the mine field without exploding a mine . The dreams of tank enthusiasts for high-speed war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , traps and obstacles will stop tanks just as thoroughly as trenches and machine guns stopped the infantry during the World War , Perhaps great masses of tanks can jump these barriers after taking heavy losses in the first waves ; that is for the future to show . In Spain , with a limited number of antitank guns , with few obstacles and traps , with no mines , tanks are stopped . The antitank gun scores another win for the gun in the ancient nice between gun power and armor . No tank can be made so heavy that artillery can not penetrate it . The practical size of antitank guns is limited , because they must be posted close to the front and must be light enough to be manhandled into position . Sizes in use in Spain vary from .8 inch to almost two inches . All of them have proved effective against light tanks . Again the United States is lagging in development . Wo still use machine gulls as antitank guns . It is generally agreed by professional soldiers that all tanks , even the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to machine-gun fire . Cavalry is not able on account of its scarcity . With an ample supply ( Continued en Poe , 100 ) ( CantInuad fears Page NO of horses available in Spain , with thin lines and rugged country , theoretically ideal for cavalry combat , it is almost nonexistent . Instead , both parties buy thousands of foreign trucks . Are we to conclude that the Spanish have overlooked a native asset ? Or that they have discarded an obsolete arm ? It may be that the almost immediate formation of a completely , although lightly , held front destroyed all opportunity for its use . In any future war the same rapid formation of a continuous front can be expected . The threat of motorized movements around the flank and to the rear of an army makes it essential that Lines be extended to impassable barriers . Motors provide the means for transporting troops rapidly to form the long lines . Again , cavalry is difficult to conceal and offers an easy target to aviation . A tradition-proud arm , it entered the World War still @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , that it could not joust against barbed wire and that the man on the horse , ten feet high , was a made-to-order victim for the machine gunners . The future of cavalry can not be said to have been conclusively settled in Spain , but it is difficult to refrain from concluding that the ancient partnership of horse and man in war is drawing to a final close . Artillery retains its importance . Franco 's well-instructed artillery corps and his excellent German guns have been one of the prime factors in his victories . Government incompetence in the use of artillery , due to lack of trained artillerymen , has led them to waste their air power attempting to perform artillery tasks . War has become increasingly complex . Amateurs can not conduct it successfully . The days when a people 's militia can stand against trained troops are gone forever . Government failure has been due , in the largest degree , to lack of trained officers and noncommissioned officers . Suspicious of the loyalty of the regular officers who joined them , led by left-wing writers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been unable , even with considerable help from competent foreign advisers , after a year and one half of war , to develop an army capable of fightingon equal terms with France 's men . Franco 's battles have been fought and won with numerical inferiority in every ease . The Government superiority of manpower has been nullified by military incompetence . A Lesson for America The plight of the Government forces indicates the wisdom of the national-defense plans of the United States . Our professional army , too small to invade any nation , is a bare nucleus around which a war army can be constructed . Soldiers can be trained quickly by capable officers . Officers take years to form . Our reservoir of officers is in the Officers ' Reserve Corps , with almost 100,000 members . All of them either have had World War training or have been commissioned after four years of instruction in the Reserve Officers ' Training Corps at our universities . They have proved their competence on duty with the Civilian Conservation Corps . Their theoretical training is very good , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reserve officers to an average of two weeks of active duty about every four years . Another cause of Spanish Government failure is the system of political coaunissars . The commissars , a Russian importation , are a combination of civil spy , supply officer and morale officer attached to every unit . They have their own chain of authority , independent of the unhappy commander , and report on his alleged delinquencies to their own superiors . And then there are the Russian military advisers to add to the commander 's troubles . These have their chain of authority , going up to the Russian military advisers to the Minister of War . So , officers without authority , constantly spied on and hindered in every decision , interrupted in the exercise of disciplinary authority , have little chance to develop a cohesive army . The Spaniard can be a splendid soldier . In the past he has marched over most of Europe . Franco is making him one again by the use of the ancient military processes of unity of command , diseipline and training . Franco has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , excepting his failure to take Madrid early in the war . The Government army has shown itself incapable of sustained offensive action . Each of their costly offensives has had some initial success , and finally bogged and fell back when Franco brought troops up to counterattack , Troops with amateur commanders and amateur staffs can not maneuver , they only stumble . The Proving Ground of Mars Government offensives have shown some initial success . The reason lies in the thinly held lines . About 400,000 men on each side are spread along more than S50 miles of front . In the World War , 4,000,000 men held lines less than half as long . Either side in Spain can attack with initial success if they achieve a measure of surprise . The true test conies when the hostile reserves have been rushed in to counterattack . By this test the Government has failed in every effort . Teruel is in their hands as this is written , but Franco 's reserves have held them there , and the Government has failed to gain control of the Teruel-Cuenca road @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ given them a highway to transfer troops between the Aragon front and Madrid . The Brunete , Belchite and Zaragoza offensives were equally unsuccessful . The costly and futile capture of Teruel may be the means of warming up for a little longer the waning will to fight of the peasants , but not for long . The power of the defensive still increases . The multiplication and perfection of automatic arms requires virtually complete destruction of the opposing trench systems before infantry eau attack . When lines are broken , the defender 's airplanes are first rushed to the danger point to bomb the attackers . Closely behind them come reserves in trucks to re-establish the line . Military men have believed that airplanes , tanks and motors would redound to the benefit of the attacker . Spain indicates that they are of still greater help to the defender . Disarmament conferences attempted to prevent war by limiting the numbers of offensive weapons . What they have failed to do , the evolution of war is doing . It is probable that the Spanish Civil War will end this spring @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . At the same time , Mussolini 's legions will try to wipe out their early defeat in a new battle of Guadalajara . 