@@146420

Although Nazis preach Nordic racial superiority , they have little hesitation in stringing along with a Mediterranean people like the Italians or an Oriental one like the Japanese . Moreover , they strenuously try to cultivate friendship with the Arabs , who are not only non-Aryan but Semitic . Last week Adolf Hitler received at his Berchtesgaden retreat a tall , straight , bearded Arab dressed in a beautifully embroidered flowing robe . His name was Khalid al Hud , and his position is that of counselor and emissary of Ibn Saud , King of Saudi Arabia , " Guardian of the Holy Places , " the most potent and most independent of the Near East 's monarchs . <P> Nazi rumor had it last week that stubborn Ibn Saud , most listened-to of Arab nationalist leaders , and Great Britain , most respected of Western powers in the Near East , were on the outs . The Nazis , in fact , wanted it believed that His Majesty was so exasperated by British " broken promises " in the-Near East that hereafter Arab nationalists in general and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for help and guidance . Although a discreet silence was kept over what , if anything , Fhrer Hitler promised Khalid al Hud and vice versa , it was news simply that they had talked . When the German Foreign Office mouthpiece , the Deutsche Diplo-matische Politische Korrespondenz , announced on the heels of the meeting that the Axis would support the Arabs in eliminating British and French influence in the Near East , it was doubly news . For Britain it was alarming . <P> Likelihood was that Khalid al Hud 's visit would not result immediately in anything concrete , but was simply another instance of the Axis policy of goading the British and French by flattering the Arab . Although Benito Mussolini allows his Arabs in Libya precious little freedom , he has long been mightily concerned about Arab independence in French-mandated Syria and British-mandated Palestine . Il Duce proclaimed himself " Protector of Islam " two years ago , but last spring he nevertheless invaded Albania , a predominantly Moslem country . In Germany hand-picked Arabs are invited as honor guests to the Nazi Party 's annual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bait the Jews . Both Nazi and Fascist newspapers , moreover , rarely miss a chance to fight the battle of the Arab in Palestine and Syria . Last week they found some choice items to report . <P> &gt; In Haifa , Palestine , 18 Arabs were killed , 24 wounded , by a time bomb exploding in a vegetable market . British authorities believed Jews , probably of the Revisionist organization , the culprits . Arabs planned a general strike , while members of Haifa 's Christian community asked the British High Commissioner to protect the Arab population . Jewish communal leaders hastened to condemn the " dastardly murder of innocent Arabs , women and children . " and Chairman David Ben Gurion , of the Palestine Jewish Agency , again warned his people that " we must not sully our struggle with despicable acts of madness . "                     