@@487330

Another Repeal JAMES JOYCE 'S " Ulysses , " for eleven years the most famous of our bootleg classics , is legal at last  --  at least in so far as the government of these United States is concerned . Prohibition , to be sure , did not prevent the literati from being as familiar with the book as they were with cocktails , and copies of " Ulysses " carried on the hip gave young collegians a kind of prestige comparable to that achieved by a pocket flask . Perhaps , indeed , some of them scanned its difficult pages for the same reason that they scorched their tender palates with white mule , and we should not be surprised if a certain decline in reckless Ulysses reading took place among the young . In any event , however , Random House , its only licensed publisher , did not prepare for repeal with as much foresight as the distillers did , and the public will have to wait until sometime in January for its first legal copies . When the great day comes , we hope @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was December 5 . All lovers of law and order , all upholders of true temperance , will pray that there be no orgies . Youth must show that it knows how to use its liberties , and it will be an ill augury if the streets are filled with young men and maidens drunk upon immoderate drafts of Mrs. Bloom 's meditation . Federal Judge Woolsey says that the court is bound to consider both the work as a whole and the intention of the author ; and perhaps more important , that one must consider only its effect upon a person " with average sex instincts . " Holding that " Ulysses " is a " sincere and honest book " not written with pornographic intent but constituting a " serious experiment " carried out with " astonishing success , " he cites the legal definition of " obscene " as " tending to stir the sex impulses , " and declares Joyce 's work innocent in this respect . Commenting further on the contention that sex plays a disproportionately large part in the thoughts of the characters , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the annals of judicial humor : " It must be remembered that his locale was Celtic and his season spring . " We can not , however , help noting that we wish it had been possible  --  though we know it was not  --  to add a paragraph something like this : " Only a legal fiction makes it necessary to pretend that the real question at issue is whether or not ' Ulysses ' is likely to ' stir the sex impulses . ' At least half the recognized diversions of civilized mankind are intended to do that to a greater or less extent , and society recognizes the process as not only permissible but necessary to its welfare . Only hypocrisy could insist that the law makes any pretense of interfering with such diversions , for if it did , then it would be necessary not only to proceed against almost every love story , but to raid the very dances sponsored by the Young Women 's Christian Association . The real question is whether or not Joyce 's rare use of four Anglo-Saxon monosyllables constitutes a threat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ law . Since the prominence of these same four words in the epigraphy of the public-school outhouse makes them familiar to every literate person long before he is acquainted with the meaning of most of the other words in ' Ulysses , ' I hold that the police and the courts have more important business to attend to . " " Real Wages to 4,000,000 Americans " ON November 15 President Roosevelt made one of his friendly , heartening , and altogether winning speeches before the Civil Works Conference in Washington . In it he announced the government 's plans for the new Civil Works Administration and the employment of 4,000,000 persons , half of whom were at that time on what the President frankly called a dole . Mr. Roosevelt ended his speech with the following sentence : " I am very confident that the mere fact of giving real wages to 4,000,000 Americans who today are not getting wages is going to do more to relieve suffering and to lift the morale of the nation than anything undertaken before . " The details of the Civil Works Administration plan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hopkins , Federal Relief Administrator . The first point of that program , like President Roosevelt 's last sentence , is well worth repeating : " The 2,000,000 men to be employed on November 16 will automatically become wage-earning , independent workers , no longer dependent on charity . " Now that the Civil Works Administration has been in operation for about a month , it is worth while , considering the definite promises made for it , to record what has actually been done . The program was to be financed by $400,000,000 appropriated from the balance of the Public Works Administration funds , and $200,000,000 contributed by Federal Emergency Relief funds ; in some cases funds were to be contributed by State and local organizations , and to that extent Federal Emergency Relief funds would not be called on . The total spent is , therefore , to be $600,000,000 . Rates of wages were announced by Mr. Hopkins as follows : for unskilled labor , a minimum of from forty to fifty cents an hour , depending upon the locality ; for skilled labor a minimum of from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the lowest wages to be paid in the South , the highest in the North . Those employed were to work a thirty-hour week . And perhaps the most cheerful part of the plan , certainly to the 2,000,000 persons already on relief allotments or relief ( ( work , " who were to be the first half of the 4,000,000 employed , was that removing them from " relief " status , which meant from the necessity of being investigated . This , then , was the plan . It was obviously a good plan in so far as it removed men from a dole and put them to work at regular wages . The announced intention of the Civil Works Administration to maintain , as far as possible , the prevailing wage rate for equivalent work was encouraging ; and the rates of pay for skilled labor were highly acceptable . Let us see how the program is being carried out . On December 1 Mr. Hopkins declared that up to November 25 , 1,183,267 persons had been employed by the Civil Works Administration , and he promised @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would have been transferred from the civil-relief lists and in a week would be eligible for their first pay check . This was not quite the 2,000,000 by November 15 promised in earlier statements , but one should not quarrel with it too much . It was fairly obvious in the beginning that November 15 was too optimistic . What of the rate of pay ? The appropriation is expected to last until February 15 ? although one does not quite see why . An elementary arithmetician can divide $600,000,000 by 4,000,000 persons and come out with $150 per person . It would seem , therefore , that the minimum wage for unskilled workers must be the prevailing rate of pay  --  fifty cents an hour for a thirty-hour week yielding a little over $60 a month . But it is obvious that only a very small percentage of the workers may expect to be classified as skilled . The ratio has been declared to be 95 per cent unskilled to 5 per cent skilled , but even that would seem to be too generous . The sum of $150 apiece @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ winter months , does not , it would seem , quite live up to Mr. Roosevelt 's description of " real wages , " or to the Civil Works program of making 4,000,000 " independent workers , no longer dependent on charity . " It is altogether likely that these workers will find it impossible to get " charity , " but it is not so likely that the income they receive from Civil Works jobs will not need to be supplemented from some source , or that they will not suffer if it is not supplemented . Funds from local relief projects are in no case expended for the wages of persons employed by the C. W. A. But these funds are called on for the purchase of materials for C. W. A. projects . There is reason to believe that the transfer of persons formerly on local relief to the C. W. A. will not release an equivalent amount of money to be further expended for relief  --  admittedly inadequate before the creation of the C. W. A. ? but will in many cases merely provide C. W. A. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tickets or rent vouchers , or were performing " made " work . The prevailing wage , as outlined above , is roughly based on wage scales maintained under the auspices of the American Federation of Labor  --  wages , that is , for organized labor . Unorganized labor , including white-collar workers , inevitably suffers from not being organized . In New York City 3,500 white-collar workers  --  teachers , statisticians , architectural draftsmen , stenographers , newspapermen  --  employed formerly by the Emergency Work Relief Bureau , have not been transferred to the Civil Works Administration and classified as skilled workers , as they were at first told they would be . They are instead classified as " Civil Works Service , " they are to be paid from thirty to seventy-five cents an hour , and they are still listed as " relief " workers and subject to investigation . This wholly anomalous situation has arisen because the Civil Works Administration was planned for laborers and  --  in the main  --  less skilled artisans . The administration admittedly finds itself at a loss when it comes to placing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ distinction between skill and lack of it , so much confused that rather than face the problem it - threw out of its jurisdiction a considerable group of men and women , obviously skilled , and refused them even the pay of ditch-diggers in the South , who receive a minimum of forty cents an hour . - It is not out of a desire to be critical of the President or of Administration attempts to provide work for the unemployed that these drawbacks in the Civil Works program are adduced . But it is certainly advisable that the American people should be clearly informed about these matters . It is evident that when Congress meets , more money , in enormous quantities , will have to be appropriated for the unemployed and for the temporarily employed . The Public Works program , started last spring , has been slow in getting under way , and has still a long distance to go before it provides considerable relief to the unemployed . More money for relief means more taxes . Let us face these things as we must face them . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as President Roosevelt confidently foresees , " this beloved country of ours is entering upon a time of great gain , " it is evident that a further period of travail must intervene before we may enjoy it . Roosevelt in Review T WO tasks confront the intelligent observer and critic of Mr. Roosevelt 's Administration and his New Deal . One is to take the whole program to pieces and look at it bit by bit  --  codes , gold policy , processing tax , labor claims , and all the rest  --  to discover how each part works , and point out its values and defects . This is a monumental task and one which no journal of current comment can comprehensively perform . The Nation has , however , tried to select certain important aspects of the government program for separate consideration . Two weeks ago we printed a description of the government housing development in the Tennessee Valley . Last week we printed a discussion of the gold policy and the prospect of inflation . In later issues we intend to publish an analysis of the oil @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fragments that make up the NRA , and further articles on the steel industry and the steel code , labor under the NRA , the banking crisis , and the pressing problems of relief and government credit . Each aspect of the national effort presents a different picture . In the Tennessee Valley , for example , we see an impressive attempt to organize the economic and social life of a whole section around a great government industrial development . In the working of the oil code we see every difficulty that stands in the way of the social control of a privately owned , competitively , exploited natural resource . In steel we see how the power of the government is paralyzed when it meets the strength of a great monopoly backed by even greater banking interests . In the field of labor we see a spontaneous impulse of rebellion and action , encouraged by the half-promises of the recovery act , balked by the stubborn resistance of the strongest industries and , even more perhaps , by the standpat inactivity of many labor leaders and the rigid , antiquated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fragments and a hundred others compose a jig-saw puzzle of confusion , of conflicting tendencies and inconsistent facts . But the jig-saw method is not the only way of visualizing the national scene . The disinterested observer has a second task to perform . Every so often in his process of scrutiny he should back off and look at the show as a whole and attempt to estimate its general progress and intentions and accomplishments , to discern trends . Such an observermust today be struck with one incontrovertible fact  --  the honest purpose of President Roosevelt to pursue not merely prosperity but prosperity based on social control and a wider distribution of social benefits . One may disagree with the practical effects of two-thirds of his policies . One may oppose , for example , as The Nation has cpposed , the gold-purchase program or the attempt to help the farmer by special subsidies levied at the expense of the consumer . But in the very act of criticizing these devices , one must admit that in his monetary policy Mr. Roosevelt is expressing the desires of great masses of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reactionary financial interests  --  the interests that ruled unchecked through the persons of his three predecessors in office ; while in his farm program he is animated by the single desire to put real money into the pockets of the class that for years past has had the least to spend . One may maintain , as The Nation maintains , that the basic industries will ultimately never accept or submit to codes which prevent the freest accumulation of profits . They will yield voluntarily to government control only so long as they feel that the alternative is collapse or continued loss . In direct proportion to their power or their prosperity , they will seek to evade the codes or dominate and use them to their , advantage . To us it appears evident that only outright government ownership can result in successful social control of the natural resources and the basic industries of our country . But to believe this is not synonymous with the conclusion that Mr. Roosevelt and the NRA have embarked upon a voyage into fascism . Fascism may be at the end of the way @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the dominant part of the Administration forces . Here again , of course , we find division . The Roosevelt Administration is compounded of such diverse elements that one may call it anything from fascist to socialist , depending upon the angle or the object of one 's vision . We believe that Mr. Roosevelt was ill-advised  --  even politically  --  in attempting the combinations of persons and points of view that appear in almost every administrative body . Already the elements have sprung apart and caused an explosion in the Treasury Department ; they are at the boiling-point in the Agricultural Adjustment Administration ; and similar ferments are at work in every branch of the NRA . Politics is only partly at fault ; the President has undoubtedly mingled political appointments with merit appointments to a disturbing degree . But much of the trouble has developed as the result of his disinterested effort to assemble the best specialized advice ; he must have learned by this time , what he should have realized before , that experts are the hardest people on earth to amalgamate . What Mr. Roosevelt needs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and women appointed to office not because they are Democrats rather than Republicans , not because they are experts rather than politicians , but because they are able supporters of Mr. Roosevelt 's own fundamental purposes and ideals and can advise him as to the soundest methods of carrying them out. ? By the rather painful process of schism and elimination we are gradually approaching some such administrative unity . And the observer of the whole scene must again step far enough off to watch the shifting currents of men and , policies . After remarking certain painful details , such as the President 's recent appointment of a reactionaryWall , Street man , Earle Bailie , to the Treasury staff , he should note the obvious tendency on the part of Mr. Roosevelt to uphold the liberal wing in the AAA and NRA against the attacks of the right , and his announced determination not to weaken the provisions of the securities act . More than any other measure , perhaps , the securities act is a barometer registering the pressures of opinion as they sweep in from Wall Street @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not important at this moment to argue the various points raised by the supporters and opponents of the act in its present form . It is more interesting to watch the response of the Administration to these pressures . Despite the uncomfortable presence of Mr. Bailie in the Treasury , we believe that the President intends to keep teeth in the act  --  enough teeth to worry Wall Street and give the ultimate consumer of stocks and bonds a new feeling of security . We entertain less hope than this article may imply that the general purposes of the Roosevelt Administration will be achieved by means of the devices it has evolved . Indeed , the effort to create a new sort of socialized capitalism may well plunge the country into a fascized capitalism , more oppressive than the chaotic anarchistic capitalism out of which we are now struggling . But the job of those who wish to achieve the complete social control of industry is quite clear . They should both analyze the New Deal minutely and view it as a whole . They should acknowledge and support the leftward @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ serious lapse in the direction of reaction ; they should work unremittingly for a strong , conscious , militant labor movement as the only ultimate counterbalance to the forces of organized capital ; and they should demand at every appropriate opportunity that the government take over and administer those basic industrial and financial enterprises on which the economic foundations of the country rest . A Green Utopia U TOPIA , of recent years , has taken on many colors . Mussolini has a black one , Stalin 's is red , Hitler 's is dark brown , and Mr. Roosevelt 's might be said to rival the coat of many colors . But the most ingratiating one we have read about is that green Utopia , non-political , projected by Robert Marshall in " The People 's Forests " ? a book which should be a compulsory text in every American public school . In the beginning , half of what is now the United States was covered with timber  --  a billion acres of forest ranging from the scrubby growth that clings to high mountain sides to magnificent trees hundreds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beds of " duff " so deep and soft that the moccasin of an Indian made neither mark nor sound . For the most part it was uninhabited , and so was preserved by nature itself . But even those sections in which the Indians lived were almost as well taken care of . The red men knew so well the-importance and the art of preserving the world that gave them sustenance that " the land in which they had been living for generations was left by them as rich and productive as when their ancient Mongoloid ancestors had first migrated to the North American continent . " So much for the ignorant savage . Three hundred years ago civilized man , bent on religious and commercial freedom , landed on the eastern shores of the United States , and the destruction of the country 's forest wealth began . Mr. Marshall 's account of the depredations of our venerated ancestors would not fit into a D. A. R. celebration : . . . in order to obtain lye , they burnt down magnificent forests which had taken centuries in their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ indifferent to control the fires which they merely needed for clearing up tiny garden patches ; allowed their camp fires to run wild . . . and slashed down giant trees simply to obtain bark for tanning extract , boughs for bedding , or even gum for chewing . Because the settlers were so few and the forests so enormous , it was two centuries before the destruction became so noticeable that an outcry was raised against it . But the protest went unheard , while the lumber industry , moving from one section to another as the great trees fell , wiped out stand after stand of virgin timber whose reproduction requires from 40 to 150 years . Not until thirty years ago was the Forest Service established , and it has jurisdiction over only a comparatively small proportion of the country 's remaining forests . Elsewhere devastation continues . Almost everyone has learned by this time some of the things that happen when forests are reduced to ugly stumps and the lumber crew moves on . Erosion and floods carry off the livelihood of thousands of people who may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only destruction grows , and their richest soil may presently be deposited in the bed of a river they have never seen . There are social and human consequences as well . For one thing the lumber industry 's policy of " cut out and get out " has imposed a migratory existence on those who work for it ; overproduction , because the resources were so vast , has combined with competition to make working conditions in the lumber industry worse than in almost any other  --  the death-rate in logging is much higher than in most other important industries . Mr. Marshall 's solution of , the problem of restoring and preserving our forests is public ownership , and his argument should convince even a laissez-fairist . The private owner must have a fairly quick return on his investment . But the average period of time necessary to raise a stand of merchantable timber is eighty years . Dividends eighty years in the future do not invite investment , and Mr. Marshall backs up this assertion by pointing out that of the 83,000,000 acres of devastated or poorly stocked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his profit , the private owner lacks a motive for reforestation . Mr. Marshall has a comprehensive plan by which the government may acquire " at least 562,000,000 acres out of the 670,000,000 acres of potential forest land " ? and in offering it he gives much credit to " A National Plan for American Forestry " prepared by that admirable government department , the Forest Service . The cost of acquiring and restoring these acres would be large , so violent has private devastation been , but he demonstrates that once restored to productivity the forests under government operation would eventually yield a handsome. , profit in money ; provide , in addition , stable employment ' for thousands of people ; and , finally , assure to future generations of Americans protection from erosion and floods as well as a green retreat from whatever happen to be the insoluble problems of their age .                     