@@470013

labor disputes ? in fact the vast majority ? have not arisen simply out of the desire of workers for more pay or shorter hours . Behind the strike has usually been a struggle for effective unionization and the resulting power of collective bargaining . The Industrial Revolution , i.e. , the mechanization of the processes of production and the introduction of the factory system , brought about conditions which have terminated the ability of any but the most highly skilled workers to bargain individually with their employers on a basis of equality . In earlier times employer and employee belonged to the same community , attended the same church , participated in the same political activities , and were not very far removed in the economic scale . There was no great surplus of labor ; if the terms of employment offered to a given employee by his employer were unsatisfactory more likely than not they would talk face to face and reach an accord . Or if the terms were regarded by the employee as utterly unreasonable he could do odd jobs for others , farm @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ security of at least subsistence for himself and his family for an indefinite period . And eventually either his employer would feel the need of his services sufficiently to modify his former offer or the employee would find other satisfactory work in the same community . But with the coming of the Industrial Revolution all this was changed . Great cities developed which were the centers of the factory system . The individualworker and his employer ( to-day very frequently an impersonal corporation ) grew farther and farther apart socially and economically . The favorable atmosphere for personal conferences and adjustment of disputes disappeared . The individual factory worker to-day owns no land , has no tools , little or no capital , and hence has no resources with which he and his family can hope to survive an extended deadlock with his employer over terms of employment . Moreover , even if desirable jobs are available elsewhere , he can not afford to transfer himself and his family and their few possessions to a distant city . In short , under modern industrial conditions the individual worker is powerless to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the terms of his employment . Acting alone , he has no practical alternative but to accept the terms offered to him . This , in briefest outline , is the story behind the passion for unionization . To labor leaders and other students of labor problems the desirability of organizations through which workers can bargain collectively is axiomatic . Nor is the benefit of such labor organizations confined to labor 's ranks ; it is important to employers and to the consuming public as well . The recent depression has emphasized the fact that ability to purchase must approximate ability to produce if periodic accumulation of disrupting surpluses of consumers ' goods is to be avoided . The workers of the nation are by far the largest body of consumers . Unless they have sufficient wages ? buying power ? to enable them to purchase a reasonable proportion of the consumable goods which they help to produce , surpluses of goods will again arise and a new depression will be inevitable . To the maintenance of our competitive , capitalistic society the making of profits is essential . Competition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reduce costs of production . Labor costs are frequently the greatest single item of expense in the production of goods . Consequently , the reduction of wages , or its corollary , increasing hours of labor , is an ever-present temptation . As already indicated , the individual employee does not have the equality of bargaining power which might enable him to counterbalance this threat . Nor can even the most generous , altruistic , and farsighted employer afford to pay wages much in excess of his competitors . lf , in the interest of immediate profits , wages are reduced to a point where workers are unable to consume the products of industry , a crash is inevitable with disastrous consequences to all . But effective labor unions , operating over a wide area , can modify the development of this pernicious cycle . Herein lies the interest of employers and of the public generally as well as of employees in labor 's achievement of collective bargaining . Yet , despite this almost self-evident special interest of employees and general interest of the public in the development of effective labor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ slow . In 1931 the labor unions of this country embraced only one-fifth of all wage earners , excluding agricultural laborers . The recent depression with its attendant poverty and excess of labor caused many workers to drop their union membership . Unquestionably the Wagner Act and the current activities of the C.I.O. have stimulated an increase in the ranks of organized labor . But there would seem to he little doubt that even to-day scarcely one-quarter of the industrial workers of the country hold union memberships . II What is the explanation of this amazing paradox that laborers , whose self-interests are so dependent upon collective bargaining , have not flocked into unions ? their collective bargaining agencies ? almost to a man ? There are four principal factors : ( 1 ) inertia on the part of the rank and file of workers , ( 2 ) deficient labor leadership , ( 3 ) the solid front of employers and effective back pressure on their part to thwart the development of unionization , and ( 4 ) the attitude of the courts when confronted with controversies arising out of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Laborers are not exempt from the human tendency to be more concerned with the immediate present than with the speculative future . If a man has a job he has at least so much security and present income . He knows that if he joins a union his income will be decreased by the amount of the dues that he will have to pay . He knows that as a union member he may be called out on strike and thereby lose wages and perhaps even his job . He is , therefore , strongly inclined to let well enough alone and not take out the insurance for his job-future that union membership may constitute . If he subsequently loses his job or suffers a drastic reduction in pay his availability for union membership is further affected . About the deplorable quality of labor leadership , there is not much that can be said except to recognize that it is a concomitant of the weakness of labor unions generally . So long as the efforts of employers and the attitude of the courts ( along with labor 's natural inertia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , just so long will the emergence of more intelligent , reasonable , honest labor leaders be curtailed . Heretofore the risks to labor leaders of jail sentences or other penalties have been so great that in many instances only the fanatics or the dishonest have ventured to array themselves against the opposing forces . Under the circumstances the really extraordinary fact is that many men of extremely fine character and capacity have always been found at the forefront of the labor movement . There are serious , impartial students of labor problems who are convinced that , despite the inertia and inadequate leadership to which I have referred , labor 's struggle for effective unionization would to-day be much farther advanced had employers not been so skillfully combating this movement . For many decades there has been going on a miniature civil war between capital and labor with an arsenal of weapons on each side . The employers are equipped for both attack and defense . An aggressive move on the part of employers is the lock-out , so called because it refers to an employer 's act of locking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effort to get for himself more favorable labor terms . This is the counterpart of a strike . It has been held that employers may without legal penalty enter into a combination to lock out their employees . The blacklist is another device of employers for eliminating union employees : employers furnish one another with the names of former employees known or believed to have union membership or even sympathy and the employer so notified refuses employment to the worker in question . Although this resembles a secondary boycott , it has not received judicial condemnation . Moreover , statutes which have been enacted against blacklisting have had little effect , the difficulties of proof being almost insuperable . A prophylactic measure popular with employers for guarding against unionization of their employees has been the so-called " yellow dog " contract . This is an agreement which an employer exacts from an employee that the latter will neither join a union nor induce other employees to do so during the course of his employment . As the nickname suggests , labor particularly resents this stratagem . Such contracts are never made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are intended , as Mr. Justice Maxey ofthe Pennsylvania Supreme Court has pointed out , merely as " an emplacement for equity 's longest-range injunction gun . " In other words , the purpose of a " yellow dog " contract is to enable an employer to get an injunction , not against his own employees , but against labor leaders and union officials seeking to unionize his employees , on the ground that such persons are threatening to induce a breach of contract on the part of the employees . Once a labor dispute has started , the injunction may become the employer 's main reliance . But as this is primarily a defensive measure , consideration of it will be postponed until labor 's weapons in this struggle for unionization are discussed . A number of scattered anti-union activities of employers have recently been crystallized into a cohesive technic for strike-breaking known as the " Mohawk Valley formula . " This formula was distributed to the National Association of Manufacturers by James H. Rand , Jr. , President of Remington Rand , Inc . It was outlined as follows @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a case involving that corporation , decided March 15 , 1937 : " First : When a strike is threatened , label the union leaders as ' agitators ' to discredit them with the public and their own followers . In the plant , conduct a forced balloting under the direction of foremen in an attempt to ascertain the strength of the union and to make possible misrepresentation of the strikers as a small minority imposing their will upon the majority . At the same time , disseminate propaganda , by means of press releases , advertisements , and the activities of ' missionaries , ' such propaganda falsely stating the issues involved in the strike so that the strikers appear to be making arbitrary demands , and the real issues , such as the employer 's refusal to bargain collectively , are obscured . Concurrently with these moves , by exerting economic pressure through threats to move the plant , align the influential members of the community into a cohesive group op- ? WHAT 'S BEHIND posed to the strike . Include in this group , usually designated a ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ estate owners and business men , i.e. , those most sensitive to any threat of removal of the plant because of its effect upon property values and purchasing power flowing from payrolls . " Second : When the strike is called , raise high the banner of ' law and order , ' thereby causing the community to mass legal and police weapons against a wholly imagined violence and to forget that those of its members who are employees have equal rights with the other members of the community . " Third : Call a ' mass meeting ' of the citizens to co-ordinate public sentiment against the strike and to strengthen the power of the Citizens Committee , whidi organization , thus supported , will both aid the employer in exerting pressure upon the local authorities and itself sponsor vigilante activities . " Fourth : Bring about the formation of a large armed police force to intimidate the strikers and to exert a psychological effect upon the citizens . This force is built up by utilizing local police , State Police if the Governor co-operates , vigilames and special deputies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , so that there will be no personal relationships to induce sympathy for the strikers . Coach the deputies and vigilantes on the law of unlawful assembly , inciting to riot , disorderly conduct , etc. , so that , unhampered by any thought that the strikers may also possess some rights , they will be ready and anxious to use their newly-acquired authority to the limit . " Fifth : And perhaps most important , heighten the demoralizing effect of the above measures ? all designed to convince the strikers that their cause is hopeless ? by a ' back to work ' movement , operated by a puppet association of so-called ' loyal employees ' secretly organized by the employer . Have this association wage a publicity campaign in its own name and co-ordinate such campaign with the work of the ' missionaries ' circulating among the strikers and visiting their homes . This ' back to work ' movement has these results : it causes the public to believe that the strikers are in the minority and that most of the employees desire to return to work , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his activities to such an extent that the public is willing to pay the huge costs , direct and indirect , resulting from the heavy forces of police . This ' back to work ' movement also enables the employer , when the plant is later opened , to operate it with strikebreakers if necessary and to continue to refuse to bargain collectively with the strikers . In addition , the ' back to work ' movement permits the employer to keep a constant check on the strength of the union through the number of applications received from employees ready to break ranks and return to work , such number being kept secret from the public and other employees , so that the doubts and fears created by such secrecy will in turn induce still others to make applications . " Sixth : When a sufficient number of applications are on hand fix a date for an opening of the plant through the device of having such opening requested by the ' back to work ' association . Together with the Citizens Committee , prepare for such opening by making provision @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the areas surrounding the plant , by securing arms and ammunition , etc . The purpose of the ' opening ' of the plant is threefold : to see if enough employees arc ready to return to work ; to induce still others to return as a result of the demoralizing effect produced by the opening of the plant and the return of some of their number ; and lastly , even if the movement fails to induce a sufficient number of persons to return , to persuade the public through pictures and news releases that the opening was nevertheless successful . " Seventh : Stage the ' opening , ' theatrically throwing open the gates at the propitious moment and having the employees march into the plant grounds in a massed group protected by squads of armed police , so as to give to the opening a dramatic and exaggerated quality and thus heighten its demoralizing effect . Along with the ' opening ' provide a spectacle ? speeches , flag raising , and praises for the employees , citizens , and local authorities , so that , their vanity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the scheme and will increase their efforts to induce additional employees to return to work . " Eighth : Capitalize on the demoralization of the strikers by continuing the show of police force and the pressure of the Citizens Committee , both to insure that those employees who have returned will continue at work and to force the remaining strikers to capitulate . If necessary , turn the locality into a warlike camp through the declaration of a state of emergency tantamount to martial law and barricade it from the outside world , so that nothing may interfere with the successful conclusion of the ' Formula , ' thereby driving home to the union leaders the futility of further efforts to hold their ranks intact " Ninth : Close the publicity barrage , which day by day during the entire period has increased the demoralization worked by all of these measures , on the theme that the plant is in full operation and that the strikers were merely a minority attempting to interfere with the ' right to work , ' thus inducing the public to place a moral stamp @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the campaign is over ? the employer has broken the strike . " To those who are unfamiliar with the extremes to which very many industrial leaders have gone in their relentless opposition to the development of labor unions the effrontery involved in actually codifying such a program of oppression , deception , violence , and corruption must seem well nigh incredible . But that the " Mohawk Valley formula " or a definite plan closely resembling it has been utilized in combating successfully numerous recent strikes can not be doubted . With Philadelphia as a reference point , one canall too readily recall the riots at the Chester plant of the Sun Shipbuilding and Dry Dock Company and at the Hershey factory of the Hershey Chocolate Company , each preceded by citizens ' committees , special deputies , quasi " martial law , " spurious " back to work " movements , and barrages of false propaganda eventually arousing the local citizenry to massed attacks upon the strikers . Other sections of the country can no doubt remember similar local episodes . And the employer 's most effective weapon against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This consists in discharging or discriminating against individual workers for union membership or activity . The labor movement 's greatest obstacle has arisen from this constant threat and the ever-present fear which it invokes . Out of the individual employee 's powerlessness to combat it arises the paradox that the success of the struggle for collective bargain . ing is contingent upon the power to bargain collectively . When one includes in the battery of employers ' guns the stimulating of so-called " company unions " ( puppet employee associations dominated by the employer or his representatives ) and participation in trade associations through which numbers of employers can present a united front to the demands of labor , it is amazing that the struggle to achieve organizations of employees independent of company domination has succeeded even as well as it has . III A chief reliance of workers in their campaign for unionization has been the strike . When an industry is thoroughly unionized , strikes are comparatively rare , and such strikes as may occur are called by union leaders as representatives of substantially all the workers involved in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ areas , however , are almost necessarily begun before complete union machinery can have been set up and leaders accredited . Fear , largely generated by his employer 's actions , is so great on the part of the average employee that he tends to avoid union membership . Unless stimulated by some greater fear or aroused by a dramatic appeal , he continues to ignore the safeguard for his future that would spring from the formation of a collective bargaining agency . Hence it is inevitable that whenever steps toward the establishment of a union occur the initiative is taken by a coterie of the more vigorous and fearless employees . The invalidity thus becomes apparent of the frequently voiced objection to strikes for unionization that they represent attempts on the part of a mere minority of the employees to coerce the employer into action affecting all . If , while an employer is doing all in his power to influence his individual employees to abstain from union membership , the employees must refrain from group action aimed at neutralizing the employer 's efforts unless their group comprises at least @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an unattainable fantasy . At one time English law forbade strikes under any circumstances . It was about four hundred years before the Industrial Revolution that the pestilence , known in England as the Black Death , swept large areas of the earth . This terrible tragedy immeasurably affected the course of the law 's development with reference to the labor movement . The mortality among English workers was so heavy and the labor scarcity so great that the individual artisans and laborers who survived had a bargaining power of disturbing proportions . Consequently Parliament in 1351 enacted the Statute of Laborers which created not only a duty to work but also to work in accordance with prescribed standards . Thus there was introduced into English ( and subsequently American ) Iaw the conception that the labor contract and labor relationship are subject to a different status than are other contracts and other relationships . One of the dogmas of the common law is that if a person is caused economic injury , for example , a business loss , by theacts of others , he can either enjoin their conduct @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their purpose is lawful and that they have employed lawful means . A business man may cause tremendous economic loss to a rival , may even ruin his rival 's business by deliberately selling below cost , and the courts will attach no penalty to his conduct . This is judicially regarded as only the ultimate consequence of legitimate business competition , in which the survivor was seeking merely to serve his own economic interests and not maliciously to injure his bankrupt competitor . But many courts have issued injunctions against attempts by workers or labor leaders to persuade others to strike in order to induce union recognition on an employer 's part . These courts offer a wide variety of reasons for this result , but the underlying thought is that the workers are seeking to bring about a cessation of activity in the employer 's business that will be economically detrimental to him , and that the employer and the employees are not business rivals , and hence this injury is not justified . In this area the courts fail to apply to the workers reasoning comparable to that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ another , namely , that the workers are seeking merely to further their own economic interest in collective bargaining and not endeavoring maliciously to injure the employer . The explanation for these contrasting attitudes can be traced back to the Black Death , the Statute of Laborers , and the parade of statutes and decisions stemming therefrom . The culmination has been an inchoate judicial reaction that the sale of goods and the making of profits is optional with the owner , while the sale of services and the earning of wages is morally ( though not now legally ) mandatory , and hence that if the desire of employees to withhold services for the sake of ultimately bettering their positions conflicts with the desire of an employer to make profits by selling goods , the former should yield . When labor in its struggle for union recognition supplements the strike with other devices this tendency of the courts to suppress interference by labor with the " free flow of business " becomes even more marked . Unless strikers can succeed in preventing their employer from filling their places with other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wages without bringing economic pressure to bear on the employer . Consequently , most strikes are accompanied by some form of picketing . Picketing usually has a three-fold objective : ( I ) to influence public opinion in favor of the strikers , ( 2 ) to dissuade non-strikers from going to work , and ( 3 ) to provide a physical activity for the strikers which will help to maintain discipline and morale . Here again the courts have come to the aid of capital in this struggle with labor by issuing sweeping injunctions against picketing . To be sure the prevailing judicial formula is that only non-peaceful picketing will be enjoined . But as far as the second and most important objective of picketing is concerned , i.e. , dissuading others from taking the strikers ' places , peaceful picketing is virtually a contradiction in terms , for almost any effective action which pickets might take to keep others from replacing them might be , and indeed has been by many courts , described as non-peaceful . If strikers or their associates beat up fellow-employees who refuse to join @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as unlawful and subject to criminal as well as civil penalties . An express or implied threat of physical harm is also to be condemned and may be judicially penalized by injunction or otherwise . Unquestionably an implied threat may be just as real as an express one . But if courts go far enough in enjoining implied threats of violence virtually all picketing can be outlawed as non-peaceful . The mere presence of numerous pickets has been held to constitute such an implied threat . Dirty looks , insulting gestures , and deprecatory epithets have been relied upon by other courts in granting sweeping anti-picketing injunctions . All picketing , except possibly the simplest variety , does present an intimation of impending harm to opponents of the pickets . It may be that effective picketing inevitably involves some invasion of the rights of others . Abstractly , no violence or threat of violence by any person or group should be condoned . For this reason should all picketing be banned ? In the ultimate analysis , this is a social problem , namely , is the advantage to society in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ loss resulting from destruction of one of labor 's chief weapons in its struggle for collective bargaining ? Another form of pressure which workers frequently bring to bear upon their employer in the event of a struggle for union recognition is the boycott . In its simplest form a boycott is a concerted withholding of patronage , a refusal to buy the boycotted commodity . Obviously , withdrawal of the patronage of the strikers alone would have small significance . Consequently , an attempt is usually made to induce non-strikers to participate in the boycott . Such an extension of the arena of boycott is sometimes termed a " secondary " boycott . If economic pressure results , once more the injunction intervenes on the side of capital . Many courts will enjoin secondary boycotts unqualifiedly . Other courts will permit such conduct provided the persons outside the labor group have been persuaded by peaceful means to withhold their patronage . But a strict interpretation of " peaceful " can have the same practical consequences as a total prohibition of such boycotts . Courts also distinguish between primary and secondary strikes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : it may be a sympathetic strike in which employees who have no particular dispute with their own employer strike in order to induce him to bring pressure to bear upon another employer to agree to the demands which the latter 's striking employees have made upon him ; or it may be a strike by employees , who otherwise have no dispute with their employer , against having to work on goods which at an earlier stage in their processing have been produced by non-union labor . Even in jurisdictions where the legality of strikes for union recognition is conceded , courts are inclined to grant injunctions against secondary strikes at least as readily as they do against secondary boycotts . Injunctions against strikes , injunctions against picketing , injunctions against boycotts ? at every turn in its struggle for collective bargaining labor has been confronted with an injunction . Actions for damages or even fines might have been surmounted , but the injunction has devastating potentialities . It can be issued by a single judge ; the defendant has no right to a jury ; restraining orders and preliminary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ presented by the plaintiff without the defendant having been heard at all in his own behalf ; violation of an injunction is contempt of court for which imprisonment may be inflicted ; and most drastic of all , this punishment can be visited upon individuals not named in the injunction or even having notice of it , either by designating a class of unnamed persons as defendants , or by charging complete strangers to the proceedings with having so conducted themselves as to " obstruct the course of justice . " Furthermore , the detrimental effect of injunctions issued in labor disputes is virtually the same whether the injunction was properly or improperly granted . The injunction remains in force until set aside by the issuing judge or by a higher court . Appeals are costly and slow . By the time the case has been carried to a court of last resort and there decided , a long enough interval has elapsed so that the injunction has done its work of hampering the strikers and their leaders sufficiently to cause a breakdown of the strike . /V Every move of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , every effort thwarted by theruthless ingenuity of employers , is it any wonder that unionization has made comparatively slight progress ? Yet , in the light of modern industrial developments , the need of workers for collective bargaining is increasingly clear . Moreover , the importance to the rest of the public of strengthening labor 's status has gradually been dawning , and legislatures have endeavored in various ways to come to labor 's aid . In 1898 Congress passed the so-called Erdman Act . This statute sought to promote unionization of interstate railroad employees by outlawing " yellow dog " contracts and forbidding employers to discriminate against union members . But in 1908 the United States Supreme Court , in the noted case of Adair v. United States , held the Act to be unconstitutional because repugnant to the Fifth Amendment declaring that no person shall be deprived of liberty or property without due process of law . A companion case , Coppage v. Kansas , arose in 1915 out of a Kansas statute also declaring " yellow dog " contracts to be unlawful . Again the United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ declaring this State statute unconstitutional as in conflict with the " due process " clause of the Fourteenth Amendment . In each of these cases Mr. Justice Holmes was among those dissenting . Rebuffed in its effort to lessen the severity with which employers treat union workers , Congress addressed itself to another obstacle in the path of the labor movement , namely , the injunction . In 1914 Congress passed Section 20 of the famous Clayton Act . Although the wording of this section leaves room for some construction ( this is inevitably true of a statute covering a broad field ) , it might reasonably have been interpreted as manifesting a Congressional purpose to take away from the federal courts the power to issue injunctions in labor disputes except where necessary to prevent irreparable injury . But in 1921 the United States Supreme Court , in Duplex Printing Press Co. v. Deering , held that the benefits of this statute extended only to " those who are proximately and substantially concerned as parties to an actual dispute respecting the terms or conditions of their own employment , past , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ District Court and the Circuit Court of Appeals and evoked dissents from Justices Brandeis , Holmes and Clarke . The value to labor of the Clayton Act was largely destroyed by this narrow construction as it left union officials and other labor leaders as vulnerable to the injunction as formerly . Not until 1932 could sufficient strength be mustered in the Senate and in the House to enable Congress to attempt to override these judicial vetoes . In that year the Norris-LaGuardia Act was passed . This statute embraces the subjects dealt with by both the Erdman and the Clayton Acts . Instead of making it a crime for an employer to require an employee to enter into a " yellow dog " contract , the Act of 1932 provides that such contracts shall not be enforceable by injunction or otherwise in any federal court . The Act also denies to the federal courts the power to enjoin any person " interested " in a labor dispute from doing a number of specified acts , such as " Giving publicity to the existence of , or the facts involved in , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ patrolling , or by any other method not involving fraud or violence , " and " Assembling peaceably to act or to organize to act in promotion of their interests in a labor dispute . " One of the features of the Act is that it protects defendants in actions for labor injunctions from many of the grave procedural abuses to which they were theretofore subject . The United States Supreme Court has not as yet passed upon the constitutionality of the Norris-LaGuardia Act in whole or in part . Its validity has , however , been upheld by the Circuit Court of Appeals ( see , for example , Levering &; Garrigues Co. v. Morrin ) and the refusal of the Supreme Court to grant an appeal from the Circuit Court is at least a straw in the wind . The most recent federal enactment on behalf of labor is the National Labor Relations Act of 1935 , popularly referred to as the Wagner Act . This statute characterizes a number of acts by employers as " unfair labor practices . " These " unfair labor practices " are in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to defeat the development of labor unions . They include ( a ) coercing employees not to join labor organizations , ( b ) dominating the formation of labor organizations ? this relates especially to company unions , ( c ) discriminating in the hiring or firing of employees against union members or against employees who have availed themselves of the rights established by this Act , and ( d ) refusing to bargain collectively with employees ' representatives . The Act provides that representatives selected for the purpose of collective bargaining by the majority of the employees in an appropriate unit shall be the exclusive representatives of all the employees for the purpose of collective bargaining as to conditions of employment . A National Labor Relations Board of three members is set up . If a complaint is made to this Board that an employer has committed one of the unfair labor practices designated in the Act , the Board may conduct an inquiry , hear testimony , and , if the Board finds that the employer has been committing the unfair labor practice charged , it may issue a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the employer to reinstate employees with back pay where improper discharge is involved . If the employer ignores the Board 's order , the Board must petition one of the federal Circuit Courts of Appeal for enforcement of the order ; and if the employer desires he may petition the Circuit Court of Appeals for a review of the Board 's order . In a series of historically startling opinions delivered April 12 , 1937 , the United States Supreme Court completely upheld the constitutionality of the Wagner Act . This statute and the Norris-LaGuardia Act are of course only applicable within the domain of the federal government . that is , where interstate commerce is concerned . But they are already being supplemented by State legislation . Twenty-five States now have strike injunction statutes patterned after the Norris-LaGuardia Act . Massachusetts , New York , Pennsylvania , Utah , and Wisconsin have already adopted State counterparts of the Wagner Act , and similar legislation for the creation of State Labor Relations Boards is pending in other jurisdictions . V With the aid of such statutes , State and Federal , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ movement . With removal of barriers heretofore erected by employers against the establishment of independent labor unions among their employees and with a limiting of the power of the judiciary to enjoin acts in furtherance of unionization , the inertia of workers with respect to union membership will decrease , competent labor leaders will multiply , and collective bargaining will at last become a reality . This will take time . The process will be accompanied by strife . There will still be strikes . Doubtless we have not seen the last of the " sit-down " strike , the illegality of which has not been challenged by any statute or judicial decision to my knowledge . If a legitimate labor dispute develops between an employer and a group of workers sufficiently large and organized so that by the familiar processes of strike , picketing , and boycott they have a reasonable likelihood of gaining their objectives , it might be in the interests of society to avoid the physical disorder and violence and the widespread disruption of business which strenuous opposition to these orthodox labor measures often produces , by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a factory for the more cumbersome and wasteful methods they normally employ . On the other hand , the taking over of an entire plant by a few irresponsible and self-seeking workers should never be tolerated . But where to draw the lineonly patient and tolerant trial and error can determine . Nowadays when strikes and strife occur people often ask , " Why does n't the Labor Relations Board step in and settle the controversy ? " Such a question fails to comprehend the purpose behind the creation of these Boards , State and Federal . This purpose is to prevent the major antiunion acts of employers and thus make it possible for workers to organize effective collective bargaining units as a result of which they will gain equality of bargaining power with their employers . The theory is that once this equality of bargaining power has been attained , government will thereafter keep its hands off , trusting that through the operation of economic laws labor and capital will reach agreements which will be in the best interest of society ; and even before this beatitude of bargaining equality @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the stupendous task of regulating the relations between capital and labor through compulsory arbitration or otherwise . Much can be said in favor of the legislature establishing boards of mediation to which , if mutually desired , both an employer and his employees could appeal for aid in settling a labor dispute ; but there would be great danger of limiting the effectiveness of the Labor Relations Boards if to their present functions were added those of the proposed boards of mediation . Not infrequently one hears the complaint that the Wagner Act and kindred State statutes are one-sided in that they impose restrictions on employers without placing responsibility upon labor . Of course this legislation is partial : it was addressed to an unbalanced situation . Opponents of these measures cry that labor unions should be required to incorporate in order that they may be held legally accountable for their misdeeds as corporations are . If this plea is made in good faith it arises out of ignorance of the law ; for ever since the Coronado case was decided by the United States Supreme Court in 1922 labor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon representative officers in substantially the same manner as corporations . It must be recognized that all this pro-labor legislation may fail of its objective : employers may in the future , as they have in the past , so manipulate legal doctrines as to defeat the legislative will and thus retain their present bargaining advantage ; or it may happen that such legislative aids to labor may become so great as to create not an equality but a superiority of bargaining power on the part of labor . In this latter event far more than mereincorporation of labor unions will be necessary if our capitalistic institutions as we now know them are to be preserved . This much , however , is certain : that the existence of collective bargaining units for all labor , independent of employer domination , and probably organized for the most part along industrial rather than craft lines , is of vital importance to the nation , and that it is fatuous to concede to labor the right of collective bargaining without also legalizing some effective means whereby collective bargaining may become a reality . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @           