@@487886

SENATOR JOHNSON OF CALIFORNIA has struck a telling blow at President Hoover in his reply to a telegram from seventy California editors asking for an " emphatic declaration " , in support of the Republican national and State tickets . The Senator replied : " I can not and will not support Mr. , Hoover . " He also gave them this useful information : " If you were the representatives of 7,000 newspapers , or just one ordinary American citizen , my answer would be the same . " This is political courage and refreshing political frankness . It is true that the Senator is not up for reelection this year , but he will be two years hence and he undoubtedly is risking his political future . We believe , however , that in the long run he will gain far more than he will lose among hidebound party-machine men by the bold position he has taken . Moreover , he put well in his letter to the editors the real difference between the true progressive and the Hoover type of public man . The progressive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all its people , not to a favored or privileged few , " while " the standpatter , paying lip service to common humanity , makes a mock of his words by his courting of special classes and his subserviency to the special interests , and his indifference . . . to the ruthless exploitation of our people . " That is exactly true of Mr. Hoover 's attitude ; it alone stamps him as unfit for the White House . In this position Senator Johnson has only reiterated the stand which he and Theodore Roosevelt tookin 1912 . The Colonel at that time , it will be remembered , called the gang which then ran the Republican machine " thieves and robbers . " E VEN REPUBLICAN NEWSPAPERS admitted in their reports of the Madison Square Garden meeting that Calvin Coolidge did not have as good a time in voicing his views on the campaign and urging the reelection of Mr. Hoover as had generally been anticipated . Contrary to advance announcements that there would be 50,000 in and outside the Garden , there were many empty seats within the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ audience laughed at Mr. Coolidge when he did not intend that it should and his irritation was obvious . The speech was in his worst style of English , and was full of misstatements which it was easy enough for the Democrats to point out . For example , Senator Robinson of Arkansas cleverly showed that when Mr. Coolidge erroneously ascribed to Mr. Hoover the salvation of the gold standard , he failed to read what the Republican campaign textbook says on page 144 : " The drain on our monetary reserves was resumed , becoming particularly active again in May and June , " going on to attribute the cessation of the withdrawal of gold to other causes than the genius of Herbert Hoover . Devastating , too , was Senator Robinson 's quotation from President Calvin Coolidge 's final message to Congress only nine months before the crash came : " Enlarging production is consumed by an increasing demand at home and expanding commerce abroad . The country can regard the present with satisfaction and the future with optimism . " Yet the man who , could write this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hoover insists that the reelection of the President is essential to our welfare ! G OVERNOR ROOSEVELT made an excellent address on October 13 , when he stated his position unequivocally on the duty of the state toward unemployment and relief for the destitute . He went farther than he heretofore has done in recognizing the obligation not only of the State but of the federal government to maintain the unemployed . He declared that it was the first duty of the community to care for the indigent and the unemployed , and he quoted from his message to the Legislature in 1931 his acceptance at that time of the principle that the State must care for those of its citizens " who find themselves the victims of such adverse circumstances as make them unable to obtain even the necessities of bare existence without the aid of others . " Now he accepts the same principle as applying to the federal government , " if and when it becomes apparent that States and communities are unable to take care of the necessary relief work . " Whereas last year he weakened @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ never give money in the form of a dole , but should donate merely supplies bought with State money , he did not this time put any limitations upon the manner of relief . He went on to reaffirm that part of the Democratic platform which calls for unemployment insurance , and declared that this is no new policy for him as he has been advocating it for some years . Finally , he came out in favor of destroying slums and replacing them with modern buildings for workers , and opposed any cutting down of appropriations for child welfare , rightly going on record against that monstrous attitude of Secretary Wilbur that on the whole the depression is " a good thing for the children of the country . " Said he : " You and I know the appalling fact that malnutrition is one of the saddest by-products of unemployment . The health of these children is being affected not only now , but for all the rest of their lives . " N ORMAN THOMAS has received 106,352 votes in the Literary Digest poll , 5.3 per cent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this figure indicate that he should receive in November nearly 2,500,000 votes , or two and a half times as many as Debs rolled up in 1912 . The figures may , indeed , exceed these estimates since the Digest poll probably reached comparatively few voters of the classes hardest hit by the economic collapse and therefore most aggressively discontented  --  the tenant farmers and the unemployed workers . Some of our Liberal friends have betrayed growing anxiety over these indications . " A vote for Thomas , " they insist , " is a vote for Hoover , " and they urge that any protest against the present regime in Washington must , to be effective , aim at the election of Roosevelt . With this attitude we disagree on a number of counts . But we wish now merely to reassure the worried Democrats by pointing out the sources of Norman Thomas 's present support as analyzed by the Digest itself . Of the 106,352 Thomas voters in the Digest poll , 11,547 supported the Socialist ticket in 1928 , while 48,945 voted Republican and 24,354 Democratic . A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for Thomas  --  and a plague on both their houses . T HE SECRET TARIFF RATES agreed upon at Ottawa , now at last public and in effect , reveal what had been widely suspected  --  that their net result is to increase , and not diminish , the tariff barriers of the world . Seventy-nine different kinds of manufactured goods from Great Britain on which Canada has imposed duties will be admitted free during the next five years , but in the case of 136 other commodities the preference given to Great Britain by Canada is increased in only 53 instances by the lowering of tariffs on imports from.Great Britain , while in 83 instances the preference is increased by the raising of tariffs against other countries . The net effect will be arbitrarily to deflect the channels of trade , which is certain to produce adverse world results . It has been estimated by authorities at Washington that the new Canadian tariff may reduce sales of the United States to Canada by about $75,000,000 a year . T HUS OUR TWO GREATEST CUSTOMERS , Canada and the United Kingdom @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , put up further barriers against our manufacturers . But anyone who believes that the Republican leaders will be impressed by this is naive . When in May of 1930 no fewer than 1,028 members of the American Economic Association , comprising the leading teachers of economics in the colleges and universities , and economic experts the country over , petitioned President Hoover to veto the pending tariff bill , they pointed out thatthat bill was not only extremely harmful in itself but that it would tremendously increase foreign hostility to us . Their petition was completely ignored . A large number of these economists have now petitioned the President again . In an excellent statement they point out that their clear warning of the disastrous effects of the Smoot-Hawley tariff has now been confirmed by events , that the value of our exports has shrunk from $5,240,995,000 in 1929 to $2,377,981,000 ' in 1931 , while in the first eight months of 1932 our exports have been reduced $500,000,000 below the same period in 1931 . They point to the tariff retaliations that have since been directed toward the trade @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of which are just now going into effect . They call the President 's attention to the fact that he has the power under the Hawley-Smoot act to reduce tariff rates by 50 per cent without awaiting the action of Congress , and respectfully petition him , after three years of depression , to institute immediate reductions . And on the same day that this petition was made public , Chancellor von Papen gave clear warning that , wholly apa ! rt from reparations , Germany will be able to pay the enormous sum of $4,750,000,000 of private debts still owed abroad only if her creditors are willing to take German commodities in payment . " To expect repayment of debts while confronting us with trade barriers suggests both crass and indefensible violation of all economic logic . " C HANCELLOR VON PAPEN has shown his hand . , In a speech to a group of Bavarian industrialists in the course of a visit to their city in the hope of bringing about better relations between Bavaria and Prussia and the Reich Von Papen announced that the Weimar . Constitution is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is being drawn to supersede it . Only two features of that constitution have apparently been announced : the first , that there will be created another federal legislative body to be above the Reichstag , something like our own American Senate ; the other , that the constitution is going to be so drawn that the Cabinet will in every case be above and apparently independent of the Reichstag . In other words , he wants an executive power unhampered by any democratic congress and therefore a dictatorship pure and simple . It is to be noticed that he does not say anything about calling a constitutional convention representative of the entire people when he talks of the new constitution . He merely states that one is being drawn  --  doubtless privately in one of his inner offices . Of course , if this goes through , the last pretense that Germany still remains a democratic state will be done ' away with . Today the republic as a republic is finished  --  at least for the time being . We are expecting any day now to hear that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by official decree in favor of that of the Kaiserreich . A CCORDING TO PRESS REPORTS , the American delegation at Geneva is opposing the French move for the abolition , or even the control , of the private manufacture of arms . Obviously , no disarmament treaty will be effective so long as powerful munition companies , such as Vickers-Armstrong of England , the firm of Schneider-Creusot in France , the Skoda Works in Czecho-Slovakia , the Mitsui Company in Japan , the Bofors munitions factory in Sweden , and the Bethlehem Steel Corporation in the United States , remain free to manufacture munitions and other implements of war . It is astonishing to read that Nlinister Wilson opposes any effort at the control of private manufacture on the ground that , so far as the United States is concerned , it would be " unconstitutional . " Such objections did not prevent the United States from entering into the 1931 convention controlling the manufacture of narcotic drugs , which is parallel to the proposed limitation on arms manufacture . All doubt as to the extent of the treaty-making power @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the case of Missouri vs . Holland . In that case the court upheld the right of the federal government to make a treaty with Canada for the protection of migratory birds , although in the absence of a treaty , jurisdiction over such birds was a reserved power of the States . As a result of that decision it is clear that the treaty-making power of the American government may deal with any subject of international importance unless some article of the Constitution expressly forbids such action . Moreover , the general war power of Congress , we are confident , would enable that body to enact legislation placing all armament firms under control , regardless of whether or not a treaty is made upon the subject . C O MUCH PUBLICITY and factitious satisfaction have attended . the slight increase in business activity and employment since August that most of us have tended to overlook not only how very slight this increase has been but the fact that , even while these indices are rising , actual conditions are necessarily growing much worse . It is something , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the United States Department of Labor , employment increased by 3.6 per cent over August . But one should not forget how desperate this still leaves the situation . For employment bas risen from 55.2 per cent of the 1926 level in July to only 58.2 per cent of that level . In other words , out of every ten men employed in factories in 1926 , four are still out of work . And the position of these jobless and their families is necessarily on the whole worse than in July and August , because just so much more of whatever savings they had managed to accumulate is dissipated . Total factory pay rolls , moreover , are still at only 38.1 per cent of their 1926 level . Large and small corporations are also much worse off even as activity increases . The New York Times 's index of business activity , based on freight-car loadings , steel-mill activity , electric-power , automobile , and carded cotton-cloth production , had risen from its low point of 52.2 per cent of normal in August to only 55.3 per cent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ normal , scores of the country 's largest railroads continue to lose money , continue to draw upon their already gravely depleted reserves . Steel production has increased from 14 per cent of capacity in August , but is still at the fantastically low rate of 20 per cent of capacity ; and the cash reserves of the steel companies are also running lower every week . /MILITARY TERRORISM is being employed , appar-ently at the behest of the operators , to break the mine strike in Illinois . Peaceful meetings have been broken up by national guardsmen ; strike sympathizers and innocent bystanders have been arrested without warrants ; picketing has been unlawfully suppressed ; tear-gas bombs have been used to enforce the orders of the troops . In Taylorville the city officials were ordered off the streets . To date , one man has been killed by the troops and several others wounded . Reports describing the violent and lawless methods of : he guardsmen come not only from the striking miners , but from farmers , business men , and municipal officials as well . L. V. Reese @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Committee in Chicago of numerous incidents shuwing that the troops are resorting to terrorism " to intimidate and break down the resistance of the miners . " Reese is a major in the United States Reserve Corps and as such could hardly be accused of being prejudiced against military action . He also offered information supporting the contention of the miners and the Young Peoples ' Socialist League that the troops were sent into the coal fields for the specific purpose of crushing the strike . Reese and the Socialists assert , and there is plenty of evidence to support their charge , that the " violence " which preceded the call for the militia was " carefully planned " by the coal companies to provide an excuse for military intervention . C OLUMBIA UNIVERSITY HAS RESCINDED the two new regulations against which we protested last week . Students will not be forbidden to hold outdoor meetings , and indoor meetings will not have to be presided o ' er by a member of the faculty of professorial rank . No official explanation of this quick reversal has been given , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ response to a storm of protests from various quarters . The students themselves made it sufficiently unpleasant for the one professor who undertook to preside , unwanted , at a meeting . An alumni protest was said to be also in the process of formation , and apparently the authorities decided that they were likely to get more " unfavorable publicity " from their repressive measures than from the meetings which they professed to fear . Undoubtedly they are right , but it does seem strange that the presumably experienced administrators of a great university should need to have demonstrated the obvious fact that more and more repression leads only to more and more violent explosions . Instead , we are witnessing another demonstration , again in New York , of the difficulty of educating college administrators . In spite of Columbia 's unsuccessful attempt to suppress Reed Harris and the Spectator , Dean Justin H. Moore of City College has advised the editors of a college publication , the Ticker , that they must hereafter submit all copy to faculty censorship . We now await the inevitable explosion . T @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Presidency in 1936 . We have located him in the Situations Wanted column of the New York Times and we only hope he will be able to survive until the next election day rolls around . MAN , 38 , single , white , any repairs , mason , cement , plastering , painting , tiling , carpentry , partitions , any kind rooting , handy around saddle horses ; valet , second man , houseman , superintendent 's helper , janitor , porter ; understands steam ; own tools , anything , day or night , city or country , anywhere ; chauffeur 's license ; references . 3 ' HIs there any doubt about this man 's qualification for the job of President ? Only so versatile a genius will be ' able to make the alterations and repairs that will then be necessary after four years of Democratic rule in Washington .                     