@@491180

9 So considerable a show of strength in the fame of such formidable opposition was obviously not a defeat , but a vindication . It was an indication of the fact that , whether despite the warring state of the world or because of it , the peace movement in the United States is better organized and more militant than ever before . There are , for one thing , more peace organizations . There is an organization for every conceivable taste and every known shade of opinion from the Young Communist League , which considers itself a peace body , but probably is not , to the Foreign Policy Association , which does not consider itself a peace body , but undoubtedly is . The National Peace Conference  --  which aims to endow the movement with some co-ordination  --  lists forty participating organizations on its letterhead . To the left and the right of these forty there are probably twenty more which find the program of the N. P. C. too conservative or not conservative enough . That means a minimum of sixty organizations devoted , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  which is unquestionably the largest number of organizations devoted to a single reform in the whole history of moral uplift . But there is more to this numerical picture than the list of sixty distinguishable organizations . Some of worn Forty Thousand Strong.Members of the Leftist Amerlean League Against war and Fascism Rally in New York 's Harlem . Nate Communist Solute of Loaders In Center major diplomatic fiasco in its record to match that of the London Economic Conference . Japan won this round because the Japanese Government assumed that the President at Chicago and the United States at Brussels were bluffing . Credit for that assumption belongs to Ambassador Saito . He had his finger on the American peace pulse . After watching the highly unfavorable reaction to Mr. Roosevelt 's quarantine speech , he is said , on what seems to me to be very good authority , to have informed his government to this effect : " The United States at Brussels can be safely ignored . The Administration might act if it dared , but it does not dare . Peace-at-any-price sentiments are too strong @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Ludlow Resolution TB E Japanese Government accepted Mr. Saito 's appraisal of America 's organized peace opinion and acted accordingly . The Government of the United States came to the same conclusion and likewise acted accordingly . And the peace movement , whatever else it did , demonstrated that it was sufficiently alive and flourishing to force a major defeat upon America 's diplomats and a major alteration in what appeared to be the foreign policy of the Government of the United States . There was a more recent and equally significant show of strength on the so-called Ludlow Resolution . The Ludlow Resolution was a proposal to Congress for a constitutional amendment which , with certain not very clearly defined exceptions , would have made the power of the President and the Congress to declare war subject to a direct vote of the people . Louis Ludlow , the author of the resolution , is a Democratic representative from Indiana , a former newspaperman and the author , among other things , of Senator Solomon Spiffiedink , which he describes as " a satire on political bunkum . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ludlow 's war-referendum proposal when he first introduced it in 1935 . At any rate , I am told that no one was more surprised than he when , during the recent special session of Congress , his resolution escaped from its pigeonhole and , supported by the Hearst press and a militant minority of the peace organizations , became a national issue . The resulting pressure on Congress was enormous . Observers of congressional mail report that the flood of letters and telegrams exceeded anything which has been seen on Capitol Hill since the heyday of the Townsend Plan . The White House and the State Department were agreed that the plan was a dangerous piece of hamstringing , Every ounce of available Administration pressure was exerted to defeat it . The Secretary of War and the Secretary of State both personally intervened against it . Help was enlisted from a former Secretary of State , Mr. Henry L. Stimson . Alf Landon , informed that every membar of the Kansas congressional delegation in both the House and the Senate had declared for the measure , scribbled off and sent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . On the day before the vote was taken , the Speaker of the House , Mr. Bankhead , solemnly declared that never in his years in Congress had ho been called on to vote on an issue so momentous . At the eleventh hour , the President himself personally entered the fight . And yet , with all this almost unprecedented high-pressuring , the Administration was able to defeat the proposal by a margin of only twenty-one votes . these organizations serve as the peace agents for affiliated bodies . For example , there is the Department on International Justice and Goodwill of the Federal Council of the Churches of Christ in America , which has , besides a record-breaking name , official and delegated responsibility on the question of peace for twenty-three Protestant denominations . The National Council for the Prevention of War " serves as a clearinghouse for thirty-two national organizations which consider peace as one of their primary aims . " The National Conference on the Cause and Cure of War lists eleven " member organizations , " some of which do not appear on the list @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is something more than 6,000,000 . The League for Peace and Democracy  --  until recently the League against War and Fascism  --  had 400 official labor-union delegates at its recent congress in Pittsburgh who were the elected representatives of 1,600,000 labor-union members . It is likewise affiliated with certain left-wing farm organizations and claims the right to speak on peace for a related membership of more than 4,000,000 . In addition to these extensive affiliations , the coverage of the peace movement is further increased through the establishment of local and subsidiary organizations . The National Peace Conference , by the end of the current year , expects to have functioning peace councils in scores of towns and cities . The League of Nations Association has twenty-three branches in eighteen states ; the Foreign Policy Association has seventeen branches ; the National Council for the Prevention of War has regional offices and more than 100 locals ; the Women 's International League for Peace and Freedom likewise has more than 100 branches ; the United Student Peace Committee has representatives on several hundred college campuses and expects to extend its organization @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up twenty regional offices and established committees or " working contacts " in more than 2000 communities . Perhaps , during the heyday of the Anti-Saloon League , the drive against liquor had a more extensive organizational coverage than the current drive on war . But there is certainly nothing now in the field to match it . And one of the major items on which nearly all parties to the peace movement seem to be agreed is that this coverage must be increased . Now , the cost of the upkeep of this vast network is considerable . But it is considerably less than the size of the network itself would indicate . Tho combined annual budgets of the sixty organizations which are the front and center of the American peace movement probably amount to more than 82,000,000 . That is a substantial corn and , as far as I have been able to oh-serve , it is spent with a great deal of care . Offices are generally shabby and overcrowded . Salaries , uniformly , are low . I know of one $10,000-a-year executive . But that , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ below 84000 . The director of the League for Peace and Democracy gets twenty-five dollars a week . And the wage of a considerable number of other peace executives is not much more than that . The fact is that the peace movement , although it may look like a racket to those who are out of sympathy with it , is a moral crusade to most of those who are on the inside . And on this issue , at least , it appears to be a part of the function of the crusader to make a little money go a long ways . The Pen Against the Sword And it does go a long ways . Tho actual operation  --  in terms of organization , education , agitation and propaganda  --  that is financed by the available 82,000,000 would probably cost , on any other basis , at least five times that amount . The literature of the movement , for example , is enormous . It includes the highly authentic tomes of the World Peace Foundation and the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace , whose good works are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but less exhaustive treatises on foreign affairs of the Foreign Policy Association ; hundreds of pamphlets , thick and thin , illustrated and not illustrated ; scores of regular weekly and monthly publications ; charts , maps and a largo variety of posters . Any accurate com-putation. of the circulation of this liter-ature is impossible . World Peaceways , in addition to its advertising , sends out more than 500,000 pieces of literature every year ; the League for Peace and Democracy , 400,000 , in addition to its weekly publication ; the National Council for the Prevention of War , 1,300,000 . Whatever the total would be , it is not likely that any " cause " in the course of a single year was ever made the subject of so many printed words . But printers have to be paid and circulation costs money . It was , therefore , a stroke of some genius when World Peaceways hit upon an idea for a no-cost , mass-circulation literature . World Peaceways was organized in 1931 . Its angel was a wealthy woman with ideas about visual education . Its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Union Square and its first year was inauspicious . At the end of that year , however , the trustees named Mrs. Estelle M. Sternberger as its director . Mrs. Sternberger was a seasoned executive , a devotee of many good causes , exceedingly energetic and alive to her capacities as a saleswoman . She immediately moved the organization out of Union Square into the swankier environs of the Grand Central Station and , from there , into the limelight . Both World Peaceways and its director have been in the limelight ever since . Air Raids on Mars The no-cost , mass-circulation idea grew out of a magazine article in which Bruce Barton advocated a congressional appropriation for a Government advertising campaign against war . Barton , an advertising man himself , had written four sample ads to illustrate his article . Mrs. Sternberger called on him . He agreed to pay the costs of engraving if she could get a magazine to agree to run the advertisements . She found the magazine . Then she found several . The idea caught on . In six years since , World @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ free magazine-advertising space to the amount of 5800,000 . The circulation of its advertisements in 1038 will run to ' 5,000,000 . But it is the radio which has been the greatest boon to the budgets of the peace movement . It is not easy for the program director of a local radio station  --  or , for that matter , of a network of stations  --  to refuse a request for free time on the air for a cause so undeniably worthy as peace . To refuse such a request is to run the risk of being branded as unfriendly to the cause and thereby to incur the hostility of the good , but often exceedingly articulate , people who sponsor it . Radio executives are peculiarly sensitive to such risks . The result is that peace goes on the air often and extensively . The National Peace Conference reports that , during the first five months of 1937 , local radio stations throughout the country carried 1054 peace programs . During the same period the N , P. C. itself arranged 332 additional local programs . In addition , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , during 1937 , carried the regular peace broadcasts of the N. P. C. on their networks . World Peaceways has a weekly radio service which is being used , at present , by 140 local stations . One hundred and eighty-five local stations use // The leaders of the peace movement apparently recognize that fact . That is why the prospects for a united front appear to be better , at present , than they have ever been before . In fact , enough unity has already been achieved to cause considerable concern at the White House in the heretofore somewhat lobby-free corridors of the United States Department of State and even in Congress . This prospect of a united front and of direct political action involves a fundamental change in the nature of the peace movement itself . Before the World War , peace was a highly intellectual pursuit . Its offices were in New York , Philadelphia and Boston . Washington meant no more to it than Kansas City . It lived from endowments , kept itself unsullied from the world , was hardly ever disturbed itself and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prewar period carried over into the first decade that followed the war . l Peace , then , looked like a sure thing . The fires of the Wilson idealism still glowed warmly . That was the time of the ascendancy of such socially delightful institutions as the Williamstown Institute of Politics , whose primary function was not to agitate but to enlighten . It was then , too , that the Foreign Policy Association came into existence  --  with an emphasis that was , and still is , heavily Phi Beta Kappa . No one in this period was very excited , because excitement did not appear to be necessary . It was chiefly the women who changed all that . The fight for suffrage and the fight for prohibition having been won , new conquests seemed to be called for , and peace was a cause made to order . In fact , the women entered this struggle and began to alter the beat and tempo of it as early as 1915 . In that year the late Jane Addams assembled a meeting , at The Hague , of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to end the war . The gathering failed of its primary objective . But something of the drama and determination which characterized that meeting was carried over when , with other matters out of the way , the women were free to give the peace movement their undivided attention . The Jane Addams tradition is carried forward in a number of women 's organizations , but most actively , I think , in the Women 's International League for Peace and Freedom . The W. 1 . L. is organized in twenty different nations and maintains its head office at Geneva , Switzerland . In the United States it has a dues-paying membership of 22,000 . But it is more important than that . It is no coincidence that its headquarters in Washington are as near as it is physically possible to get to the Department of State Its national secretary is Miss Dorothy Detzer . In a city that is lobbyist-hardened , the name of Dorothy Detzer is one to conjure with . The Washington Front She is young , vivacious , well-turned-out and absolutely uncompromising . Her dinner parties @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interesting in Washington . Ever since she took her present job she has been a highly effective thorn in the side of militarily minded Government officials and congressmen and of lackadaisical peace executives . She comes very near to deserving the singlehanded credit for having inspired and , in the end , forced the Nye investigation of the munitions industry in 1936 . The present turn to polities in the peace movement is one that she has always advocated  --  generally , in the past , to the discomfiture of her less worldly colleagues . Around the corner , but in operation just as close to the Department of St-ate , is the National Council for the Prevention of War . Its setup , with four regional offices and a budget that runs considerably above $100,000 a year , is much more ambitious than that of the W. I. L. But its influence on the peace movement has been very much the same . The founder and executive secretary of the N. C. P. W. is Frederick T. Libby , who , at sixty-four , is one of the fighting deans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is mild and unimpressive . On the platform or in the halls of Congress he is neither . His beginnings were ministerial and his manner , when peace is the issue , is that of a revivalist in full possession of the faith once delivered to the saints . It was Libby 's organization which made the first concerted drive for peace among farmers . As a result , the N. C. P. W. has been endorsed by the National Grange , the American Farm Bureau Federation and the Farmers ' Union . He likewise was among the first to enter the labor field . Two hundred and six labor papers are now carrying his weekly releases and the Railway Brotherhoods have given his organization their official endorsement . His part , therefore , in bringing the American peace movement to a somewhat more earthly level has been considerable . The National Peace Conference It was not until 1933 , however , that the tendency toward a united front and reality began to take on some form and substance . By that time the parlous state of the world , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The smug assurance of 1923 was being shaken down and out by the march of unsavory events . With war established once again in its ancient status as a likelihood , organized peace in the United States began to take counsel together to discover whether or not something new , and better , might be done about it . The result was the National Peace Conference  --  launched late in 1933 from under the beneficent wing of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace . The N. P. C. is a co-ordinating and clearinghouse agency for the forty separate peace organizations that constitute its membership . With the exception of a few left-wing organizations such as the League for Peace and Democracy , the organizations in the N. P. C. are the best and the strongest in the field . They are , for all intents and purposes , the American peace movement . The fact that they have begun to get together is , therefore , portentous . The director of the National Peace Conference is Walter W. Van Kirk . Van Kirk 's background is the Methodist ministry . Ho @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as secretary of the Department on International Justice and Good Will of the Federal Council of Churches . He is Middle Western in origin and outlook , less solemn than some of the older generation of peace makers and less scholarly than some of the younger . Not so much a pacifist as Dorothy Detzer or Frederick Libby , and more inclined than they to go out for a half loaf when EVENING POST the getting of a whole loaf does not seem feasible , his influence has been exerted to get the peace movement down to earth , to popularize its program and to increase the area of its political activity . There is probably no other executive in the entire field who , for more than four years , could have kept the peace among the peace organizations , much less persuaded them , as he has done each year , to extend the scope of their co-operation . His task , as I have already indicated , has been simplified by the fact that the threat . of another war has ceased to be academic and has become @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forces toward something resembling unity . It has also begun a fundamental shift in the whole emphasis of the peace movement .. A decade and less ago the peace movement was assailed because it was international and pacifist . On the conservative and intellectual side , it was for the World Court , the League of Nations and a long list of other co-operative enterprises . The idea was to get . the United States into them . On the radical and emotional side it passed out cards for the signatures of those who could be persuaded to pledge themselves never to participate in war . The League of Nations Association , under the highly efficient leadership of Clark M. Eichelberger , still preaches international co-operation . The War Resisters ' League still seeks to sign tip the outright pacifists . But neither doctrine is any longer one of the most emphasized items in the peace gospel . On the radical side  --  in such organizations , for example , as the League for Peace and Democracy and the American Student Union  --  pacifism is no longer looked upon with favor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the strongest of the left-wing peace organizations and one of the most active ill the entire peace movement , appears to take a considerable part of its ideology from the Communist Party . Its president is Dr. Harry F. Ward , of Union Theological Seminary in New York City , a veteran radical . Its hoard of directors includes Earl Browder , secretary of the Communist Party in the United States , and C. A. Hathaway , editor of the Communist Daily Worker . A good many of the people who are now active in the League were once pacifists . But pacifism appears to be too soft and inconclusive a faith for Limes like these . They now have a hatred of Fascism and a devotion to the revolution which moves them more powerfully than the desire for peace . The wars they hate are the " capitalistic wars . " In a struggle such as that in Spain , where the cause of the loyalists seems , to them , to be the cause of the proletariat , they can be counted on  --  as , in fact , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , like most organizations of the extreme left , is not co-operative , except . on its own terms . It is , therefore , not a member of the National Peace Conference and , I gather , views the N. P. C. with some suspicion . The tendency , for the time being at least , among the more conservative organizations  --  and that includes most of those in the National Pewee Conference  --  is away from visions of world co-operation and a world state , and toward a point of view that is definitely nationalistic . The major exception to this tendency is in the economic March 5.1038 field , where , currently , the N. P. C. is organizing national support for Mr. Cordell Hull 's trade-agreements policy . In the main , however , the No. 1 unde ? - taking of organized peace in the United States is no longer to prevent the next war . That undertaking has been pretty , well given up as lost and the next war is rather generally taken for granted . The big issue is how to keep the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ peace for the world but peace for America that is being most vigorously pursued . Reduced to specific terms , that means that organized peace in the United States is back of strong neutral . ity legislation in any and every international conflict , and with a minimum of regard for the way the operation of such a policy might tip the scales among the combatants . It means a widespread and aggressive opposition to the application of economic sanetions or Government pressure of any sort  --  even diplomatic  --  against nations which run amuck . It involves less opposition than formerly to a big navy , hut . more opposition than ever to the presence of our naval forces outside the territorial waters of the United States . It . calls for the full surrender of America 's trade and diplomatic stakes wherever the maintenance of those stakes might conceivably involve the country in war . Uneasy Capitol Hill However unobjectionable a program may be that aims to keep America out of any and all wars , there is considerable objection , bordering on alarm , in Washington , lest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United States of its influence as a world power and rob it of its opportunity to serve the cause of world peace . The prevalent State Department opinion seems to be that any major war , sooner or later , is likely to become our war , and that it is , therefore , sound policy , from the standpoint of America 's peace , to assume whatever leadership is possible and wise in the maintenance of international law and order . To return to a doctrine of peace at any price is to cut the ground from under those who have the responsibility for that leadership . In the ease of the Ludlow Resolution , that almost happened . In the case of the Brussels Conference , it actually did happen . In view of the developing unity and the increased political activity among the peace organizations , there is good ground to believe that it will happen again and often . That means a new hurdle of considerable proportions for those whose business it is to direct the foreign policy of the United States . Henceforth , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the State Department are likely to be held answerable not only to the United States Senate but to the peace movement . In fart , that development has already gone far enough to make it fairly safe to say that the White House and the State Department do not like it . And in the wake of such incidents as the Brussels Conference and the Ludlow Resolution , there are some uneasy stirrings on Capitol mu , indicative of the belief that the next move of organized peace will be toward the nation 's congressional districts . On the wall of the artistic but overcrowded office of the Women 's International League for Peace and Freedom , Miss Dorothy Detzer has on display a long chart which contains the names of all the members of Congress , House and Senate , and a two-year record of their vote on all those questions which relate to war and peace . Miss Detzer and the W. I. L. are in politics , and they make no bones about it . The American peace movement , as a whole , still makes some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ way into politics . And some such chart as that in Miss Detzer 's office is likely , in the not distant future , to become its work sheet . In 1936 , the peace organizations had their first important , though relatively fruitless , innings w ith the platform committees of both the Republican and the Democratic National Conventions . Also in 1936 , some of its funds and its campaigners were made available to friendly congressional candidates . More than one congressman whose record appears to label him as a milli arist is aware that in the election of 1938 he has been marked for extinction . And is good many more who are friends of the movement aid in their campaigns . Not even the most enthusiastic disciple of peace , of course , can claim that the peace organizations have won any decisive victories . Not at a time when President Roosevelt asks for passage of a record $800,000,000 armament program and a Navy " second to none . " Not at a time when the United States is going in for the greatest and most expensive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In view of the facts , the leaders of the peace organizations themselves make no grandiose political claims , It is even true that some of them  --  the world situation being what it is , with the nations of the world having spent an estimated $48,000,000,000 on arms since 1930 ? are not inclined to make American armament a direct issue . But , whatever the peace organizations accomplish for the peace of the world , their movement is so vast and they are so aggressive that they are certain to add considerably to the turmoil of American politics . " Well , it ai n't so had it can kill you .                     