@@470040

THE Russian revolution has failed of its essential objectives . The " dictatorship of the proletariat , " instead of providing a transition toward the " society of the free and equal , " has led to a crude and bloody personal despotism resting on a privileged bureaucracy which exploits the wage worker much as he is exploited elsewhere . This is perhaps the greatest tragedy in human history , terrible in the breadth of its impact , terrible in the depth of its significance , terrible in its personal details . Other revolutionary martyrs have been permitted a heroic death . The heroes of the Russian revolution have been shot like dogs in the cellar and swept out with the refuse . If this tragedy , when at last it is faced by loyal and thoughtful men , is not to throw them back into cynicism or despair it must be faced as the unhappy result of a legitimate experiment . To cry " Socialism is dead ! Long live socialism ! " may satisfy a momentary impulse but will not long sustain a thinking will . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the theory upon which it was constructed and rectify this in the light of the result . The whole result of the Russian development is of course not yet in sight , but plenty is in sight to show that it will have little in common with the aims of socialists , whether utopian or scientific . Plenty is in sight to warrant a reexamination of the principles from which it set out . Trotsky , the ablest exponent of the theory and natural critic of the experiment , declines to take this step . In The Revolution Betrayed he raises the question of " radically revising our traditional views of the socialist society , " but only to decide against it . Asserting that the prodigious success of the Soviet Union in increasing production has demonstrated the " practicability of socialist methods , " he blames its equally prodigious failure to show the beginnings of freedom and equality upon " lack of the means of subsistence resulting from the low productivity of labor " in a backward country . That and the " tardiness " of the revolution in more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disaster . And he has drawn the vigorous moral : " All those for whom the word socialism is not a hollow sound but the content of their moral life ? forward ! " Socialism is not the content of my moral life . I have always regarded socialism as an effort to solve a specific problem , and one only of the engrossing problems that confront our human nature . And this perhaps emboldens me to perceive a little more adequately than Trotsky does the scope and significance of the Russian failure . I do not believe ' either in the Marxian legend of universal " upward " evolution which supports him in his somewhat cursory reaction to this collapse of our hopes . Moreover , I am completely detached from party struggle and not vitally concerned about revolutionary prestige . I ant in a position to regard Stalin and his dictatorship not as an enemy , but as a result . For these reasons , although not in some ways equipped as Trotsky is for the task , I am RUSSIA AND THE going to suggest what seem to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our traditional views " which he declines to make . I have spoken of the Russian revolution as an experiment . But it was not an experiment to those believers in the Marxian philosophy who stood at the head of it To them it was a step in a general process of whose " historic necessity " they were convinced in advance . Only its details were experimental . A great many of their miscalculations were due to this fact , so many that we must begin our revision of the socialist theory by removing from it this element of philosophical belief . We must restate the theory in the form of hypothesis before we can revise it with a free mind in the light of experiment . Marx inherited his philosophical belief from Hegel . It is a belief that the world is evolving of its own necessary motion , and by a " dialectic " procedure , " from the lower to the higher . " He attributed this kind of evolution to a world which he called , in opposition to Hegel , material . But he did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ higher " merely in a material sense . He meant by " higher " more ideal. * And the ideal he had in mind , so far as concerns human society , was that of the utopian socialists . It is the simple conception of men living together reasonably , generously and justly , without class exploitation , without war , and with freedom for everybody and a fair chance to grow . Such a state of affairs is approximated in any good-natured and happily situated family , and that is why it seems so natural a hope for humanity at large . The Christian evangel and the doctrine of " natural rights " have made it seem still more axiomatic to many minds . Marx assumed , on no other basis but a turning other side up of Hegel 's philosophy , that the world about him was ? Engels , in an exposition of their common philosophy read and endorsed by Marx , replaced the word " higher " in eulogizing the dialectic universe by " more magnificent . " The celestial bodies , like the formations of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they run .. take on eternally more magnificent dimen-sions. ' in process of realizing this ideal . He was studious both of books and events ; he was rich in ideas ; he made many contributions to knowledge ; but he never questioned that assumption . He never , therefore , really tried to prove it . The essential labor of his mind was to discover how a material and yet dialectic world would evolve from capitalism toward a " society of the free and equal , " and to find his place and that of all seriousminded socialists in the process . And the result of his labor , to summarize it briefly and therefore inadequately , was this : A dialectic process , according to Hegel , is a process of advance by inner conflict or self-contradiction , and the resolution of this conflict in a " higher unity . " In human society this inner conflict is to be found in the economic phenomenon of class struggle . And in modem society it is to be found in the struggle , not so well known in Marx 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is this new struggle which is destined to resolve itself in the higher unity foreseen and advocated in so detached and impractical a manner by the utopian socialists . The ideas of the utopians are , indeed , only a " symptom " in the mental world of this approaching material change . The mere development of the technic of production will bring it about " with iron necessity " that the workers will seize the power , expropriate the capitalists , and " socialize " the means of production . A period of proletarian dictatorship must intervene , but this dictatorship will inevitably die away as the new and higher form of social life emerges . Nobody can describe this " higher social form " in detail , but obviously it will be that " society of the free and equal " which is striven after in so soft and foolishly impractical a way by the utopian socialists . The way to strive after it is to join the harsh struggle of the workers against the capitalists , make the struggle revolutionary , make it " conscious of its dictatorship @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ That is the Marxian theory stripped of the prodigious wealth of factual and ideational material which Marx and his followers have brought under it , or built into it , or remarkably illumined by means of it . It enables the Marxians , notwithstanding the extreme humaneness of their ideal , to be hard-headed , realistic , ruthless , and even to a degree cynical , in their pursuit of the ideal . It is through clash and bloody conflict that society advances ; good and evil are merely names for the two forces through whose contradiction " higher forms " are born . The only ultimate good in a world thus inevitably going upward through struggle is to be on the right side of the struggle . And the only valid knowledge is hostile criticism from the point of view of the class destined to conquer . Marx believed that this ingenious philosophy , besides reconciling toughminded realism with tender-minded aspirations , removed the mystical or utopian element from such aspirations . He thought that , since he had attributed his ideals as end-terms to the natural evolution of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scientific , and indeed a kind of super-science , to believe in them . But it is not sensible to take utopian aspirations out of your own head and attribute them to the external world . And no matter how much you disguise the process by calling the world " material , " and by invoking the word scientific , it is not science to do this . It is just the opposite ? religion . It is primitive , unverified , and unverifiable belief in what you want to have come true . There exists no proof that the world is traveling of necessity and by its own motion toward something " higher " in the human sense ? much less in the sense of the utopian socialists . To minds trained in experimental science the very pretense to know the " historically necessary " result of capitalist evolution , even did it not fall in so pat with the author 's wishes , would have , if proposed to-day , the aspect of a grandiose delusion . The apparent success of the Russian revolution has given an adventitious prestige @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But the failure of the revolution will rapidly destroy it . Notwithstanding his notable contributions to science , Marx 's system as a wholewill be set down as wish-fulfillment thinking in a form as crude and antiquated as it is ingenious . Marx will take a place in history not unlike that of Rousseau ? a man behind the highest scientific attitudes of his time but borne to great heights because he created a new Weltanschauung , and one which fell in with the passions , aims , and tactics of a great social movement . The Weltanschauung will live forever , a priceless treasure , comparable to those of Sophocles , of Dante , of Aquinas , of Spinoza . The incidental contributions to verified knowledge will also live and be acknowledged , But as a system pretending to be scientific , and indeed to be a kind of super-science , Marxism will be laid away with Thomism , Calvinism , and the rest . The sole use science has for isms made out of a man 's name is to ridicule subjective and unverified emotional beliefs . Only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ metaphysics , " saturated " as Trotsky truly says " with the optimism of progress , " really conquer modern minds . We have no certain knowledge where the world is going , whether " higher " or " lower . " We have no knowledge how much we , any one or all of us , by taking thought can swerve it . But we care where it is going . And it does not seem impossible that by a process of experimentation , if we hold ourselves free to learn all we can from each experiment , we may succeed in drawing up some plan for arriving at a more reasonable and decent general form of social life . II What made the Marxian metaphysics so acceptable of course was that the action proposed by it seemed reasonable . Restated in the form of a working hypothesis , a plan to be tried out , Marxian socialism was as good as anything anybody in its epoch had to propose . So restated , it would read somewhat as follows : The opinion of the utopian socialists , that men @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ happy families , if land and the instruments of production were owned in common , and wealth justly distributed , is perfectly reasonable ; the aim may be attained . It can not be attained , however , by regarding present-day society as a unit and preaching to everybody the reasonableness of the idea . Society is too sharply divided into classes for that , and people in general react to ideas too much on a basis of class interest . That very fact , however , can be turned to account by those who believe in the socialist idea . Let them enter into the present-day class struggle on the side of the exploited classes . The difficulties of capitalist production are such that crises are bound to occur . As foreign markets are used up these crises will become more and more severe and far-reaching . In some nation-wide and perhaps world-wide crisis if a political party having socialist aims and resting essentially on the workers has made adequate preparations , it will be possible to seize the political power by main force , expropriate the capitalists , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of all . After that , the processes of education and evangelism , so futile under the present class system , will become effective . Men are reasonable and malleable enough , and life will be enough happier in such a society , so that after a brief period of dictatorship by the new ruling dass , co-operative relations will become established in custom and habit . No dictatorship , and in fact no public power whatever , will long be necessary . The state will quite naturally die away , and men will find themselves living together in large societies , and indeed ultimately all over the planet , in a state of equality and freedom , tolerance and mutual helpfulness . That is the revolutionary socialist hypothesis , abridged and stripped of detail just as we stripped the Marxian dialectic theory . To persons buffaloed by intellectuality as such , it will sound more naive , but to those who know what thinking is , it is obviously more mature . And it indicates , of course , the same general line of action : Join the harsh struggle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , make it conscious of its possibilities , make it lead as rapidly as possible to the seizure of power , the inauguration of class dictatorship , and the beginning of the process of socialization . Only the substitution of possibilities for destiny differentiates the two programs . And yet in the long run the difference is deep between those who are consciously trying out an hypothesis based upon quantitative judgments and probability and those who conceive themselves as cooperating with a process expressing the ultimate nature of the universe , and who assume that their destined goal is knowable on other grounds than the experiment itself . It is as deep a difference as can separate two minds interested in the same project . Some people think that only the religiously believing minds will be resolute enough to wage a serious struggle . But the evidence of history is against them . Struggles of this kind have been waged , and waged with great violence ? notably the American Revolution ? with a clear sense of the hazards involved and no philosophy but naked resolution . Indeed , the characteristic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ action , but to offer consolation when it is abandoned . The Mensheviks , in trying to postpone the proletarian revolution of 1917 , were as much supported emotionally by their certainty of its ultimate triumph as the Bolsheviks were in speeding it on . Lenin himself , in all particular crises of action , explicitly rejected that sense of sure victory which in a more general way his philosophy gave him . " There is no situation , " he asserted , " of which only one outcome is possible . " And in the critical days before October he repeated in a thousand different variants the thought : " We must take the hazard of action nowt " Those who persuade themselves that in order to win a social struggle we must bandage our eyes and go in like blind bulls are worse than historical reactionaries . They are biological defeatists . Man has no superiority over the powers of nature but his intelligence , and any proposal to set a limit to the free growth and movement of that is an attack against man , no matter how @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be done with blinders on had better not be done . Once the Marxian theory is restated as a working hypothesis , or in other words a simple plan of action , its chief defect becomes quite obvious . In any welldeliberated plan of action three elements can be distinguished : definition of the end to be attained , examination of the conditioning facts , and mode of procedure by which it is proposed to pass from the facts to the end . It is in the definition of the end that Marxism falls most obviously short of the standards of science , and it is of this only that the present article will treat. * The fact is that Marx , owing to his belief that Reality-as-Such is a dialectic procedure toward something " higher , " did not bother to define his end at all . He left that task to Reality-as-Such . It is not a question he said in early life of putting through some utopian system , but of taking a conscious part in the process of social transformation which is going on before our very @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ optimistic philosophy such a cavalier attitude to the crux of the practical problem seemed worthy to be called scientific . And the whole mid-nineteenth century was so " saturated " with optimism that this was actually put across as scientific socialism . I have been bitterly criticized for calling Marxism a religion , and yet what is Marx actually saying in that famous sentence but this : The way to avoid utopian schemes is to have no schemes at all ? put forth your efforts in the right direction and leave the rest to God . And he said the same thing a quarter of a century later when commenting on the Paris Commune : The workers well know that in order to realize their own emancipation , and at the same time the higher form toward which the present society tends by its own economic forces , they will have to pass through long periods of struggle which will transform both circumstances and men . They have no ideal ? Marxians will understand that I am reserving for future discussion the theory of history and the analysis of capitalism , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dictatorship . to realize , they have only to set free the elements of the new society which the old bourgeois society carries in its womb.t Italics mine . Any engineer can tell you that the first thing to do if you want to build something is to make a blueprint . Specify what you are going to build . And be guided , moreover , from the first strokes of the pencil , by a consideration of the materials at your disposal . This does not mean of course that a scientific socialist should ignore the creativeness of future evolution or go foolishly into the details of an earthly paradise . He should , indeed , know that there will be no earthly paradise . Nor does it mean that science in general , when concerned with human society , can have the exactitude of physics or astronomy ? or even of agronomics or expert stock-breeding . It does mean that when proposing to " build a new society " a scientific mind would raise the question what qualities in the material , human nature can be relied upon to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " utopian " socialists , Marx 's predecessors in the early nineteenth century , had raised this question and attempted to answer it . Robert Owen began his career with a series of essays designed to prove that man 's moral character is wholly due to external circumstances , and that given the proper environment , especially in early life , he will be as just , reasonable , and intelligent as a cooperative commonwealth demands . St. Simon relied upon a new and more brotherly-intelligent kind of religious feeling to accomplish the required change . Fourier wrote a whole psychology to establish that a passion of social attraction , which he called Unitdisme , would harmonize all other passions once conditions were established enabling us to function as our Maker had intended . Marx never criticized these amateur- t This sentence provides perhaps the best refutation of those who , in the effort to hold up Marx 's philosophy in the environment of modern science , have contrived to identify it with John Dewey 's instrumental theory of ideas . No one who believed in that theory could conceivably write @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He never said : " Well , let us look into thisl What is there in human nature to give assurance that a society can really operate on the principle , ' From each according to his abilities , to each according to his needs ' ? " To answer this question would have involved independent biological and psychological investigations . And Marx 's system of philosophy made such investigations not only unnecessary , but , if you can believe it , impossible . Marx knew primarily on philosophic grounds ? which is to say , on faith ? that the present society " tends by its own economic forces " toward a " higher form , " and he knew that this higher form was indicated in a rough way by the utopian socialists . In order to " know " that he had to make human nature a function of those economic forces . He had to " integrate " man , as he put it , in the economically evolving society . The individual . . . has no real existence outside the milieu in which he lives @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ man it is necessary to integrate him in society , in social life . . ? All history is nothing but a continual transformation of human nature . That is the whole of Marx 's contribution to this primary problem . And it is of course no contribution at all . These statements are advertised by his disciples as a wondrous prevision of modern psychology with its emphasis upon the social nature of the brain and nervous system . And they are that , incidentally ; Marx was full of wondrous previsions . But their essential function in his system was to make unnecessary , and impossible , any independent science of psychology . Marx was on this head less scientific , not more so , than his predecessors . And there is consequently just as much utopianism in his idea of the future society as in theirs . He merely discusses it less often and more sketchily . " The workers have no ideal to realize , they have only to set free the elements of the new society . . " and yet we may remark in passing that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . . the limited horizon of capitalist right will be Ieft behind entirelyand society will inscribe upon its banners : From each according to his abilities , to each according to his needs ! " That in brief ? and substantially in the words of Marx ? is the Marxist 's attitude toward his goal . It must be remembered of course that this scheme of revolutionary metaphysics was devised before the birthday of modern psychology , and while biology was still speculative and sociology hardly imagined . It antedates Fechner and Herbert Spencer , Darwin and Huxley , and all the hardheaded fact-finders in these organic sciences . Marxism was in its own time and place a noble , as well as a fertile , intellectual construction . It does seem astonishing , however , that throughout these ninety years filled stupendously with advancing knowledge of life , and particularly of man 's life and mind , not one Mancian has ever raised the simple question : is human nature , as it has developed in the struggle for survival , sufficiently self-dependent and sufficiently co-operative , or sufficiently capable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that a collectivization of property would actually lead to the society of the free and equal , the dying away of state power , the condition of felicity described in the formula : " From each according to his abilities , to each according to his needs " ? Even Darwin 's theory of species and of how their characters are determined did not provoke an inquiry on this head . It was only grabbed in as another evidence of the generality of upward evolution , a further proof that because of the nature of the universe ? and never mind about man 's naturel ? we are bound to arrive at an earthly paradise . IV Since the scientific socialists were never scientific enough to ask that simple preliminary question , it is natural that their first experiment should surprise them with a most conclusive , bloody , and implacable answer : Not It is hardly necessary to go into the details of Stalin 's murderous and hypocritical regime . It has been described as it looks to those who believed in the socialist ideal , and yet believe also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I Was a Soviet Worker ; by Fred E. Beal , the Gastonia strike leader , in Proletarian Journey ; by Boris Souvarine , first secretary of the French Communist Party , in his monumental book , Staline , Apercu Historique de Bolshevisme ; by Victor Serge in Russia Twenty Years After ; by Trotsky in The Revolution Betrayed ; and above all , for Americans , by Eugene Lyons in his candid and absorbing personal history , Assignment in Utopia . That these truth-telling books by initiated minds are few , and are not always welcomed by publishers , need not cause any doubts of their reliability . After " socialization " was accomplished in Russia on paper , and after the revolution as a dynamic reality , a seizure of power by workers and peasants , was checkmated and its threat on the international field expressly withdrawn , the Western intelligentsia " went over " to Bolshevism almost in a body and with a very natural alacrity . For it is , alas , natural to an intelligentsia to want to believe with its mind in an extreme program @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ holds no serious threat to present adjustments . This wholesale conversion , just because safely belated , was impetuous and intense , and it involved an immense investment both of emotion and of intellectual prestige . Its momentum , therefore , is great , and one finds it almost as hard now to get liberals to confront the cruel facts about Stalin 's regime as it was once to make the reactionary press print the glowing truth about Lenin and Trotsky and the Workers ' State . Facts , as Lenin said , are stubborn things ; the only things equally stubborn are those who will not see them . Suffice it to say then , for those who hold their eyes open , that together with that collectivization or nationalization of the means of production which was supposed to emancipate the working class , and therewith make " all society " free , and permit the state to " die away , " there has grown up as the substance of the state a caste or class of bureaucrats who have enslaved the proletariat more effectively than before , appropriating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of their labor , and depriving them of every means of protest , and that besides enslaving the proletariat , these bureaucrats have perfected the enslavement of " all society . " Trotsky says boldly and truly , after describing socialism as " a classless society based upon solidarity and the harmonious satisfaction of all needs , " that " in this fundamental sense there is not a hint of socialism in Russia . " We might further say that there is not a hint of many of the liberties and equalities , to say nothing of the fraternities , which normally prevail under competitive capitalism . Indeed , although there is in some respects a greater equality , there is far less liberty in Russia than there was under the semi-feudal regime of the tzars . As to fraternity ? or , in Marx 's phrase , the rendering of " all the everyday relations of man to man perfectly intelligible and reasonable " ? it is difficult to speak temperately . Bureaucratic usurpation and concealed class-rule have made Russia , so far as she is public and articulate politically @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lickspittles , and mass-murderers . Her men and women of most noble and humane feeling are in jail or in exile or in concentration camps or in hiding or in traitors ' graves or cowed into absolute silence . Human relations have , I dare say , never on a large scale sunk so low . The deliberate murder by starvation of four to six million peasants in the name of a " workers ' and peasants ' republic , " and the wholesale execution in the name of the " complete triumph of socialism " of the sincerest and most clearsighted leaders of the movement toward socialism , are but high points in a total system based on lies and held erect by cruelty and terror . Any mind realistically devoted to the aims of socialism emerges from the library after reading the journals out of Stalin 's Russia with the very feeling recorded by the socialist mechanic , Andrew Smith , on leaving the country itself after his years of service there : As soon as we crossed the border it was as if we had suddenly been released @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sunlight . The passengers broke out into lively conversation and ecstatic cries of joy , of freedom . They laughed , they cried , they sang . It is impossible , after reading those journals , filled now these many months ago with shrieking rituals of obscene toadyism and insanely raging hate , to deny the extreme statement of Boris Souvarine in a recent article in La Revue de Paris : All respect for man having disappeared , life and human dignity having lost their value , nothing moderates the bestiality of the strong and abasement of the weak . One sees no longer any limit to the savagery that has been unchained . After such statements from others who made sacrifices to the cause of communism in Russia , Fred Beal seems cool and moderate when he says : The more I saw of Russia , the more convinced I became that not only the homeless children but all the common people of the country were a nuisance to the Soviet Government . Fred Beal declined a frank invitation to a career of luxury and self-deception as a Soviet bureaucrat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and , with a twenty-year prison sentence standing against him , tell the American workers the truth of what he saw . Although he can be criticized for publishing chapters of his book in the reactionary press , the book is honest and will bring no ultimate reward to him but self-respect . I found he says that the Stalinist road leads to calamity and darkness . But I am as convinced as ever that there is another road to a free and classless humanity , a road which is worth the quest , and which can be found only by minds liberated from the worship of false gods and by spirits strong enough to face the truth . Beal says significantly , speaking of the radical books he read in youth : " I could not understand Karl Marx . " This inability of clear-headed Americans to understand Karl Marx is wholly due to the fact that Marx was constrained by his German philosophical training to keep up a perpetual pretense that his simple practical plan for changing the world was an abstruse , theoretical understanding of how the world @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hokum was an essential part of his preparation for the task of telling American workers the truth about Soviet Russia . He is far more reliable because of his naive freedom to see a few unintellectualized vital facts than Trotsky is , with his colossal power to marshal all the facts , from the price of pig-iron to the forms of lyric poetry , within the framework of a romantic German philosophy . In The Revolution Betrayed , Trotsky answers all the horrors to which the insurrection organized by him has led , with the assertion that socialism according to the Marxian theory was never supposed to be achieved in a single country , especially a backward one , and that the leaders of the Russian revolution thought of it only as a fuse to revolution in more advanced countries . He explains the absence of even a " hint of socialism " in Russia as due to her backward economy , low industrialization , low productivity of labor , lack of enough goods to go round , survival of " petty bourgeois psychology , " etc , together with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ us ( in an article in Liberty ) that in America , because of her high industrial developments , " communism , far from being an intolerable bureaucratic tyranny and individual regimentation , will be the means of greater individual liberty and shared abundance . . . . Control over individual consumption ? whether bymoney oradministration ? will no longerbenecessary when there is more than enough of everything for everybody . " Coming from a leader of the revolution , these statements are impressive , and I think Trotsky 's Marxian analysis of the Soviet society in The Revolution Betrayed is a prodigious feat of intellect . The amount of free and fluid judgment he achieves within the framework of a rationalistic metaphysics is amazing ? a tribute to his dexterity and the ingenuity of old Hegel . His sustained sense of human society as a process rather than a thing ? the real wisdom concealed under the cant about " dialectic " ? is also admirable . I find much truth too in his concrete demonstrations of the results of Russia 's backwardness , and much empirical good sense in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ basic economic change they make . The idea of capitalistic encirclement and the war danger ? used by Stalinists to " blackmail the intellectuals and keep down the workers , " as James T. Farrell truly says ? is used by Trotsky with honesty and a just sense of its significance . As to his essential thesis about Russia , however , I remain unconvinced . It is an exaggeration , in the first place , to say that the Russian revolution was always thought of by its leaders as an initiator of world revolution . In his most vigorous polemic against those who maintained that proletarian action should have been postponed in October because Russia was not yet " ripe " for socialism , Lenin never mentions the world revolution or the idea that socialism in Russia had to wait upon it . He says : How utterly mechanical is that idea which they learned by heart during the development of western European social democracy , that we in Russia have not yet grown up to socialism , that we lack ? as various learned gentlemen among them express it ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ If the creation of socialism demands a definite level of culture ( although nobody can say just exactly what that definite level is ) then why can we not begin by winning with a revolution the premises for that definite level of culture , and then afterward on the basis of the workers ' and peasants ' power and the soviet structure , set out to catch up to the other peoples ? .. . Trotsky is of course wholly right in insisting that Lenin 's Marxian policies demand the continued support of world revolution . He is wrong , however , in my opinion , when he implies that Lenin 's hopes would not have been tragically disappointed by the developments in Russia even as an isolated proletarian state . In the second place , Trotsky offers no real proof , except the tenets of the dialectic philosophy , that the sole decisive cause within Russia of the failure of socialist hopes is her backward technic of production . Like all true Marxians , he builds that fact into , or up under , all the failures in every phase @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , he ignores in doing this the very existence of the hereditary nature of man . No independent psychological or biological problems exist for him . Developments that to the most ordinary shrewd good sense reveal a conflict between Marxian theory and the universal attributes of human nature are attributed by him to survivals in a backward country of a " petty bourgeois psychology . " The Marxian romantic idealization of the proletariat ? based on no study of its character , based solely on its metaphysical position in the dialectic schema as the progressive factor in an upwardgoing contradiction ? becomes almost a wilful blindness in this book , The book is indeed " saturated " with optimism . To my more skeptical and yet far from pessimistic mind , it seems obvious that if the socialist idea of a free and equal cooperative commonwealth emerging from the dictatorship of the proletariat were practical under an economy of abundance , we should find under an economy of scarcity some lame approximation to it . Instead of the germ of the Society of the Free and Equal , we find in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ find that collective ownership of all wealth-producing capital makes it possible for a shrewd politician who gets hold of the state power to exercise a more absolute tyranny over the lives and minds of men than has been seen before . To the powers of an old-line political despot , he adds those of an apotheosized factory boss , and those of an armed Pope , an absolute censor of all printed or audibly spoken wish or opinion . And we find that this concentrated power is used ? as indeed in the long run such power must be used ? to restore in disguised forms the old system of class exploitation . That , it seems to me , is an already obvious lesson of the Russian revolution . You can of course reply that the new bureaucracy and their privileges developed as rapidly as the process of collectivization , so that in reality " Socialism was never tried in Russia . " The same thing is often said about Christianity , and I suppose always will be . There are people whose greatest need in life is a lost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by an edifice of scientifically plausible wish-fulfillment metaphysics , a kind of socio-economic Talmud in which to enjoy the delights of intellectual superiority and endless disputation , will unquestionably live forever . To a practical mind , however , the fact that after a completely successful revolution led by extreme and audacious Marxists , it proved impossible to show a " hint " of the authentic goal of Marxism can only suggest a drastic reconsideration ? or rather , since that is the lamentable fact about it , a belated preliminary consideration ? of the goal . V I said that there is just as much utopianism in Marx 's ideal as in that of his predecessors . I will illustrate it with the following casual remark : Socialism will abolish both architecture and harrow-pushing as professions , and the man who has given half an hour to architecture will also push the cart a little until his work as an architect is again in demand . It would be a pretty sort of socialism which perpetuated the business of barrow-pushing . Other phrases which reveal the goal Marx had in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and equal " ; " leap from the Kingdom of Necessity to the Kingdom of Freedom " ; disappearance of " the enslaving subordination of the individual under the division of labor " ; " society by regulating the common production will make it possible for me to do this to-day and that tomorrow , to hunt in the morning , fish in the afternoon , carry on cattle-breeding in the evening ... without becoming hunter , fisherman , or cattle-breeder " ; disappearance of " the opposition between manual and intellectual labor " ; " labor becomes not only a means of life , but the highest desire of life " ; from each according to his abilities , to each according to his needs " ; " an association which will exclude classes and their antagonisms " ; " the practical relations of everyday life will offer to man none but perfectly intelligible and reasonable relations to his fellow men and to nature . " All these aspirations , natural to anyone in a mood of wholesale revolt against the irrationality and meanness of human civilization , were lumped @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but that they are obviously unattainable under present conditions , asserted to be the necessary end-products of an evolving technic of production . And for good measure Marx added in the early Christian , or anarchist , idea of getting along without any government . It was first said , I believe , by the Anabaptists and Diggers in the seventeenth century that if property were held in common no government would be necessary . And Marx , while telling us what a universe rising eternally of its own motion " from the lower to the higher " must ultimately arrive at , quite properly threw in this happy prospect too : There will no longer be political power . properly speaking , since political power is simply the official form of the antagonism in civil society . Most of these formula : , if seriously considered in the light of present-day knowledge about human nature , can be thrown out offhand as fantastic . It hardly required the failure of the Russian revolution to inform modern minds that " labor " will never become , in the majority of mankind @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the opposition between manual and intellectual labor will never disappear ; that no amount of collectivization can remove the division of labor or the subordination of the individual entailed by it ; that the slogan " from each according to his abilities , to each according to his needs " is the very definition of utopia ; that the conception of a " leap from the Kingdom of Necessity to the Kingdom of Freedom " is but a translation into this-worldly terms of the Christian myth of the resurrection ; that the dream of man 's having none but " perfectly intelligible and reasonable relations to his fellow-men and to nature " is also not of this world . And if there is a more preposterous notion in the history of religion than that of the " scientific socialists " that when the gigantic mechanism of a concentrated capitalist industry is taken over by a proletarian state , and the attempt made to operate it on a basis of revolutionary justice , the state will immediately begin to " die away , " I do not know where it is to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these things , that shrewd and hardheaded realists like Marx and Lenin managed to believe that they believed in them . Our first step , then , must be to eliminate from our conception of the future society all those elements which require a belief in miracles , whether at the hands of the Divine Spirit or the Technic of Production . After that is done we shall still find that we have in hand a perfectly thoughtless combination of two opposing political principles which , if pushed to an extreme , are incompatible . And we shall find that they are not only pushed to an extreme by Marxists , but pushed to the absolute . The Jeffersonian ideal of freedom and rank individualism and as little government as possible arose in and ? according to Marx 's own ways of thinking ? might seem properly to belong to an agrarian society without highly developed industries or big cities . The development of these cities and industries has at any rate steadily forced this system into the background , and advanced into its place a system which stresses instead equality @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all . Marxism ignores this vital contrast and this momentous change , one of the most momentous in the history of political thought . Marxism simply tosses into its pot at the end of the rainbow of future history all the ideals in both systems , and as though that were not utopian enough , decrees that each and all are destined to be realized in as extreme a form as they can be conceived . Jefferson 's shrewd and skeptical idea of very little government becomes in Marx 's believing mind the total disappearance of the state . The healthy notion supported by Lincoln that a man is entitled to the product of his labor is dismissed by Marx as " bourgeois . " In the society to which the dictatorship of the proletariat inevitably conducts , his dialectic faith assures us , men will not receive according to their labor but according to their needs . In my opinion anyone who , contemplating the results of the Russian revolution , can still dwell believingly in these myths of the absolute ideal is unwilling to learn and unfit to teach @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of loyalty or despair . It is not a question , as Trotsky thinks , of being " frightened by defeat " or " holding one 's positions . " It is a question of moving forward or being stuck in the mud . No mind not bold enough to reconsider the socialist hypothesis in the light of the Russian experiment can be called intelligent . Russia 's political ideals during her ten years of violent industrialization have passed through in fevered form the very development upon which ours spent a century . The **40;1565;TOOLONG element has been forgotten , or deliberately withdrawn from circulation , and the **40;1607;TOOLONG element tends to be presented as though it were the single aim for which the revolution had been fought . Lenin 's writings in the months preceding the October revolution were filled with such expressions as these : One must build democracy directly , from the bottom , on the initiative of the masses themselves , and with their active participation in the entire life of the state , without " supervision " from above , without officialdom . . ? . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ standing army . Create a militia consisting of the whole people , women included , generally and universally armed . RUSSIA AND THE This is the practical business which should be launched without delay . The more initiative , variety , daring creativeness are brought into play by the masses , the better . And in his little book on Problems of Culture , the first word on these problems after the revolution , Trotsky expressed the same view : " The revolution is above all an awakening of personality in those masses who have been heretofore condemned to be impersonal . " Only a few years after those Iines were written , Mr. Ren ? Fiblip-Miller was able , with but his usual exaggeration , to attribute to Bolsheviks as such a belief that " the collective-impersonal is alone real and the separate existence of the single individual is an illusion ? ' The ideals of initiative , variety , daring creativeness , awakened personality have now so far dropped from view that even a transplanted American like Anna Louise Strong can solemnly reproach me that I fail to understand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ learned the millennial art of " collective thinking ? ' One of the first problems , then , for a new and more scientific social movement is to effect an adjustment between the two conflicting halves of the socialist ideal . It might have been deduced by a process of meditation , if anybody had done any meditating on these subjects , that the concept of extreme individualism is in conflict with that of extreme co-operativeness . The Russian experiment provokes the further query : To what extent is the principle of equality , vigorously applied , incompatible with a vigorous assertion of personal freedom ? The resurrection of the death-penalty for theft after all wealth-producing property had been " socialized , " must induce some reflection , it seems to me , beyond the remark that Russia 's wealth-production is not high . It might well serve as a symbol of the thinking that we socialists have still to do . If life is to have dignity and richness the principles of freedom and individualism must be sacredly preserved . That they arose in a pre-industrial era , and will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ makes this issue the more pressing . But if life is to flourish in an age of machinery and mass production , there must also be a new co-operativeness , one involving a new degree of discipline and subordination to the collective purpose , and to that end more state control than would have been good sense in the time of Jefferson . One can not of course revise his aim completely in independence of his definition of the conditioning facts , or his program of action . Tentatively , however , and in a too negative manner , we might sum up our revision of the socialist ideal in the light of science and the Russian experiment as follows : 1 . Instead of being attributed as an end term to an omnipotent process of historic evolution , the ideal should be regarded as a purpose in the minds of those who strive to reach it . 2 . Problems of being and of universal history arising from this situation should be acknowledged to exist , but not solved by the device of pretending to know what is not known @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be analyzed and considered separately . 4 . Those obviously fantastic in the light of modern biological and psychological knowledge , to say nothing of modern common sense , should be thrown out . 5 . None of those remaining should be conceived as absolute . 6 . The incompatibility between the **25;1649;TOOLONG principles and the **25;1676;TOOLONG principles should be adjusted , where necessary , by mutual concessions . 7 . We must surrender to co-operation and the attending state control as much of our individual freedom as is indispensably necessary to the operation of a complicated wealth-producing machinery . 8 . We must guard with eternal vigilance the rest . 