@@431036

 | WHAT should I tell them ? my friends ? when they asked me my impressions of America ? That was my thought as the great ship drew toward my home shores . To me it had been an epoch-making journey . I saw so much that was new , so much that was fresh and inspiring ? so many things with which my spirit found itself in warm accord , and so many practical things that were revelations of a new life and a new world . But when the friends who greeted me asked my impressions of this new world I had seen , I found myself telling them first not of the great social , economic , and spiritual forces I found in young America , but rather of the intimate little details of everyday life , the special organization and conveniences of the American household . I am myself a housewife , interested in my home , and so it was only natural that my attention should be attracted by the American ways of home-making , so different in many particulars from our own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whole , " and I have found that there is no surer method of learning about a people than through study of the little details of daily life , for these things determine in large measure their attitude toward the whole of life . From the larger viewpoint these small affairs of homemaking may seem unimportant , but in truth they reveal a great deal of the character of America . In the world today great events and accomplishments do not reflect the soul of a people so well as little everyday things . I saw , and learned to esteem , official America . But I found myself more deeply attached to the ordinary , private life of the people , as revealed in those without official rank , in their homes and customs . When a European thinks of America , he often thinks of a nation and a people enslaved by machines . But during my American journey , I saw the machine serving a great purpose in the lives of the people . Machines and instruments of life are created by men , and they never belie @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and they are serving . They have made possible a new orientation of the housewife toward home , toward her individual life , and the life of the community . The remarkable utility and inexpensiveness of all the contrivances which are important in the life of the housewife personify , to my mind , the American soul as certainly as does the great world of culture and politics . What , actually , is the role which the mechanical contrivances and efficient arrangements of the American home play in the pattern of American life ? They make life infinitely easier and more comfortable than it is in Europe . After all , should it not be our - desire to reduce the mechanics of life to its simplest terms , so that there shall be more time for real living ? And is not . the joy and effectiveness of life increased by physical comforts ? It is only when we have fulfilled easily the physical requirements of living that we can be released for personal development , mental and spiritual . In ancient civilizations , the aristocracy was so released through @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is beginning to serve the same purpose of release , but for the whole people . American civilization is characterized by a mechanical development to a degree unknown to us . Of course , the genius of modern discovery is working among us to simplify and make easier the fulfillment of life 's most necessary requirements . But the utilization of such simplifying devices is limited to a small group of persons who can afford them . Only very slowly is the general standard of living rising to a height which formerly was restricted to the higher economic classes . This vital difference in the everyday life of the people affects not only their superficial methods of living , but also their social and political outlook . Where the masses enjoy a high standard of living , there is likely to be a greater spirit of fellow-feeling among all citizens . European countries are in no way social democracies to the same degree as is America . This democracy strikes the attention wherever one goes . I was interested , of course , in shops , as is every housewife , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and willingness the proprietor and his salespeople served their customers . Their attitude was that they were happy indeed to be able to serve , even though the purchase was small . But in my country only wealthy and regular customers can enjoy the benefits which in America are offered to every customer , no matter what his social and economic standing . Your shopkeepers vie with each other in giving customers the best service and simplifying the daily life of the consumer . All merchandise , even the smallest , is delivered to the house . But the merchant  | does not content himself with such services ; he also makes regular inquiries about the needs of his customers , especially when the customer has not bought anything in a long time . A large part of the business of the American shopkeeper seems to be to reduce his customers ' efforts to the minimum , and that tends to simplify the ordinary , but necessary , affairs of living . This " service to the customer , " as we like to call it over here , is in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sojourn in America an errand boy for a cleaning establishment called twice a week at my house to inquire if he could render any service ! Such conveniences mean a considerable lightening of the housewife 's burdens ; they also mean a closer and friendlier relationship with tradesmen than is possible under a system of casual and occasional orders . Perhaps it will surprise my own countrymen that I speak of personal relationships between merchants and their customers in America ; where Europeans believe everything is mechanical and impersonal . But as a matter of fact this mechanization which is nothing other than technical development , does not prevent an extraordinary friendliness and amiable courtesy in business affairs . And this delightful friendliness is by no means dictated entirely by anticipation of profitable business . Bakers , milkmen , and other tradesmen greet you with great friendli- ness , even when you do not require their wares . Once my baker , from whom I had not ordered bread in several days , presented me with a cake , so that I might be reminded of him pleasantly . I spoke @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is used mostly as a term of reproach against America . Over here it is said : " Certainly the life of the American is devoted entirely to efficiency and practical utility . It functions like a good , well-oiled machine ; but for that very reason it is standardized and impersonal . " This characterization is true enough up to a certain point . But what is the result of this efficiency and mechanization in the daily affairs of life ? We , on this de of the Atlantic , are inclined to overlook the fact that the simplification of the mechanics of life frees from many burdens which consume time and energy . The German housewife , unless she leaves everything to her servants , is the slave of her house and the constant , monotonous problems of everyday existence . She has no leisure , no time for the fulfillment of the higher mission of life , because the duties of her household make such great demands upon her . The American arrangement of home-making and housekeeping , however , means  | liberation for the housewife , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her body and spirit . She can breathe freely ; she has freedom , time , and space , even if she has no servant ! How difficult it is for the German housewife , for instance , to undertake the round of daily shopping ! What long hours are consumed , wandering from shop to shop , collecting the necessaries for a meal , or for the day ! When , in Pasadena , I entered an American provision store for the first time , it seemed I had been transported to paradise . No salespeople to wait for , no time-wasting conversation , no " pricing " ! You examine the goods , which are plainly marked , find what you want ( similar kinds of goods are arrayed together ) , go from counter to counter collecting your provisions in a basket , then step to the cashier 's counter where the adding machine quickly reckons your bill . In one store you have all the provisions you need for the day ? meats , fresh vegetables , canned goods , and all sorts of household requirements ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In a few minutes the housewife has completed her shopping for the day . When she returns home , she has all sorts of mechanical contrivances to assist her . Her house is equipped with gas , electricity , and telephone . She has an electric washing machine , an electric iron , an easily regulated or perhaps automatic gas or electric cooking range , a fireless cooker , an electric food mixer , a compact kitchen with a kitchen cabinet designed to save steps , central heating , electric fans , and scores of other contrivances to save time and energy and make life more pleasant . The result is that the American housewife can approach her daily tasks as a pleasant game , rather than as an enslaving burden . During the interlude in her work she can get into her little car and speed away to visit friends , or to a club , a concert , or a lecture . If she has children , she has more time to devote to their care and development . The mechanization of the American home does not have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rather does it give the wife and mother an opportunity to develop her home in its highest spiritual values for her husband and children . The woman who is merely a household drudge is handicapped in bringing her home and her personality to the highest point of development . - But efficiency and utility do not shut out beauty . The arrangements of the American home are ample demonstration of that . The American home has all possible mechanical conveniences , which in Europe are seldom @# found and then only in the homes of the rich , but more than that the American home is furnished in the most excellent taste . Alongside technical advantages are beauty and comfort . The practical arrangement of the American house is such that the housewife can get along with a minimum of domestic help ; so many of the little details of her work are easily and quickly done . I was impressed by how practical , and at the same time how attractive , are the ironing boards attached to the walls . They are , as it were , built into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is necessary to animate them from invisibility and turn them to their proper use . There is no bother and waste of time in bringing the ironing board out of the closet , setting it up , and all that . This is only one instance of what time-saving utility means in the American home . And when a number of such devices are brought together , the saving of time and energy is considerable . This universal efficiency means cleanliness , brightness , and friendliness , and these qualities characterize the American home . In all these conveniences of daily life , the difference between rich and poor is not so great as in European coup ries . In your country even those with modest incomes can enjoy the advantages of labor-saving devices . Therefore America does not know the bitterness of social contrasts , class struggle , and class sentiments , which in their development mean social unrest and social disturbance . The general standard of life in your country is on a level which corresponds to that of the higher economic groups over here . This means that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ America , you over there are richer and happier than we can be here in Germany . I have spoken of the little things of everyday life , but they are so indicative that perhaps they will give a clearer view of larger and more general matters . Naturally my impressions of America were not confined solely to the business of home-making and the small affairs of everyday life , but it was through these that I was abletto gain a broader and deeper impression of the spirit of the people . My return to my homeland was the signal , as it were , for the collection and classification of these impressions . From this it was only a step to comparisons ? comparisons in broad terms of conditions in the world left behind and the world to which I returned . At no time , it seems to me , are such comparisons so fruitful and so full of meaning as in our times , when the whole world , in the words of  | Hamlet , is " but of joint , " and when the homeland receives @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Germany stands now in the shadow of a terrible economic crisis . But this crisis is also a European ? yes , even a world ? crisis . Yet I noticed scarcely any of its devastating effects in America . LOOKING back on my journey , it seems to me that Americans , compared with Germans , are happy , carefree , and optimistic . No matter how much one may speak of a world crisis , it is certain that it has fallen differently upon different countries . America bears it lightly , Germany with the utmost difficulty . That is the impression one gets immediately on returning from America to Germany . These differences in the social fortune of the two countries is , however , bound up with numerous other differences in life , culture , and character , which make Europe and America two different worlds . These two worlds are often contrasted by calling America the land of the future , Europe the land of the past . To me this contrast seems dangerous and fruitless . Precisely in such disturbed times as ours , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , far more than in America , the present is determined by tradition and the past . But the future , which is more enigmatic than ever before , should not play too great a part in our thoughts . Most important are the problems of the present , and these problems are solved differently in Europe from the manner they are solved in America , although America 's influence on us is growing steadily greater . Industrial , technical civilization in America brings with it the consequence that the individual and his idiosyncrasies do not play the same role that they play with us in Europe and especially in Germany . The Germans have been for centuries a people of decided individualism ? an individualism which has shattered again and again their tragic hopes of becoming in truth a united nation . As great as is the creative energy of such individualism , its accompanying danger is correspondingly great . This danger lies in a lack of common understanding and social consciousness . Whoever lives for some time among Americans comes to feel this difference deeply and is duly appreciative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which is the foundation of a true social democracy . The feeling of common brotherhood in America is stronger than in any other country , with the possible exception of Soviet Russia . But the difference lies not only in the different industrial systems , but in this fact ; while in America the spirit and practice of collectivism is entirely independent of the state , in Russia it has its very being within the state . In Germany , too , the state has a far greater part in the socialized life of the people than in America . Even in the time of the monarchy there was compulsory health insurance , and during the revolution a system of unemployment insurance was developed , from which in these times of heartbreaking unemployment many millions of men and women have their only source of maintenance . All of these social aids by the state are , in America , almost unknown , but in spite of this fact , it is my belief that in America social assistance is rendered fully as much , if not more . In your country @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Thus society as a whole is concerned in preventing the occurrence of poverty and need . But if they do come by force of circumstance , then every member of society voluntarily lends every aid to their alleviation , without calling upon the power of the state . This universal social consciousness seems to me to be the focal point of American prosperity ? a prosperity which I can not believe is past : You ask me how I come to this view ? Not from mere study of theory , I assure you . During my stay in America I gathered experiences and observations sufficient to know with certainty how great is the sense of social responsibility on the part of Americans and American society . Coming from poverty-stricken Germany , the traveler stands in astonishment and admiration at sight of the great riches everywhere to be found in your country . This wealth , however , assumes at no point a purely egotistic character ; rather , on the contrary , is it animated into following the path of constructive and altruistic activities . For the most part @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hard work . Because your wealth has this source , and because many of its owners have themselves at one time or another felt the sting of adverse social conditions , they feel in duty bound to share their good fortune with the needy . This sharing is a moral necessity which , ignored and disobeyed , can not go unnoticed . In a great California city I had the opportunity of talking with a woman who was at the head of the local welfare organization . I asked her frankly by what means the funds for her good works were collected . She answered that contributions were systematically levied upon city dwellers , based on the amount of their income tax declarations ! Thus I found that social welfare work had its income in fact from a tax upon the incomes of those citizens who could afford it , and this collection of funds was made entirely without state interference . SUCH social consciousness , such fellow-feeling for the needy and suffering , is , for us in Europe , almost unknown . We still leave to the state the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intensive social work by women of the highest social rank , such as is familiar in your country , is not so well known in ours . I discovered in my observations and experiences in America that every woman of good social position simply takes for granted her duty to do some form of social work , either on her own part or in cooperation with some established institution . This attitude penetrates into the cultural life of the people to such an extent that those individuals who concentrate their activities on , for instance , art collections are conscious of a sense of duty unperformed , and thus leave their collections , alter death , for public enjoyment . Such dispositions of private accumulations are , in Europe , relatively rare . The art collector with us thinks chiefly of his personal joy in the objects of beauty which he has gathered about him . The cultural life of the masses is considered the concern of the state , and to the state it is willingly assigned . The attitude of social responsibility and friendly brotherhood in the American nation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the delightful hospitality and bounteousness which one finds everywhere . Especially in California I experienced repeated instances of beautiful friendliness and hospitality which will always remain in my grateful memory . The warm , sunny climate there seems to blossom in the hearts of its people and gives to them that blessed cheerfulness and kindliness which , in colder , grayer climes , is rarely found . I look back , and I compare . I see two worlds , quite dissimilar in character and in fate , but like-minded as to the spiritual and moral destinies of their peoples . By travel one learns ; not only through new experiences and beautiful impressions , but through new knowledge of the manifold complexity of the many tasks given mankind to perform . And in this way especially is America rich and fruitful in the lessons it teaches . In America , I have learned .                     