@@145825

Victorious Generalissimo Francisco Franco proclaimed over the Burgos radio at 2:20 p. m. on March 29 that the Spanish Civil War had officially ended . His troops had occupied Madrid , Valencia , Ciudad Real , Cuenca , Jan , Albacete-almost without resistance . Italian planes from Majorca had made a last bombing trip over Gandia , British-controlled Mediterranean port . A few anarchist soldiers were still putting up a feeble resistance in isolated districts and clean-up campaigns were bound to continue for some time . But , broadly speaking , Generalissimo Franco was right : the war was over and for the first time in 984 days Spain had peace . <P> Food . After the war-weary city had displayed white flags from the tallest buildings and the Franco troops had taken possession , 6,500 truckloads of food for half-starved inhabitants began to roll into Madrid . New Franco money ( the old Loyalist paper money was declared valueless ) arrived by carloads to be exchanged for pre-war currency . Direct train service between the capital and Saragossa was restored after nearly three years . Sandbags piled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ removed , shutters were pulled up , temporary boarding was torn down . The rooms of hotels long considered unsafe because of artillery fire were reopened . Barricades which had been carefully erected in West Madrid more than two years ago were torn down . For the first time in over two years Madrid was allowed to have electric lights at night . <P> The city which had once been the heart of Republican resistance soon echoed with cries of Arriba Espaa ! Viva Franco ! The clenched fist became the upraised arm . Some 40,000 secret Fascist sympathizers members of the Fifth Column-dropped their Republican disguise , took over the city even before the first of Franco 's troops had crossed the Manzanares River and taken actual possession of Madrid . Out of hiding in foreign embassies and legations came hundreds of Franco partisans . <P> Among those who saw the last of Republican Madrid was Joseph P. Kennedy Jr. , 23-year-old son of the U. S. Ambassador to the Court of St. James 's . He had gone to Loyalist Spain on a British battleship , then to Madrid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the spacious U. S. Embassy as the guest of Francisco Ugarte , the Embassy 's caretaker . Marveled young Mr. Kennedy at Madrid 's fall : " Did you ever see anything like it ? " After attending Palm Sunday Mass , he went to Burgos , planned to leave Spain soon and report to Father Kennedy his observations and conversations with Loyalist leaders , Foreign Minister Julin Besteiro and Colonel Segismundo Casado . Young Kennedy wrote his honors thesis at Harvard last year on the legal aspects of the Spanish war . <P> Vengeance . But not everywhere was there unmixed joy . Lines of men and women streamed out of Madrid toward the coast , hoping somehow to escape the clutches of Fascist rule . Thousands of stanch Loyalists who feared for their lives if they remained clamored to board British warships , besieged consulates of neutral powers .                     