@@491985

O NE afternoon last August , five machine-gun bandits raided a bank in a little Midwestern summer-resort town , swept several thousand dollars off the counter and escaped in a stolen car , leaving four citizens wounded in the streets . Five minutes later the chase was in full cry . A dozen carloads of state troopers , six cars filled with policemen from the nearest large city , thirty miles away , scores of officers from smaller towns , half a dozen sheriffs and their deputies joined the hunt . The state sent a national-guard airplane ; Detroit , Toledo and Chicago gave long-distance aid ; the U. S. Coast Guard turned out fifty men with high-powered rifles . Hundreds of constables , game wardens , vigilantes , Legionnaires , storekeepers , farmers and other volunteers dropped their work , grabbed their shotguns and rushed into the woods and fields and highways . But the bandits got away . Not that the police , sheriffs , volunteers and Coast-Guard men were n't anxious to catch them . They searched diligently and fearlessly . In fact , many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ south of the town when the bandits ' ear was found abandoned nearly 200 miles away . They worked bard , but were unorganized in working together . The robbers , on the other hand , operated with the precision of a prize drill team . They left nothing to chance . Hidden in the woods in several directions from the invaded town , the police later found high-powered cars in which the outlaws , if escape were cut off in one direction , had prepared to flee in another . These cars were equipped with extra arms and ammunition , flash lights , food , road maps , even pails of roofing nails to scatter in the path of the pursuing police , should the chase become too hot . Organized Crime and Disorganized Law TN CONTRAST with this , the forces of the law were 1 a disorganized mob . Of course , the officers tried to form a smooth-running organization on the spot . A state-police lieutenant was in nominal command . But it 's very difficult to recruit , organize and train an army after the shooting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ entirely too many conflicting ideas on how the job should be done . As evening drew near , many farmers had to remember the milking hack home . Some of the city police realized that they were a long way from their beats with no actual authority and that they were burning city gasoline on a country job . Sheriffs began to wonder what the taxpayers in their own counties would say about all this . The Coast Guards developed stone bruises . Besides , when a county sheriff thinks that the bandits went south and a state-police lieutenant thinks they went north and maps his hunt accordingly , the sheriff has every bit as much right to his DETZE opinion as the policeman has , and what about it ? Entirely too often a sheriff or volunteer uses his more or less good judgment , goes off on his own and leaves a hole in the police net large enough for ten bandit cars to escape . Were all the police in any such hunt actually under single command , if all their jobs depended on absolute obedience , there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ according to statistics issued in October by the American Bankers ' Association , the number of banks in the nation has declined considerably , but the number of bank robberies has increased . Nevertheless , if we dig deeper into the bankers ' figures , another fact comes to light . The states with an adequate number of troopers suffer a smaller ratio of bank robberies to population than those without troopers , and the percentage of escapes after commission of armed crime is smaller in these states . But the constabulary is by no means an assurance of security from bank and pay-roll robbers , and highway gunmen . In even the most effectively policed states the percentage of successful armed crimes is much too high . It will continue to be so until an intelligent , mobile , widespread organization of honest police , without political strings to hamper it , takes the field against the unified forces of crime . The World War was anybody 's fight until the Allies agreed upon a supreme high command . The war on crime , of necessity , must go the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be ? A national gendarmery , modeled on that of France ? That military body , with a colonel commanding each department , corresponding to our state , functions smoothly and efficiently under a commanding general who serves as a national chief of police . It is entirely out of politics , somewhat top-heavy with military bureaucracy , but , for all that , honest and fearless . American students of crime prevention and law enforcement often suggest an adaptation of the French method . To this suggestion , the American Bar Association , at its 1933 annual meeting , answered an emphatic " No ! " They pointed to the Constitution of the United States , which , as a safeguard against autocracy , gives communities the right to name their own peace officers . A large segment of intelligent citizens who fear centralization of police power more than they do bandits agreed with the bar association . Unfortunately , also allied with the lawyers in their opposition to national police are a pack of professional politicians and the entire army of criminals . The present American police system is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Italy , Spain and Switzerland . Instead of one commanding general in the war on crime , America boasts more than 40,000 . The most irresponsible child , playing an aggressive game in the side yard , knows that any group with 40,000 supreme commanders necessarily is only a rabble . February I7 , 1934 Let us examine this American mob scene , compared with the unified forces of Europe . The citizens of the 3072 American counties , under the authority of the Constitution , every two years pick their 3072 sheriffs . Most of these sheriffs are jovial fellows who have been more or less successful as farmers , grocers , undertakers or insurance salesmen . The sheriff names his staff of deputies almost entirely on a basis of patronage . He must do this if he wants to maintain the political machine which placed him in office and thus be elected to a second term . Unskilled and inexperienced for the most part , these men make up the bulk of rural , suburban and small-town law enforcement . Within these counties , an additional 3000 cities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thousand local constables uphold the dignity of the law in 30,000 townships . From the state capitals stream other squads of enforcement officials  --  fire marshals , game wardens and conservation police , liquor-law inspectors , and the like . Nor do these by any means complete the list . What of the railroads and large industrial concerns , banks , hotels and department stores that maintain their own protective services ? In addition , twenty-two states have either state police or highway-patrol forces , and a dozen branches of the Federal Government keep a finger in the police business . Thus counties , townships , villages , towns , cities , industries , states and the Federal Government contribute those 40,000 high commands in the crime war . Most of these jurisdictions overlap , but do not coordinate . For each community is jealous of its prerogative of naming its own officers , and its officers are jealous of other authority . The result is turmoil where there should be cooperation , and the situation would be farcical were it not so tragic . Of course there are valid objections @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the legal and technical question of its constitutionality . One has only to look to certain European countries to see the havoc , the suppression of individual liberty and the political terrorism which may result from a national police force under the hand of an unscrupulous dictator . Proponents of the national-police idea in America hasten to add that such misuse of power could never happen here . Still , there is the possibility , remote but dreadful . Michigan 's State Police Method S O MUCH for the valid objections to centralized police power . Opposed to it are the statistics of the bankers , the insurance companies and the states which now maintain their own state-police forces . Burglary and robbery insurance rates have dropped each year in Michigan since the state police there have numbered 100 or more men . In the seventh police district , embracing all of the northern twenty-two counties , there have been a dozen bank and payroll robberies in the past ten years . For eleven of these twelve crimes , men are serving life sentences in the state prison . Of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the same period which state troopers have been called to investigate , twelve murderers have been sent to prison , one case is pending on appeal , and in only one instance has there been no conviction . This is Michigan , with state police . Look now at another state , one which must depend for its protection on an uncoordinated system of sheriffs and city police forces . In that state , for the fifteen months ending last September , the record shows fifty-one bank robberies . The insurance companies operating in the state had in that period paid out on bank burglary losses more than twice as much as they had received in premiums . To force policy rates down in the face of such robberies , the bank commissioner of the state was compelled to lay down a rule that banks must at all times limit cash on hand to I per cent of total deposits . Only one-quarter of our states now have state-police systems . These are Pennsylvania , Now York , Michigan , Massachusetts , New Jersey , Connecticut , Rhode Island , Delaware @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Arizona , Louisiana , Maine , Illinois , California , and four or five other states have established highway patrols or are experimenting with them . In some of these commonwealths , it is true , the highway patrolmen are called upon to do every variety of police work , but . they are operated under the highway departments . Indiana at the moment is converting its old highway patrol into an effective state-police unit , doubling its size , and is building radio-dispatching stations with funds raised by public subscription , each county contributing its quota . Iowa , Ohio and several other states operate central identification and investigation bureaus , and , of course , Texas boasts its hard-riding rangers . Iowa recently has placed in operation a central police radio broadcasting station , available to all sheriffs and local officers , many of whom are taking advantage of the service . But more than half the commonwealths still depend for rural and suburban law enforcement on the county sheriff and the township constable . In these days of organized crime , high-speed cars and planes , machine guns @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ His authority , and in too many cases his interests , end at the county line . Not that he is entirely to blame . Boards of supervisors , with an eye on county budgets , too often discourage cooperative attempts to apprehend criminals in distant places which might cost their own taxpayers money . Sheriffs Who Stay in Their Own Back Yards W HY , " the citizens of Jefferson County demand , " should we be expected to pay for running down a gang of bandits in Washington County , halfway across the state ? They did n't rob us ! " As the result , the sheriff too often remains at home when he should be cooperating with other law-enforcement officers . Why , then , should citizens and sheriff be shocked , in a few weeks or months , when a major crime in their own county receives scanty attention from neighboring communities ? Added to this condition is the fact that the elected sheriff is in very few cases a trained , experienced police officer . He knows little of fingerprint classification or identification ; he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his deputies often lack high-powered ears to handle any emergency . He must remember constantly that election is less than two years ahead and must guide himself accordingly . When polities mixes with police.business , the result is a witches ' brew . Small-town police are scarcely more effective than county sheriffs . They often get no real training and have so little opportunity to study the rudiments of their trade that in the face of major crime they are usually helpless , Politics once more enters this picture . In entirely too many towns and cities a change in political tide brings not only new police commissioners but new chiefs , deputies , captains , lieutenants and sergeants . Often as not , a large portion of the detective bureau is placed in uniform on the first day of January , and overnight a group of uniformed policemen who have been right politically are transformed miraculously to detectives . In townships the constables usually are elected for one year instead of two , and , as a result , rank somewhat below the sheriff in experience and capability . Opposed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the state police are not entirely free From politics . But in most states which have operated . their own forces for several years , the politician has less influence than he has in the city , township or county . In both Pennsylvania and Michigan , through four administrations since the end of the World War , the heads of the state-police depart ments have remained unchanged , the personnel is not . permitted to take any part in elections and not a single officer has been promoted or reduced in rank for political purposes . Organization , personnel , working conditions , training  --  all these tend to make the slate-policesystem much more independent of politicians than city police or county sheriffs can be . Take Pennsylvania , for example . Maj. Lynn G. Adams , superintendent of the 375 well-drilled troopers who compose the Pennsylvania force , maintains his department with the strictest of army discipline . The young recruits are hand-picked for physical and moral standards from long lists of candidates . Before they are even considered for enlistment , they must pass physical examinations which would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enlisted , they must . spend six hard months in drill school before they are considered fit to be assigned to posts . How a State Builds Esprit de Corps TN THESE schools they are taught how to stand , I look , speak and think like policemen . Daily into their ears is dinned the assertion that the Pennsylvania state-police force is the finest body of men in the world . They are taught how to be firm , and at the same time courteous . They learn that " an excess pound of fat is a disgrace to the troop " ; that any policeman who puts on too much weight is guilty of conduct unbecoming an officer . " These young men are trained in the rudiments of criminal law , in fingerprint and identification systems , in jiujitsu , in keeping satisfactory notes , in the police business of acute observation . They must learn to ride hard and fast and easily , and 150 fine horses are assigned to them . They must be experts in first aid to the drowning or the injured ; they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they must be able to dispatch signals by International Morse code . " No man can qualify for duty in this department , " one bulletin to the recruits rends , " until he can trot a mile under full equipment and swim a hundred yards in his clothes withou t becomi ng excessi vely fatigue d . " Day in and day out , all those six months , the recruits practice rifle and pistol fire . No man may put on uniform until he has proved himself a capable marksman . After six months of such training , the recruit is placed in a detachment where , for six more months , he must work always under the direction of an older trooper . At the end of a year , he is ready to qualify as an , officer of the law . After the same length of time a county sheriff 's term is half gone and a constable has completed his full tenure of office . But the trooper is not considered educated after his recruit school . Twice each year he must return to it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . And one day every week , the noncommissioned officer in charge of each detachment holds a school of his own , This same type of training obtains , with variations , in nearly every state-police organization in the country . Some of the recruit courses are shorter than six months , some states hold only one school a year for older officers . But in no state is a patrolman merely thrown into his uniform and sent out to work . New York , where Maj. John A. Warner 's 669 troopers always look as if the best tailor in the city had just turned them out , maintains a school in which five short courses a year are held . It is open not only to state police but to sheriffs , city and village officers , railroad and bank guards , as well as to the police of other states . The subjects studied include civics , laws governing arrest , preparation of forms for criminal cases , investigations of various crimes and laws governing them , juvenile offenders and how to handle them , history of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ poisons , fingerprints , photography , map sketching , traffic safety , forest-fire fighting , criminal psychology , wrestling , boxing , methods of disarming , and courtesy . This school costs the taxpayers of New York State only $2500 a year . Where the Pollee Job Comes First So much for state-police training . What of their routine ? In most states they live in barracks . Michigan , New York , Pennsylvania , Connecticut , and several others make their recruits promise to break home ties completely for the first year of service , to give themselves exclusively to their jobs . In Maine the men live in barracks enough of the time to " keep the feel of soldiers , " and in Indiana barracks are under construction in several parts of the state . Marriage is discouraged in nearly every department ; state-police assignments are for single men . Too many city patrolmen are policemen for eight or ten hours only , and good neighbors and family men the rest of the time . The state trooper is on duty twenty-four hours a day . Thus he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ city officer . He can give his attention entirely to the police business and , living in barracks , there will be fewer distractions and he will be under more constant supervision of his noncommissioned officers . Several states have solved the problem of political preference as it affects the individual patrolman by assigning no man to that portion of the state from which he enlisted . Thus a trooper never has to fear that he will run afoul of old friends or even of political partisans in the course of his duties . It is surprising that the majority of troopers are country boys . Capt . John C. Cleghorn , commander of Michigan 's uniformed division , believes that farm lads make better officers . " They are accustomed to the country , for one thing , " he explains . " Put a city boy out in some of our posts , and he 'd go crazy with the isolation . Country boys do n't mind it . Besides , give me country-bred officers any night when it comes to following a trail through the woods . They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ politics reduced to the minimum in the ranks , the only place that politicians can press down their thumbs is on the head of a department . Unfortunately , now and then , a legislature , regretting its inability to use the police for patronage , will reduce appropriations to a point that cripples the service . That has occurred in several states this past year , but the reduced forces are carrying on , working longer hours , covering larger territories with fewer men , passing up many investigations which they should make . There 's Still Room for the Sheriff It is unfortunate that certain shortsighted sheriffs have banded together to fight the state police , seeing in them a menace to their own jobs . They do not realize that when troopers take over crime prevention and law enforcement , the sheriff still retains important functions which the state forces can not and will not usurp . In the ideal state , with all law enforcement in the hands of state or even Federal troopers , the sheriff still would be an important civil officer . Who would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as an officer of the courts of law and as county jailer , if not the sheriff ? For example , in Delaware , outside the single metropolitan area , state police , under Supt. C. C. Reynolds , do all law-enforcement work , leaving to the sheriffs the handling of all civil matters . The system is harmonious and effective , and both county and state officers find enough to keep them busy . New York , which boasts the best-housed as well as the best-dressed trooper organization in the country , has found it possible in most eases to cooperate successfully with county forces . In Maine , which has only a state-highway patrol , Capt . James Hanson 's 150 patrolmen are called so often on criminal cases that they made more than half the felony arrests in that state last year . The interstate coordination now in effect in the East and certain sections of the Midwest proves the benefits in crime prevention and the apprehension of criminals which might result from a national system . Michigan and Massachusetts police radio stations , on the same wave @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a dozen other state and city dispatch desks listen in for the information . Massachusetts , Rhode Island , Connecticut , New York , New Jersey and Pennsylvania state-police barracks are connected by an interstate teletype system . Within one minute , every police post in all these states may receive information , typewritten by telegraph , from any other post . Thus lookouts , descriptions and reports of crimes and fleeing criminals are dispatched simultaneously over much of New England and the Middle Atlantic States . Cities and counties have tied in on this system with hundreds of receiving and sending sets . In addition , the New York state police have an experimental radio station operating out of Albany by telephone line , the messages going on the air at Schenectady , to contact their cars in the northern end of the state . Several other states are looking to radio in the near future . Spreading the Voice of the Law One night late in October , Radio Station WMP at Framingham , Massachusetts , called the Michigan station at East Lansing . " The inspector in charge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ us by teletype . that he is testing his radio with a view to picking up your messages , " Massachusetts reported . " Will you put on a test for him ? " " Certainly , " Michigan answered promptly over a thousand miles of air . " Ready to start . Calling Troy , New York , on a test . Testing for Troy , New York . " ? The inspector at Troy received the signals , teletyped that fact to Massachusetts , and Massachusetts called Michigan . " Troy is receiving your signals splendidly , " the message flashed westward . " Mighty glad , " Michigan answered . " Any time we can be of service , New York , just call on us . We 'll be glad to cooperate . " The same evening , the newly organized Indiana state police , testing a radio receiver in their new station near Gary , communicated with Michigan , and once more the voice of the law ignored state lines as it lifted on the air waves . Already state-wide police radio , such as is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the chances of criminal escape by 50 per cent . Repeatedly in Michigan , particularly before the present legislature pared down the personnel , bandits have been hemmed in and captured by means of radio . A year ago , when gangsters raided the bank of Kaleva in the upper reaches of the lower peninsula , troopers , sheriffs and city police , working in machinelike cooperation , drew so tight a cordon over 250 miles of roads that the bandits were balked in four directions and finally were surrounded in a swamp . ' Forced to use the " cooperative " method of state , county , city and township police , Michigan has evolved a system in the upper end of the state which , if all officers do their duty , would make escape of fugitives impossible . In spite of state laws forbidding any except police ears from having radio on police wave bands , outlaws repeatedly have so equipped their cars . To counteract this , Michigan recently has worked out a new secret code , under which , in a bandit hunt , fugitives might @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ code . By means of code letters and nunaL bers on the radio , and by a carefully drawn series of emergency plans , police in the less populous regions can block every avenue of escape . They do this by employing that first principle of military tactics , the use of natural barriers as lines of resistance , each series of barriers being designated by code numbers . For example : A crime has been committed in the vicinity of Alpena , on Thunder Bay . The criminals are escaping southward . The police officer in charge of the district glances at his map and quickly selects Plan D. He telephones state police radio , which in turn directs all posts to start Plan D in operation . Each post has a copy of all plans ( under lock and key ) in its telephone desk . Immediately the post notifies half a dozen sheriffs and city officers at strategic points . These in turn telephone to deputies and volunteers . There can be no error , no overlapping of authority , provided each man does his part . Within @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and river ford , straight across the state from Lake Michigan to Lake Huron , is under armed guard . The rivers of north Michigan seem to have been laid out to aid the law and confound the bandit . The headwaters of those flowing west practically overlap the headwaters of the ones flowing east . Thus a tight net is woven . With escape thus cut off , fast police cruisers may " mop up " the country behind the barricade . But what of the populous regions in the south ? What of Indiana and Ohio , separated from Michigan by an imaginary line ? There are 258 individual " cross-overs " from Michigan into Indiana and Ohio , of which 176 are improved highways . Michigan has only 100 state troopers in its lower peninsula . Were these all concentrated on the southern border , great gaps still would remain unguarded . But by Michigan cooperating with sheriffs and police in Indiana and Ohio , an impenetrable wall might be built . That is exactly what these states propose now to do . In November , 1933 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ met in Hillsdale , Michigan , and formulated a tri-state plan . To begin with , they discarded state lines and substituted for them the boundaries afforded by rivers and roads . Checkers to Check Crime Under the direction of Commissioner Oscar G. Olander , Michigan instituted a police plan of road numbering which will be general in the three states . When the Michigan radio notifies a car to take up position at M. 0 . 15 H. , both Indiana and Ohio , listening in , know exactly where that car is going and will deploy their own forces accordingly . The project calls for telephone as well as radio communication , and officers estimate that before a bandit car travels eleven miles from the scene of a crime , the system will be functioning . Within twenty minutes every police station and every sheriff 's office in the three states can know of the crime and be ready to do its part in the apprehension of the criminals . Of course , there is one rather serious flaw in the scheme . To operate properly , it must work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what of the sheriffs who are out on other jobs at the moment ? In too many jails , when the call is received , either a sheriff 's wife or a slow-thinking turnkey will be in charge . Before the sheriff can get the word and run to his post , all the threads of the system will be snarled . State police telephones , on the other hand , never are left without competent men in charge . They are available every minute of the day and night . A national police headquarters could spin a net covering not only Indiana , Michigan and Ohio , but Illinois and Kentucky , and California and Florida and Maine , and all the other states as well . Western commonwealths like Nevada and Oregon , already possessing state police but without quick , adequate means of communication and cooperation with eastern officers , could in many cases be of great aid to Massachusetts and New York and their neighbors . Isolated as they are now , with several thousand miles and a thousand county sheriffs separating them , they can do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coordinate these various independent state units in much the same way that the Federal Department of Justice recently Linked the sheriffs and city police of Oklahoma , Minnesota , Missouri , Tennessee and other states in the successful hunt for Machine Gun Kelly and his kidnaping accomplices . The cooperation in the hunt for Kelly was voluntary and enthusiastic , due largely to the public excitement over the case . In work-a-day operations , however , all officers know that enthusiasm and the volunteer spirit have short lives ; when they die , a national bureau can substitute authority for excitement . This bureau need have nothing to do with the choice of personnel in the various states , beyond setting up a standard of physical and mental fitness for recruits . Without that much authority it would he useless , for certain states might from time to time become either too lax or too politically minded , and ruin the strength of the entire chain by inserting a weak link . Give every state its own nonpolitical force , rally them under a national crime-prevention bureau , give them police @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stations scattered from coast to coast , and the way of the transgressor would be particularly hard . It probably will require several years and many political battles to bring about this change in conditions . But the change is in the making . In nearly every state , groups of business and professional men are urging the establishment of state-police forces ; in spite of their opposition to a national police , both the bench and the bar , for the most part , are in favor of state constabularies , and citizens in general are finding fault with the haphazard methods which prevail in too many communities . 