@@487348

F RANCE sees the world through a German prism . From the very beginning it has looked at the ItaloEthiopian dispute through the same medium . The fate of some Abyssinian territory makes little difference to French Somaliland or to the French colonies in North Africa . But the European constellation which will result from the conflict between England and Italy is a life-anddeath matter to every man , woman , and child in France . France asks to be left alone . It is a tired and sated country . It is neither economically enterprising nor politically ambitious . From the first World War France gained as much as it can hope to retain . Moreover , it sees no sense in fighting Germany again , for - if 1914-18 did not solve the Franco-German problem , what , short of the complete dismemberment and impoverishment of Germany , will ? In 1870 Germany defeated France and took away Alsace-Lorraine . In 1918 France defeated Germany and took back Alsace-Lorraine . Now what ? Germany is strong again . Another war ? No Frenchman wants it . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is not to prevent war . The present social system is tinkering with a technique of war prevention . The perfected instrument , however , has not yet been devised . Witness the fighting in Africa . The dread of war therefore haunts tens of millions of persons in the towns and hamlets of the crazy continent which is Europe . King George V prorogued the British Parliament in October , 1935 . Before the dissolution , the HoUse of Commons was given an-eagerly sought opportunity to debate the Ethiopian question . The world listened . Stanley Baldwin , Sir Samuel Hoare , and Anthony Eden made important statements on British policy with respect to Italy and Ethiopia . But Winston Churchill , in office or out one of England 's farthest-seeing statesmen , devoted his entire speech to Germany . Germany he said is already well on her way to becoming incomparably the most heavily armed nation in the world and the nation most completely ready for war . This is the dominant factor which dwarfs all others and is affecting the movement of politics and diplomacy in every country @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dangers have taken shape on the Continent , for instance , the war between Italy and Abyssinia . This is a small matter compared with the dangers from Germany which I have just described . This is the crux of the European situation put succinctly by one of England 's ablest orators . Though at times the spotlight may shine elsewhere , the German problem dwarfs all others . Throughout Europe , war is parlor talk , railway talk , lunch and dinner talk . But it is always Germany that is the main theme of these conversations . Italy is a secondary consideration . Germany has frightenedall of Europe . The army , military psychology , and rearmament orders to industry are the dominating factors in the present life of Germany . A marvelous country , well organized and technically very advanced , with a big , virile , and able population is concentrating its energy on military preparations . Terrified by a powerful potential enemy , : the potential victims of an attack have- one choice : they can make terms with the presumptive aggressor or they can join @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ negotiations , pacts , notes , speeches , conferences , and resolutions in Europe are about . France , England , and several other powers are impaled on the horns of the same dilemma : shall they encircle and isolate Germany or shall they befriend Germany ? Which policy offers the better guaranty of national safety ? The European situation is uncertain and dangerous because the governments can not make up their minds . The governments can not make up their minds because every decision is dangerous and none would be wholly satisfactory . There are many Frenchmen , notably M. Pierre Laval , who favor an understanding with Hitler . If you have an enemy , Laval says , make peace with him . If the Germans can bomb London , say some Britishers , make peace with them . But what seems simple in logic is extremely complicated in international politics . Every French Cabinet will have to reckon with the widespread desire for a settlement with Germany . ' In effecting such a rapprochement , however , Laval and his successors must encounter serious obstacles . To France @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ devil to whom fascism has lent a longer sword and a better suit of armor . There are other considerations . Parts of the left People 's Front fear that friendship with Hitler will foster French fascism and alienate France 's allies . The military warn that a Franco-German understanding might weaken the popular will to arm and thus leave France unprepared for the coming struggle . To this the big armament makers add a fervent amen . Moreover , it takes two to conclude a bargain , and Laval 's personal emissaries to Hitler have not always met with a cordial reception . For France can offer Germany little . A promise of non-aggression is worthless ; Berlin knows that France will not attack . French guaranties of German frontiers are therefore equally superfluous . If Germany wants a loan it is more likely to apply to London than to Paris , and any redistribution of colonies or mandates  --  whose ? ? also lies chiefly with the British . Yet , apart from vague and probably impracticable schemes for industrial collaboration and tariff reductions , these are all the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ besides , is not entertained by the idea of a bipartite Franco-German settlement . For one thing , it would grant France too much freedom to side with Italy . And Hitler , who prefers Britain 's help because Britain has more to give , accordingly reacts but feebly to French flirtations . The German attitude would quickly change if France complied with one request which Hitler and his subordinates have repeatedly made  --  if France would scrap its new treaty with the Soviet Union . Hitler argues that it is directed against Germany . It would be so used if Germany took the offensive . It is a pact of mutual assistance , and Germany and Poland have been invited to join . Joining would assure the Germans of French , Russian , and Czech aid if they were attacked . But they have not joined . They may be acting wisely ; perhaps they are convinced that they will never be attacked . At the same time German statesmen have striven to rob the pact of its significance . And Laval has never discouraged them . Before he went @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Moscow , and since then , he has often stated that for him the Franco-Soviet treaty would be the preliminary to serious negotiations with Berlin . In fact , it would facilitate them . Without it , ' he might be accused of selling out France . With it , he can assert that having made another friend he can talk more firmly to the enemy . Actually , however , Laval 's coquetting with Hitler has clouded the Franco-Soviet horizon . The treaty was signed on May 2 , 1935 . According to the French constitution it could have been ratified immediately by presidential decree . Instead , Laval postponed ratification and finally put it up to the Chamber of Deputies , thereby making the whole question of Franco-Soviet relations a political football . The long interval of non-ratification has , much to the pleasure of the French and German fascists , spoiled the honeymoon atmosphere in which the treaty was originally concluded . Then it was styled " an alliance . " But such documents are never promissory notes . They are blank checks , and everything depends @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ document has been given no content as yet . M. Laval is rumored to have told Prince Paul of Yugoslavia that it would remain a dead letter . The fact that it was made a subject of private diplomatic talks with the Nazis disturbed the Bolsheviks and diminished the trust which they had at first reposed in it . Laval , in other words , has succeeded in chilling the Russians without winning the Germans . This is characteristic of the impasse of French foreign policy . Vacillating between the encirclement of Germany and reconciliation with G. ermany , the Quai d'Orsay fails in both purposes . The same indecision plagues France in the East African dispute . Since France has little direct concern with what happens to Ethiopia , the object of the French government in the Anglo-Italian crisis has been to keep the good-will of both parties . They can both be useful in checking Germany . When Germany is weak , Franco-Italian friendship is not indispensable . Indeed , the antagonism between Italy and Yugoslavia , France 's ally , makes it difficult . So do Italy 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ submerged the moment a resurgent Germany threatens Austria and France . The territorial integrity of Austria , a paramount interest to France and Italy alike , then becomes the bridge uniting Paris with Rome . In January , 1935 , accordingly , Laval went to see Mussolini . That meeting marks a turning-point in recent European diplomatic history . Only the Duce and Laval know the whole truth , and they are not likely to reveal it . But some of the facts are known . They agreed that France could withdraw its guards , estimated at 200,000 men , from the Franco-Italian border and use them , if it liked , in northern France , the zone of a possible German invasion . Since this Franco-Italian compact was predicated on a complementary understanding between Yugoslavia and Italy , the safe assumption is that the Italian troops thus liberated from the Italo-French frontier were not to be transferred to the northeastern corner of Italy but much farther away , perhaps to East Africa . This hypothesis is confirmed by the fact that Laval , in his Rome negotiations , presented Mussolini @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Djibouti to Addis Ababa and with two strips of territory , one adjoining South Libya , the other adjoining Eritrea . He likewise renounced in writing the rights in Abyssinia granted to France by the Anglo-French-Italian spheres-of-influence treaty of December 13 , 1906 . At the same time the prolonged and painful quarrel between France and Italy over Tunis was adjusted  --  more relief for Mussolini in Africa and the Mediterranean . In many ways the invasion of Ethiopia , whether the French wanted it or not , is France 's baby . From the point of view of Franco-Italian relations , the Mussolini-Laval arrangement was desirable and wise . But the Chinese puzzle of European politics does not always yield to common-sense treatment . If the pieces are nicely fitted together in one part , those in another section may become a hopeless jumble . When the trouble over Ethiopia started , Laval naturally endeavored to continue the policy of Franco-Italian friendship . After all , Italy was merely grabbing some worthless African land . They had all done that before . England , occasionally for anti-French purposes , had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not mind some cooperation with Italy now on the part of France . So matters stood while Great Britain wavered about Italy and Ethiopia . In May , 1935 , London became disturbed . In June it resolved on action . To help clear the decks it signed the Anglo-German , naval agreement of June 18 , 1935 . That came as a shock to Paris . Perfidious Albion again ? On February 3 , in London , England and France had agreed to work intimately together for the pacification of Europe , especially as far as Germany was concerned . In the second week of April , at Stresa , these two powers had dealt in concert with German questions . And then , behind the back of France , as Paris claimed , Great Britain precipitately signed a naval agreement with Germany which was definitely detrimental to French interests in that it threatened to place France at a disadvantage on the sea vis-a-vis Germany . All this was no inducement to France to collaborate with England in Ethiopian matters . But England needed such collaboration and therefore insisted on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fleet , required shelter in French Mediterranean harbors . Would the French admit them ? The League of Nations was unlikely to decide on sanctions if France opposed them . The French hesitated . How , will you behave , Laval asked in effect , if we are attacked by Germany ? Sir Samuel Hoare did not know ; it depended on the circumstances ; there must be " elasticity . " France did not like that . England , nevertheless , applied so much pressure in Paris that Laval was forced to approve economic sanctions . In the third week of October , just before the final League decision , when the French government showed its teeth for a moment and objected strenuously to an embargo on Italian exports , the Anglo-French situation was near the breaking-point . Notes flew thick and fast . France , fearing a rupture with London , bowed to British dictation . The British complain that French tactics delayed the application of sanctions and encouraged Mussolini to trust in concessions from the League or . in a transaction behind its back . Although French officials @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Paris newspapers and numerous business men continue to agitate against sanctions , and privately there is a suspicion that smuggling is not precluded . At French insistence , moreover , almost perpetual conversations go on , with a view , ostensibly , to a settlement of the Ethiopian war . It is stated , however , that the British participate in these conferences of experts to prevent the French from offering terms to Rome which might be unpalatable to London . The British resent the French attitude . But their resentment is mild compared to that of the French . England has violently jerked France away from Italy . Paris feels that it is losing its independence in foreign affairs . If compelled to choose between Britain and Italy , France must of course prefer Britain . Britain could be of more assistance against Germany . But the French rested , for a time , under the illusion that they could keep on good terms with both Rome and London , just as they still suppose that they can play with Moscow and flirt with Berlin . The tragedy of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possibilities it risks losing both of them . The Bolsheviks are displeased by French advances to the Nazis , but a Franco-German rapprochement is as far away as ever . French collaboration with England in sanctions embitters Italy , but at the same time Fiench hesitancy has not inspired any too kindly feelings in Britain . It will be argued that France 's irresoluteness and its baneful results are inevitable in the present state of French internal politics , with an unstable government and passionate hostility between right and left . This is indubitably a factor . But the divergent ideas on French foreign policy cut across class and party lines . It is not only Laval who seeks an accommodation with Germany . Daladier , an outstanding figure in the left People 's Front , also favors it . Nor would the Socialists always veto overtures to Germany , for the Frenchman in the street demands that no peace possibilities remain untried . Similarly , many reactionaries want an alliance with Russia . In that curious split personality called the Echo de Paris Andre Geraud ( " Pertinax " ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a neighboring column Henri de Kerillis rails against them and charges that Stalin has bought the People 's Front and is interfering in French home affairs . The general staff , which desires contacts with the Red Army , wonders , nevertheless , whether a military alliance might not anger Germany , wonders too whether Russia will join when war comes . Mussolini is popular with the Croix de Feu , but millions of anti-fascists also want good relations with Italy even at the risk of ruffling Britain , for they are convinced that if France were attacked by Germany England would have to come to the rescue . It is general French belief that Great Britain could not afford to allow Germany to take the Channel ports or to crush France and then dominate the Continent . There is cogency in this opinion . Yet it is well to remember that England did not stop Germany from occupying Paris in 1870 . Moreover , real Anglo-French friendship might prevent a war , while ultimate English assistance , rendered after hostilities had commenced , could only prevent a defeat . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stand can btat be understood in the light of this faith in England 's necessary obligation to save France . Any government , therefore , will probably seesaw between London and Rome as long as it can . Any government of this year or next will waver between Germany and Russia . The rest is a matter of important nuances but not of essentials . As a member of the Chamber of Deputies said to me a month ago at the annual congress of the Radical Socialist Party in the Salle Wagram , " Laval 's foreign policy under Radical pressure is more like what the Radicals would like French foreign policy to be than the policy of a Radical Cabinet might be under right pressure . " This is why the People 's Front hesitates to overthrow Laval on the foreign-affairs issue . If the left begins to identify the war danger with foreign fascisms and if the right is completely converted to De Kerillis , the cleavage on foreign policy may follow closely the division on domestic problems . This is possible if French internal politics continues to polarize @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ influence of France in European matters springs from its difficult position . Its comme ci , comme ca attitude is a product of circumstances . When Germany is strong , France needs friends and dare not have enemies . Accordingly , if Britain takes a determined stand , France follows . But if Cerruti , the Italian ambassador here , thunders that petroleum sanctions will mean war , Laval shrinks . The prospect is that France will hereafter side with England more often than with any other power . Its loyalty to the League of Nations , which has been questioned since the Ethiopian crisis began , must be reasserted in practice . Trusting in these two sources of support and in augmented armaments , France might conceivably withdraw farther into its shell and reconcile itself to a secondary role in world affairs . After all , Holland too is an empire and a rich country ; yet there is a tacit understanding that Great Britain will protect the Netherlands and their colonies in case of need . Already occasional French voices dilate on the advantages of becoming a second Spain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , resigns its rank speedily . Russia , Poland , and the Little Entente will not be dropped in a hurry if at all . But France may attach less importance to their collaboration and shift the emphasis of its foreign policy to London and Geneva . This much is certain : the France which dominated Europe between 1918 and 1934 is no more . It is Germany 's gain . This is the second of a series of articles by Louis Fischer surveying the present international crisis from various European capitals . The third will appear in the issue of January 8.1                     