@@487407

Behind the Franco Lines HE Franco authorities officially admit arresting several hundred conspiring army officers . Outside sources put the figure at over a thousand and add that many of the rebels against the rebels have been shot . The recent disturbances in insurgent Spain are a momentary flash lighting up the increasing dissatisfaction in Franco territory . The Catholics are dissatisfied . Gil Robles , leader of the Catholic Action and former War Minister , returned to Franco territory last summer . The fascist Falange attacked him and threatened him . He went back into exile after forty-eight hours . The pro-Loyalist Catholic daily of Paris , La Croix , said recently : " The influence of Hitlerism gains ground every day in the entourage of Generalissimo France . While the Supreme Pontiff 's condemnations of racism have passed almost entirely unnoticed in Spain the Franco censor prohibited them. ? Editors The Nation , the writings of Hitler , Rosenberg , and Streicher are translated into Spanish and widely circulated . " Cardinal Goma has been having trouble with Queipo de Llano , the drunken broadcasting general @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Requettes and the rich peasant Navarrese , Franco 's best Spanish soldiers , have complained that they are being used too much at the front while the Falangists stay at home . In fact , the Navarrese bore the brunt of the fighting in the Ebro battle , and their officers apparently have no desire to engage in another offensive which will certainly be bloody and almost as certainly indecisive , especially since 4 the Falangists have ignored three appeals from Franco to go to the front . Their reply was printed in an early edition , immediately confiscated , of the San Sebastian daily Unidad of October 2 . " The Caudillo Franco should know , " it said , " that Spain will not become the cemetery of patriots . " The Falangists of course are such good patriots that they must not die . The Falangists are dissatisfied . First , they resent the pressure on them to leave their offices and safe staff positions behind the front in order to fight . Secondly , they object to Franco 's Monarchist leanings . The difficulty among the Franco @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and property had been restored . Probably also the Germans did not like that . Alfonso has been living in Rome . The business men are dissatisfied . Regularly the rebel press prints official announcements of numerous industrial and trade contracts let to German and sometimes to Italian firms . The economic system of the insurgent zone is permeated with foreign fascist influence . The people are dissatisfied with thirty months of unfruitful war fought , as they now see , in the interests of foreign powers . They are not happy about the impending third winter of that war . But the terror is murderous , and the people can not express their displeasure . Army officers can , now and then , for a moment . Franco can suppress them ; he can not eradicate the causes of their disaffection . It is known that rebel officers abroad have tried to establish contacts with Loyalists . The Franco offensive has at the present writing made little real progress , and if it fails to extend its gains very sensationally , the discontent with Franco will run deeper and perhaps @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ T LONG last the times have caught up with the American Medical Association . Last week 's indict- ment of it , together with the Medical Society of the District of Columbia , the Washington Academy of Surgery , and twenty-one physicians of Chicago and Washington , by a District of Columbia grand jury on the charge of violating the Sherman Anti-Trust Act marks the end of an era . For years the medical profession , as represented by the A. M. A. , has been above the law . It has assumed that it had the right to decide for itself not only matters directly affecting medical care but the economic arrangements under which such care is given . - That these arrangements , however satisfactory they may be to physicians , do not provide adequate medical service to the American people has become increasingly evident . The recent National Health Survey showed that one-fourth of the 8,000,000 cases of illness which are The NATION disabling for a week or longer each year receive no care from a physician . Among families on relief 30 per cent of cases of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ less than $1,000 , the proportion is 28 per cent . Cases of illness , disabling for a week or more , in families with incomes of over $3,000 receive , on the average , 46 per cent more medical attention than similar cases in families on relief . When several doctors in Washington , D. C. , agreed a year ago to provide full medical care to a group of goverment employees , on a prepayment plan , such care to be based on health requirements rather than income , the Medical Society of the District instituted a virtual boycott against these doctors . In the past it would have doubtless succeeded , as other A. M. A. branches have succeeded in ruining many enlightened physicians . But in this case the employees of a government agency were involved , and the Department of Justice has taken the position that the A. M. A. , when it enters the economic field , is no more sacred than any other organization of profit-makers . If a combination of steel-makers for the restraint of trade is against the interest of society , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the community ? Signs that the times are catching up with the A. M. A. may be found within the organization as well as without . The first important break within the ranks occurred in mid-December when the California Medical Association approved a plan for prepaid medical care on a voluntary insurance basis . The plan is similar , except in minor detail , to the Washington plan : California residents will be able to have full medical , surgical , and hospital services for approximately $2.50 a month for each person . Some type of voluntary prepaid medical service is expected to be offered in New York State within the next few months , probably as a supplement to the present 3-centsa-day hospital insurance . All these moves are hopeful ones . None of them , however , meet the fundamental problem . Few , if any , families whose incomes are less than $1,100 a ' year  --  half the total number of American families  --  will be attracted by a voluntary plan necessitating payments of $10 to $36 a year per person . Yet this is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the most frequently and to have the least medical care . Their needs can be met only by compulsory health insurance or the development of a system of state medicine . Toward either plan the A. M. A. remains unalterably opposed . Doubtless it will continue its opposition as long as the small clique headed by Dr. Fishbein dominates A. M. A. policies . But conviction of Fishbein and his associates by the courts should put an end to their influence , and the government 's action must add fuel to the revolt against the A. M. A. politicians already under way within the medical profession . Hope for 1939 D EMOCRACY must needs look back on 1938 as a year of defeat ; nor can it look forward with confidence to 1939 . In the past year fascism has made immense gains and reinforced its power for evil . Hitler and Mussolini have perhaps won their victories by bluffing on weak cards ; now they appear to hold all the aces . The Nazification of Central Europe is going on apace , and such flimsy and disconnected barriers as are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with Nazi might . England and France , divided , their morale shaken , lacking in leadership , seems to have resigned both as great powers and as champions of democracy ; to have no mission left save to smooth the fascist path to world domination . - This is the kind of picture which unbending realists are apt to present to us . Some of them , abandoning Europe in disgust , would have us withdraw into strict isolation  --  a new Byzantium in a new and drearier Dark Age . Others , still more despondent , see this country , too , fatally infected with the fascist virus and assert , almost with resignation , that nothing can stop its happening here . We should be the last to deny the necessity for cool realism , for refusing to run away from unpleasant facts . But is there not some danger that democrats , in their anxiety to steer clear of the Scylla of wish-fulfilment , will wreck themselves on the Charybdis of defeatism ? If so , it may be well , while giving full weight to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . There is one front in Europe where democracy has not broken in 1938 . Despite constant battering , despite fascist intervention and British " non-intervention , " despite hunger and hardship , the Spanish Loyalists have stood firm . In the spring , when Chamberlain made his infamous pact with Mussolini , the assumption of reactionaries the world over was that Franco 's victory was a mere matter of weeks . The Loyalists lost ground but not their spirit , and by their counter-offensive on the Ebro they ruined the fascist time-table . Still more heartening is the fact that despite the exigencies of a war fought against terrific odds , the Spanish government has not turned to totalitarianism . On the contrary , democracy is more alive in Spain than at the beginning of the war , and from it springs a unity which regimentation can never rival . While the Spanish front holds , how can we say that democracy is doomed in Europe ? And while we have the opportunity to strengthen that front by lifting the embargo , how can , we say there is nothing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ us turn from Europe 's brightest hope to its darkest spots  --  to Germany and Italy , where another year of triumphs may appear to have established dictatorialpower on an unshakable foundation . Hitler and Mussolini would have us believe that their regimes are solidly backed by their whole nations , that they have completed the conquest of the minds of their peoples . Yet if we scratch beneath the surface we find indications that neither country has really become a satisfactory fascist anthill . On another page of this issue Albert Viton writes of the disillusion and discontent he found in Italy and the ever more drastic repression needed to keep it under He warns us against assumption that this underground ferment may lead to early ' revolt . Yet its existence is important . On the one hand it drives Mussolini into more and more desperate expedients to maintain his power ; on the other , it makes such adventures more and more dangerous , a fact that would speedily become apparent were the democracies to call his bluffs . In Italy the September crisis revealed a widespread fear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In Germany also there is criticism and distrust of Italy coupled with a strong revulsion against war . Reliable observers recently in Germany report that the spontaneous emotion evoked by Munich was thankfulness for peace . Relief at the bloodless victory was accompanied by doubts about the value of the victory itself , and by fears that it must drive Germany forward to some new impasse from which there could be no peaceful exit . Again , the reaction of the German public to the pogrom showed that the Nazis have not yet succeeded in lowering Germany to their own level . It is true there were no organized protests , but there were scattered , gallant attempts to intervene , there were Aryans who took risks to help or shelter Jews , and , above all , there were innumerable expressions of disgust and pathetic attempts to convince foreigners that Nazi brutality did not represent " the real Germany . " Too much significance must not be attached to these manifestations . They do not mean we can count on internal upheaval ; but they do suggest that behind @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lack of morale . Add to this mounting economic difficulties , accentuated rather than moderated by the Anschluss and the capture of Sudetenland , and we get a picture of a Third Reich which is by no means a happy and united nation . What of democratic morale ? It is not to be gainsaid that it has wavered badly in the past year . But there are signs of recovery . In America we are beginning to grasp what the spread of fascism must mean . We are beginning to realize that we can not stay aloof from the battle . Our task for 1939 is to shake off defeatism , to take our part in the active defense of democracy . What was true of the union in 1860 is true of the world today : it can not permanently endure half fascist and half free . Can we evade our responsibility for insuring that it is liberty which will ultimately triumph ?                     