@@431160

 | Try Everything Once Condensed from The Rotarian William Moulton Marston Noted psychologist ; author of " Try Living " THE HAPPIEST people are those who touch life at the greatest number of points . Peo ple who suffer are those who have only one interest of which fate robs them . " If you ever saw a blind man recover his sight , the vital truth of those words of Colonel Theodore Roosevelt will strike you instantly . I remember a victim of brain tumor who had the growth removed after I5 years of darkness . I shall never forget the transfigured expression on that man 's face when his dark glasses were taken off and he rediscovered the colorful world of vision . He had begun to touch life again at a whole mind-full of new points . Hundreds of people who come to consult me about getting more happiness out of life are just as blind as the man with the tumor . They concentrate all their attention fiercely upon a single source of happiness . They need a psychological operation to open their mental @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them activities which would furnish new reasons for living . With too marry of us , growing up is a matter of narrowing down interests . Children at first are in- terested in everything . As their ability to concentrate develops they begin to eliminate those parts of the world which do not serve their immediate purpose . Unless carefully directed they soon form stupid habits of rejection and suffer loss of enjoyments accordingly . They may concentrate upon activities called " play " and reject everything called " work , " forming a mental habit which blinds them for years , perhaps for life , to the joys of constructive endeavor . Maturity usually means the adoption of new rejection habits . To concentrate on money-making and reject love , laughter and social life is the rule rather than the exception among many men . And to ' concentrate upon routine home duties to the exclusion of love , gaiety and broader mental interests is the rule among many women . If a person has narrowed his world constantly from childhood , the only way he can retrieve his lost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ precept : try everything once - everything , that is , which adapts itself reasonably to human use . He must form a new , positive habit which will counter- ' act the inertia created by his old one , which will pull him out of his  | easy chair and make him manipulate unknown objects . People complain that they have n't money to see the pyramids , or time to study music or spend the winter in Florida . What they fail to realize is that one person 's routine is another 's high adventure . If you list the normal activities a dozen of your friends enjoy you will be surprised at the number of everyday experiences you yourself have never tried . Dealing with Arabian thieves and reading Egyptian hieroglyphics would certainly be novelties in my life but they are familiar routine to a man I know who conducts archeological expeditions . This same chap , however , recently visited the Bronx Zoo for the first time and read his first mystery novel , two quite ordinary acts in the lives of many , but new and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ things I recently suggested to a housewife for her first experiment : try skating with your children ; try needlepoint  --  stores give free lessons ; try reading Dickens ; try listening to good music - buy some new records ; try meeting your husband in town every Friday night and seeing a show - I 've heard him suggest that ; try creating a new dish each week , without a recipe . I suggested ten things to try ; she liked seven of the new experiences so much that she is keeping on with them . To touch life at seven new points is to be happier . " I have n't time for anything but my present occupation , " you rationalize . If that is true , you are in a dangerous spot . You are putting all your emotional eggs into one basket . The chances are a hundred to one that your basket will be lost , stolen or accidentally destroyed . And where are you then ? Sunk , deprived at one blow of all your driving energy , of all your purpose and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ find themselves emotionally occupationless when the youngsters leave home . Some men , retiring from business , literally pine away . I can not think of a single case where complete concentration of emotional interest brought happiness . And I can cite hundreds where it led the singletrack individual to a dead-end crash . Our habit of time-beating often shuts us off from entertaining and amusing objects and episodes along our way as effectively as an eye bandage . It concentrates the timebeater 's attention on his watch , his schedule , and obstacles which may delay him . I know dozens of people who would pay a quarter to see a newsreel of the Stock Exchange but who hurry by the latter dozens of times every week , bent for nowhere , without even thinking of getting a visitor 's pass . The chances are you 've never gone inside interesting buildings and monuments which lie along your daily rush course . Yet it takes little effort to walk up steps and open  | doors , and the few minutes you lose is always a good investment in richening experience @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ principal line of concentration - only broaden it . There are plenty of experiences and subsidiary interests within your own chosen limits of specialization to keep you sane , healthy and growing . Go on concentrating , but freshen your abilities and energies by trying once everything that contains new fuel for your engine . Tolerance of things , like tolerance of people , is gained only by trying them out . If you are accustomed to travel in Pullmans , try a daycoach or a bus . You 'll find the experience amusing and it will open new channels of interest . If you travel habitually in daycoaches , save a few pennies and treat yourself to a Pullman - it works the same way . Mrs. Roosevelt recently advised a group of conventional girls : " Go out as discoverers in your own country . Be real voyagers even in a circumscribed area . " Good advice - try everything from headcheese to flying in a snowstorm ( if the company will let you ) and you 'll soon realize that you 've been missing far more than you guessed . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a period of years , gives you a vast amount of useful material for everyday living , new points of sympathetic contact with friends , with business acquaint- ances . It gives you something to talk about with Tom , Dick , and Maude . I can not see how any rational person , knowing the possibilities of expanding his life and the penalties of cramping it , can fail to decide upon expansion . But merely because you realize that you should try everything once does not mean that you will do so . There exists , unfortunately , a psychological gap between thinking about doing a thing and doing it . The way to bridge this gap is to walk across it without pausing to think . A young schoolteacher I know had always wanted to go to Bermuda , but she kept putting off doing anything about it . I made occasion to stroll with her one day past a travel bureau . On the pretext of getting a steamship folder I walked in with her . At the counter I switched the conversation to Bermuda trips , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reservation . She had moved toward her objective without thinking at all about the process . A wholesome sampling of variety is the best safeguard against indiscriminate pleasure-seeking . Without the spirit of adventure , living is a pretty burdensome job from which we are prone to seek quick occasional relief , accepting Aldous Huxley 's dictum that the normal rhythm of life is routine punctuated by orgies . If we allow our interests to remain narrow and lim-  | ited , only flagrant excitement will divert us . How much better it is if we ardently cultivate chosen experiences instead of . plunging into t he first that offers itself . The per- son who is alert daily to the fascination of the world about him has a guarantee against boredom as well as against the fitful and spasmodic efforts to escape it .                     