@@470210

THE proper policy is clear : No AmeriI can shall ever again be sent to fight and die on the continent of Europe . Powerful currents of emotion and opinion to-day are running against this policy in America . We are being asked to defer to emotional hostilities without further ado and take them as basic data in the formulation of public policy . We are asked to accept uncritically the opinions of both the military and the hysterical enthusiasts . But this is no time to throw reason out of the window , to raise the shout that the time has come to abandon all we have learned at such heavy cost since 1914 . To do this is to declare oneself bankrupt . We are told that democracy is in danger . It is . We must defend it . It is endangered by war . We must oppose war ? unless forced upon us by the absolute necessity of defending this continent . In the First World War the emotions of the American people were deeply stirred by President Wilson 's eloquent glosses on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the good democrats we are , to implement our extremely liberal emotions with lethal weapons . We did not do so because of " entangling alliances " ( we became an " associated , " not an " allied " power ) ; we did it because we lost our heads , failed in our job ? which was to maintain neutrality . When it was too late we found that while we had sincerely thought that everyone was agreed upon the composition of the starto which we had hitched our wagon , our failure to ask for a spectroscopic analysis of the star had led to our undoing . No candid reader of the literature of the First World War can fail to recognize the deep sincerity of President Wilson and the American people at large . One may regard them as misguided , stupid , bull-headed , ignorant , or a variety of other things , but they had as large a measure of moral certainty about their position as usually gets involved in human affairs . The difficulty came in reconciling this profound sincerity with the conditions under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ led to its utter defeat both at home and abroad . From the events which followed one can extract profoundly pessimistic conclusions or derive considerable sardonic amusement ; but whatever it is one gets , it certainly is not any great admiration for the powers with which we were associated or for the men who rushed to Washington to guide the American government in its enterprise . The slogans used to move us toward this unwonted end are being refurbished to-day , filled with a content only slightly different from that of 1914-1918 , and obviously designed to lead toward a repetition on a more appalling scale of the debacle of 1919 . The alleged moral certainty is as fervent as that which misled us twenty-odd years ago . Do n't forget that it was n't the going to Europe and engaging in the fighting that disillusioned us MAGAZINE Peace Conference . When Wilson formulated his fourteen commandments ( even God required but ten , as Clemenceau remarked ) he knew about the secret treaties of the Allies under which they had disposed of the prospective spoils of war . All @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ray Stannard Baker 's official life . But Wilson thought he could override the narrow and destructive attitude which the treaties reflected by exploiting his high moral prestige to the limit . He draped that morality in Alexandrine rhetoric and won the applause of the people of the world ? the true democracy , shall we say ? ? but he gained very , very few influential converts among the rulers of the world . Sir Robert Borden , wartime Prime Minister of Canada , tells in his recently published Memoirs how he tried to make it clear to the British authorities after America entered the War that they could not pursue any longer the reactionary line they outlined to him . But at the Peace Conference both Great Britain and France acted to make the realization of the American proposals impossible and reduced what was to have been a final set-dement to the level of a gigantic exercise in horse-trading conducted , as Harold Nicolson has written , in a fog . One of the most democratic countries in the world , according to American notions , the Commonwealth of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ territory in the South Pacific to the point of arousing the personal hatred of Wilson for the Australian representative , William Morris Hughes . Alf this was done by men acting in the name of democracy . When Wilson , plainly appalled by the difference between the actualities of the Treaty and his dream , concentrated his emotions on the League of Nations , the American Senate , seeing a bad treaty and an imperfect League tied together , rejected both . In the 1920 presidential election the people clearly told the world that they were sick of Europe . It was because we had given in to our anger at certain highly irritating policies being pursued by some foreign powers in Europe , and had thrown reason out of the window , that we were let in for this disillusionment , for this gigantic lesson in the difference between democracy as a slogan and democracy as an actuality . Now we are being asked to repeat the experiment in selective forgetting . Is there any greater warrant for it to-day than in 1917 ? Are things different this time ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are clearer to-day than in 1917 is fantastic . In truth , they are more confused than ever before . The forces which led to the war in 1914 and which were , to so great an extent , impossible to control in 1919 , are still operative , and in many respects present a more horrific face to the world than they did a quarter century ago . Men still give allegiance to decaying values ; they still seek to preserve the status quo ; they still talk of recreating the good old days , not the good new days ; they still give allegiance to the principles and values which are reducing Europe to a shambles . Those who profess to see a clear moral issue in the European mess are precisely those who also announce that they want us to throw cold reason out of the window . What gives these people the illusion of clarity is the fact that certain powers have resolved the problems confronting the world in what nine Americans out of ten regard as the wrong way . Instead of wrestling with the vexing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and in the interest of the majority , these powers have tried to solve them by violence and in the interest of a minority , That this method is final , we all very much doubt ? every day news reaches us that nothing has really been solved ; but almost to a man we recognize that the immediate results of the effort , both at home and abroad , are very shocking and highly dangerous to neighboring peoples . In this world we are all in some degree neighbors ; and it is therefore argued that American blood and materialpower should be used to " stop the fascists . " But we shall be led far astray if we think that we can eliminate the dangerous fascist policies by war . To go to war for an unanalyzed negative objective ? stopping fascism ? would be the quintessence of folly . It is not true that war accomplishes nothing ; but what is true is that war never accomplishes what the leaders of it proclaim it is to accomplish . It always leads to something else . In itself war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and , because of the forces which participating in war releases , you end up at a quite different point , usually one which is displeasing to those who believed most fervently in your first appeals . Is not that a summary of what happened in the First World War ? It can not be assumed that eliminating fascism will release forces of a variety pleasing to American democrats . What forces were released by the First World War which strengthened democracy in Europe and America ? Men on the street and learned specialists in economics and government are equally aware of the fact that the First World War closed an epoch in human history and miserably failed to open a new and better one . II To understand an issue one must get behind the slogans . A clear view of the consequences of action must be obtained before a rational aim can be formulated . The word democracy is being used today to impose an artificial clarity upon a very murky issue , to give the American people , who believe in democracy , a moral certainty about the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ warrant . Democracy is being invoked to spur us to uncritical action . War is uncritical action . Because democracy is being used in this fashion we should look pretty sharply at democracy before committing ourselves to a line of conduct the consequences of which are unknown . Democracy as we know it to-day is intimately associated with the capitalist system . It came into existence almost simultaneously with the rise of industrial capitalism ; and while the basic democratic ideal ? freedom for the rounded development of the individual human personality ? does not appear to be integrally associated with any particular economic configuration , the fact remains that we have not yet discovered how to dissociate it from the traditional capitalist system . That is now one of the great tasks before the human race to-day . We customarily dramatize this very deep conflict by pointing out the incompatibility of political democracy with economic inequality and we apply our minds , when we are in a sober mood , to the job of ironing out the economic inequalities which capitalism has seemingly made inevitable . Compensatory social legislation designed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has this purpose as one of its foundation stones . Regulatory legislation looks to much the same end , though the approach is quite different , and the exact consequences to the individual not so readily measurable . No alert person thinks either of these policies will lead to a final solution , and most close students have their ideas as to what other steps should be taken , but whatever the measures proposed , the ultimate objective is a greater measure of economic democracy . Because we have never yet succeeded in resolving satisfactorily the contradiction of political democracy and vastly unequal economic power within a single society , we also have never yet succeeded in resolving the enigma which may be phrased as the ruling class versus the majority . Even when political power is as widely diffused as it is in theory in the United States it still remains true that those really running the political machinery ? the policy-making groups ? are far nearer to the holders of great economic power than they are to the masses of the people . Under the American system of government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of power as far as possible . As long as the general social and economic position allows for a measure of flexibility , wide differences of policy are possible , from radical to reactionary . The most favorable environment for the continued flourishing of a liberal government such as most Americans favor is the environment of peace . It is such a government which will continue , in whatever fashion , the search for ways of minimizing the economic inequalities which plague our democracy . But the environment of war will effectively stop that search and throw the governmental power into the hands of those who , at the moment of its outbreak , are in possession of superior economic power . That this is what happens , a review of the Wilson Administration shows . It should be recalled that the Wilson Administration was a reformist government and was almost as much feared by the " natural rulers " of the nation as that of Franklin Roosevelt ? and as falsely , as events showed . Wilson 's acceptance of war delayed reform in this country for almost two decades @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ life and postponed the solution ? in some instances the very definition ? of problems which survived to complicate matters during the depression . The First World War put a stop to all efforts to resolve the ambiguities of democracy , and the postwar mood was against such efforts also . The lesson is plain . War is the enemy of democracy . Far from assisting in the resolution of the basic social problems of the Western world in a desirable direction , it rather throws the social balance on the side of the holders of economic privileges . Peace is essential if we wish to continue democratizing our democracy . And the greater the success we have in that task the better off we , and the world , will be . This is the deepest moral justification for keeping out of war that can be imagined . In our off moments we think we can impose our ideals on other people , can create the conditions which will make them realizable , by force . We really know better ? much better . All such ventures can do is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The war-mongers want to catch us in one of those off moments . We must watch them sharply , especially sharply when , as at this time , we are facing a reactionary Europe . What is the use of evading that plain fact ? The difference between the opposed powers of Europe are not sufftciendy clear-cut to justify sending Americans to fight and die for one side or the other . We shall be led far astray if we do not take infinite care to keep in mind the continuities between capitalistdemocracy and capitalist-fascism . Any candid person must admit that the policies which are characteristic of the great capitalist-fascist states are , in a painful number of fundamental instances , simply the policies of capitalist-democratic states raised to the nth power of exacerbation ; or they are antisocial trends well known to be in existence in the capitalist-democracies , raised to the dignity of state policies . Europe has in effect given notice that it sees no way of finally resolving the social conflicts which beset it without resorting to violence . Two of the four nations which chiefly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The other two have not yet done so , but they may , and if war comes they will . Thus far all one can positively say is that they have found it possible to devise economic and social measures which achieve some capitalist stability without open resort to domestic violence . Thcy are but shoring up the status quo . Two of the four powers have resorted to violence in effectuating foreign policy . France and England have accepted violence in this sphere under protest but , seeing no interests of theirs directly violated , they have not yet replied in kind . Their attitude , however , is reactionary . The illustrations of this are devastatingly clear : Czechoslovakia and Spain . It issomewhat confusing to find people ardent for co-operation with England and France against Germany and Italy and equally ardent in condemning the former for their role in the Czechoslovakian and Spanish tragedies . Of what use are these events if not as clear warnings that these two powers have larger game in view than the preservation of democracy ? What evidence is there that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these countries during the course of a war ? We could n't the last time . Can anyone claim that the England of Chamberlain and George VI is on a higher moral plane than the England of Asquith , Lloyd George , and George V ? Or the France of Daladier and Lebrun than the France of Clemenceau and Poineare ? Of course it is true that in neither country is anti-Semitism a state policy ; in neither country is the destruction of the trade unions advocated or executed by the government ; in neither country is the entire press under state control ; and so on through the repertory of Nazi-fascist policies . But the governments of both of these countries are far more concerned to preserve the status quo with regard to the ambiguities of capitalist-democracy than to resolve them . This aspiration guides not only their domestic policy but also their foreign policy . It is only in part because they feel themselves unprepared for war that they avoid it . Equally weighty is the fear that war will upset the social balance at home and abroad ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other than Lord Baldwin have said so in terms as clear as these . Many people are convinced that there is a very good chance that Europe will come under the domination of Germany and Italy ; that these countries will either achieve indisputable hegemony through " peaceful " means or through war . It is upon this proposition that not only are arguments for a heavy American arms program based , but also arguments for participation in a European war . People of this persuasion allege that once the two fascist nations have Europe in hand they will co-ordinate their power and embark on a transoceanic adventure against the United States . For this reason it is alleged to be our obvious policy to cooperate in stopping them before they can get that far . These people are not even prepared to wait on events but rather wish to rush to the scene of the fighting the moment war breaks out . They argue that if we wait it will be all over but the shouting , and the implication always is that the triumphant shouting will be done by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is essentially unrealistic . It involves a surprising overestimate of the strength of Germany and Italy and an underestimate of that of Great Britain and France . If Europe can preserve its present precarious social balance and prosecute a war ? which is very doubtful ? then any careful casting up of accounts certainly gives the verdict to England and France . If it be objected that Germany and her associates came very near to defeating the Allied Powers in the last War , and would have won had not the United States tipped the balance , the obvious reply is that all Europe is admittedly much weaker than it was in 1914-1917 and what evidence is available points to the conclusion that Germany has been weakened more decidedly than her prospective opponents . England and France , while their position with regard to accumulated lethal weapons ( the actual factors in war strength ) may be less formidable , are in a much stronger position as to potential material factors and morale . On balance they would , in the end , emerge the victors . But there is little @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Nor does it seem reasonable to advocate sending men and materials to Europe to be used against the fascists because they are engaging in destructive trade practices in South America and elsewhere . It has been platitudinous for years now to say that the struggle for trade would become sharper and sharper as time went on and that the vicious MAGAZINE trade competition would be loaded with the dynamite of war . It is rather amusing to discover how many people apparently thought that the trade wars would be conducted in a gentlemanly fashion . They were under the strange delusion that gentlemanliness was characteristic of trade competition in times past . Not at all . The Germans and Italians have unquestionably introduced some very vicious new wrinkles into the business but it is difficult to see in them anything more than what one would expect in an era of desperate trade competition . It is strange to see how many otherwise estimable Americans respond to the situation . Instead of gloomily saying that this is , after all , pretty much what was to be expected , they suddenly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ confuse the preservation of democracy in South America ( there is irony herd ) and the preservation of American trade interests so thoroughly that no man can say where one begins and the other ends . They express uncritical delight in the measures the American government is taking to protect American interests in South America , and become so converted to the idea that American imperial interests are sacred that they use them as an argument for participation in a war on the continent of Europe . If this is not utter bankruptcy of mind , then what is bankruptcy ? If these estimable people think that polishing off the followers of Hitler and Mussolini will solve the enigma of the international market for food , raw materials , goods , and services , and the matter of how to view the domestic policies of semi-colonial nations , then their economic and political understanding rates at zero . They should be rejected as leaders in the matter of war policy . We can not go to war in Europe and destroy the obnoxious and menacing social policies of Germany and Italy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can not through war return the fascist powers to the conditions obtaining to-day in France and England . We can not through war make it possible for current conditions to continue in France and England . A major war in Europe will have the immediate result of intensifying reaction ? for war is a reactionary enterprise in present-day society ? and the long-range prospect is that under the stress of war Europe will disintegrate . And by disintegration I do not mean that the European powers will go bankrupt financially , but rather that they will experience the kind of collapse associated with mass hunger , mass loss of morale with regard to existing leaders and institutions , a condition which will be expressed in mutinies in the armed forces and strikes among the civilian workers , resulting in the rapid spread of revolutionary sentiment , the flight of the rulers , and all the associated phenomena we had the opportunity to observe in Germany , Central Europe , and Russia at the close of the First World War , and which were brought under control only by the use of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the case , let us get our role clear . Are we going to war in Europe to preserve the status quo in England and France and to impose that version of the status quo on Italy and Germany ? Or are we going to war to preserve the status quo for England and France but with the idea of seeing it crash in Germany and Italy ? Are we going to war to realize the objectives of England and France as capitalist and imperialist powers , to preserve the British and French Empires ? Or are we going to war without inquiring about the upshot anywhere ? Arc we really prepared to stomach the results , be they what they may ? Well , we were n't last time and it is an easy guess that we wo n't be next time . It is to be suspected that if we enter the war we shall be faced at the end either with the problem of getting out of a Europe in chaos with what grace we can or staying in Europe in a desperate effort to stabilize the continent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Russia following the First World War . The choices before us , if we go to war , will presumably be : ( 1 ) Fight and get out : the futile policy which we followed in the First World War . ( 2 ) Impose a settlement on Europe which implies on our part both a messianic conceit and an omniscience we do not possess . ( 3 ) Lend our power to maintain something resembling the status quo : an undesirable policy because a static Europe is unrealizable , as was demonstrated between 1919 and 1939 , In view of these prospects , neutrality is the only sensible policy for the United States . IV It may as well be admitted that neutrality will not be easy to sustain . The First World War gave us a deep understanding of the difficulties . The pace of developments in the next war will be much faster than in the last . In all predictions the time factor is the hardest to calculate , but it would not be at all surprising if the pace were twice as rapid . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forces all nations to redefine their position toward it during its course , it is possible that after we have observed the war in Europe for a year or so the neutrality policy will have to be scrapped . But certainly neutrality should be the policy for the United States when the prospective war breaks out . Whether or not we sustain the policy to the bitter end will depend upon the course of domestic events . The difficulties will be great . The government must he prepared to institute a sustenance and work relief program of at least the magnitude characteristic in 1933 and 1934 . Only by keeping our people occupied with socially creative activities within the United States can we even begin to hope to maintain the conditions which will allow for continued neutrality . It must also be kept in mind that we shall be " punished " for our non-participation even more systematically than we were in the last war when the Allied powers used their control of certain indispensable raw materials , like nickel and rubber , to influence the course of American industrial activities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the consequences of such an effort we shall have to utilize the vast body of information about sources of such materials accumulated in the M-day files of the Army ? to sustain neutrality rather than to assist fighting . We shall be blackguarded by the propagandists of the fighting powers even more thoroughly than we were from 1914 to 1917 . We shall be branded as immoral , degenerate , cowardly , contemptible . ( In British countries to-day our " stock " goes up and down in proportion as we do or do not propose to use our vast power along lines of benefit to Britain ! ) It will not be easy to buck these currents . In every department it will be a knockdown , drag-out fight . But it will be a fight worth making . For if we do rush into a European war , early or late , democracy in this country is finished . There will be a complete cessation of social reform , dictatorial controls will be instituted , and the " real rulers " of this country will ride high . If @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Nye Committee reports and review them . The struggles for the restoration of liberal democratic traditions which went on in this country in the years following the last war are but a pale forecast of the difficulties which will he encountered after the next war . And if Europe falls into utter chaos , desperate efforts will be made to retain a tight control over this country on a permanent and continuing basis . It is not to be assumed that even if we should successfully remain neutral we shall be unaffected by the course of events in Europe , during the war or after . Quite the contrary . Whatever the American line may be in the beginning , the war will force upon us the task of constantly redefining our policy . As matters stand , no one has a very clear idea of what that policy really is , least of all those who want us to rush to war . But it is my contention that it will be much easier toredefine public policy if we are not in the grip of the war machine . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and debate public policy . The chances for keeping the United States on a reasonable and liberal Iine with regard to domestic concerns and foreign policies are far better this side of M-day than the other . Since it is quite certain that we are to go through a most difficult period of world-wide readjustment , let us be in a position to go through it with our hands free , not tied with the thongs which will be tied on M-day . V This is not the time to give way to emotional hostilities . This is the time to consider coolly just what we should do to avoid war . " When the voice of reason is silenced , the rattle of machine guns begins . " Taking as a fundamental proposition that no American shall ever again be sent to fight and die on the continent of Europe , I suggest this five-point pro-gram : ( 1 ) It shall be the public policy of the United States not to participate in any efforts to solve the domestic problems of Europe or of particular nations of Europe by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ neither aid in maintaining capitalist-democracy in France and England or in eliminating capitalistfascism from Germany and Italy , or in imposing any version of the status quo any place . Our neutrality policy shall include ( a ) the prohibition to American citizens of the right to travel on belligerent vessels and vessels carrying contraband of war , by whatever nation it may be defined ; ( b ) the absolute prohibition of the export of arms , munitions , and all lethal weapons of whatever character ; ( c ) the rigid application of the principle of caveat mercator ( let the trader beware ) to all commercial transactions with belligerent powers , thus clearly dissociating the United States Government and the American people from all responsibility for such transactions ; and ( d ) the application of the principle of " cash on the barrel head " to all commercial transactions with belligerent powers . This means that facilities for borrowing shall be denied to belligerent powers , while the liquidation of the financial stakes of belligerent powers in this country shall be conducted under rigid public control in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which will be exploited to draw us into the war on the side of the richest powers . ( 2 ) No rearmament program shall be accepted which is not dearly designed to implement the above policy and the above policy only , this meaning beyond dispute that no equipment shall be provided that implies adventures abroad . It shall be a strictly continental arms policy . ( 3 ) It shall be the public policy of the United States to facilitate the provision of food , clothing , medical attention , etc. , to non-combatant refugee victims of the efforts to " solve " Europe 's problems by force . ( 4 ) It shall be the public policy of the United States to launch a domestic , preplanned program of sustenance and work relief to take up the slack occasioned by trade and financial dislocations incident to war in Europe or elsewhere . ( 5 ) It shall be the public policy of the United States to encourage by active cooperation all programs of an international character which promise to keep the peace , or to bring peace when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be followed if it must be implemented by American armed force . This program would serve the national interest and satisfy the national honor . It would be an unconventional way of accomplishing these ends ; but it would bring more satisfaction to the American people in the long run than any alternative that has yet been proposed . It is a program for those who have not cast out reason just because things are going on in Europe which they sincerely abhor . In every great crisis there are intellectual leaders who choose to go down the chute to war with a whoop and a yell . Let them go ! Look at the wreckage which strewed the world after the First World War : gutted personalities , pale simulacra of once great men , vast reputations irretrievably tarnished , traitors all to their calling . This is no time to imitate the familiar story . It is rather the moment to take the aggressive against the men , emotions , opinions , drives which are pushing this country toward the charnel house once more . It is the exact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ever again be sent to fight and die on the continent of Europe .                     