@@144534

Into Dublin 's Department of Agriculture Building last week strode a 78-year-old , tall , erect , walrus-mustached Gaelic scholar . There , flanked by Eire Ministers , high court justices and Parliament leaders , this poet , playwright and author , Dr. Douglas Hyde by name , received from Civil Servant Wilfrid Brown formal notification in Gaelic that he had been elected first President of Eire . No vote-counting was necessary for Civil Servant Brown to reach this conclusion , for Dr. Hyde had been chosen by both Eamon de Valera 's Fianna Fail Party and William T. Cosgrave 's Opposition Party . He had been unopposed for the Presidential nomination . <P> After a pledge to do his best in office , a ride down Merrion Street to Government buildings , a lunch with Prime Minister de Valera , the President-elect , nicknamed by Gaelic enthusiasts as An Craoibhin Aoibhinn ( " the delightful little branch " ) after a line in one of his poems , went to inspect what will be his official home after he takes office on June 1 . The granite @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ireland , resembling Washington 's White House , situated in wooded , spacious Phoenix Park , will now be known as Arus an Uachtarian ( " President 's Residence " ) . <P> Chief among Dr. Hyde 's Presidential qualifications are : 1 ) He is old and normally would not serve more than his first term , thereby leaving room for some younger man-like Prime Minister de Valera-to take his place seven years hence ; 2 ) he is a Protestant and as a Protestant President of an overwhelmingly Catholic country may help to persuade the 1,290,000 inhabitants of stubbornly independent , strongly Protestant Northern Ireland that in a political union with Eire ( strongly urged by de Valera ) no Protestant would have anything to fear ; 3 ) although an Irish nationalist , he is a " nonpolitical figure " and just the kind of non-controversial head of state that a country intermittently rocked by violent political quarrels needs . Son of a rector of County Roscommon , Dr. Hyde 's academic fame rests on his work for the revival of the Irish language as president of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on his authorship of Twisting of the Rope , first Gaelic play produced at Dublin 's famed Abbey Theater . <P> Long-standing differences between England and Eire seemed settled last week when Britain 's House of Commons endorsed without a vote Prime Minister Neville Chamberlain 's recent negotiations with Eire . Only opposition to Negotiator Chamberlain came from chubby , die-hard Tory Winston Churchill , who objected to withdrawal of British forces from the three Irish treaty ports of Cobh ( Queenstown ) , Lough S willy and Bere Haven , who loudly wondered if Prime Minister de Valera was really a friend of England . But Negotiator Chamberlain called his Anglo-Irish bill an " act of faith , " admitted he had granted generous terms to Eire to gain her friendship . In Eire it was announced that Neville Chamberlain will spend a fishing holiday this summer in Galway-the first visit of a British Prime Minister to Ireland since 1916.                     