@@431166

CAN new discoveries about the brain reclaim a million criminals ? Can psychological research cut America 's crime bill in half ? Can scientists , using drugs and surgery , eliminate dishonest impulses from the minds of crooks ? Questions like these may sound fantastic . Yet developments of recent weeks bring them to the fore . One of the most famous psychiatrists in the world , Dr. Carleton Simon , of New York City , has just announced a revolutionary new theory which may help science control criminal tendencies . All of us have two arms , two legs , two eyes , two ears , two lungs , two lobes to our brains . Almost always , Dr. Simon points out , one of the pair is stronger than the other . One eye , for example , is keener than the other ; one ear is more sensitive . Similarly , Dr. Simon suggests , one lobe of the brain is stronger and dominates the other lobe . It dictates our reaction to situations and may be said to represent the normal character of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the mastery . For the time being , the nature of the individual changes . Dr. Jekyll becomes Mr. Hyde ; the law-abiding citizen becomes a criminal . In New York City , the other day , a young musician dropped in to call on a friend at his office . He found the room empty and , on the spur of the moment , picked up a typewriter and carried it to a pawn shop . The next day , consciencestricken , he returned to con- fess what he had done . Again he found his friend had stepped out and , " before he knew what he was doing , " he picked up the new typewriter which had been bought to replace the one he had stolen , and pawned it , too . Later , in the police line-up , he declared he could n't imagine why he had committed the thefts . According to Dr. Simon 's theory , the irrational behavior of the musician was the result of a shift of dominance from the stronger lobe of the brain to the " under-dog " lobe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ person with a criminal outlook . Similarly , wealthy women kleptomaniacs steal articles for which they have no real need , and respected citizens ? like Richard Whitney , for years head of the New York Stock Exchange ? are convicted of embezzlement . Such dual personalities form one of the major riddles of criminology . Dr. Simon 's simple explanation of what occurs may go far toward helping understand the bewildering behavior of many lawbreakers . At the same time , studies of the brain itself , and recent advances in surgery and the treatment of mental ills , have given science new hope of reclaiming criminals . At Georgetown University , in Washington , D. C. , experts are working in the most elaborate brain laboratory in America . More than 5,000 human and animal brains are available there for study . With amazingly precise mechanisms , the scientist can slice , for examination under the microscope , brain sections less than 1/500 of an inch thick . Out of their researches , they hope to learn more of the physical basis for human conduct . It has long @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ alters the character of the victim . Several years ago , for instance , a young  | man in New Jersey started out for a rabbit hunt . A few hours later , his companion 's shotgun went off accidentally and one of the lead pellets struck the young hunter just above the right eye . Local doctors decided against removing the shot and the patient apparently recovered . But his character began to change . He became shiftless , sullen , and evasive . Money began to disappear from the homes of friends he visited . Finally , late one night , he was caught in the act of breaking into a neighbor 's house . When brain experts examined him , they found that the lead had lodged near the brain and was affecting the delicate tissues of one of the lobes . When the pellet was removed , the boy 's character returned to normal . Today , he holds a responsible position in his home town . What proportion of the hundreds of thousands of criminals now in American prisons are suffering from mental ills , no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ percent of them are so afflicted . Changing their mental condition is one of the great problems of medical science . A dramatic example of what surgery may have to contribute in this direction is reported from Washington , D. C. Forty-eight times , Dr. Walter Freeman and Dr. James W. Watts , two skilled brain specialists , have aided mental cases through a daring new technique . Like a housewife inserting a corer in an apple , the surgeons push a narrow , chisel-like surgical instrument into the brain at one temple , moving it carefully upward and downward to sever the frontal areas from the rear " emotion centers . " The operation is repeated on the other half of the brain . Results are amazing . Patients who previously were cowering and trembling with insane hallucinations are freed from their fears . The technique is based upon earlier experiments on apes made by the Yale University brain authority , Dr. Carlyle Jacobsen . Another new treatment for mental ills , of special value in relation to dual personality and crime , is almost as spectacular . It was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Patients are given " shock doses " of insulin , the gland extract used in treating diabetes . The result is a terrific shock to brain and nerves . Patients often are thrown into convulsions . Yet , in more than 1,000 instances , here and abroad , the violent treatment has justified itself . Men and women suffering from split personality ? even those given up as hopelessly insane ? have been shocked back to normalcy . Thus , traveling along different roads , scientists recently have advanced toward better understanding and greater control of mental abnormalities . By cutting the roots of crime in the minds of malefactors , they may some day play a major role in reducing our $15,000,000,000-a-year crime bill and in turning outlaws into good citizens .  |                     