@@493921

The Future of Electric Power Fourth in a Series , " The Next Four Years UNCLE SAM 'S ultimate objectives in the power field are fairly clear . Recognizing electricity as an absolute necessity in modern life , he has determined that the supply must be plentiful , widely distributed ? and cheap . Questions of ownership of the producing and distributing facilities are relatively unimportant so long as government , the proprietor , is recognized both in thought and action as on watch to safeguard the paramount public interest while dealing more than fairly with all the private interests involved . The State viewing the power scene may well adopt something of the attitude of a certain lord of the manor expressed in a sign posted on the beach at Lyndmouth , England , reading " Those desiring to fish in , bathe in , or otherwise use these waters will see my clerk . " The power supply must be integrated , because only in this way will the lowest possible costs be obtained . But integration contemplates other tie-ins besides those effected with wires ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said , " like the home is more than a physical and mechanical thing ; it is a social institution whose widespread usage represents the opportunity for deepening and diffusing civilization . " Power must be viewed as an instrument whose complete development may mean the release of the race not only from physical drudgery but for a new adventure . But a refined technology such as is implicit in the electrical age can not be run , as Lewis Mumford points out , " by people whose moral conceptions and whose psychological capacities are of a cruder order than the intricate mechanisms they are called upon to work . Our mechanical advances must be coordinated with our social capacities . " Our long-term progress in things electrical , therefore , will depend not so much on political developments as on our educational and ethical outlook . Before attempting to prophesy progress in the immediate future it is well to have the foregoing longtime point of view in mind . The character of our electrical development in the next four years depends in large measure on the degree of accommodation possible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ actually been at swords ' points ? whether it always so appeared on the surface or not . The electrical industry is 95-percent privately owned , or thereabouts . There is no generally discernible demand that this ratio be materially changed or in favor of nationwide municipal or public ownership . The drive is rather to force the electrical industry to perform honestly and adequately under its licenses ? local , state and federal . So many other problems press for solution that the public will be content to allow the private interests to continue to operate this $13,000,000,000 industry ? if the private interests will recognize the government 's entire right to regulate and control adequately , whether through federal commissions , state public-service commissions , " yardsticks " or what have you . THE DECISION FACING PRIVATE OWNERSHIP The decision as to whether there is to be this recognition and the resulting accommodation lies almost wholly with the private interests . The industry has really been slipping and fighting only rear-guard actions , especially during the last ten years . Continuation of this strife may retard such things as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but the end result is almost sure to be public ownership on a wide scale . ( This is the only country in the world , be it remembered , where ? the electrical interests assume a position of open antagonism to constituted authority . In fact , private ownership abroad is so circumscribed by govern- ) ment that it has little in common with ours . It is quite doubtful whether the electrical industry is capable of making a real about-face , becominc , less belligerent and finding for itself a more normal position in our economy . One of the logical outcomes of the era which terminated in the Federal Trade Commission investigations and the crash of certain utility systems is that the industry 's inner councils are very much divided . If the holding-company act is sustained , the grip of banker control will be weakened and the influence of the operator as contrasted with the speculator correspondingly strengthened . This should produce a more unified and probably healthier situation . However , the low ( or shall we call it the undeveloped ? ) social attitude of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not be overcome overnight . The personnel has been trained to take no interest in social and economic questions . The World Power Conference program on " The National Power Economy " attracted the largest group of foreigners ever to visit our shores , but only 165 employees of our private utility industry registered . This is in contrast to the 5,000 employees the industry could put down on the boardwalks of Atlantic City at N.E. L.A. conventions . Further , the top directing heads have specialized since the early days on " service " ? which in essence means keeping the public quiet in spite of high rates and a generally dictatorial attitude . GETTING THE RATES DOWN The demand for lower rates is the heart of the drive against the electric utilities . The public deprecates the introduction of propaganda into textbooks , of course , and it frowns on write-ups and watered stock , but the battle-cry remains " Give us fairer rates I " This is all but proved by the fact that in the territory of those few companies whose rates have reached fairly reasonable levels @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concentration on lower rates there lies perhaps the unthought-out realization that only through electricity can release come to a drudgery-wearied world ? only as rates come down can this dream be realized . In an article entitled " Paying , Too Much for Electricity , " published in The New Republic in December , 1932 , the author worked out in some detail an estimate that showed the existence of an overcharge of from $400,000,000 to $500,000,000 per year for domestic and commercial service . The basis of this estimate has been carefully reviewed and adjustments made for 1935 conditions . The Increase in gross revenues , for which the highly remunerative retail customers were largely responsible , and the decrease in debt service since 1931 have more than offset the effect of tax increases and other new charges . But despite somewhat lower average rates due largely to the influence of " yardstick regulation , " there is every indication that the overcharge last year was still in excess of $400,000,000 . Refined estimates are , of course , impossible under present unscientific methods of distribution-cost accounting . It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as Basil Manly , vice-chairman of the Federal Power Commission , has pointed out , residential customers in the United States were paying an average of 51/2 cents per kilowatt hour for electricity whereas the residential customers throughout Canada were paying only 2.22 cents per hour . There have been many individual reductions in domestic electric rates since 1932 . However , except for its yardstick value the amount of such reductions is not highly significant when compared with the total volume of domestic sales . The uniform low rates of the T.V.A. have produced a wave of rate reductions reaching into all parts of the country . In the Tennessee Valley region , reductions have ranged from 25 to 40 percent . The companies making these reductions have been rewarded by increased sales , increased revenues and increased profits . In three of these companies it is even estimated that kilowatt-hour sales of electricity increased 32 percent during the first year of the new rates . Meanwhile the people of the area are benefiting from the way of life that a more abundant use of electricity provides . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the prophecy that " the most promising load builder for the immediate future lies in increased domestic use . " In the past three years our domestic consumption of electricity has risen from 12,000,000,000 kilowatt hours annually to 15,000 , - 000,000 and domestic consumption today is running approximately 50 percent above 1929 levels . Men of vigor and imagination have not been content with average figures . In contrast to the 1935 national annual average of 673 kilowatt hours , the municipal system in Seattle has achieved an average of nearly 1,100 kilowatt hours . Down in Georgia , which might be considered " thin " territory , the average has been raised above 1,039 kilowatt hours along the lines served by the Georgia Power Company . Operating in southern Virginia and in northern North Carolina , the Virginia Electric and Power Company has reached an average of 1,000 kilowatt hours . In Washington , D. C. , where the influence of innumerable small apartments is offset by low domestic rates , an average of just over 1,000 kilowatt hours is reached . When intelligent rate policies are combined with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who are educated to the advantages of electricity use it abundantly . As one result of the election a marked decrease in retail rate levels and a rapid increase in domestic consumption are to be expected over the next four years . With President Roosevelt in the White House , our people are sure to become increasingly power-minded , and to demand the advantages of the lower rates found to be consistent with greater use and actual cost plus a fair profit . The lower rates for money which prevail today will force at least some Public Service Commissions to reduce the percentage of return on the investment which supposedly governs electric tariffs . The downward trend in rates will be facilitated by the fact that the costs of distributing electricity ? heretofore a dark mystery ? have been pretty well determined largely through the initiative of the Power Authority of the State of New York , even though the information does not come through cost-finding practised by the utilities . Our policy of state regulation was designed not only to make the private electric utilities behave but to keep us @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resistance to regulation , the private interests grudgingly accepted it and selected valuation as the battleground . Through three decades and with ample assistance from the courts ? including the Supreme Court ? the reproductioncost-new theory of value was fairly well established and regulation thereby largely nullified . The system involves the enthronement of intangibles and through the constant variation in prices , cost-finding is practically barred . The general public looks less and less to the state commissions for protection in utility matters and more and more to the federal government . In a majority of the states the public does not look to the commissions at all . During the next four years regulation will be largely by " yardstick . " Long recognized by economists as an effective means of control , the yardstick 's emergence as a significant factor in the utility field is due primarily to President Roosevelt . For example , it has long been noted that the low rates of a municipally owned plant are apt to be reflected in the rate levels in the surrounding privately operated territory , but it remained for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tariffs to affect favorably the rate levels of the whole country . But price yardsticks alone are not enough ; their influence operates ut too slow a tempo . The conception of large publicly owned plants located at the four corners of the national map ? Grand Coulee and Bonneville , Boulder Dam , the T.V.A. and the St. Lawrence ? are yardsticks of another sort . They have settled once and for all that the government is to have the whip hand ? be both match and master ? in the world of electricity . And why not ? At the World Power Conference in Washington last September the President called forth a burst of applause when he said that if government power projects now under construction are not sufficient to break the " vicious circle " of too high rates and too little use , " the influence of additional meritorious projects awaiting development can be added . " The election returns remove any possibility of effective political opposition . The whole rural-electrification scheme as ' developed by this administration is another far-flung yardstick aimed essentially at 6,000,000 farm @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gigantic problem would only have invited defeat ; planning it out on the grand scale ? over $400,000 , - 000 , authorized for self-liquidating loans , and ten years given in which to overcome the obvious difficulties ? ties it in directly as an essential part of the whole long-time rural-rehabilitation scheme . Experience in other countries leads us to believe that we can change the present rural psychology ? parsimonious use occasioned by high rates ? and within a relatively short time attain our goal of a self-liquidating load of 100 kilowatt hours per month . The private companies are interested primarily in load builders such as stoves , refrigerators and hot-water heaters . But important social objectives are obtained by the washing machine and the radio , even though they do not require much current . The private industry has been put on its toes to do its own share of rural electrification and to cooperate through reasonable wholesale rates and otherwise in the cooperative development of those areas it can not cover at what it considers a reasonable return . Further , all building of rural electric @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be on an area basis . To reach only the profitable customers means that the electrification of the points in between may be indefinitely postponed . So viewed , much of what has already been done in this field is definitely anti-social . Between the public and private effort in this rural field , agricultural techniques are likely to be worked out appropriate to an electrical age . For it must be remembered that while there has been a great advance in the application of electricity to the home , hardly more than a start has been made in the barn and around the farm . Rural electrification means much more than merely providing electrical gadgets . If we can believe the population experts , at least two-thirds of our national population a hundred years hence will be the progeny of those now living on farms . The low birth rates in urban areas and relatively high birth rates on farms are responsible for this prospect . If our future population is to be of a type capable of carrying on the American tradition we must give to our rural population @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ less than a cultural renaissance for our farm population will do . If one studies the history of the application of electricity to industry during the last forty years such a development seems entirely feasible . Then too , as we dig deeper into the **27;558;TOOLONG program , widespread pumping looms as an important factor in national survival . This affords another and a master inducement for widespread rural electrification , for pumping on any considerable scale means electric pumping . COOPERATION BETWEEN PUBLIC AND PRIVATE OWNERSHIP The conference at the White House last October to consider the feasibility of cooperation in the Tennessee Valley between public and private interests resulted in a decision to attempt first to work out comity on the basis of transmission . Questions affecting generation and distribution were definitely postponed pending the exploration of the transmission field . Reduced to simple terms , the problem seems to be : can and should transmission lines owned by public and private interests be made common carriers ? That they should be so treated was one of the major recommendations of Pennsylvania 's Giant Power Board , made about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not be many years before we shall wonder that there should ever have been any doubt about the legality and the social desirability of considering electric transmission lines in the same way we now consider oil and gas and railroad trunk lines . In view of the gravity of the **27;587;TOOLONG situation it is inconceivable that as a people we will not launch a very elaborate campaign of developing streams , especially in their upper reaches . This will mean dam building and power development and an intensive program of protection of watersheds by vegetation and otherwise to prevent silting up of the new reservoirs . To have this government-developed power reach its natural markets means that much of its journey will have to be made over lines now owned by private interests ? unless there is to be duplication of facilities . Hence the necessity for the application of the common-carrier principle . Such further pooling will contribute to the availability , abundance and low cost of electric service . As this prospect becomes clearer , it will probably become unwise in many sections of the country to add to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ increasingly important purveyor of wholesale current . Just how much bickering and legislation there will have to be before these facts sink home to bankers and investors no one can tell . It can be said , however , that there are leaders of the private industry who would like to sit down with representatives of the government at a table on which a map of the United States was spread and , without too much respect for what has been done to date , plan for the electrical future of the nation . To do otherwise will actually involve the destruction of fixed capital . There is little doubt but that if this American grid could be schemed out now rather than even ten years hence , stupendous sums would be saved to private investors and social values of the greatest importance secured . As the provisions of the holding-company act become operative , the way would seem to be open for some such technical overhauling of the national power system . Even if the essentials of the holding-company legislation are sustained by the courts , continued legislation is to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ compact companies come to realize the long-range advantages of the legislation and sign up , shimmying of the corporate monstrosities which have invaded the utility field will have little significance , except to provide meal tickets for the legal profession . For the first time in the history of such dissolutions it is provided that the chips in the game pass over the table , there to be tested for real value . Thus individual stockholders and minority groups are assured of a square deal . QUESTIONS THAT MUST BE DECIDED With the reconvening of Congress some effort to centralize the government 's interest in power will doubtless be made . At the moment the Power Division of the P.W.A. , the Reclamation Service , the Federal Power Commission , the Securities and Exchange Commission , the Rural Electrification Administration , the National Power Policy Committee , the Army Engineers and the T.V.A. represent Uncle Sam in one way or another in power matters . Also a bill which had administration support at the last session is likely to be reintroduced at the next . It would give some agency of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the wholesale rates at which power generated at government plants is sold . Legislation such as this would raise a number of vexing questions . Should the Federal Power Commission be assigned this task as provided for in the administration-supported bill , how would the T.V.A. be affected , or the army at Bonneville , or the city of Los Angeles ? a large buyer of power from Boulder Dam ? How far shall cost be allowed to determine the rates charged for government-generated power ? Should the industries of New York State be given all the advantages warranted by the exceptionally low cost of St. Lawrence power ? Or should some exclusively federal project such as the T.V.A. be allowed to draw industry because of attractive rates without regard to the influence on industrial development in other sections ? Then there arises for all government plants the question of possible differentials as to price which should obtain immediately at the site of a given hydro development and at other points within its transmission reach . Some of those interested in public power believe in a uniform price for wholesale current @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also for that transmitted whatever the distance . Others would charge one price at the site and another somewhat higher throughout the transmission area . The demand is becoming more insistent that when government-generated current is purchased for resale there should be stipulations as to rates to be charged the ultimate consumer . At the recent election , both Oregon and Washington defeated by decisive majorities proposals for statewide public ownership of electric facilities . Washington voted for power districts such as those in Nebraska . Interpreted in the Eastern press as setbacks for public ownership , certainly in the case of ' Washington it was rather a vote of confidence in its efficiently managed and cooperating municipally owned plants located west of the mountains , where the great majority of the voters live . In March , Seattle votes on buying out the Stone and Webster property , with which the municipal plant has been in competition for nearly thirty years . Gossip has it that this move for absorption originated with bondholders anxious to safeguard an equity slipping because of wastes attendant on competition . The equity back of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many other cities is slipping because of high rates and other evidences of poor management . If public ownership comes in a large way , this anxiety of bondholders and other preferred creditors to get out while the equity is intact may smooth the way . The New Deal in electric power was really inaugurated by President Roosevelt in the years 1928-32 . As Governor of New York he stood for publicly owned transmission lines in contrast to the frequently expressed opposition of Governor Smith . He parted company with Chairman Prendergast on the issue that state commissions have administrative as well as judicial responsibilities in regulating private utilities . By changing the membership of the State Power Authority he condemned the proposal .. ecember 16 , 1936 THE NEW to sell St. Lawrence power to the private companies without resale stipulations . The far-reaching plans outlined by the President in his speech-at Portland , Oregon , in the 1932 campaign , and the T.V.A. , Securities and Exchange and holding-company legislation were not only logical but necessary next steps to one who had studied the utility situation . If only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that both President Coolidge and President Hoover favored giving Muscle Shoals to the private companies and that both Candidate Landon and the Cleveland platform ignored power . One may well anticipate during the next four years a further but always friendly control of private power agencies in their own as well as the public interest , a considerable integration of existing power facilities , some extension of public power through federal , state and municipal agencies , a further eclipse of state regulation because of its ineffectiveness , considerable progress as to rural electrification and a more intensive drive on retail rates , commercial and domestic .                     