@@494068

Another European Crisis ? Is Hitler preparing a new European crisis ? There are disturbing reports that this is the case , that it will come in February or sooner , and that it will demand , not Memel from Lithuania as had been supposed , but Alsace from France . Italy a few days ago herself made a sweeping set of demands against the French . She wants complete control of the railway from Jibouti to Addis Ababa , in Ethiopia ; the town of Jibouti itself ; one-half the control of the Suez Canal and ? even more serious ? one-half the control of Tunisia , in North Africa . This looks very much like a " scissors movement " from both ends of the Rome-Berlin axis simultaneously . Whether the dictators will get what they want it is too early to say , but it is hard to see how they can now be stopped , after the great retreat and betrayal of democracy in September . The New Trade Treaty Signing of the new trade treaties with Great Britain and Canada , treaties which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ principle of reciprocal lowering of trade barriers to the two nations with which we enjoy our greatest volume of commerce . Substantial concessions on both sides ought to increase somewhat both imports and exports . Regarding this commendable result certain common misconceptions are likely to be entertained . One is that it will endanger output and employment through competition by foreign manufacturers . But this can not be true on both sides of the tariff fence at once : the net result , if tradeincreases at all , will benefit some producers even if it injures some . Another misconception is that this sort of thing , if carried far enough , will abolish depressions and solve all the ills of capitalism . But of course merely extending the area of trade will not get rid of maladjustments common to capitalist economies the world around . As a gesture of friendship , the treaty was sadly mistimed . When a belief was general that the " three great western democracies " should and would cooperate to resist the Fascist and Nazi menace , the event would have assumed a real importance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Britain under Chamberlain has already surrendered . Hitler will scarcely be given pause , therefore , by anything we may do to help strengthen her . An Embargo on German Goods The extraordinary wave of anti-German feeling in this country in the last fortnight has produced many suggestions for boycotts of German goods , either private or public . Thousands of persons , of course , long ago resolved that as individuals they would buy nothing more from a country ruled by people like the Nazis . A public embargo by government order is a more serious matter , and certainly should not be undertaken without full realization of its possible consequences and a willingness to face them . This is true even though a boycott of a nation not at war is less grave than one during wartime , and action by one government is less formidable than by a group of governments . Meanwhile , it is interesting to note that President Roosevelt now has the legal power to cut off imports from Germany completely if he so desires , without any new legislation . Section 338 of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in regard to goods from any country which has been'the subject of an official ruling that it discriminates against imports from America . This is already the case with Germany ; her discriminatory tactics have caused a ruling under which she is excluded from any most-favored-nation treaties signed by the United States . The law goes even farther and authorizes the President to prohibit the entrance of all goods on German vessels , no matter what their origin . The President has sweeping powers , if he should choose to exercise them . The King and Queen We earnestly hope that some way will be found to prevent the visit of the British King and Queen to the United States . This statement of course is no reflection upon their Majesties , for whom we have the utmost respect as individuals . The fact is that the British Tory government is now making frantic efforts to work up the appearance , at least , of a strong Anglo-American friendship , for the benefit that such a seeming friendship may have throughout the world . We do not believe the policies of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on our part . Britain 's present course seems to us anti-democratic in the highest degree ; there can be no gain and there may be great loss if the United States associates itself with it . The visit of the King and Queen is certain to be misinterpreted in England ; it may give the Chamberlain government greater public support at home than it deserves . The waters of diplomacy would be muddied in all countries . The visit might be accompanied by disagreeable incidents here which would counteract much of the effect that Downing Street hopes to create . Mr. Chamberlain would be well advised if he were to find that the pressure of momentous affairs of state made it impossible for their Majesties to cross the Atlantic next summer . A Permanent WPA ? The administration is clearly nervous about the criticism of the WPA . Harry Hopkins warns that it must be a permanent institution to give everyone a job who wants to work , but at the same time points to the desirability of a civil-service status for its executives . In so far as the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ local authorities for patronage , it is a danger to the ruling administration . Many WPA workers are legitimately divvatisfied with their treatment and will vote : against the party in power -- as long as the very existence of their jobs is not threatened by a frontal attack on relief by the party out of power . That accounts for some of the differences in the popular vote between , 1938 =11936 . THE NEW REPUBLIC It is also rumored that Mr. Hopkins is to succeed Mr. Roper as Secretary of Commerce , while a business man is to be put in charge of the WPA . That might be clever politics , if the right business man were chosen . The country could be reassured that the executive job was being handled with efficiency , while in the Commerce post business men could deal with someone who really represented the President . Japan Keeps the Door Closed The controversy between the United States and Japan about the Nine Power Treaty and the open door in China is obviously a pro-forma debate . We send notes to Japan protesting against her violations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but repudiating all her former obligations . Of course the fact is that Japan consciously and effectively knocked the Nine Power Treaty into a cocked hat and closed the open door , and nobody was able to stop her from doing so . Our government is standing on its legal rights , not because we can enforce them at the moment , but because it is after all important for Japan in the long run to regain the good will of the American people and to restore economic cooperation with us . If the present Japanese government does not realize this , some future government may . In the meantime we can not give away our position for nothing . We may expect this correspondence to continue for a long time without result . It will play a part if ever an Asiatic peace conference is held . A Hitler Victim Appeals Our mail these days , like that of many other individuals and organizations in the United States , contains numerous heartbreaking appeals from Europe . These are letters from victims of Nazi brutality , innocent people whose homes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from them by the uniformed gangsters of the Third Reich . Characteristic of many of these appeals was a letter received a few days ago which we quote with necessary concealment of identity : I have been sent out into the world , with my wife , as an emigrant deprived of money and means . I am a medical student and writer and was for some years a teacher in a large institution in Vienna . I can draw and typewrite and will take any kind of work that would enable me to earn my living . My wife can also draw and typewrite , and is experienced in needlework and tailoring . I am half-Jewish ; my wife is a pure Aryan ; we have been forced out of Germany for political reasons only , after I had been for some months in prison . Please do not be offended if we ask for aid . No one who has not experienced it can understand the suffering we have gone through . Is there not some town in the United States that would be willing to take us in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to strengthen us for a new struggle for life ? Our visas are good only for a short time , and NOVEMBER 30 , 1938 unless we can get aid before that , we may have to go back into Germany , that hell , that living death , or perhaps be driven from one frontier to another . Our only remaining hope is the possibility of life in free America . The author of the letter encloses a testimonial from a former employer who says that this man " fulfilled his duties to the complete satisfaction of the employer , far in excess of what was required of him and may be recommended most sincerely to any employer . " This is a poignant document ; we shall be much surprised if it does not strike a responsive chord in the minds of some of our readers . If it does , The New Republic will be glad to act as an intermediary . At the same time , it will be recognized of course that there are many thousands of these victims , and that the problem is not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ For that matter , it is not to be solved by charity at all . Valuable as the generosity of individuals is , what is really needed is concerted action by the governments of all the great powers in the face of the most dreadful instance of brutality in modern times . ? " Films for Democracy " A non-profit organization was launched the other day . Called " Films for Democracy , " its purpose is to produce and distribute motion pictures designed " to safeguard and extend American democracy . " This would seem a harmless enterprise even though extremely optimistic , and we were somewhat surprised to find a savage attack upon it in Mr. Martin Quigley 's Motion Picture Herald . The Herald does n't like the enterprise and will have none of it . The movies , this paper says , are for escape from reality ? " a door into a world of charm , beauty , fantasy , romance and vicarious adventures . " Films for Democracy is charged with trying to " muscle in " ? " the project is for the plain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to speak bitterly of " Blockade " and to attack several well known persons who are on the committee for the new organization . Mr. Quigley , we are informed , is a conspicuous lay member of the Catholic Church . If so , he seems to us to belong properly in the " Catholic lunatic fringe , " recently discussed in our pages . We can not believe that the responsible leaders of Catholic thought will care to associate themselves with an attack on an enterprise like Films for Democracy . The NLRB Favors the A. F. of L. The Columbia Law Review has just published an article of exceptional interest . In the midst of the heated controversy over the National Labor Relations Board and the Wagner act , a dispute marked by strong emotional bias , the publication of the law school of Columbia University offers its careful analysis of the facts . It finds that the NLRB 's policy in the decisions it has so far rendered has favored the A. F. of L. rather than discriminated against it . The CIO has won almost85 79 percent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disputes between the A. F. of L. and the CIO . But the Columbia Law Review finds the policy of the Board is to give preference to craft units over industrial organization whenever the majority of those within the craft so desire . It has also helped the A. F. of L. by refusing to exclude A. F. of L. unions which have been aided by employers from the ballots in the elections it supervises . These facts leave the editors of the Law Review in doubt as to how much of the violent criticism of the Labor Board by the A. F. of L. has been in earnest and how much is merely a method of applying pressure . They feel certain , however , that amendment of the Labor Relations Act , as proposed by the A. F. of L. , to allow judicial review of findings of fact , would prove extremely advantageous to recalcitrant employers and of doubtful value to the A. F. of L. Hague on The Big Time ? The CIO and the American Civil Liberties Union have asked the United States Supreme Court to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Jersey City . Morris Ernst and Spaulding Frazier , who made the motion , argue that the Circuit Court , to which Judge Clark 's injunction was appealed , no longer commands public faith in its decisions involving the Mayor ; that public suspicion exists over the motives behind the " packing " of the bench by Presiding Judge J. Warren Davis , The public has just as little justification for faith in the New Jersey Court of Errors and Appeals , which , as we pointed out several weeks ago , includes on its bench Hague 's former corporation counsel and Hague 's campaign manager . The motion is well founded . It is unusual for the Supreme Court to allow cases to " jump " the Circuit Court , but it is not unprecedented . In Jersey City , meanwhile , another incident has occurred . In direct contempt of the injunction that has recently been signed , placards worn by two pickets in front of the London Clothes Shop in Journal Square were torn from their shoulders by Captain Peter Quail of the Jersey City Police . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ carrying signs for twenty-five years and that no writ ordering a change of policy had been given him . Judge Clark 's decision was a smashing victory for the CIO and the ACLU , but at least until the legal process of appeal and reconsideration is ended Mayor Hague , apparently , will remain the boss . Scientists Aid Spain A ship recently arrived in Barcelona from America . The S. S. " Erica Reed " bore food and relief supplies for the Spaniards whose plight is so serious that it must touch the heart of everyone throughout the world whose emotions have not been completely poisoned by fascist doctrines . Of particular interest is the fact that a6 the ship carried twenty-six pounds of nicotinic acid . Pellagra has become prevalent in Spain , and only a few weeks ago there came the epochal discovery that extremely minute doses of nicotinic acid have a magic power in destroying this disease . ( The twenty-six pounds will permit z70,000 individual doses . ) The acid went as a gift from thirty-nine leading American scientists , and their message to Dr. Juan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scientist and professor of physiology , gives a welcome note of sanity in a mad world . They say : An overwhelming majority of scientific workers desire to improve the lot of man . They are keenly disappointed when their work is used for destructive purposes . Therefore , it gives scientific men great pleasure to be able to present this new and beneficial discovery to the harassed people of Spain . . . . Advances of science can bring the greatest health and wealth to man but only where there is freedom of search and action . Scientific men will be ever grateful to the Spanish people for their heroic stand against the invaders of their country and against the enemies of a free democracy . Jim Crow Education Hardly a better worn political axiom exists than this : Democracy depends , for its successful working , upon the education of the electorate . Nevertheless most of us , while deeply stirred by the failures of democratic governments in Europe , overlook a primary source of weakness in the United States . Nine million Negro citizens , for the most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being deprived of the sort of education which will make them competent voters . In these states and in the District of Columbia , where four fifths of all the Negroes in America reside , Negroes are required by law to attend separate schools . The adults there have remained uneducated and they must send their children to the same inadequate , Jim Crow schools . Whether funds are appropriated by federal , state or county treasuries the result is the same . The Negro schools must get along with poor equipment , shorter terms and more badly paid teachers . The effect of unequal educational opportunity is to lower the whole standard of the Negro family 's life . Its earning power is reduced and the frequency of disease , immorality and juvenile delinquency increased . The protests made to the local boards of education are disregarded . Since 8o percent of the Negroes are disfranchised at the polls by intimidation or impossible qualifications , they can not vote an improvement in their plight . The National Association for the Advance-meat of Colored People , 69 Fifth Avenue , New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ making the fight . It has won several test cases where Negroes have been refused admission to Southern state colleges or professional schools . It is preparing campaigns against all the other obstacles to decent Negro education . If it is to THE NEW REPUBLIC make a successful fight , the NAACP must have all the support we can give . Senator Wagner Is a Methodist Our sincere apologies to United States Senator Robert Wagner of New York , to whom we referred editorially last week as a member of the Catholic Church . Senator Wagner is of course a Methodist . News Notes of a Week In France Premier Daladier 's fifty-eight decrees , designed to revitalize the national economy , met with stern criticism from many elements of the population . The new measures increase indirect taxes on many consumer goods , raise the income-tax rate and provide for governmental economies . The principal target of protest , however , is the lengthening of the work week which marks the loss of one of the Popular Front 's chief advances .... Almost immediately after the death of Turkey 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ National Assembly placed the presidency in the hands of General Ismet Inonu , former Chief of Staff and an important aid in the work of building the new Turkey .... In Spain the major campaign which has been raging along the banks of the Ebro River seemed to end with the capture , by Franco 's forces , of the left bank , a return to the position they held last July . The Loyalists , however , counted the campaign a success , for by creating a distraction they had halted the Insurgent drive upon Valencia . . . . From all the frontier areas of Czechoslovakia came reports of rioting and disorder caused by popular discontent over the surrender of territory to other powers . The fighting was especially severe in the Ruthenian district , where Polish terrorists , supported by a campaign of radio propaganda from Budapest , were at work . In Berlin detailed plans were released for the construction of a great motor highway and canal to connect upper Germ4ny with Austria through the center of Czechoslovakia . In the United States there were further indications @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Navy Department rushed its efforts to increase navy-yard facilities to a capacity , if necessary , large enough to build eighty new ships . . In Pittsburgh the general executive board of the United Automobile Workers of America voted to abolish the Detroit District Council , characterized by Homer Martin , the union 's president , as being Communist-dominated .... Organized labor in Oregon prepared a court fight against an initiative measure , passed by a narrow margin in the recent election , which prohibits strikes except by a majority of a company 's employees in a direct dispute over wages , hours and working conditions , requires a strict accounting of union funds and prevents union interference with any lawful commacial , manufacturing or farming enterprise .                     