@@222011

KARL MARX-Franz Mehring-Covici , Friede ( $5 ) . <P> In 1836 a homesick , 18-year-old poet at the University of Berlin sent his sweetheart in his home town three exercise books filled with bad verse , which he soon afterward denounced as " all flat and formless in feeling ; nothing natural about them ; everything up in the air . " The poet was Karl Heinrich Marx , stocky , dark-haired , active son of a well-to-do Jewish lawyer from the Rhineland town of Trier . His 22-year-old sweetheart was Jenny von Westphalen , close friend of his older sister , daughter of a highly-placed official whose family had won its title for military service in the Seven Years War . Disliking the university , Marx signed up for lectures which he did not attend , fitfully studied a remarkable variety of subjects , tried to found a new philosophy of law , drafted a new metaphysical system , yearned to return to Trier to be married . Although he did not live extravagantly , he spent more money than the sons of rich men , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to keep track of his money . His father , who discouraged his ambitions to be a poet or an original thinker , wrote bitterly about his son who " invents new systems every week and scraps them the next , " refused to let him come home to marry Jenny . <P> In the next few years Marx studied jurisprudence , Greek philosophy , Hegel , wrote his doctoral dissertation on Democritus and Epicurus , came into conflict with the Prussian censor , became widely known in radical intellectual circles . At the age of 24 he was editor of a radical paper in Cologne , helped to boost its circulation in six months from 885 to 3,200 , before it was suppressed . While editor of the paper he met Friedrich Engels , tall , good-natured son of a wealthy manufacturer , famed for drinking bouts and for philosophic and economic articles in obscure journals . Engels had also begun his literary career by writing bad verse . Their first meeting was unfriendly , since Marx identified Engels with a group of irresponsible Berlin bohemians who had advocated Socialism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clergymen . In 1843 Marx married Jenny von Westphalen , took her to Paris , met Heine , Proudhon and other Socialists , continued his attacks on the Prussian State until the Prussian Government succeeded in having him expelled from France . Living in Brussels , he met Engels again , collaborated with him , was arrested after the French revolution of 1848 , when the King of the Belgians feared an uprising . Jenny was also arrested , placed in jail with prostitutes . Released , Marx returned to the Rhineland after the outbreak of the German revolution . In Cologne the 30-year-old rebel met two U. S. newspapermen , Albert Brisbane ( father of Arthur ) and Publisher Charles Dana of the New York Tribune . He deeply impressed them with his " great energy , " with the daring spirit evident behind his moderation and reserve .                     