@@487389

IN THIS issue we carry two important statements on American foreign policy . The first , by Norman Thomas , twice Socialist candidate for President , is a stern warning against what he feels to be the danger of collective action for peace under present circumstances . The second , by Raymond Leslie Buell , president of the Foreign Policy Association , contains an equally vigorous admonition against the dangers inherent in the isolationist position which Mr. Thomas partially reflects . That two leading opponents of war can take such conflicting positions on this issue is indicative of the cleavage which runs through the country on the question of American foreign policy . Yet despite this sharp divergence of opinion , the country must somehow make up its mind between these two policies . An attempt to follow a middle course between isolation and collective security would be the most dangerous of all . Vacillation and inconsistency only lead to fiascos such as the Brussels conference and the shameless conduct of the democracies toward Spain . The United States must either withdraw from the world , economically and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ geographic and historic position , " to quote Mr. Thomas , or aid in the creation of an international system of law which will prevent war . Thus far this country has sought to enjoy all the privileges and advantages of its world position without sharing in the responsibilities inherent in those privileges . And to an extent which few Americans like to admit , the present state of world anarchy is the result of this policy . The utter lack of responsibility which so bewilders foreigners attempting to appraise American policy must be attributed almost entirely to isolationist sentiment . While professing to believe in collective security in principle , Mr. Thomas asks precisely at what nation it should be directed . According to our understanding of the term , collective security can not be directed at anyone . Therein lies the all-important distinction between collective security and a system of alliances . Collective security implies an agreement between a group of nations , which is open to all , by which each nation undertakes to bring pressure on any other which resorts to war in violation of its pledge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , although its signature to the Nine-Power Treaty and the Kellogg Pact may be interpreted as imposing certain obligations . It is highly important , however , to note that collective security does not imply necessarily the use of military force . The task of eliminating war from the world is largely one of developing non-violent substitutes for The NATION military force , to be used , when necessary , for the enforcement of international law and order . But what if economic sanctions fail ? Are we then to resort to military force to check fascist aggression ? It is at this point that Mr. Thomas and many other pacifists draw back , assuming that there is some occult force by which economic sanctions are automatically transformed into military action  --  and war . We do not consider this a fair assumption . Economic and financial sanctions can not fail if they are honestly applied . No country , least of all Japan , Italy , or Germany , can carry on war and maintain its population if cut off from all assistance from the outside world . Moreover , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ way imply or prepare the way for subsequent resort to military force . To take an extreme case , if a desperate , impoverished Japan seized the Dutch East Indies to get oil , economic sanctionk , as Mr. Buell points out , would ultimately bring it to terms since it would still be unable to obtain adequate supplies of iron ore , cotton , wool , antimony , magnesite , manganese , tungsten , chrome , bauxite , tin , lead , nickel , and a number of other raw materials which are essential to modern industry , and without which no country could ' hope to wage war . Admittedly , the prospect of joint economic action against Japan is slight . Mr. Thomas may be correct in saying that the chances for effective collective pressure ? were much greater in the Ethiopian crisis than at the present time . But what he does not state is that the weakness of the League in the early days of the Manchurian crisis , the failure of the powers to apply oil sanctions against Italy , and the collapse of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the inability or un : willingness of the United States to cooperate because of isolationist sentiment . If this sentiment could be overcome , to an even greater extent than it has been in the past few weeks , there is every indication that Great Britain , France , and the Soviet Union would cooperate in any program for the Far East that this country might propose . , Mr. Buell shows in some detail how the program of the isolationist groups , to which Mr. Thomas gives aid and comfort , creates a real threat of war . This threat will continue to exist as long as the United States , the world 's greatest commercial and financial power , refuses either to join in collective efforts to prevent war or to participate in a program for worldwide economic appeasement . While the fascist powers are demanding access to raw materials and markets to further the solution of their admittedly grave economic problems , the United States is sitting tight , behind a high tariff wall , on more than half the world 's gold supply and an overwhelming share @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ either to " divvy up " or to join in practical measures to protect countries like Ethiopia , Spain , and China . Because of the " advantages of our geographic and historic position " America is virtually safe from attack , but our refusal to join in any common action to protect less fortunate nations has created a condition of international anarchy in which no country can be safe . A Few Hyacinths Lo , the Poor Republican THE claim to permanence of the art projects which have been set up under the Works Progress Administration hardly needs to be argued in these pages , although plenty of testimony to their value will be found in James Wechsler 's article elsewhere in this issue . We must rather find excuses for the fact that a country as rich and boastfully up to date as the United States should not already have , in the year 1937 , a government Bureau of Fine Arts . Representative Coffee of Washington has proposed such a bureau in a bill sponsored by the Artists ' Union and other similar organizations , which will presumably @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is a commentary on the state of our cultural consciousness that we should have at last arrived at the conception of a Bureau of Fine Arts , which has long been an explicit function of government in most European countries , only through the back door of a relief project for artists who had not enough to eat . ( We are above all practical : no hunger , no art ! ) But it would be an even more dismal commentary if by the same logic the art projects should now be allowed to go by default , as they are bound to do under the decreased appropriations suggested for relief . The projects have already suffered as a result of the sharp cuts administered last spring . These curtailments meant drastic cuts in the services of experts , with a resulting effect on the quality of the work done . But the results achieved , despite all handicaps , indicate both the necessity and the desirability of putting the whole undertaking on a permanent basis . A Bureau of Fine Arts would be in position to make use @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be able to pursue , irrespective of this factor , the larger purpose of gathering and conserving the basic materials of our culture , now widely scattered and scarcely known . And it would encourage the experience and practice of the arts not as an exotic pastime but as an organic part of our national life . No one would wish to see a bureaucracy of art set up in which art would be the last consideration . This is the danger that lurks in any such proposal as Mr. Coffee 's . But it is not a decisive argument against the bill . The standards of any Bureau of Fine Arts will be determined by the cultural state of the nation it serves , and one way of achieving higher standards is to set up an agency through which the public can educate and exercise its taste . Concerted support is needed to bring about the passage of the Coffee bill . In this connection we are glad to see that the C. I. 0 . and many individual unions have indorsed it , for labor 's millions have a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of our cultural resources . The cost would be small  --  the WPA projects have cost very little in proportion to the work accomplished . Most of our national energy and wealth so far have been spent on the bread of commerce . Surely now we can afford a few hyacinths . A MERICANS have a happy way of setting aside special " weeks " for their declining creeds and their lost causes , such as safety in driving , filial piety , and the like . As we write , we are in the midst of Republican Week , celebrated by a gathering of the surviving tribal leaders at St. Louis , the setting up of a commemorative committee of 150 , and the donation of front-page space to what the Republican leaders are supposed to be thinking . It all started , as far as we can recall , with the Hoover plan for a mid-term convention , which stirred up a sort of intramural storm . The convention idea was discarded , but the notion of a committee to draft a set of principles was salvaged from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to head the committee Thus far we have not been able to discover an important university president who was not approached for the job . This sudden passion for the higher learning on the part of the practical politicians , or for politics on the part of the learned prexies , disturbed some of us who had taken seriously the campaign against the Brain Trust , although our friends assured us that the issue was not involved . Nevertheless , we were heartened at the response that met the announcement by Governor Aiken of Vermont that " millionaires and college professors never won an election . " Surely , we thought , the party will now get rid of its dead wood and build a new leadership . But when the chairman of the committee was finally announced , he proved to be no other than Glenn Frank , ousted president of the University of Wisconsin , who has ceased to be a savant and not yet become a party leader , perpetual candidate for the Republican nomination , a man whose windy generalities can be counted on to commit the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the threshold of the regular session of Congress and the Congressional nominations for 1938 , the plight of the Republicans is acute . The breaks they have been panting for have finally come : a budget crisis , a badly divided Democratic Party , a widened labor split , and  --  best of all  --  a brand-new depression , all neatly packed and labeled f.o b. the Democrats . The problem is , how to make the best of those breaks ? That is partly a matter of strategy , partly a matter of personalities , mainly a matter of program and direction . And the Republican plight is that they can not come within a mile of agreeing on any of them . Where they have a good , rousing demagogue like LaGuardia , his direction is unsafe . And where they have a safe man like Dewey , his age is wrong . Lo , the poor Republican . He is compelled to face the future with a platform that is too old and a candidate who is too young . The Republican is today a split personality @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ voices . One says , let us rally around something definite and affirmative ; another says , we must unite the opposition groups , and the moment you say anything definite you introduce division . One says , let us have young men , new men , who have not grown rusty in politics ; another says , it is Roosevelt who has been using young and untried men  --  let us have men of experience and substance . One says , let us make a coalition with Democratic liberals like Wheeler and Clark ; another says , if you must have a coalition , let it be with conservatives like Bailey and Glass ; a third says , let us flee coalitions as we would the devil : they spell the disintegration of a party . And , arguing thus  --  whether in convention , committee , or solitude  --  the Republicans face the dire prospect of letting their golden opportunity slip and muffing the chance to put to rout the divided and depression-ridden Democrats . Nor is there balm for them even in the unemployment figures  --  unless they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They have had all the breaks a party can desire from the largess of Providence  --  the failure of the court plan , the Black incident , the business recession . And yet when a coalition move is made in Congress , as was done last week by Senators Vandenberg and Bailey , it turns to ashes . The very Senators who have been calling for Congressional " independence , " when they are presented with a harmless ten-point bit of fustian drawn up by the ineffable Bailey , take fright and refuse to be committed to a " manifesto . " It 's enough to break the stoutest heart . If even the mildish Bailey-Vandenberg ten-point program comes a cropper , think what will happen when Glenn Frank and the committee of 150 pool their intelligence . The immediate Republican prospects for 1938 are probably proof even against that contingency . No matter what the strategy , they may be able to pick up enough new opposition votes to return one-third of Congress , instead of the less than one-fourth they have now . But the The NATION prospects for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the New Deal 's prestige is an unenviable task . A good deal will depend on the state of the depression , a good deal on the state of the Democratic and labor splits . The capture of some of the tory Democrats , unless it actually splits the solid South , should not make enough difference to be decisive in the election . But the capture of the A. F. of L. becomes a matter of some moment . We note with interest that William Green has appeared on several of the lists proposed for the program committee . And it is an open secret that the Republicans have been making overtures to Green for several months . The danger for the Republicans is that once the A. F. of L. council shows itself openly on the side of the G. 0 . P. reactionaries , the federation 's rank and file may be pushed over to Lewis . In the long run , beyond the 1940 prospects , the Republicans are a dying party . They may win battles  --  in 1938 , in 1940 ? but they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as ours , the choice lies between a party seeking through a New Deal of one brand or another to keep ahead of the forces of collapse , and a party striking openly for fascism . The dilemma of the Republicans is that on the one hand they are being driven increasingly toward a fascist position by the powerful interests of the economic groups they represent , yet are held back from it by the whole character of their ideology , which is traditionally liberal in the laissez faire sense . On the other hand , they are straining increasingly to broaden the base of their popular appeal , and are being held back by the roots of their economic interest . Until the time comes for their choice , they will be reduced to coalition maneuverings and convention conspiracies .                     