@@146227

" The Methodist Episcopal Church , the Methodist Episcopal Church , South , and the Methodist Protestant Church are and shall be one united church . " When Bishop John Monroe Moore of Dallas , Tex . voiced those words , in Kansas City 's Municipal Auditorium one night last week , 900 delegates to the Methodist Uniting Conference answered in roaring unison : " We do so declare . " Bishops and delegates then cried aloud : " To the Methodist Church thus established we do solemnly declare our allegiance , and upon all its life and service we do reverently invoke the blessing of Almighty God . Amen . " <P> From this happy excitement of Kansas City the united Methodists went home to their muttons . On thousands of church buildings throughout the land , signs and plaques had to be replaced or repainted to exhibit the name of the new church . In many a locality where the work of the three late churches had overlapped , there would be mergers , although the Conference had warned against " hasty action for financial reasons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ itself performed some hasty actions for financial reasons-in order to adjourn before its Conference treasury was exhausted . In slapping together the nation 's biggest Protestant church ( 8,000,000 members ) , it had settled , with a minimum of debate , matters which may need further attention at its General Conference next year . <P> Methodist doctrines and ritual are flexible enough so that little controversy arose over their definition . But over a lengthy and liberal social creed submitted to the Conference , there was a sputter . Delegate Alfred Mossman Landon objected to the section which promised the support of the Methodist Church to conscientious objectors . Youngish Delegate Lloyd E. Foster of East Orange , N. J. shouted that only the " grey-haired and baldheaded " objected to the section . Red-faced , Delegate Landon shouted : " I submit that the argument is a cowardly one ! " Nevertheless , the Conference voted down grey-haired Mr. Landon.                     