@@494095

Persecution Complex Nobody in the world , with the possible exception of the propaganda-drenched Russian masses , will believe that the Soviet Union is afraid of little Finland , or that the Finns are now trying to pick a quarrel . The foul language used by Pravda in attacking the President of a neighboring state , immediately followed by an " incident " that bears all the marks of fabrication to rouse the war spirit in Russia , is the typical maneuver of an intending aggressor . Its purpose is either to prepare the Russian masses for an invasion of Finland , or else to make the Finns spend so much money to keep their army mobilized that they will be forced to yield . In either case , it follows Hitler 's technique so closely as to be almost ludicrous . If truth does not lie in the public attitude of Moscow , what is the real reason for all the fuss ? It is that the Soviet State wants more protection against a possible future attack on Leningrad , and that the territory it thinks is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Finns do n't count with Moscow when military considerations are at stake . The possible attacker is of course not Finland or the Scandinavian nations but Germany or Britain and France or a combination of the three . The Soviet Union has for years , as a result of its experience after the revolution , been so fearful of capitalist attack as to have developed what amounts to a paranoid persecution mania . This is not saying that the attack might not happen some time ; it merely accounts for the fury , ruthlessness and apparent desertion of Leninist principle exhibited by the present Communist tactics . The Question of Ethics We deeply admire the Finnish people , hard-working and self-reliant . But leaders of the Finnish army have for years been involved in the sort of international intrigue by which that army is now threatened with destruction . The pro-fascist leanings of many Finnish generals have been notorious . As recently as last summer , the Germans were planning to use Finland as a base for attacking Leningrad , twenty miles from the Finnish border . At present the Russians @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her own , is encouraging Finnish resistance . This may be largely propaganda , but the British once did exactly that . But nothing done by Finnish generals or politicians would justify the lies told about Finland by Russian official newspapers , or the carefully staged indignation meetings in Russian factories . At this point the Communists will say that we are falling into the old liberal vice of arguing about ends and means . They will say that we merely object to the means now employed by the Russians , which outrage our liberal sensibilities . The answer is that both the end and the means are bad in themselves . The end is whipping up the same sort of rage against Finland that Hitler whipped up against Poland . The means is telling a mixture of lies and half-truths to the Russian masses . That is the worst possible preparation for the socialist self-government that the Russians still claim as their final goal . It is and has been for centuries the means employed to strengthen a military dictatorship . Torturing the Jews The German Jews continue to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to The New York Times gives what is apparently official information on the forced migration into a huge concentration camp in what was formerly Poland . The Jews in Teschen are to be moved within the next few weeks . The order calls for the sending of all males between seventeen and seventy , and all women between seventeen and fifty-five . Most , though not all , are taking their children . Each is allowed one suitcase and approximately $120 . It is said that 150,000 persons will be moved from Bohemia-Moravia . From Vienna the Jews are being expelled at the rate of 2,000 a week . When they get to their new homes , a few miles southwest of Lublin , there are no facilities ready for them . They must improvise shelters in the bitter cold , or make over the ruins of destroyed Polish houses . The amount of human suffering involved is beyond the compass of the imagination . It is something astronomical and meaningless , like the concept of a trillion dollars . The war has nearly closed the last door of hope , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jews in Germany ? and they are managing to get out at the rate of about 200 a week . Dance of the Balkans For a while it looked as if the Balkan states might join in an old-fashioned dance of all-hands-round and keep the war out of Southeastern Europe . Germany , Italy , Russia , Turkey , Britain and France have all been sitting eagerly about the hall , hoping to call the tune . The chief trouble was that everybody wanted something from Rumania . Bulgaria would come in if Rumania surrendered the Dobruja ; Hungary demanded Transylvania . Russia , of course , wants Bessarabia back . A speech by the Hungarian Foreign Minister strongly emphasizing his country 's claims seems to have driven the proposed alliance apart . The next event was an overturn of the Rumanian Cabinet , with the installation of a strongly pro-French Premier . Hungary and probably Bulgaria as well are therefore out . Will the sequence be a German offensive in the Southeast , with Rumania supported by Turkey , Greece and the Allies ? If so , what will Russia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are the greatest problem of the war , and will probably be the greatest of the peace . The E. Phillips Oppenheim War This war begins to look like something written by E. Phillips Oppenheim . In the past few days we have had the mysterious Munich assassin , the British spies captured at the border , the secret radio station operated by Gestapo men under the pretense that they werean anti-Hitler group , the mine-sowing airplane , the formidable new " magnetic mine " supposed to rise from the bottom and strike the steel hull of a vessel . How much of all this is fact and how much is fiction ? The Munich Melodrama Germany announces that she has found the culprits guilty of setting the bomb at Munich which Hitler escaped by a matter of minutes . They turn out to be a German named Georg Elser , and the two British agents mentioned above . Unfortunately for Hitler , he threw away his world credibility with the nonsensical story that the Reichstag was burned by the Communists . No one has the faintest notion whether Elser had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the two British officers , it is highly improbable that they were connected with it . Presumably they were in touch by secret radio with the anti-Hitler elements in Germany , and it is likely that these were the right-wing army group about which so much has been written lately . The fact that the Gestapo knew all about the negotiations will prove a grave setback to British plans . Guenter Reimann in his article on page 189 of this issue shows why the likelihood of a revolt by such a group is not to be taken seriously . The Mysterious Mines The first ten days of the new German campaign at sea were ominously successful . The loss in shipping . allied and neutral , was heavy though still only about one-third of the peak of success in the submarine war fare in 1917 . The British have officially adopted the theory that mines are now being dropped from low-flying airplanes in places like the approach to the port of London , inaccessible to German ships or submarines . Prime Minister Chamberlain says that the secret of the " magnetic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ able to cope with it . If discussions in German military papers are a clue , this is not a mine which moves toward the hull of a vessel . It is anchored to the bottom , with floating wires which generate electricity when they touch or come near to a metal hull . One type is equipped with a compass needle which swings over , closes an electric circuit and explodes the charge . Whatever the technical details , large numbers of mines have been scattered by the Germans and they have been highly effective . It is still not proved , however , that Germany can sink ships faster than England and the neutrals can build them . Just as in the last war , the drowning of hundreds of non-combatants is hardening the anti-German feelings of the rest of the world ? which , God knows , was already hard enough . The War Against the Neutrals Both Germany and the Allies are now using measures which are about as hard on neutrals as they are on the enemy . Germany 's scattering mines broadcast without notification is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also using an illegal type of mine . Many neutral ships have been sunk and their crews and passengers drowned . England by way of retaliation.proposes to treat all German exports as contraband and to require neutral neighbors to give proof that their outward-bound cargoes did not have a German origin . Her purpose , of course , is to prevent Germany from creating credits abroad with which she can bring back war materials ? and everything is a war material nowadays . The action is not unexpected , though if it is carried out rigorously , as it doubtless will be , it will work tremendous hardships on the Scandinavian countries , the Netherlands , Belgium and some others . Half a dozen nations have already protested strongly but it is hard to believe that such protests will cause the British to change their course . International law and the rights of neutrals are among the first victims in every war . Well Out of It With neutral vessels being sunk every day in the waters around England , the American people can thank heaven for the revised Neutrality Act @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ danger zone it is altogether likely that some of them would have been sunk , and American citizens drowned , before this . Those who are trying to get the United States into the war would have had a beautiful emotional argument ready to hand . It remains now to make sure that those officials in Washington who are violently pro-Ally do not find ways of slipping through the loopholes in the law and getting us into trouble . New Western Front An organization with the challenging name , the New Western Front , has recently appeared in New York City and is being developed on a national basis . Membership is limited to American citizens of military age , eighteen to forty-five . Excluded are those " affiliated with the German-American Bund , the Communist Party or any other organization directly or indirectly subservient to a foreign power . " It has a fourfold program : to keep the United States out of foreign wars , to develop democracy at home , to defend the Western Hemisphere against direct attack and to build up a Western Hemisphere economy . Its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new markets of South America . They advocate an army sufficient to defend North America and its strategic bases and a navy and air force large enough to defend the Western Hemisphere . Among the members of the provisional executive committee are John Chamberlain , Quincy Howe and Selden Rodman . With almost no effort , it is said , about 500 members have been enrolled in a short time . Probably the New Western Front is guilty of some wishful thinking about the size181 of the potential South American market and the feasibility of hemispherical isolation . Nevertheless , the creation of this committee and its rapid growth are a striking sign of the times . Production-for -- Use in California California , which has an unusually large number of the unemployed ( including many representatives of the Joads and their friends ) is about to try an interesting experiment . A good many unemployed worker-now on relief will be taken off the rolls and put to work in production units for which their experience and abilities fit them . Some will raise fruits and vegetables , or work with cattle and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plants , fisheries , bakeries and shoe and clothing factories . Each man will get the same relief payment as heretofore , but only three-quarters of it will be in cash . The remaining quarter will be in the form of orders for the goods which he and others have produced . There will be an additional net payment depending on the number of hours worked each month . The goods produced will be distributed through consumers ' cooperatives ; the state will put up the capital and buy necessary materials , including goods not produced by the unemployed workers . In the past , schemes of this kind have always broken down because manufacturers and retailers were able tr stop them . These business people wanted the unemployed to be forced to buy from them at regular market rates . Now , however , California business men have been badly scared by the Ham-and-Eggs movement . They are willing to do almost anything to keep down discontent among the state 's poor people . This scheme will produce no Utopia ; it has objections , including the obvious fact that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one . It will cut down production in private industry . Nevertheless , it has possibilities so wide that it is well worth watching . Strikebreaking on the Air What has happened to the code of ethics of the radio broadcasting companies ? As we understand it , this code forbids the expression of editorial opinion on controversial subjects by commentators on paid time , stipulating that such discussion shall be on the station 's own time , and that opposing points of view shall be fairly represented . Elliot Roosevelt , advertising Emerson radios , speaks regularly on the air over the Mutual network . On a recent occasion he not only expressed violent opposition to John L. Lewis and to the leadership of the Chrysler strike , but did so in the shape of demonstrable lies . His words sounded as if they had come straight from Father Coughlin . Mr. Roosevelt said that wages were not an issue in the strike , that the union demanded complete control over production , that the workers " want the right to slow down or speed up production at will and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are not . " If the union won its demands it would " control the output of this country . " The facts are that a request for a wage increase was , at the time Mr. Roosevelt spoke , the chief point at issue , and that the controversy over control of production ? already settled in negotiation ? had arisen from the union 's request that disputes about the matter which could not be adjusted between the parties be decided by an impartial person . Mr. Roosevelt 's own , stations have refused to endorse the broadcasting code , but the big networks , inductng Mutual , have adopted it . The inttnt of the rules in question is to prevent those having the most money to pay for broadcasts from indoctrinating the public with their views . If the rule is good , it ought to be enforced ? even in the case of the President 's son . A Catholic View of Coughlin Father Coughlin has been one of the loudest mouthpieces for the misapprehensions of the Chrysler dispute that Elliott Roosevelt and others have echoed . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ misconception of the function of the NLRB , which does not , as he assumed , render strikes " outmoded " and " neither Christian nor American . " The NLRB protects the right of workers to organize and bargain collectively , but has no authority under the law to mediate or arbitrate issues arising after those rights are established . In this instance Chrysler has not asked for arbitration . Though the " Americanism " of strikes is easily upheld , what about their " Christianity " according to Catholic doctrine ? It seems that Coughlin is just as shaky on this ground . The Reverend Raymond C. Clancy of the Archdiocesan Labor Institute , in one of a series of broadcasts sponsored by the Association of Catholic Trade Unionists , answered Coughlin in terms that express liberal Catholic thought the nation over . Besides pointing out the now familiar distortions of the issue , Father Clancy charged that Coughlin had misquoted the encydicals of Pius XI , at one point tearing the Pope 's criticism of fascism from its context and misapplying it to the question of labor conflicts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " for one who is taken by many listeners to be an authority on papal encyclicals to misquote the meaning of the Holy Father . " Father Clancy might well have added that there are doctrinal as well as political reasons for the unfrocking of a fascist demagogue . Poor Man 's Law The National Lawyers ' Guild , liberal competitor of the American Bar Association , plans to help poor people get legal service . Instead of opposing legitimate legal-aid societies and unauthorized agencies like motor clubs and banks the Guild proposes bar-sponsored legal-service bureaus with fixed price schedules . Wills , leases and other printed instruments will cost$1.50 . A half-hour 's consultation will entail a $2 fee and retainers of $10 will be charged for tort and criminal cases . If they know they can pay him , maybe poor people wo n't be so reluctant to see a lawyer . News Notes of a Week An estimated 300,000 Italian soldiers and officers were given winter leave , following France 's discontinuance of war restrictions along the Italian-French border and a reputed agreement between the two governments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Spanish refugees in France are facing acute privation and the threat of return to Fascist Spain . .. Denmark and Sweden announced that the Nobel Peace Prize would not be awarded this year . The International Labor Defense launched a campaign to expose and fight conditions of peonage among Negroes and poor whites in Oglethorpe County , Georgia .... Philip Murray , vice president of the CIO , arrived in Detroit to confer with Chrysler officials , after Homer Martin of the AFL was accused of organizing a strike-breaking faction of 200 Negroes who crossed the Dodge plant picket lines , protected by 500 policemen . . . . The Supreme Court invalidated municipal ordinances curbing handbill distribution in four cities , in decisions upholding the rights of free speech and press . Three of the cases were aided by the American Civil Liberties Unioa Mayor Maury Maverick San Antonio , facing trial on charges of paying poll taxar for his supporters , called the indictments a " politic : , smear . " Copyright of New Republic is the property of NON Republic and its content may not be copied @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ without the copyright holder 's express written permission . However , users may print , download , or email articles for individual use . 