@@145133

Held in Prague 14 years ago at the suggestion of Czechoslovakia 's Founder-President Masaryk was the first International Management Congress . Last week , for its seventh get-together , the International Management Congress convened in the U. S. for the first time . Somewhat self-conscious about their messages of international cooperation , all but one of the 2,000 delegates from 21 nations tactfully avoided reference to last week 's Czechoslovakian crisis . The one was Robert J. Watt , American Workers ' Delegate to the International Labor Office . To avoid further offending visitors , five paragraphs of his speech relating to " Fascistic brutality " were cut out of the printed copies distributed to the press . Czechoslovakia 's official representative , wiry little Dr. Emanuel Slechta , limited himself to a deft understatement which brought down the house : " The world is in a great need of better international management . " <P> Self-styled a " forum for interchanging world experience in all phases of management , " last week 's convention was held in Washington 's capacious Chamber of Commerce building , drew a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had to say along the standard themes of U. S. management problems lost the spotlight to the embarrassed remarks of the European representatives . Sample : Lord Leverhulme ( soap ) of England , retiring president : " The more freedom and smoothness there is in the give &; take of goods and services between the countries of the world , the more encouragement there will be to the growth of that right temper between nations which alone can diminish the recurring threats of war . " <P> When Lord Leverhulme departed from Washington the British soap tycoon was supposed to go to Boston for the tenth annual Boston Conference on Distribution . That too had an international theme - discussion of a world census of distribution - but with things getting hotter abroad every minute , Lord Leverhulme decided to go home , left his speech to be read to the 400 conferees . <P> Self-styled a " national forum for problems of distribution , " the Boston conference generally produces more concrete discussions than do broader conclaves like the International Management Congress . As a basis for this year @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ submitted a history of the U. S. census of distribution of commodities by wholesale and retail merchants . Need for such a statistical breakdown was first felt in 1922 . By 1925 a committee headed by Owen D. Young was at work on the idea . First nationwide census was made by the Bureau of the Census for the year 1929 , was repeated and improved for 1933 and 1935 , producing such figures as the number of retail establishments ( 1,653,961 ) , banks and other financial institutions ( 44,101 ) , advertising agencies ( 1,212 ) . <P> In Europe , however , a report from the International Chamber of Commerce showed , only Ireland has carried through a similar census , in 1933 . Elsewhere statis tics are extremely spotty . Britain has no complete tabulation of its retail establish ments , France of its consumption of tex tiles , Germany of its volume of advertising .                     