@@487334

A ST week did much to clarify the confusion over the possibility of cooperation between business and the government . The Congress of American Industry adopted its elaborate platform of recovery . We now know where business stands . It wants the old deal or nothing . Every seeming concession to the New Deal is a facade of words behind which is not the faintest apprehension of the truth that we are facing new conditions calling for new methods , or that the economic oligarchy of the old deal must be transformed into a new democracy if we are to be an economically free people . The philosophy of American industry is that unless a tolerable standard of life , or indeed a miserable minimum of relief , can be produced by the old method , neither shall be sanctioned . The manufacturers will accept codes  --  if they are voluntary . They will bargain with labor " collectively or individually . . . without coercion of any sort . This precludes the remote control of such local relations by predetermined forms imposed by the national labor boards @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and labor . " If this is not lucid enough , the platform officially states it still more crudely : " The powers of government should not be used to control local relationships between employers and employees . " The destitution of twenty million Americans does not for these manufacturers constitute a national emergency calling for extraordinary measures such as borrowing . " The appropriations of the federal government relief program , " they solemnly affirm , " should be reduced until they come within its normal and reasonable income . " Then follows one of the most heartless collective assertions recorded during the depression : " It is folly to continue relief so extravagant that it undermines the morale of those who receive it . " This description of the niggardly help hastily thrown by the government to the victims of the depression gives the measure of the humanity and intellect of our organized and embattled industrialists . Cooperation between industry and the government is to be had at one price only ; the government is to " cooperate " by leaving business strictly alone . The clock must be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of these industrialists stood still . They experienced no mental processes during the Hoover era . Having already failed to provide for the people of America , they now offer no program for recovery beyond proposing to remain seated firmly on the throne from which their failure emanated , offering no wisdom gained in the humiliation of these five years , affirming their right to be there with not a single social justification . It is true that Dr. Virgil Jordan , president of the Industrial Conference Board , recognized the duty of industry , if left alone , to plan , to set up its own brain trust and agencies of cooperation . But his colleagues would have none of it . Their platform announces : " No group of men is wise enough to plan and control operations of all our manifold business activities . History demonstrates that such control impairs or destroys individual initiative and freedom . " Not all business men are like this . In the last of our series on What Business Men Think , in this issue , Edward A. Filene recognizes the need @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ profits , he considers them as a means to the end that the masses shall enjoy a standard of life scarcely yet thought possible . But if the profit motive is to be the one stimulus to production , it also can be the paralyzing limitation to it , which is why the nation is in its present plight . And this second consideration , we feel , has been unfortunately ignored . The profit motive , however useful its champions can make it appear , can also engender a national tragedy . What the President thinks of the prospect of cooperating with the industrialists can only be gauged by the spate of words with which his Number Two , Donald Richberg , is almost daily drenching the country . If Mr. Richberg has the slightest belief that the New Deal is trying to bring democracy into American economic life , and that there is mighty little democracy in it now , he successfully conceals it . To business men , rightly we hope , the New Deal appears a threat to their oligarchy . That is why they resist . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that their fears are unjustified . His unprincipled cajolings make one yearn for even that disastrous departed figure , General Johnson . Richberg showed his caliber in the Newspaper Guild case , which we comment on fully elsewhere . Like much in his recent career , this marks him a second-rater who abandons principles for the sake of success . Unless the President has scotched his own program for democratizing if not socializing economic life in America , he had better find a new mouthpiece and go-between . For what happens to collective bargaining , in the factory , the newspaper , the NRA , the National Labor Relations Board , and the Department of Justice , is for the moment the only measure of the President 's sincerity . It is one of four chief instruments for democratizing economic power in this country , the other three being the socialization of credit , social taxation , and the provision of social security . Only the socialization of credit is at all forward . The provision of social security will mean little in the democratic sense until it is financed out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Important , perhaps final choices are being made in Washington in the days that remain before Congress meets . The President must decide whether or not he will heed the frantic cry of business that continued spending spells socialism . Mr. Ickes and Mr. Hopkins advise him to get the unemployed off relief rolls into jobs at any price . The industrialists are mighty . Only once have they faced a strong government  --  at the time when they submitted to the codes . But even then they did not surrender , and they have been artful enough to use the NRA for their own ends and to prevent its being used effectively to strengthen labor . The President can again call upon his prestige in an open conflict with them . If he imagines that the country hankers after the old deal , he has only to consult the election . Compromise may be the democratic method , and the President certainly is gifted in using it to achieve results . But democracy can not compromise on democracy . The industrialists have proclaimed , like Louis XIV , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the power to disprove it . Death Business Again T HE case against the armament industry as a fomenter of wars and an opponent of international amity has been strengthened by the mass of information presented to the second session of the Senate Munitions Investigating Committee , which opened December 4 . Documents were read to the committee indicating that certain American munition makers became convinced of the likelihood of a European conflict as early as 1908 , and increased their sales force accordingly . It was also shown that in later years several of the leading armament firms of Europe ? Vickers-Armstrong and the Nobel Company of England , and Schneider of France  --  worked in close cooperation to gain a stranglehold on the European market . and that they ignored , or even encouraged the violation of , treaty agreements on the rearmament of Germany and its former allies . While there is as yet no evidence that the American firms actively participated in this arrangement , it is clear that they possessed information about German rearmament as long ago as 1924 or 1925 and that they maintained a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ incriminating was the testimony that certain American munition makers had repeatedly , and in some instances successfully , opposed attempts to bring about international regulation and control of the arms traffic . The most glaring example of this occurred in 1925 when the arms manufacturers appear to have conveyed to Herbert Hoover , then Secretary of Commerce , the information that they considered the international arms protocol being drafted at Geneva too rigorous . At any rate we know that Mr. Hoover , at the request of the Secretary of State , called a conference of the arms makers at Washington at which certain suggestions were drafted , sent to Geneva , and subsequently incorporated in the treaty . Eight years later , in 1933 , we find F. J. Monaghan , export manager of the Remington Arms Company , writing to a South American representative that " we have reached some mighty high officials and feel confident with regard to the proposed arms embargo that nothing will prevent the execution of any business that we get . " The testimony showed that this company sold 20,000,000 rounds of ammunition to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the embargo . In addition to the active opposition of the munition makers , the evidence before the committee , according to Senator Nye , showed that in all efforts to bring about international accord for the prevention of war the State Department was always opposed by the War and Navy departments , and also at times by the Commerce Department . Most sensational of all the charges was that brought by Senator Clark  --  that fourteen former officers of the United States army or navy are now employed by the Chinese government as instructors in Chinese aviation schools , and that the methods of instruction are substantially the same as those developed by the United States government . It was further charged that the Chinese had retained American instructors and purchased American equipment at the instigation of the Department of Commerce . These are the planes which it was asserted were bought for use against the Japanese but which have been utilized exclusively in action against the population of the Soviet districts . While the disclosures made by the Nye committee have already been sufficient to make thinking men and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the business of trading in death , it can not be said that even yet public opinion is sufficiently aroused to force the issue . Much has been achieved . The arms industry has been placed on the defensive as never before in its history , but it is far from , crushed . A strenuous effort will doubtless be made to have the investigations discontinued when the present appropriation runs out , in the hope that public indignation will die down . It is , of course , of the utmost importance that this be prevented . To date the inquiry has been essentially preliminary in character , carried on with a minimum of expense , and the findings have been necessariry superficial . To unearth the full connections of the American companies with the international arms ring may require many more months of effort and considerable additional expense . But this should not deter the Senate from carrying the investigation to its full completion . The cost is insignificant compared with the toll exacted by the munition makers during the past generation . As even partial insurance against another @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The PressTakes Its Stand A S we go to press , we have reason to believe that the National Labor Relations Board has decided to reaffirm its decision taking jurisdiction in the case of Dean S. Jennings and ordering his reinstatement by the San Francisco Call-Bulletin . In that decision the board declared that " no genuine issue of freedom of the press can be fabricated " out of the executive order giving the board authority under Public Resolution 44 to hold hearings and make findings of fact regarding alleged violations of Section 7-a by newspaper publishers . We could wish that the board 's straightforward ruling had settled a simple case , but it is only necessary to review the sequence of events which followed the announcement of the decision to realize the months of litigation , provided the case is even brought to court , that may lie between Dean Jennings and his job . The Labor Board decision was handed down on Monday . Howard Davis , president of the American Newspaper Publishers ' Association , with automatic alarm , saw " a threat to free speech " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ job he had held for five years and would no doubt have continued to hold if he had not joined the Newspaper Guild ; and the newspaper publishers went into action . But even Elisha Hanson , counsel for the Call-Bulletin , who had conducted the arrogant and hypocritical defiance of the Labor Board in behalf of Mr. Hearst , must have been surprised at the Biblical swiftness with which the virtuous wrath of the publishers produced results . Late on Tuesday no less an agency than the National Recovery Administration , in the person of Blackwell Smith but with the voice of Donald Richberg , requested the Labor Board to reopen the case . The request was made without so much as a gesture at consulting the second party to the dispute , the American Newspaper Guild ; it was not concerned with the merits of the case ; its real motivation was revealed by Mr. Richberg on Friday when he asked the board to throw out the case , declaring that the board should not assume jurisdiction over the controversy . This in spite of Public Resolution 4-4 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ words , it was a completely partisan and arbitrary request from a presumably impartial agency , the NRA , which is charged with enforcing all provisions of the National Recovery Act , including Section 7-a . Even if the Labor Board has refused to back down before the combined sophistries of Mr. Richberg and the A. N. P. A. , it is only realistic to point out that the next move toward enforcement must originate with the NRA ; there is no reason to assume that Mr. Richberg will facilitate the enforcement of a ruling to which he is so violently opposed ; and the delays in the Houde case , to take only one example , are not encouraging . It was these considerations which motivated the guild in its withdrawal from a hearing on editorial wages and working hours . " If and when the NRA purges itself , " said the guild , " we will return . We charge definitely that the NRA has allowed itself to be terrified by the publishers . " The Biblical Elisha caused an iron ax to swim . We should like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cohorts raised up on a Tuesday afternoon to confound Mr. Richberg . That is the larger issue in this case . It is not surprising that the particular issues have received very little elucidation in a press concerned only with its " freedom . " The Labor Board cited much circumstantial evidence to support the charge that Jennings lost his job because of his interest in the guild , of which perhaps the most convincing was the fact that immediately following his resignation all but four of the forty members of the Call-Bulletin staff who belonged to the guild dropped out , and the chapter was thereby virtually broken up . The publisher 's conduct of the case from the beginning indicates that this was exactly the result desired . The Call-Bulletin has obstructed every attempt to obtain a ruling by an impartial body ; its contention that only the Newspaper Industrial Board has jurisdiction is a subterfuge . It is a simple fact that the board was not functioning when the present case arose . Moreover , the Newspaper Guild has never accepted it as a suitable agency for passing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It consists of four employee and four employer representatives . In case of a tie , provision is made for the appointment of an impartial chairman . The guild maintains with reason that a tie would be inevitable on any question involving the right to organize . To accept jurisdiction by the N. I. B. would therefore amount to accepting compulsory arbitration , especially since the publishers would certainly contest the right of appeal to the National Labor Relations Board . It is obvious that what Mr. Hearst and the A. N. P. A. least want is a settlement of the Jennings case on its merits . In injecting the issue of free speech into a simple case of discrimination for union activities , the publishers have demontrated their bad faith in respect to Section 7-a . They are waging a fight not in behalf of a free press but against unionization . " We are going back to the picket line in Newark , " said Heywood Broun as the guild withdrew from the wage and hour hearings , " where the air is cleaner . " The baby @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of organized labor , who are watching its militant fight with much interest , that the strike remains the only effective weapon against such legal necromancers as Elisha Hanson and Donald Richberg . Proletarian Novels I N recent months a good deal has been said about the " proletarian novel . " Neither its enemies nor its proponents have always been very careful to define what they mean by the term , but those who desire some real light on the subject are referred to an article by Louis Adamic called What the Proletariat Reads , published in the Saturday Review of Literature for December 1 . Mr. Adamic , whose conclusions are " based on a year 's study among hundreds of workers throughout the United States , " has something to say on the theoretical as well as the practical aspects of the subject , and he is refreshingly realistic on both . The first result of his investigation was to show that none of the recent " proletarian novels " was actually such in the sense of being a novel read by the proletariat . Except for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American proletarian rarely reads anything besides the newspaper and an occasional copy of Liberty , Screen Romances , and the like . Mr. Adamic found that the typical response to a copy of " To Make My Bread , " which he considers one of the ten best American novels of the last three years , or Robert Cantwell 's " The Land of Plenty " was the remark that the first was " hard going " and that the second " sure is deep and I guess pretty radical at that . " Inasmuch as Mr. Adamic is himself a radical , his theoretical conclusions are equally interesting . He is Marxian enough to maintain that novels " dealing only with the middle or upper classes can not help being no more than small , ineffective things " ? which is a conclusion justifiable only on the assumption that no subject can possibly be important unless it somehow involves the relationship of classes . But for all that , he has scant patience either with the novel which deals exclusively with the proletariat or with that which represents the lower @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they really are . In Flint , Michigan , factory girls who had read Catherine Brody 's " Nobody Starves " thought the book untrue , and one of them remarked : " We wear much nicer clothes than she says we do ! " Mr. Adamic protects himself against the possible charge of heresy by affirming certain great but remote truths . In the first place , a genuine proletarian art , which is merely a great human art , will come into existence only when the Communist state has passed through its early trials and the proletariat has ceased to exist as a class . In the second place , his insistence that the actual worker should not be too much idealized in fiction does not involve any denial of " the nobility of the proletariat 's consistently creative social function as compared to the capitalists , " because that consistently noble , social creativeness is not incompatible with meanness , greed , and the rest on the part of the individual proletarian . Few of even the bourgeois critics will , however , object to the specifications given @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ present . " " When I say ' revolutionary books ' - I mean primarily well-written , truthful books . . . . Most of the proletarian writing so far has not been overburdened with truth . Much of it , with its lies and exaggerations , has been downright counter-revolutionary in character . " In other words , a good proletarian novel is simply a good novel in which some proletarians appear as characters .                     