@@487871

THE war has been under way now for approxi  --  mately two months . So far it has had little effect on - the lives of most Americans  --  apart from quicken  --  ing their interest in the news . Except for the tourists who were caught in Europe and a few radio commentators or newspapermen , few of us have lived differently during these past few weeks than we should have if the conflict had been avoided . For a few days , it is true , there was a vigorous boom in Wall Street . Some war babies advanced from 70 to 300 per cent virtually overnight . Main Street also had its boom . Recalling the shortages of the last war , hysterical housewives rushed to lay in stores of sugar , flour , and other staples regardless of price . Unprepared for such a rush , retailers were cleaned out in some communities . Sugar prices skyrocketed from a little over four cents a pound to seven and even eight cents . But the hysteria soon died down , and food prices are again @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the boom was a flash in the pan , as Eliot Janeway , writing in The Nation for October 21 , seemed inclined to believe ? This is possible , but the preponderance of evidence points in the opposite direc  --  tion . Business is definitely being affected by boom psy  --  chology . About half of the increase in steel production from 60 to 90 per cent of capacity , for example , is due to a normal business upturn . The rest may be attributed to the accumulation of stocks in anticipation of a sharp war-time increase in prices . Throughout the entire busi  --  ness world this situation is found repeated . Business firms are buying more heavily than usual , partly to meet - increased demand , partly out of fear of higher prices . Speculative buying would be much greater if there were not great uncertainty regarding the duration of the conflict . It is fair to say that the war 's direct effect on American business has thus far been inconsequential . Outside of a few airplane orders , on which shipments can not be made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ direct warorders have been received . Some of our normal export trade , particularly that with Germany , has been cut off . It is natural , then , that the enthusiasm of Wall Street should have cooled off somewhat . We are still in the 1914 stage of the conflict . In the First World War the boom did not actually get under way until 1916 and 1917 . When it came , it was not a flurry generated by speculative influences . ' It was driven by forces too power  --  ful to be controlled . Unlike the ordinary business cycle , a war boom is not in the least mysterious . Wars create an immense demand for many kinds of supplies . Tremendous quantities of oil and gasoline are needed for airplanes , tanks , war  --  ships , and motor transport . Huge amounts of iron and steel are required for shells and other war equipment . Copper , lead , zinc , and aluminum are used in abnormal quantities . The withdrawal of millions of men from normal production is bound to create shortages of food @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up . When these shortages appear , prices inevitably rise . They rise because of a general scramble to obtain such supplies as are available . It is still too early to say definitely that we shall reenact the experiences of 1916 and 1917 . No one knows how long the war will last . Until the last week or so there seemed a possibility that it might end almost any day . Much depends , also , on the kind of conflict that is waged . A war that consisted chiefly of an economic blockade would not ' create an insatiable demand for munitions and supplies . In that kind of war the Allies could presumably provide for their own needs . The British Empire is much less dependent on foreign raw materials than it was in 1914 : It can obtain all of its war-time needs of copper from Empire sources . Canada has enough wheat in stor  --  age to supply Britain for eighteen months . France has adequate supplies of bauxite . In fact , the only important raw material that the Allies lack is oil . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last for many months . 466 The events of the past week , however , suggest that this will not be a passive , economic war as seemed pos  --  sible during the first month of the conflict . Britain will have to replace the warships destroyed and damaged by German airplanes and U-boats . It will soon have to take steps to replenish its merchant marine . Its air fleet will have to be enlarged to ward off the threat of German raids . And the recent heavy fighting on the western front will create a demand for increasingly heavy supplies of all kinds . British and French industry will not be able to meet all of these exceptional demands . It seems safe to say that if the war continues beyond the first year , the economic pattern of 1916 will be repeated , perhaps in a less accentuated form .. And when this happens , everyone of us will be affected . ? For many Americans , talk of war-time inflation con  --  jures up a picture of silk shirts for day laborers and un  --  precedented prosperity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sugarless days and shoddy suits for $100 . What will a war boom mean for the average American ? Will it bring prosperity or penury ? These are questions on which the public wants full and com  --  plete information . There is no simple answer for the reason that a war boom is bound to affect different groups within our population very differently . As is usual in times of rapidly increasing prices , speculators will reap a large harvest . Business men and stockholders will profit by the increased earnings that result from greater business activity and from the advantages that producers gain by selling their finished products at a higher price level than that which prevailed at the time raw materials were purchased . Many working groups , by the special nature of their product , will benefit in relation to others  --  for example , the skilled employees of airplane and munitions plants . Farmers and miners , as producers of primary raw materials , will be in an advantageous position ; their earnings are likely to increase more rapidly than the cost of living . Skilled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the depression has left us with a shortage of many types of specialized workers . The group that stands to benefit the most is made up of the six or seven million jobless men and women who can look forward to getting a regular wage once again . Not all of the present nine or ten million unemployed will find jobs even in war prosperity . Many are too old , have been jobless too long , or are physically incapacitated for regular work . Even some young people are unem  --  ployable because of their lack of specialized skill . But at least two out of three persons now jobless can look for  --  ward to the prospect of regular work . Large groups of Americans , however  --  probably the majority  --  stand to lose far more than they gain from war-time prosperity . This fact should be faced frankly The NATION and fairly . The experience of the last war showed that white-collar workers as a whole were heavy losers . This was particularly true of the employees of federal , state , and local governments . School @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was a scarcity at a time when the schools were growing rapidly . Such conditions are unlikely to be repeated . To  --  day attendance at grade schools is diminishing . Nearly all the larger school systems have long waiting lists of teacher applicants . Teachers , therefore , hke other persons on a fixed income , are likely to find that the cost of living rises more rapidly than their salaries . Unskilled workers may also in the end pay heavily for war prosperity , though the first stages of a boom are generally beneficial to labor : the unemployed are put back to work ; men who have been working part time get more hours of work a week ; there is perhaps a long-sought  --  raise in wages . But although wages are adjusted more readily than salaries , wage rates tend  --  in all but a few industries  --  to lag well behind prices . Inflation involves a concealed but none the less painful cut in real wages . Inflation , too , works havoc with the savings of the average family . While stocks are booming @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the purchasing power of savings accounts , life-insurance policies , and mortgages is steadily undermined as prices rise . Our entire system of social security , one of the greatest achievements of recent years , would be gravely threat  --  ened . The federal old-age-insurance system is really a form of forced savings . The size of the benefit , in dollars , is linked with past wages . A substantial decline in value of the dollar such as would occur in an inflationary period would make the benefits hopelessly inadequate . This could be corrected only by abandoning the principle upon which the system is based . A somewhat different problem would arise in connection with the federal-state old-age pensions and unemployment insurance . Maximum bene  --  fits are established by law in each of the forty-eight states . While changes could ultimately be made , it is probable that the existing standards of security would be at least temporarily impaired . Those who seem to gain the most from war-time pros  --  perity may turn out , to be the heaviest losers . Take the farmers , for instance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Stimulated by the prospect of profits , they expanded their output , bought new machin  --  ery , and went deeply into debt . When the war boom finally ended in the fall of 1920 , they found themselves saddled with an impossible burden of indebtedness and permanently bereft of markets for their increased output . American farmers have been paying for their mistake ever since . And the same kind of thing occurred in many branches of industry . War profits are the most treacherous of profits . Reference has been made to the silk shirts and similar October 28 , 1939 luxuries which ordinary workers are supposed to have enjoyed during the First World War . What we do not hear about are the basic necessities which could not- be obtained because so great a part of the world 's resources were being utilized to make engines of destruction . The war brought about a fundamental dislocation in our economic structure . Good shoes and good suits were un  --  obtainable at prices the ordinary man could afford to pay . Home building came to a standstill . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they were out of reach of the typical worker . It was not until some five or six years after the war that this shortage was remedied . An even graver situation may develop as a result of the present conflict . Ten years of subnormal building activity have left the United States short at least seven or eight hun  --  dred thousand homes . During the last year we have nearly reached a normal building schedule , but the short  --  age remains . A full-fledged war boom might force mil  --  lions of individuals to continue living in sub-standard houses regardless of their increased wages . Housing is but one example of the inevitable conse  --  consequences of a war . An overwhelming majority of persons are bound to lose from an extended war boom , for the simple reason that our energies will be devoted to other purposes than satisfying our basic economic needs . The experience of Germany in the years since Hitler came to power is enough to show that a nation can not squander its resources for non-productive , non-consumable war supplies without suffering a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country is hardly likely to devote as great a part of its resources to war purposes as a bellig  --  erent . But if the pattern of the last war is followed at all , the United States will be called on , as a neutral , to export many more billions of dollars ' worth of goods than it imports . This difference will be America 's material con  --  tribution to the war . If it is substantial , as it may eventu  --  ally become , it will inevitably interfere with the normal production of goods for American consumers . Yet even if it were never paid for , this contribution could not all be chalked up in the loss column . For it is an ironical fact that our economic system only operates at full capacity when we have a substantial export surplus . The reason for this is plain . Despite pump-priming and the WPA , we have not yet learned how to create sufficient purchasing power to call forth our full productive capacity . During the First World War the gap was more than filled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unrepaid loans to Germany and Latin America . The chances are that the present war , provided it is of suffi  --  cient duration , will again stimulate us to utilize our full resources . But if it does , it will also usher in all the problems and disastrous consequences that marked the aftermath of the last conflict . If that . struggle-taught us anything , it was that sound prosperity can not be built on the abnormal demands of war.467 Everybody 's Business BY KEITH HUTCHISON Automobile Economics THE war has practically killed private motoring in Eu  --  rope . Belligerents need to save as much gasoline as possible for their military machines ; neutrals , fearing with reason that the rival blockades will curtail shipments , seek to hoard what supplies they have for use in emergencies . So civilian Europe is getting about as best it can with the aid of bicycles and legs . We can be sure this deprivation is keenly felt , although car ownership is still a luxury for most Europeans . But for the majority of Americans a car has become a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effect on their lives . After minimum needs for shelter , food , and clothing have been satisfied , the automobile has first claim on the pocket-book of the average American family . Even in 1932 , the worst year of the depression , more than 1,100,000 new passenger cars were bought at a total cost equivalent to about 2 per cent of the national income for that year . In the com  --  paratively good year of 1937 sales amounted to almost 4,000,000 , absorbing some 4 per cent of a much larger national income . Remembering that new cars form only a fraction of the total in use , and allowing for all operating costs , it is probable that America 's motoring bill accounts for around 10 per cent of our total expenditures in any fairly prosperous year . The year 1939 has been very satisfactory for the automo  --  bile industry , and total sales , including trucks , for the full twelve months are expected to be upward of 3,600,000 . In 1940 it is anticipated that ' results will be even better , and a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ units , allowing for the fact that some increase in sales to Latin America will probably be more than offset by decreased European takings . What are the inducements being offered to prospective car purchasers ? The 1940 models now on show feature few radical changes in style . The chief engineering innovation is fluid flywheel transmission , which Chrysler and Oldsmobile have introduced in a number of models . This system elimi  --  nates the clutch altogether and makes gear-changing entirely automatic . No untried experiment is involved here , for the fluid flywheel has long been employed in certain British auto  --  mobiles and has met the test of heavy service through its use in London buses . One improvement in 1940 cars will be hailed by all motor  --  ists if it approximately justifies the claims made for it . This is the sealed-beam headlight which is standard on 95 per cent of the new models , and is said to give both more light and more efficient dimming . Its general introduction is due to cooperation between automobile manufacturers and headlight makers . There will be no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . So far as quality goes , there is no doubt that 1940 cars will be as good as , if not better than , ever . How about prices ?                     