@@145934

In industrial chemical research it is proverbial that today 's bird in the bush , tomorrow is two birds in the hand-that is , that today 's guesses and experiments are the basis of tomorrow 's chemical industry . High lights of discovery and speculation at the American Chemical Society 's convention last week in Baltimore : <P> Glycerin , though widely used in medicine , printing and the manufacture of explosives , is a comparatively minor byproduct of soapmaking . Therefore the supply is limited . Three chemists of Shell Development Co . ( Emeryville , Calif. ) announced a new way of synthesizing huge amounts of glycerin from propylene , a waste product of gasoline refining . The propylene is treated with chlorine to produce allyl chloride , the precursor substance from which glycerin is made . <P> No Glycerin . Chemist Henry Bohn Hass of Purdue University announced a way of making commercial and military explosives without using glycerin at all - simply from air , steam and natural gas . The air yields nitrogen by one of the standard fixation processes . Nitrogen is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , into combination with other substances . But at Purdue last year it was accidentally discovered that , at certain critical temperatures , nitrogen vapor from nitric acid combines readily and rapidly with methane and ethane from natural gas . This reaction yielded two new high explosives , " nibglycerol trinitrate " and " nibglycol dinitrate . " Dr. Hass told a war-jittery world that a small part of the U. S. natural gas supply would yield all the high explosives that the whole world could conceivably use . <P> Streamlined Molecule . At present the best and costliest aviation gasoline has an octane rating ( no knock at high compression ) of 100 . Last week Dr. Gustav Egloff of Chicago 's Universal Oil Products Co. revealed that his company had developed a super-fuel of 125-octane rating , 2-2-3 trimethyl butane . This stuff has seven carbon atoms in its molecule but instead of being arranged in the usual thin chain , the carbons are pulled into a streamlined , fishlike shape which makes for slower , more efficient combustion . First cost of this fuel was $3,600 per gallon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hopes the price will eventually be brought down to the range of practical consumption . <P> Rubber from Sulphur . Every boy with a toy chemistry set knows that when sulphur is heated it turns to a dark mass like rubber . The resemblance is superficial . However , six chemists from the University of Alabama reported making a new kind of synthetic rubber by combining molten sulphur with vapors of chlorobenzene . It has special properties not possessed by either natural rubber or the famed chlorine-containing synthetic rubber developed by the late Father Nieuwland of Notre Dame and by Du Pont chemists ( TIME , May 6 , 1935 ) . For example , said the Alabamians , " the rubber-like property is lost when the substance is dissolved and regained upon precipitation with an acid . This may mean that cloth and similar substances may be impregnated . " The sulphur-combining process is also expected to create innovations in the manufacture of plastics , drugs , dyes .                     