@@468684

FOR more than a year newspaper headlines have been snapping with electric alarms over lobbies in Washington . The most moral nation on earth is in confusion respecting its morals . Senator Bingham places the Secretary to the President of the Connecticut Manufacturers ' Association on the pay roll of the Senate and introduces him , as an " expert " on tariff schedules , into the sanctuary of the Republican finance committee in charge of the tariff bill . In this action the Senator sees no impropriety . " Nothing was done , " he says , " contrary to good morals or senatorial ethics . " Senator Bingham is a scholar and a gentleman . He is the son of a clergyman ; he was brought up in a moral atmosphere , educated at Yale and Harvard where morals are strong , and seasoned in the moral climate of New Haven . If he is not a good one hundred per cent American , then the species is extinct . Those who know him best bear witness to the rectitude of his intentions in public and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to admit , with one of his Connecticut constituents , that " the Senator has been a leetle bit careless . " And yet the Senate of the United States , after full debate and by a considerable majority , censures Senator Bingham , declaring that his action is contrary to good morals and senatorial ethics , and tends to damage the honor and reputation of that august body . Great as is the authority behind it , this resolution does not dispose of the issue . When does the innocent and accuraterepresentation of economic interest in the Senate become immoral ? As Wendell Phillips once remarked , a majority settles nothing : one man on God 's side may be right and prevail . Hence the incident merely illustrates the confusion that exists in the mind of the most moral of all nations . Now Senator Norris , who led in censuring Senator Bingham , is undoubtedly a gentleman also and a hundred per cent American ? from an agricultural state . He was born in Ohio , educated in American institutions of learning , and early imbued with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most useful members of the Senate , acknowledged by foes as well as friends to be beyond reproach in public and private life . Over the long years of his service hovers not a single cloud of suspicion . The fierce glare of scrutiny to which powerful opponents have subjected his character has revealed no flaws in it . He was not educated at Yale and has never written any books , but the authenticity of his Americanism can not he questioned . This is the good citizen who finds that other good citizen , Mr. Bingham , guilty of conduct contrary to morals and senatorial ethics , and sets the whole country at work talking about its conscience . The moral chance medley thus created was further addled by the frank declarations of Mr. J. R. Grundy , President of the Pennsylvania Manufacturers ' Association. , before the Senate subcommittee investigating lobbies . Manufacturers , he said , had raised a large sum of money to help elect Mr. Coolidge and a larger sum to help elect Mr. Hoover ; the Republican party pledged itself to high protection ; the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the benefits contemplated when they made their contributions of cash . If necessary to gain his ends , Mr. Grundy would lay his hands upon the sacred muniment handed down by the Fathers ? the Constitution of the United States . He openly said that it was a misfortune that the Fathers had given each state two Senators . He insisted that the states in which industries have been largely developed and the tariff is best understood should control in the making of tariff schedules . " The backward states , " as he called them ? Arkansas , Georgia , Mississippi , North Dakota , South Dakota , Montana , and Idaho ? " should n't be allowed to throw the monkey wrench into the machinery twenty-four hours a day . " He remarked that if " the volume of voice " of these states in the Senate were reduced to the proportion of their tax contributions to the support of the Government , some of them would have to use an amplifier to be heard at all . Mr. Grundy saw no " impropriety " in Mr. Bingham 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was businesslike . And many good people , especially Democratic editors , were shocked to hear that the manufacturers wanted political power graded somewhat according to the size of their economic stake in the country . To philosophers of this direction , Mr. Grundy seemed positively immoral . Why this confusion in morals , this opposition of good men , tried and true ? What is the Congress of the United States anyway ? Whom and what does it represent ? What principles or forces should control the action of the statesmen who compose it ? These questions can not be answered by mere reference to yesterday 's tabloidnewspaper , nor to Senator Sugarbeet 's last Fourth of July oration , nor to Senator Pigiron 's eulogium at the tomb of his colleague , Senator Citrusfruit . A quest for the answer runs deep into the history , theory , and practice of representative government ; and those who can not hear the thought of such a dusty search must forego the pleasure of illuminating the daily headline grist . Representative government originated in Europe in the Middle Ages , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to pay for their wars and support their courts . When their private purses ran short , they invited the various classes of potential taxpayers to send delegates to some central place to speak ( parler ) with the king about the amount and manner of their coming taxation . In calling on his subjects for financial aid , he invited only the possessors of goods to take part in elections and representative assemblies . There was no use asking anybody to vote or serve as a delegate who had no property out of which to contribute to the royal chest . If Mr. Bingham and Mr. Norris were sitting in King Edward III 's parliament instead of the Congress of the United States , they would frankly represent and speak for the commercial and agricultural interests respectively . For all parliaments , in their origins , were mirrors of the estates of the realm ? clergy ( as proprietors of lands and goods ) , baronage , landed gentry , burgesses , and sometimes free peasants . Broadly speaking , land and commerce was each given " a volume of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not engaged in business simply were not heard at all . A member of the English House of Commons from London in the days of Elizabeth and Essex was an agent of the merchants of the metropolis , openly and without sense of sin . In his speeches he did not feel bound to refer every few sentences to " the majesty of the people . " When the representative system was transplanted to these shores the old English practice of associating representation with property came with it . To be sure , there were no estates in Colonial America ? clergy , barons , and burgesses ? in the legal sense , but there were men with different degrees and kinds of property , to use James Madison 's accurate phrase . These people alone could vote and sit in colonial assemblies in the great year of grace , 1776 . And the principle was continued in the first American state constitutions . For example , Massachusetts distributed representation in her senate among the towns on the basis of tax contributions , and gave the vote only to men who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Against fundamental changes in this perfect order John Adams and Daniel Webster , one looking to the past and the other to the future , lifted their voices high in the Massachusetts constitutional convention of 1820 . Even the Better America League , as well as Mr. Norris , would have to admit that the Fathers connected representation with taxation . But just at the very moment when the Fathers were setting up their first state governments on the foundation of property , on the age-long assumption that only the possessors of goods should have a " volume of voice " in representation , a new doctrine was spreading throughout western Europe . Though ancient in its origins , this new gospel was strikingly presented by the French radical , Rousseau , in his flaming diatribe , The Social Contract . In brief it may be outlined as follows : Human society began in an original contract made between free and equal men , and the true and moral source of all political authority is the general will of such men . In the formulation of this will all individuals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rousseau carried this theory to mathematical finality : if there are ten thousand active citizens in any society , then each citizen has one ten-thousandth part of the political power . But what if they can not all agree ? Rousseau anticipates this possibility : the general will is expressed by the majority ? in some cases , by an extraordinary majority of three-fourths . What of the minority outvoted ? Rousseau has an answer . " When , " he says , " the opinion contrary to mine prevails , it only shows that I was mistaken , and that what 1 supposed to be the general will was not general . " In this scheme of politics there is no property , there are no classes , groups , or estates . All heads are , for political purposes , equal and alike ; each individual has the same amount of power ; the voter is an abstract man , a disembodied spirit ; he is not engaged in agriculture , or in running a factory , or in speculating on the stock market . And this order is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . worth , and value of the human being as such . A revolutionary doctrine opposed to the " divine right " of kings , Rousseau 's creed served well the French people in the lurid days when they were levelling the ancient monarchy to earth . Searching in old English writings , Thomas Jefferson found a similar doctrine and elaborated it with fundamental distinctions of his own . As Professor Chinard points out in his recent book on Jefferson , the Virginia philosopher may not have known Rousseau 's theory . At all events , in the Declaration of Independence he starts with the fundamental proposition that " all men are created equal , that they are endowed with certain unalienable Rights , that among these are Life , Liberty , and the pursuit of Happiness . That to secure these rights , Governments are instituted among men , deriving their just powers from the consent of the governed . " It is to be noted that Jefferson did not include " property " among the unalienable rights . Nor was this omission due to inadvertence . Years later when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Man , " containing among them " the right to property , " the Sage of Monticello suggested the elimination of property from the list . This did not mean that he was opposed to private property , but that it was not to be included in the program of natural rights strictly considered . Here is the root of that Jeffersonian philosophy which " exalts the man above the dollar , " which assigns people with little property " a volume of voice louder than that of their money ( even though cash may talk in subterranean places ) . In the long contests of parties and states , surging up in wars and revolutions , the doctrine of " free-andequal men , " associated with the names of Rousseau and Jefferson , triumphed throughout the Western world as the accepted talking-point of politics . And indeed it was not all window-dressing . It became a force in itself : ideas as well as facts influence the conduct of human beings . It softened the sharp edge of propertied classes by imposing upon them moral obligations running counter to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of humane legislation , assisted of course by agitations and revolutionary threats on the part of propertyless persons . In spite of the contempt poured upon it by the spiritual heirs of Alexander Hamilton , it has become so enshrined in American traditions that it is safe to keep copies of the Declaration of Independence in public school buildings and to read it to immature school children ? except in times of war and rebellion when the exigencies of public safety make it inexpedient . Whatever he may think , no candidate for Congress would now dare to say openly in any part of the Union that those who own the property of the country ought by rights to govern it . Of course , Mr. Grundy may bluntly assert , in effect , that the manufacturing capitalists ought to make the tariff schedules , but doubtless the Senator and Representatives from his state look upon his statement as a faux pas , if nothing worse . As a matter of fact , the general structure of the American government is apparently reared on the " free-and-equalprinciple . " Members of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the basis of their respective population ? free-and-equal heads ? not on the basis of the amount of property owned or taxes paid . They arc elected by the head-counting process . In the House all heads are equal on roll call . If two Senators are assigned to each state , irrespective of their populations , this is a historic concession to political entities , not to any rights of property . The arithmeticians of politics have pointed out that during the fiscal year ended in June , 1929 , the state of New York contributed to the Federal Government in income and miscellaneous taxes more than twenty-eight times the amount contributed by eight of Mr. Grundy 's " backward states " combined : Arizona , Arkansas , Idaho , Georgia , Mississippi , Montana , North Dakota , and South Dakota . In short , according to outward signs , the Congress of the United States is based on free-and-equal heads and free-and-equal states . Did the Fathers IY who framed the Constitution and set up this Congress really believe in Jefferson 's free-and-equal doctrine ? The answer is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of all James Madison , who succeeded Jefferson in the presidency . Did classes , groups , estates , property owners , and economic interests disappear when government was turned over to free-and-equal heads , irrespective of their goods ? The census returns give a negative reply . In the ample days of Andrew Jackson , when white manhood suffrage practically triumphed over property , there were still in the country planters , freeholders , manufacturers , bankers , mechanics , factory operatives , farm hands , and many other orders and estates . No doubt , the owners of goods were at first somewhat afraid lest " horny-handed sons of toil " despoil them of their possessions by political processes , but their alarms were groundless and they managed to hold to what they had . The only great expropriation that has taken place in America since that day is the confiscation and emancipation of the planters ' property in slaves ( about four billion dollars ) , and that high act had the sanction of Northern manufacturers and farmers ? all property owners. * No ; the shift in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wealth and the structure of economic society . And to some extent this outcome was due to the fact that the framers of the Constitution did not believe in Jefferson 's free-and-equal creed but concerned themselves extensively with projects for preventing its strict and logical operation in politics . In other words , the creed proclaimed for popular uses did not correspond to the realities of life and politics as seen by the Fathers . Eleven years after the Declaration of Independence , James Madison , in a number of the Federalist pleading with the voters to ratify the pending Constitution of the United States , pointed out the perils of majority rule ? government by head-counting . More than that , he showed that the principal business of legislation was the regulation of various and interfering economic interests and that the various and interfering economic interests affected by it ( favorably or adversely ) would have the making of such legislation . Let Madison speak for himself : " A landed interest , a manufacturing interest , a mercantile interest , a moneyed interest , with many lesser interests , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into different classes , actuated by different sentiments and views . " Here , says Madison , is the prime source of political parties and factions . Of course , no sacred Republican or holy Democrat would admit it to-day , but such was the view of an influential framer of the Constitution . ' , Perhaps the destruction of the property of the liquor interests should be mentioned under this beach but it merely adorns the tale . And Madison goes on remorselessly to add : " And what are the different classes of legislators but advocates and parties to the causes which they determine ? Is a law proposed concerning private debts ? It is a question to which the creditors are parties on one side and the debtors on the other . . . . Shall domestic manufactures be encouraged , and in what degree , by restrictions on foreign manufactures ? are questions which would be differently decided by the landed and the manufacturing classes , and probably by neither with a sole regard to justice and the public good . " Mr. Grundy was anticipated . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a conflict of economic interests , especially between commerce and agriculture , would always run through the politics of the Federal Government , whatever obeisance was made to " free people " or " backward states " as such . Moreover , they believed that in the long run head-counting on the principle of equality would not create equality in political power and " volume of voice , " no matter now firmly established in legal declaration . On this ground , Gouverneur Morris advocated giving one branch of Congress , the Senate , directly and frankly to the concentrated wealth of the country . He was convinced that if no distinction was made between the Senate and the House , if both branches were elected by general suffrage , the rich would control both of them . It is true that he feared the masses , perhaps as much as Hamilton , but he feared also the classes . To obviate danger from this source , he proposed to give the masses their own legislative chamber and the classes theirs ; he thought that , by recognizing economic facts in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and public business would be conducted on the philosophy of " as is . " " The rich , " he said , " will strive to establish their dominion and enslave the rest . They always did . They always will . The proper security against them is to form them into a separate interest . The two forces will then control each other . Let the rich mix with the poor and in a commercial country they will establish an Oligarchy . Take away commerce and the democracy will triumph . Thus it has been all the world over . So it will be among us . " Under Morris 's scheme , Mr. Grundy and Mr. Eyanson 's chief ( not Mr. Eyanson , the hired man , or Mr. Bingham , the scholar ) would be in the Senate . They would not have to resort to lobbying , propaganda , and back-stairs methods to gain their ends . They would not be subjected to charges of violating the " ethics " of the Senate . But the Morris project failed in the Constitutional Convention . So @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a focus in various branches of the Federal Government . A proposition to apportion representation on the basis of wealth was defeated ; it would have put agriculture in the saddle in 1787 and , besides , it ran counter to the vested interests of politicians in the small states , bent on equality . At one time the convention carried a motion instructing a committee to fix property qualifications for members of Congress . Only one delegate spoke against it on principle . Benjamin Franklin , who was familiar with Pennsylvania politics , said that " some of the greatest rogues he was ever acquainted with were the richest rogues . " The convention adopted also a resolution favoring a property qualification for the presidency ; Pinckney of South Carolina ( state of Tillman and Blease ) thought that this was highly desirable . Gouverneur Morris wanted a property qualification put on voters . A careful student , S. H. Miller , who has examined all the evidence on these points , correctly concludes that the lack of property qualifications for office in the Constitution is not owing to any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The absence of such property quafifications is certainly not due to any belief in Jefferson 's free-and-equal doctrine . It is due rather to the fact that the members of the Convention could not agree on the nature and amount of the qualifications . Naturally a landed qualification was suggested , but for obvious reasons it was rejected . Although it was satisfactory to the landed gentry of the South , it did not suit the financial , commercial , and manufacturing gentry of the North . If it was high , the latter would be excluded ; if it was low it would let in the populistie farmers who had already made so much trouble in the state legislatures with paper-money schemes and other devices for " relieving agriculture . " One of the chief reasons for calling the convention and framing the Constitution was to promote commerce and industry and to protect personal property against the " depredations " of Jefferson 's noble freeholders . On the other hand a personal-property qualification , high enough to please merchant princes like Robert Morris and Nathaniel Gorham would shut out the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ personal property , high enough to afford safeguards to large interests , would doubtless bring about the rejection of the whole Constitution by the trouble-making farmers who had to pass upon the question of ratification . None of the Fathers appears to have called the agrarians of his day " sons of wild jackasses " or " sons of the wild jackass , " after the fashion of Doctor Moses , the cultivated graduate of Dartmouth ( Webster 's institution ) , but they entertained sentiments akin to those of the New Hampshire Senator . Unable to agree upon any satisfactory scheme for keeping such " creatures " out of the Federal Government , they trusted to checks and balances to prevent damage , and left land and commerce to battle as best they could under a constitutional system that , in the nature of the circumstances , had to recognize free-and-equal heads and free-and-equal states rather than proud-and-efficient dollars . To check , balance , and refine the views and sentiments of groups and classes ? that was the great object to which the framers of the Constitution directed their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and they sought " to secure the public good and private rights " against the assaults and ambitions of mere numerical majorities representing one or more major interests in society . They foresaw the Hannas and Grundys , the Brans and La Follettes of the modern age . They did not expect the government to be conducted by disembodied spirits without reference to the practical interests of their constituencies . And in their writings and speeches they tried to instruct the American public in the true nature of political substance . V But they failed . Their Constitution endures , a monument to their amazing wisdom , and the Government of the United States operates very much as they expected it would . But few people read their writings or pay any attention to the sound political science which they formulated . American citizens act like Alexander Hamilton and talk like Thomas Jefferson , and that largely accounts for their confusion in morals . Instead of studying and carrying forward the principles of the Fathers , they grope around in an atmosphere of verbiage that has little or no relation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ use in talking about removing economic interests from politics . It can not be done , at least in any civilized or half-civilized society . Even if capitalists and farmers could be abolished by confiscating their property in the name of the state , economic interests would remain ? farms , factories , railways , mines , banks , government officials , technicians , and various groups of workers powerfully organized . Questions of hours , wages , and working conditions would still perplex and would have to bedecided with reference to the parties in the case . Even the most obtuse Bolshevik has learned this from the battle of Trotsky against the bureaucrats , if from no other source . Misunderstandings , hatreds , and perils arise from the refusal to recognize what the Fathers well knew , namely , that the chief business of government is the regulation of various and interfering economic interests ? regulation to which the interested persons are themselves parties . Suppose that we should eliminate from the Congress of the United States all members who hold land , or stocks , or bonds , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , who and how many would be left ? Jefferson once suggested some such removal with respect to certain measures before Congress . In the early days of the Republic , when many Senators and Representatives were enriching themselves by voting laws raising the prices of the government bonds which they held , Jefferson declared that " decency and honesty " required that such members should have refrained from voting . And yet he himself proposed to fill Congress with men representing primarily the agricultural interest , who , it may be presumed , would have voted laws in favor of , rather than against , their economic advantage . Were not slaveholders pushing a fugitive-slave bill about as much " interested " in the enterprise as stockholders in factories engaged in pushing a protective tariff bill ? The matter is not so simple as some of our chimney-corner moralists would have us believe . Doubtless the investigating Senators from agricultural states would admit that in promoting the interests of farmers they are fixing their minds on economic things quite as much as Mr. Grundy in advancing the interests of manufacturers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hoover 's campaign fund . It may be that they have no lobby in Washington as powerful as Mr. Grundy 's Association . Yet , though a minority in the country , they have a " volume of voice . " Certainly statesmen from their regions , like all other statesmen , have their ears to the ground ; if they did not , they would soon cease to be statesmen ? at least gainfully employed . According to one of Ex-President Coolidge 's favorite stories , the late Joseph G. Cannon vowed that William McKinley kept his ear so close to the earth that it was always full of grasshoppers . The yarn may be apocryphal ; if not that , it is ancient in technology . Statesmen now have microphones so finely tuned that they can liar in Washington the hops of grasshoppers in Iowa . And what about the relation of lobbies to this process of hearing , seeing , and feeling ? Suppose a summary removal of all the oil , railway , shipping , steel , farm , and other economic agencies engaged in " building @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " to them , stirring up " public sentiment , " advancing their interests " in the name of public welfare . " Suppose that only disembodied righteousness were left ? the people who want to do good ? the anti-cigarette committee , the Sunday observance association , and the like . Could we be sure that only good would result ? By no means . It is notorious that some of the worst oppression and most disastrous mistakes in history must be ascribed to the honest good . Although some cynic has suggested that the heretic burners of the Middle Ages often had their eyes on the lands and chattels of the condemned , the point can not he pressed ; the operators of the Spanish Inquisition were holy men , fairly devoid of economic interest , and hell-bent on doing good . On the other hand the mercantile capitalist , while looking out primarily for himself , has been one of the humanizing forces of the modern age , incidentally working for freedom of intercourse and toleration . Those who try to do good frequently do harm , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Such is the economy of Providence ? If so , what then is the upshot ? Certhinly we can never clear up our confusion by prosecuting amid great uproar fellow-citizens who occasionally allow cupidity to get the better of discretion , by censuring the blunt for doing openly what the sophisticated do artfully , or by cheering and weeping when " shocking " revelations break into the headlines . Some of our perplexity would be eliminated , of course , if we adopted Mr. Grundy 's proposition to abolish the equality of states in the Senate and distribute representation in that chamber according to free-and-equal heads . In this case , the industrial states would have no effective opposition and Congress would be run to suit the manufacturers ; Mr. Bingham would he praised for his perspicacity , not censured for violating senatorial ethics . In this case also , agriculture would be at the mercy of machine capitalism and would swiftly sink to the position it occupies in Great Britain ? with similar fateful consequences . An ever larger proportion of the sons and daughters of farmers would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into tenders of engines or unemployed proletarians . And the economy of those who remained on the land would he " controlled " as Mr. Grundy suggested . That would be a way of carrying a class fight unintelligently to a disastrous finish . That would be one way of dissipating our moral miasma . There is , however , another and better way . If the above analysis is sound , our confusion in morals is due to the intellectual climate we have created for ourselves . Our political theory and our Sunday loquacity do not conform to the pattern of our week-day economic conduct . Our teachers of ethics give too much attention to Aristotle and Kant and too little to the reports of congressional investigating committees . Our psychologists , deep in a world of dreams and instincts , refuse to recognize the place of economics in behavior . Our biographers arc busy making heroes big or little rather than intelligible . Above all , our political science , as taught , sung , and praised , leaves economics out of the picture , and our economics , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Both are fictitious , misleading , and demoralizing to our youth , for they spread false notions of the world in which life must he lived . The solution of our problem , therefore , lies in a return to the Fathers , a restoration of political thinking to the economic foundation from which it has been removed , but with wide-open regard for the potentialities of the engineering age which they did not foresee . Science and machinery have made crude class fights archaic ; contestants by their folly annually waste more than the marginal amount at stake in their disputes . Hence a mere balance of powers is not enough . The necessary rediscovery of the Fathers means a new Science of Political Economy that transcends the everlasting battle of capitalism and agriculture for advantage ? a science that has its points of reference or bench marks , not in the bald interests of cotton spinners or wheat raisers , but in the very center of Planned National Economy . If the American mind can emerge from the smoke of " moral turpitude , " it will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , therefore , is the beginning of achievement .                     