@@470090

ONE of the most ironical circumstances in the present world-wide preparation for war is found in the fact that industries in many of the great countries now at loggerheads furnish threatening foreign governments with indispensable material for armament . The traffic in munitions had lung been recognized as part of this problem , and four years ago there was an outburst of articles and books on the subject One of the earliest of these was John Gunther 's " Slaughter for Sale , " which appeared in these pages . We were told how , while the World War was on , French munition makers were supplying the German army and German munition makers were supplying the Allied armies . But when the storm caused by this sort of publicity had died down it appeared that munitions were only a part of the story . An inspection of the list of con-traband published by the British government during the War revealed what should have been obvious long before : most of the basic commodities are absolutely essential to any nation at war or preparing for war . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interruption of such traffic is an interruption of trade and , as most of the world economy is now organized , it is trade that makes the mare go . Only a few weeks ago the British government refused to answer questions put in the House of Commons about the export of munitions to Japan . The British government is supposed to be most apprehensive of Japanese aggression in the Far East . Yet answers to the question were refused , presumably because trade would be embarrassed . Here in the United States we have for months past watched our government growing more uneasy about the Tananese : the huge increase in naval appropriations is supposed to be dictated by fear of the Japanese . Yet many of the supplies without which the Japanese would be helpless to carry on the war in China are corning from the United States . This strange state of affairs is the subject of the leading article in this issue , " Japan 's Partner . " The author , Eliot Janeway , was born in New York City and was educated at Cornell . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He conducts a monthly column in Asia and is a contributor to The Nation , the .1Vew Tork Times Maga , : ine , and other periodicals . The photograph shows the City of Los Angeles loading scrap iron at San Pedro , California . The liner , flying the Japanese flag , was originally a German vessel . She was seized by the United States during the World War and rebuilt as a luxury liner . Last year she was bought by the Japanese to be loaded with scrap , and then to be scrapped herself upon arrival at Yokohama . Apropos of this scrap-iron traffic , our readers will be interested in this quotation from an article by H. C. Engelbrecht in a recent issue of The Nation : " Hardly had the press reported that American scrap-iron exports to Japan had almost tripled in a single year ( $14,177,000 in 1936 ; $39,278,000 in 1937 ) when E. W. Pehrson of the United States Bureau of Mines declared before the Secondary Metal Institute that an export embargo on scrap iron would mean the abandonment of a ' valuable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Countries like Japan and Italy , he continued , are dependent on American exports of scrap iron , and the United States could cripple the steel production of both countries by suddenly cutting of the supply of scrap . An embargo at this time , however , would only result in making these foreign industries permanently independent of the United States . " The last statement is particularly interesting in the light of Mr. Jane-way 's discussion of Japanese industrial plans . Susan Ertz , author of " Two Birthdays , " has written a number of stories for I IARPER 'S , " Vulnerable , " " On the Rock , " and " The Girl Who Tried Everything , " among them . Her published novels include Madam Claire , The Galaxy , The Story of Julian , The Proselyte , Now We Set Out , and Woman Alive . living American educators who have stirred the water in the placid , weedy millpond of college education , Alexander Meiklejohn is one of the best known . " Teachers and Controversial Questions " is his version of Wendell Phillips @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ universe that ca n't he discussed , then let it crack . " From 1897 until 1912 Dr. Meiklejohn taught philosophy at Brown University . From then until 1924 he was President of Amherst College . In 1924 he went to the University of Wisconsin to undertake the famous Experimental College . At the present time he is Director of the School for Social Studies at San Francisco , WHAT CA N'T BE CURED z ephine Humphrey , author of " Bed in Hell , " has lived for many years in Dorset , Vermont , and has written most of her books there . She is the wife of Wallace Weir Fahnestock , the mural and landscape painter . In 1917 Miss Humphrey went to France and was engaged in what was then called " war work , " while her husband drove an ambulance . For many years she has been a magazine writer and she has published fourteen volumes . Some of these are The Story of Dorset , Wintertuise , Chrysalis , and The Belayed Community . The most recent of her books , Green Mountains to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ California , was published in 1936 . The theme of her present article is met in many guises these days . It is discernible in Spengler 's Decline of the West ; social students go at it one way and medical people another . In various forms it constantly is cropping out in contemporary literature . eon CAPITAL ON RELIEF J UST as we go to press with George Soule 's " Capitalism Without Capital , " a market analysis from a Wall Street brokerage arrives in the mail . The analysis discusses the present financial crisis in a much more realistic way than such pamphlets are wont to do and is worth quoting : " The story of the past five years may be summed up as representing a complete business cycle with the recovery phase financed by government sponsored policies leading to bank credit deflation , Throughout this period private capital has in a sense been on relief . However , it has done pretty well in gradually absorbing the billions of dollars which the government has pumped in at the base of the social pyramid . These billions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . They have gradually percolated up and been transformed into hank deposits of the upper economic strata . . . This aspect of the relationship between government credit and private capital has not been sufficiently emphasized . If private capital were faced with the dilemma of working or starving it would probably struggle to find some profitable employment despite the obstacles which have been created in recent years . However , as long as the government is willing to sponsor the credit expansion necessary to achieve some measure of business recovery , there is no serious threat of starvation facing private capital . It may not live in the manner to which it was accustomed in the old days but it manages to get along and without taking anything like the economic risks it once did . " Mr. Soule has written a number of articles for HARPER 'S . The most recent was " This Recovery , " published in March , 1937 . He has been an editor of the New Republic since 1924 . His hooks include Wage Arbitrations , The Useful Art of Economics , A Planned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mitchinson fond , author of " Adventures in Psychical Research , " has been head of the Department of Philosophy and Psychology at Birkbeck Cdlle the University of London , since 1930 . He is the author of thirty-one books , including The Mind and Its Workings , Common Sense Theology , The Story of Civilization ; The Babbitt Warren , and Is Christianity True ? This article by Dr. Joad is irr two parts ; the second will appear in the July number . THERE is a footnote which might be ap- pended to Bernard lielvoto 's " Fiction and the Everlasting If , " a discussion of the contemporary historical novel . " The better talents , " says Mr. DeVoto , " which have nearly always been those of realistic fiction , must avoid the tableaus and the glamour of history in order to be freely creative ; and in avoiding them have had to work in areas where only realistic fiction can succeed . " But there is a history not so far away as Gettysburg and Robert Cantwell considers it in a recent article about " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there have been published some fifty autobiographies by Americans who , in one way or another , may be termed intellectuals . Lincoln Steffens , Mrs. Luhan , Edgar Lee Masters , Harriet Monroe , Harold Stearns , Orrick Johns were among them ; Mr. Cantwell even includes Elizabeth Drexel Lehr in the lot . He sums them up in this way : " You have to wade through a great mass of irrelevancies to get the stories out of the autobiographies , and you are likely to be left wondering at the end that they contain so few memorable passages , and so few characters clearly presented with some intimations of their depth and complexity . But how much life there is in them ! And how much their general picture squares with the world we know ! The novels of their contemporaries , of Edith Wharton or Willa Gather or ? in another sense ? of Sherwood Anderson , shed no such light on the modern world , and give us no such information into the mechanics of our own time . Dreiser does , it is true , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nonsensical unexpectedness in their characters , as if his people were fitted too tightly into their grooves as people do in life and in these records of their lives . But aside from Dreiser our novelists have avoided writing about the social and economic coercions that figure so largely in the autobiographies ; they have given us almost no accounts of men of affairs or of sustained political and economic conflict . With all their dullness , their egotism , their confusion , the autobiographies succeed in doing so , and ckttr fiction still has to catch tip to them . " Mr. DeVoto , who conducts the Easy Chair , has written numerous articles for HARPER 'S . Formerly a member of the English Department at Harvard , Mr. DeVoto more recently edited the Saturday Review of Literature . He is now engaged in examining the unpublished material loft behind by Mark Twain . Mr. DeVoto 's published work includes four novels : The Crooked Mile , The Chariot of Fire , The House of Sun-Goes-Down , and We Accept with Pleasure . He has also written Mark Tmain 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Frontier , and has been the general editor of Americana Deserts . Hubert Herring 's portrait of " Neilson of Smith " leaves little for this department to do beyond enumerating President Neilson 's books and cataloguing his editorial labors . He has written Essentials of Poetry , Tht Facts About Shakespeare , Origins and Sources of the Court of Love , Burns , How To Know Him , and A History of English Literature . He has edited editions of Milton 's poems and Shakespeare 's plays . With various associates he edited the plays of the Elizabethan dramatists , and the British poets of the fourteenth and fifteenth centuries . With Charles W. Eliot , he helped to arrange The Harvard Classics , and by himself he was editor-in-chief of the second edition of Webster 's New International Dictionary . This article represents something of a holiday for Mr. Herring , who is Executive Director of the Committee on Cultural Relations with Latin America . He has written a number of articles for HARPER 'S about our relations with Latin America . His " Where Are You Going , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , appeared in the May number . But from time to time he engages in portraiture ; last December we printed his article on " Robert Moses and His Parks . " sae READERS will recall the days early in this century when feeling against the trusts was at its height . In those days Frederick Opper , when he took time off from representing Mark Hanna covered with dollar signs , peopled his cartoons with fat men in silk toppers labeled " Trusts . " One of these cartoons showed the cowed taxpayer hitched to a sleigh driven by the Coal Trust and the Meat Trust . Said the Meat Trust to the Coal Trust , shifting the cigar in his mouth and pointing to the whip which the Coal Trust had in his hand , " Touch him up a little . " Hidden behind these cartoon figures was a contradiction . " Government , " says Saul Nelson in " What Is Monopoly ? " in this issue , " has always confounded the problem of size with these concepts of monopoly and restraint of trade . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the case against huge combinations must rest principally upon social rather than upon economic grounds . " In his article Mr. Nelson proceeds to examine this contradiction in the light of the problem as it is to-day . The author holds a degree in electrochemical engineering from M.I.T. ( 1922 ) . He turned to economic research in 1931 ; was an economic adviser on the staff of NRA almost from its inception ; had charge , after the Schechter decision , of the study of code experience with minimum-price provisions ; wrote the publication on " Minimum Price Regulation under Codes of Fair Competition " for the NRA 's Division of Review ; and was one of the men who prepared the final governmental appraisal of the NRA experiment . He is a co-author of Price Discrimination and Price Maintenance Laws . Last summer we printed an article of his on " Fixed Prices and the Consumer . " THE Happiest Man on Earth " is the first story by Albert Maltz to appear in HARPER 'S . Mr. Maltz 's energies have been about equally divided between fiction and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vaca- tion . In a setting of entrancing scenic grandeur you can enjoy all forms of outdoor recreation . After a visit to the Pacific Northwest you 'll say " It 's the greatest country I 've ever seen . That 's one vacation I 'll always remember . " ? ? ? ? Fast Union Pacific trains speed you westward in cool comfort . Rail fares are low and you 'll like the cheerful , courteous service found on all Union Pacific trains . Mail coupon for full information . plays . " Merry Go Round " was the first of his plays to be produced and the circumstances attending its run were extraordinary . The story of the play involved the frame-up of a bellhop for a murder in a city where the gangster element and the political fraternity were closely allied . Actually the play was based on a murder in Cleveland ; the facts had been somewhat altered to conform to the playwright 's needs . But at the moment of production the Seabury investigations were going on in New York and it appeared that there was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appearing in the daily papers . The result was that a harassed and frightened city government badgered the group who produced Mr. Maltz 's play and for a time it was uncertain whether or not the play could be sure of shelter . Eventually it finished out its run . Later on two other plays of Mr. Maltz 's , " Peace oil Earth " and " The Black Pit , " were produced by the Theatre Union . His " Season of Celebration , " appears in The Flying rorkshireman , a Book-of-the-Month Club Selection for May . Within a few days a collection of his stories , The Way Things Are , will be published . Almost at the same time his play " Rehearsal " is appearing in an anthology , Contemporary One Act Plays . pant Parker , who writes of " The Iconogrraphy of Advertising Art , " is the head of the art department of the University of South Dakota . ( For the benefit of the geographically minded , the University is at Vermillion , the seat of Clay County , down in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ River and the Nebraska border . ) Mr. Parker studied painting and drawing in Chicago after graduating from the University of Illinois . He writes about himself ; " In 1931-1932 , I was art director for the Outdoor Advertising Association of America , and in 1933-1936 I was art director and advertising manager for a concern in Rockford , Illinois , making pianos , furniture , and sewing machines . Not entirely satisfied with the turn my career had taken ( I had very little time for painting ) , I quit my job and went to the University of Chicago fur a year 's graduate work and a master 's degree in the history of art . I am now head of the art department at the University of South Dakota , where I teach drawing , painting , commercial art , and the history of art . My spare time is spent on my own painting , with occasional speculations on the art , ethics , and general madness of the advertising profession . " THE ramifications of radical politics are many and the history of the Communist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its life has been a troubled one . On the one hand committed to the purpose of bringing about a Communist State in America , it has simultaneously been closely tied to the one country where izs doctrine was translated into control of the state : the Soviet Union . In " Communism Twenty Years After , " Lillian Syrnes traces some of the ramifications . She has written many articles for HARPERS , including the well-remembered " Our American Dreyfus Case " about Mooney and Billings . With her husband , Travers Clement , she wrote Rebel America , an informal history of social revolt in the United States . A he says in the first paragraph of " Parti- tion in Palestine ? " John Gunther eight years ago wrote an article for HARPER 'S called " The Realities of Zionism . " Now he revises his judgments on the question and brings the story up to date . This article went to the printers just before the signing of the new Italian-British pact . In the pact the Duce undertook , among other things , these Iwo commitments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Yemen and promised to discontinue anti-British propaganda in Palestine and Arabia . What currents of British policy these two commitments cover over is not entirely clear , and whether the promises will be kept by the Italian government remains to be seen . International politics are a quivering bog these days and Bismarck is not the only negotiator who has made agreements that " merely paper over the cracks . " The photograph gives an idea of the vivid contrasts that Palestine now presents . It shows the Zion Gate , barricaded and , uarded since the outbreaks began . Mr. Gunther is too familiar a contributor to HARPER 'S to need identification . His perennial best-seller , Inside Europe , is regularly revised and brought up to date , the maimscript turned over to the printer and reset . So from year to year the volume goes through a constant metamorphosis , becomes a sort of news reel in print . In the May number of Story magazine is a short autobiography of Mr. Gunther . He was born in Chicago in 1901 , and after reviewing his Mid-Western @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Chicago , he tells of his first job on the Daily News and how he finally got the assignment as foreign correspondent which he had always wanted . " I wo n't forget , " he says , " the afternoon Dollfuss was killed in Vienna or the day we found , in a lonely Austrian village , the midwife who delivered Hitler to the world . " Of Inside Europe he says : " The inside history of Inside Europe is simple enough . My wife suggested it . Basically it was her idea . Almost at the same time , the late editor Ray Long had an idea for a European Merry-GoRound ; I contributed a few chapters to it anonymously . Then my agent in New York , and then my publisher , suggested a book on Europe from a more serious point of view . This must have been in 1933 or 1934. haggled and delayed and hated to face what seemed a long and difficult job . I was busy doing articles , and I dreaded cutting myself away from the old dreams of fiction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years of argument and delay and supportfrom friends that 1 finally did begin work on it . " Readers will remember that the portraits of Hitler , Stalin , and Mussolini , and the story of the Dollfuss killing , all now a part of the book , first appeared in HARPER 'S . For the past year Mr. Gunther has been working on a novel , now scheduled for publication in the fall . MUST " by ParkeCummings , a fa- miliar name in this department , and the Anonymous " Wives-in-Law " furnish provender for the Lion 's Mouth this month . SOLITARY ONCE MORE THE only poet this month ? he was the only poet in the May number ? is Frederic Prokoseh , author of The Asiatics , The Assassins , His novel The Seven Who Fled won the Harper novel prize . A volume of poems , The Carnival , recently published in England , will be brought out here in the fall . 