@@493742

The Week A NEW survey of the potential capacity of the United States to produce sets the possible total cosiderably higher than that estimated in the recent study by the Brookings Institution ? which was itself higher than any level we have ever realized , and much higher , of course , than the depression performance . This new estimate , carried out in great detail and under the supervision of competent engineers and economists , was financed by the C.W.A. and the F.E.R.A. It states that in 1929 we could have produced sufficient food and clothing for a decent standard of living for all if the distribution of the products had been changed , and that even enough good housing could have been constructed with the materials available . Since then , of course , capacity has been increased . If every family had $4,700 of purchasing power at presentprices , industry could produce the goods these families would buy and all would have the essentials of a good life . We have , since 1929 , deprived ourselves of $287,000,000,000 worth of possible goods and services @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resources and technical knowledge ; what we lack is the ability to organize the economics of the system so that everyone shall be able to buy what can be offered for sale . The conclusions are more optimistic than those of Brookings because the experts took more account of engineering factors and sought a better integrated result . All such studies are , of course , in the realm of speculation , but all point in the same direction . We shall never be able to tell which is right until we try producing for use instead of for profit . NO REAL progress has yet been made in the naval discussions which have been in progress in London for several weeks . The latest report is that Japan has offered to accept inferiority to the British if they may have equality with the Americans , the ratios being changed from the present 5-5-3 to 5-4-4 . If this report is verified , its only significance would seem to be that the Japanese have put forward a suggestion that on its face seems a compromise , but one they know the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hopeful line for the conference is one that would give the three powers " defensive equality . " No possible danger to the United States would be involved in doing this , and it is the only solution that has any chance of preventing repudiation of the Washington treaties and a return to an unrestricted naval-building race . President Roosevelt , it is reported , thinks that we can outbluff Japan ; that with our superior resources , we can build ships so much faster than the Japanese can afford to , that they will speedily be glad to cry quits . But such a scheme is surely a desperately dangerous expedient in a world where any spark may set off a conflagration . FIRST fruit of the investigation of the arms traffic by Senator Nye 's special committee is a proposal by President Lammot du Pont of du Pont de Nemours and Company that excessive profit be taken out of arms manufacture in time of war and that exports of arms at all times be placed , by international agreement , under the supervision of governments . This is of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plants . But Mr. du Pont 's accompanying remarks , pointing out the difficulties , deserve careful study . It would be necessary to control the profits , not only of the arms industry , but of all enterprise , if the attempt were to be successful , since it is impossible to draw the boundaries of war materials and war profits . And this would be a difficult and intricate matter . Asfor control of exports , it would be of little avail if undertaken by one nation alone . Even in , ternational restriction might involve penalizing the weaker industrial nations or stimulating the construction of arms plants within their boundaries , thus leading to more competitive armament than before . Practically , though Mr. du Pont does not say so in so many words , the control would probably come down to cutting off arms from nations or revolutionary factions to which the concert of nations was opposed . Reflection on these perfectly sound observations may lead one to the conclusion that it might be better , and just as feasible , to abolish all private manufacture of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war as well as the munitions racket . THE series of events since the group of Fascist students were invited to speak at the College of the City of New York on October 9 rolls on with increasing interest and excitement . The initial use of the College for Fascist propaganda produced a spontaneous student riot , and the inept handling of the situation created by the riot has produced a long train of student protests , including systematic picketing of President Robinson 's house . The matter has now reached the point where the faculty itself is involved . Dean Gottschall spent a month investigating the riot and turned in a report as thoughtful , temperate , as thoroughly in the best tradition of liberalism and scholarship , as any academic document we have seen in a long time . The faculty , or rather a thin majority of it , threw the report in his face , disregarded his recommendation that five students be suspended and that no one be expelled , and under President Robinson 's dictation expelled twenty-one students , suspended four more and placed twelve others @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ faculty of less than a hundred stood out against President Robinson 's course , feel bitter and humiliated by the whole incident and make little secret of their conviction that President Robin , son must resign . THE problem of administering City College is admittedly no easy one . The bulk of its students do not come from homes where a plenitude of economic security permits the development of long tempers , low voices and easily carried convictions . As Dean Gottschall pointed out in his report , to the bulk of City College students fascism is not an abstract concept for academic debate but an ever present dread . Perhaps the College could be run successfully on a basis of Dean Gottschall 's kindly , if a bit paternal , liberalism . Undoubtedly it could be run by an all-Red administration . But to run it according to the hard-boiled conservatism of President Robinson requires a more Machiavellian skill than President Robinson commands . He can win the unqualified approval of Ralph M. Easley , he can write articles in True Story Magazine and an editorial in The New York @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seditious students , but he is unable to keep the lid clamped on his own kettle , which is , after all , a dictator 's first job . He lacks a certain requisite finesse and , in one instance at least , failed to figure far enough ahead on the behavior of his own friends . Thus at the time of the riot he announced that there was no propaganda in having the Fascist students at the Great Hall ; it was merely international courtesy among scholars . Unfortunately he failed to anticipate the October 24 issue of La Stampa of Turin , which published the following greeting to Dr. Robinson 's returning guests : " Today we salute you , dear comrades in study and in faith , who by the Duce 's will have marked a brilliant new stage in the triumphal march of Fascism over the world I " THE Federal Communications Commission has recently been holding public hearings in regard to the future of radio broadcasting , which developed chiefly into a debate between the " educational broadcasters " and the commercial radio systems . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more and better wave lengths for their exclusive use , or both . The commercial broadcasters replied that the educators do n't know how to broadcast and that no one listens to their programs . The commercial interests say they themselves are now doing a good job in the educational field , and in support of this view , several well known citizens , including H. L. Mencken and John Erskine , testified . It would be interesting to know whether these and other celebrities appeared on their own initiative , and paid their own expenses , or were persuaded by the broadcasters to come forward , and were given financial aid in doing so . THIS discussion , of course , did not get to the heart of the matter . It is quite true that most of the so-called educational broadcasting done under college auspices is dull , and it is an open question whether it justifies itself from any social point of view . But certainly , the broadcasting of commercial stations is equally open to criticism . The men in charge of these stations are not competent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ selected haphazard , mostly from the ranks of public-utility employees . Even if they knew , they have not the money or the trained personnel to do a really good job at anything except their present chief interest , which is helping to sell laxatives , chewing-gum and toothpaste . If they had the knowledge , money and personnel , their non-commercial programs would still be ruthlessly thrust aside whenever a new advertiser came along with a demand for time ; as things are now , nearly every hour of the day when people are able to listen has already been sold , on all important stations . The radio will never reach its highest social usefulness under either of the sets of conditions proposed before the Federal Communications Commission . It will only be reached when , as is the case in several European countries today , every American listener can get at least one non-commercial station , offering programs arranged by a man of a caliber equal to that of a president of a university , and one who has ample funds for carrying out a task involving highly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Church and the Mexican government , which has been smoldering beneath the surface ever since Ambassador Morrow damped it down some years ago , has again broken out . The Mexican government accuses church officials of inciting disaffection among the masses , and even of revolutionary activities . Numerous priests have been ordered to leave the country , and more are likely to follow , especially since several of the Mexican states have passed laws restricting the number of priests to a tiny percentage of those permitted in the past . Since foreigners are no longer permitted to act as priests in Mexico , and since training schools for the native clergy are so restricted as to be practically destroyed , the Church fears that extinction of the clergy is coming . The issue is complicated by the fact that " socialistic teaching " will soon be compulsory in all Mexican schools . The Catholics charge that this means state support for atheism , and bring forward a long list of federal employees , who , they say , have been dismissed from their posts for failing to endorse the government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ruled by a small fascist clique which , under the pretense of socialist tendencies , is actually enriching its members at the expense of the populace . Apparently the best for which the Catholics can hope is another " Morrow compromise , " less favorable than the last one and equally certain to break down in a few more years . HOW strong is National Socialism in the German-speaking states ? What has been the effect of the individual misfortune of thousands and the economic suffering of millions under Nazi rule on the German peoples of Europe ? How much have the events of the last four months impaired their confidence in Hitler ? The August Plebiscite and the German Reichstag elections were no criterion . Voters were terrorized and votes were not counted . For all these reasons the municipal elections held in two districts in Danzig last Sunday were of more than ordinary interest . Danzig is no longer a part of the Reich , but its population is 95-percent German . Under the Treaty of Versailles it became officially a Free City under the supervision of the League @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of influence . For the last two years the National Socialist Party has had complete control of the administration . It has had possession of all municipal posts , ruled the city ? in open defiance of the League Commissioner ? along the lines laid down by the German Nazi dictatorship , dissolved the Labor parties , suppressed their newspapers , terrorized all non-fascist elements ? in short functioned as a pocket edition of its brother party in the Reich . What , under these circumstances , was the reaction of the electorate ? It gave the National Socialist Party an overwhelming victory , increased its vote by 14 percent over that of 1932 and diminished that of all other parties , including Socialists and Communists , by almost 22 percent . The Danzig election is not a hopeful sign . But it has this in its favor , that it will open the eyes of those who see the overthrow of Hitler " just around the corner . " DURING the second week of September , the three surviving officers of the " Morro Castle " took oath that their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Havana declared he had discovered a whole plot , complete in detail and execution , of Cuban Communists to burn the ship as one minor step in a campaign of revolutionary terrorism . Many newspapers played up these stories . To be sure , there were no names and addresses of these convenient Cuban Communists , but lack of credibility in the story was made up for by the size of type used in the headlines . During the second week in November , Dickerson N. Hoover turned in his report on the disaster to the Department of Commerce . There was nothing in it about Reds , Cuban or otherwise . The credibility of Mr. Hoover 's report seems demonstrated by the absence of any headlines at all about how the Reds had n't set the fire . THE visits to Rome of Julius Giimb3s , Hungarian Premier , and his Austrian colleague , Kurt Schuschnip , , g , seem to have been made to demonstrate to the world that the **26;382;TOOLONG Triple Alliance is still alive . The Franco-Italian rapprochement that followed the assassination of Dollfuss had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Italo-Danubian trinity . To wipe out this impression , the Italian dictator sent his invitation to the Austrian and Hungarian statesmen . A communique issued in Rome while Gumbos was there emphasized that recognition of Italy 's Danubian friendships had been the basis of the understanding with France . Similar assurances went forth a few days ago at the close of the MussoliniSchuschnigg conversations pointing out that the " **26;410;TOOLONG accord is not exclusive and could be extended to other states accepting the original premises . " The phrase " other states , " to be sure , refers to Germany rather than to France . As Schuschnigg is the faithful servant of Il Duce , so Gambh 's is the liaison officer for Hitler , for whom he went from Vienna to Warsaw and thence to Rome , to urge the inclusion of Germany as a part of the Italian-controlled Danubian Federation . His success is obvious . Mussolini 's esteem for Hitler has not increased , but an alliance with Germany is a valuable card up Il Duce 's sleeve in his game with Laval . THINGS are by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the Italian leader . That the Jugoslavian incident has torn a deep new rift in the painfully patched-up Franco-Italian friendship will become manifest in the present Special Session of the League of Nations Council . Jugoslavia in. sists on bringing the question of Hungary 's alleged support of the Croation assassins to the official notice of the League and she is supported by France in her determination . Italy and Austria , too , are named and implicated in Belgrade 's charges , adding new fuel to the smoldering flame of Italo-Jugoslavian hatreds . Austria will find it hard to deny her share of responsibility for the assassins . Dr. Psychic , whose extradition from Italy as the man higher-up in the assassination plot Jugoslavia has demanded in vain , is a Croatian and an Austrian Legitimist . As a member of the Jugoslav Skupschtina he was the leader of those who demanded the separation of Croatia from Jugoslavia and its addition to Austria under Hapsburg rule . Doll-fuss ' predecessor , Seipel , had taken this movement under his wing in the cause of Hapsburg restoration . THE fact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forces that are opposed to the return of the Hapsburgs does not absolve Austria from her part of the blame . It simply means that Hungary and Italy , much as they are opposed to restoration , are even more eager to find allies in their fight for the destruction of Jugoslavia . Without the Marseilles affair Jugoslavia might now be the ally of Germany and the enemy of France . The fact that Regent Paul the other day summoned the Jugoslavian Ambassador in Berlin to Belgrade and offered him the post of Premier of the new govern . ment is significant . The Ambassador declined the honor with the argument that " my well known sympathy for Herr Hitler would make me persona non grata in Paris . We need the support of France too much at the moment to endanger the future of the country in this way . " This fight of the revisionist Powers ? Italy , Germany , Hungary , Austria , Bulgaria and Turkey ? against France , Jugoslavia , Czechoslovakia and Rumania is about to emerge from behind the scenes of the theatre of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the European drama . AMONG the various expressions of opinion we have read lately , few seemed to summarize better the feelings of a large group of discontented American farmers than the following comment published in one of our rural contemporaries :                     