@@431159

 | These Public Opinion Polls Condensed from Harper 's Magazine Jerome H. Spingarn There is something terrifying about the uncanny accuracy with which public-opinion surveys are able to predict the outcome -f elections and ostensibly tell how the public feels about issues of the day . Actually , however , there is nothing very mysterious about them . Both the American Institute of Public Opinion poll and the Fortune Survey are conducted in accordance v+ith well-settled rules of statistics . IBth are conducted by persons of ! acognized scholarship . They are h ; ised on scientific sampling - the i achnique of market research devcloped in recent years by advertishg agencies which send people out , ) ask housewives what they buy w d why . Scientific sampling boils down to aking the opinion of a number of , ; 1y , Park Avenue residents , selected it random , as a composite of what Park Avenue people are thinking ; hen doing the same in factory and arming districts . If all groups are hus sounded out , and each is represented in proportion to its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is obtained . Both George Gallup , who runs the American Institute of Public Opinion , and Elmo Roper , who handles the field work for Fortune 's survey , were trained in market research . Gallup , a former journalism professor , is one of the most energetic men in the advertising business . He puts in a full working day as vicepresident of a top-flight advertising agency . The Institute 's main office , with its staff of 18 , is in Princeton , N. J. , where Gallup lives , and there in the evening he does most of his survey work . Questions for the polls are planned by Gallup at informal meetings with the Institute staff . When the questions have been decided upon and carefully worded , ballots are mailed to field workers throughout the country , who use them to report the attitude of people in their vicinity . It takes about two weeks to complete a poll , but in emergencies , a " rush " poll can be made in 72 hours . The results , together with interpretive comment and charts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are not permitted to make any changes  | in text that will reflect on the poll 's impartiality . The 640 part-time field workers , strategically located in cities and rural areas , receive 65 cents per hour , plus travel expenses in rural districts , and average five or six hours a week on the job . Most of them are college graduates , many are young married women , and all have references attesting to their honesty and freedom from bias . Their work is closely watched ; if an interviewer sends in results inconsistent with those of other canvassers , another field worker may be sent to determine whether he is cheating . Interviewers must do much of their work nights and week-ends , when breadwinners are at home . Both polling organizations prefer home interviews to street interviews , because there the field worker is better able to judge the financial circumstances of the respondent . Names are not taken , but the street in which the respondent lives is noted . People are very willing to express their views , and show a certain pride in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the person is unusually garrulous an interview takes about ten minutes . Except in the size of its interviewing staff , the Fortune survey differs little from the Gallup poll . A free-lance market analyst , Elmo Roper undertakes special work for advertising agencies , corporations and trade associations as well as for Fortune , and employs the same field staff-48 part-time worker . - in all his researches . Mr. Rolwr travels widely , supervises his staff personally , and sometimes even rings doorbells with them . Many of his canvassers are teachers ; but an important manufacturing executive does the work in order to meet different classes of people , and a successful character actor finds that it broadens his repertoire o ( types . The number of people to be questioned is important . statisticians say a sample is adequate when an increase in the number of cases fails to produce significant differences in results . On the basis of their own experience , the For tune staff believe this point is reached when 500o persons have been questioned . The Gallup peo ple are noncommittal - they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . For general surveys , however , it is probably close to Fortune 's . The Gallup survey aims to sound out the opinion of the electorate rather than the general population . Minors are not usually questioned , nor are Negroes in the South , where they may not vote . Results from states are weighted in accordance with their voting population . Thus while Iowa has roughly the same population as Georgia , her opinions are given five times as much weight , because So percent of Iowans vote , while only 10 percent of Georgians do .  | In every survey persons interrmwed are asked to state for whom dhcy voted in 1936 . There should 1 , ( - a close correlation between the coo tire group 's 1936 preferences and tiw actual 1936 election results . A p-Il in which 6o percent of the ir , pondents were for Landon in 1 , ) . ; 6 , for example , would be retw'ted . One third of all the Inr i t-ute 's polls are discarded be . use the respondents are found , wt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ electorate . These controls ( w ; ible Gallup to claim an accuracy , f within four percent . In all three anatorial " purge " primaries last nrnmer his poll predicted the retits within two percent . The surveys encounter charges of bias , especially from people who are disappointed in their findings . Jim Farley attacked the Gallup 4a,11 early in the 1936 campaign when it showed that Landon was v , ; uning , but dropped his criticism when the poll showed a swing toward Roosevelt . The enthusiasts of any movement want it to seem powerful , so that it will attract " band-wagon " support . But no one has proved any charges against Gallup or Fortune . Probably no one could . Both organizations are anxious to gain acceptance as accurate indicators of what the country is thinking . Yet the best of intentions can be t thwarted by questions which fail to elicit an answer indicative of a real and considered attitude , rather than a superficial reaction to a word formula . Practically all the words descriptive of controversial subjects- " court packing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the press . Realizing this , both organizations take great pains in framing their questions . Gallup uses two sets of ballots for each poll ; with the same questions worded in different ways , to detect whether a certain phrasing is colored or " loaded . " Roper sends out a special testing crew to find the most neutral phrasing of questions before putting them on his ballot . Even with such precautions , both polls have on occasion submitted leading questions which inevitably brought " loaded " results . The seemingly inconsistent concepts that exist side by side in the popular mind present further difficulties in obtaining consistently reliable results . Voters , for example , may favor strict government economy - and also favor a generous program of relief . They may favor complete neutrality --  and also approve the proposal to quarantine aggressor nations . If a question is considered on its isolated merits , without consideration of the larger issue of which it is a part , the answer may not mean much . A tabulation of some answers of the past two years reminds one of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a tax bill or against an appropriation.  | Such weaknesses should warn against too complete acceptance of the results of the surveys . It would be unwise , for example , for legislators to abdicate the use of their own discretion in favor of snap answers given to a private corps of interviewers by citizens who are often disinclined to be troubled with the minutiae of governmental affairs . No intelligent person can afford to ignore what the Gallup and Fortune polls reveal . But even the best polls have their limitations , and the poll , as an institution , will bear skeptical watching .                     