@@487446

MUSIC TN* ONE of his finest essays , " Music at Night , " Aldous 1Huxley writes of what a painting , by " the forms and their arrangement . . . the disposition of the lines and planes and masses , " will say " to anyone in the least sensitive to the eloquence of pure form . " But to someone not in - the least-sensitive to the eloquence of pure form the painting will say nothing . And such a person , if he lives on the democratic assumption of the complete adequacy of his normal equipment to any subject , is likely to conclude that if the meaning of the painting were only explained to him in the right terms he would understand it , or that there is something to know - about the painting which , if he were told it , would give him him the perception he lacks , or that there is really nothing to perceive and those who claim perception are frauds . Faced by these attitudes one can try to remove them , or one can exploit them . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a reader , that there is an " eloquence of pure form " to which one person may be sensitive and another not . Or one can entertain him , and let him think that when he is entertained he is understanding the painting ( to be amused by biographical details is not to be sensitive to the eloquence of pure form ) ; and orie can , in this way , confirm his belief that what there is to be understood he is fully competent to understand and what he does not understand is not there to be understood . This is the Simon and Schuster method with the arts and sciences , of which the latest example is " Men of Music " by Wallace Brockway and Herbert Weinstock ( $3.75 ) . The publishers , true enough , offer it to the reader who has " an affection for , though not a technical knowledge of , music , " which some readers , no doubt , will have ; but there is no doubt also that it will be read by those whom it was planned December @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all they need to increase their slight enjoyment of music is a good dose of " knowledge . " Such readers will be attracted to the book by the statement of Clifton Fadiman , breaking his rigorous silence on books about music to say that this one is " for those who know practically nothing of music , but are willing to learn " ; and by the publishers ' statement that the book , which " treats music in the terms of the men who created it , " " will prove immensely valuable to the millions of people who wish to know more about the music they hear each day . " Opening the book the reader encounters first Deems Taylor 's introduction  --  a characteristic Taylor performance . Taylor once wrote of Walter Damrosch : " He never was a Karl Muck , and I do n't believe he ever wanted to be one . He seems curiously impatient of ultra-subtle readings of the classics " ? by which the difference between Damrosch and Muck was converted into the difference between healthy simplicity and ultra-subtlety , and Damrosch @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Taylor method , which he uses in the present introduction to convert the types of music that are not discussed in the book into matters that no healthy , normal music lover will bother with . And in this instance , when Taylor gets his readers to share his ignorance of the nature and significance and value of types of music other than European music of the past three centuries , he encourages the intolerance such readers are likely to feel toward these forms of music and toward people who are not ignorant , and he is therefore guilty of a species of cultural rabble-rousing . After this introduction the reader comes to the book itself . The authors ' intention in describing the lives that are to illuminate the music includes ' stripping away the romantic glamour and revealing the composers as human beings like the rest of us ; their method includes jazzing up the material and tone ; and while this sensationalizing and cheapening procedure can entertain readers with a taste for that kind of entertainment it can not accomplish the proper end of biography . To @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Leopold II did not include Mozart in his retinue for the coronation in Frankfort , Mozart , " in view of his desperate financial plight and the possibility of having a large audience among the visitors to the coronation , pawned his silver plate and ornaments ' to pay his expenses , " is to give a reader a notion of the circumstances of his life and period  --  the fact that his only hope ofthe money , the commissions , the post he needed so desper- ately was to present himself to such audiences  --  that made him decide he must go to Frankfort at any cost . To write , as Brockway and Weinstock do , that " Mozart 's actions at this point were hysterical . Constanze was ailing and required expensive medical care , he himself had only just recovered from a serious illness , and his poverty was becoming unbearable . Yet he pawned the few valuables he had left and gallivanted off to Frankfort with the idea of giving concerts while the city was crowded with notables , " is to give the reader a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ultimately the man . Similarly , to write , as Turner does , that a sensitive and imaginative person can understand what the letters to Puchberg must have cost Mozart , is to convey to a reader a notion of what makes these letters so painful to read  --  the agony of a man of delicacy and pride who has to The NATION beg for help ; to write , as Brockway and Weinstock do , that " he now began that series of begging letters to a fellow-Mason which is matched in the annals of music only by the more flagrant specimens from Wagner 's pen , " is to give a reader a false conception of the letters and so of the man . And countless details of this sort add up to the authors ' inadequacy to their objective of illuminating the lives of the men they discuss . This inadequacy appears also in their discussion of the milcir : it- is - ngerstandable 4-1-rat men whomiss what is in Mozart 's letters should miss the poignancy of the E flat symphony and hear only " a gay , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " And with the same inadequacy there are the same deflationary intention and the same sensationalizing and cheapening method  --  which enables them to be airily impressive to their readers , but not to accomplish the proper end of criticism . Their reading of Tovey is evident in the unacknowledged borrowing of words , phrases , ideas  --  everything , in fact , but Tovey 's understanding ; as a result their discussion of Schubert 's music is a lurid hashing up of all the notions that Tovey cites chapter and verse in the music to disprove ; and from their statements about Schubert as a composer capable of the single lyrical inspiration for a song but unable to cope with the materials and problems of large forms  --  for example , " But alas ! it was again on the rock of development that Schubert foundered . After proving conclusively that he could write page after page of great symphonic music , he seems to have unfocused his attention on the extremely difficult business on hand , and to have lapsed into . . . irrelevant garrulousness . Thus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ note . . . " ? from such statements a reader will not get the understanding of Schubert as a powerful innovator in large forms that one gets from Tovey 's monumental demonstration , the understanding even of Schubert 's weaknesses that Tovey expresses in the statement that they are relaxations of his powers  --  to say nothing of Tovey 's observations that the first movement of the C major symphony has " more than Schubert 's usual concentration , " that " the development is conspicuously free froth redundancy or digression , " and that the conclusion of the work " is one of the greatest in all symphonic music . " And finally the book offers material of which a fair sample is the - statement that in his piano trios the piano helped Schubert " successfully to overcome miscalculations in design and instrumentation that often baffled him when composing ' for strings alone . " This statement , properly made , sums up detailed knowledge of the works for strings alone and detailed observation of their miscalculations in design ; and it can be genuinely understood only by a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ willing and able to acquire it . The reader of " Men of Music " is therefore not likely to understand the statement , but this will not keep him from repeating it ; and there we have a major purpose of the book . It is , says Mr. Fadiman , " for those who may have heard a good deal of music but are not even quite sure they know what they like " ; and it makes it possible for such persons to talk knowingly about Schubert 's miscalculations In design without being able to know one if they heard it . B. H. HAGGIN                     