@@431161

 | Hair Notions and Bald Facts Condensed from Hygeia Lois Mattox Miller Most of the beliefs people have about their hair and how to keep it are unconfirmed by laboratory tests and the research of specialists . For instance , the myth that exposure to sunlight will raise a crop of superfluous hair was exploded in a series of experiments by Drs . C. H. Danforth and Mildred Trotter at the Washington University School of Medicine . Late one spring , the hairs on the scalp and legs of 12 college girls were microscopically examined and counted . All summer t he girls basked in the sun . In the autumn , the microscope showed t hat the prolonged baking had had no effect on the growth , in number , ) r texture , of the hair . The same investigators also disposed of the common belief that shaving causes hair to grow out thicker and more bristly than betore - a superstition which makes women turn to sometimes harmful chemical depilatories , and men keep their razors away from the fuzz on cheekbones ! Drs . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , from knee to ankle , twice a week for eight months . Twelve men shaved the left side of their chests daily . In each case , when the hair had grown out again , microscopic comparison showed that shaving had no noticeable effect . The illusion of a stubble , when hair sprouts again after shaving , is caused by the changed ratio of the hair 's diameter to its length . If allowed to grow , the steel bristles on a morning chin eventually become a silky beard . The moral here , for women , is that shaving is safer than scraping the skin with pumice stone or emery boards , or resorting to hair removers , which may cause severe skin infections . The one safe method of permanently removing the hair , electrolysis , is expensive and should be entrusted only to an expert , with the approval of your physician . Another current myth , spread by many barbers , is that singeing " seals " the hair and prevents the escape of its " vital fluid . " The hair has no more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not necessarily produce baldness . Wrong also are the beliefs that the hair should be shampooed as seldom as  | possible " because moisture is harmful " ; that washing the hair twice a week or even daily helps the scalp to " breathe " ; that massaging loosens the hair ; that massaging with vacuum cups somehow strengthens it . And eminent dermatologists who have made a lifelong study of the human hair deplore the millions of dollars spent annually on hair tonics , baldness remedies and expensive " hair-growing " treatments . Hair is not an independent structure growing out of the skin as wheat grows from the earth , and the human scalp can not be cultivated like a tract of arable land . Like fingernails , hair is simply another form of the horny layer of the skin itself . Each hair grows up from a tiny papilla that lies deep in the corium , or body of the skin . Growth pushes the hair upward through a firm tubule , or follicle , which shapes it into a strong slender shaft . For a very short @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , similar to the deeper layer of the skin itself . But beyond that point it is lifeless insensitive horn . Dr. Hans Iiriedenthal 's count of the hairs on the human head , accepted as approximately correct , is 88,00o for redheads , zo2 , ooo for brunettes , 104,000 for blondes . Normally each of these hairs has a life of from six months to four years , after which it falls out , to be replaced by a new one . So a moderate amount of hair shedding need cause no alarm . The hair derives its color from pigment granules present in the cells of the shaft itself . Normally in later life , or prematurely in many cases , this natural supply of pigment may diminish , and the hair turns gray . Worry and nerve stratn may be contributing factors , bwt there is no case on record of haw " turning white overnight " from shock or fright . Once the hair loses its color there is no means known to science of restoring it . So-called " hair restorers " are nothing more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with suspicion . For while certain vegetable dyes - henna , indigo and walnut juices - may be harmless , they are difficult to apply and effective for a short time only . 7'hc dyes of the aniline and metallia types may be harmful , and hava been known to cause serious p()i sonings . The doctors say that tlu best thing to do about gray or white hair is to admire it ! Dermatologists still do n't know all the factors involved in making hair grow . But that is no reason for clinging to superstition . So the dermatologists urge us to save time , hair and money by learning a few simple rules . Take warning from dandruff , : t contributing cause of baldness . Occasional small flakes that appear in the hair are bits of dead skin naturally shed , but the unsightly scurf popularly called dandruff means that bacteria have attacked your  | scalp . Usually they will succumb to : c shampoo made of tincture of green soap . Avoid " dandruff removers " and " dandruff shampoos . " If the condition persists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by your barber or your friends . Keep your hair clean with fortnightly shampoos , using a pure toilet soap and water . Prepared shampoos at best are nothing more than this ; at worst they may contain borax or alkali - both irritating to the scalp . Rinse the hair carefully , and - if possible dry it in the sun . After a swim , wash out the sand and salt , then dry your hair with a towel . The male habit of wetting the hair in order to comb it clown is considered by some a possible contributing cause of baldness . Vigorous daily brushing stimulates the sebaceous glands which make the hair glossy by distributing over it the natural oil from the scalp . When the hair seems too dry and unruly after a shampoo , a little vaseline , olive oil , or sweet almond oil may be rubbed in . If it is too greasy , wet the hair with alcohol , and rub off quickly before it evaporates . Massaging is excellent , when correctly performed . Do n't rub the scalp violently or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scalp firmly with the fingers and move it about over the skull , thereby stimulating not only the scalp but the underlying fatty tissue which separates the scalp from the skull . The best medical explanation of baldness is that this subcutaneous fat , prematurely in middle age , or naturally in old age , gets thinner and disappears . The scalp becomes more tightly attached to the skull ; the hair follicles close up and vanish , and baldness sets in - usuallyon the top of the head where the skin is tightest . According to this theory , women are bald far more rarely than men because their hair , like a man 's beard , is a secondary sex characteristic and because their layer of subcutaneous fat is thicker than a man 's , and atrophies much later in life . Baldness is of two quite different types . One type accompanies a variety of diseases . When the disease is cured , the hair often grows in again as mysteriously as it fell out . The claims of success made by baldness remedies are founded upon such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ remedy had been applied . The other type , " common " baldness , is still a profound puzzle . Dermatologists believe that , while much may be done to prevent it , nothing will cure it once the hair is gone . There is much evidence that this scourge is hereditary , and that the tendency can be passed on not only by a bald father but through the mother who is not subject to it herself . Intensive research should some day reveal its cause , prob-  | ably deep in the obscure chemistry of the glands . Yet enough is known about human hair for dermatologists to say that if people only paid more attention to the fundamentals of scalp hygiene , and less to popular superstitions , remedies and tonics , they would keep their hair longer , The safest advice is " Take care of ' ' your hair while you have it and forget about it when it 's gone . "                     