@@141748

For the first quarter-century of its history as a parade of sport and fashion , the National Horse Show , traditional premiere of the New York social season , was hampered by the fact that the horse was a standard means of conveyance . Not until the automobile removed its last stigma of practicality did the Horse Show really come into its own . Since the War , while the utility of the show horse has declined to the vanishing point , the glittering popularity of the Horse Show has enormously increased . New events , active and frivolous , replacing stodgy regiments of carriage horses , have made the whole affair intelligible and even entertaining to people who once considered it no more than a malodorous nuisance . Last week the National Horse Show entered the second half of its first century as a New York institution . Though it could not be said to have opened the social season , already in full swing , it made all old horse shows look uncombed and shabby by comparison . <P> Opening night was the most brilliant on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Garden crackled with applause when a severe , vaguely familiar-looking man in a tail coat came out into the ring to receive the salute of 26 of the world 's ablest cavalry officers , picked from Canada , Chile , France , Great Britain , the Irish Free State , Sweden and the U. S. He was General John Joseph Pershing . Most popular event of the evening was the performance of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police . More spectacular than in fiction or cinema , a troop of 37 in scarlet tunics and broad-brimmed hats , carrying lances with pennants , maneuvered to the tune of The Campbells Are Coming . <P> International Military Jumping was first introduced into the National in 1909 . Since then it has become the No. 1 event of the show . Last week cavalry officers from seven nations were entered in the jumping events . For the first international event on the program , for which competition lasted three nights , riders were judged on form after a succession of difficult individual and group jumps . In first place after the first night 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Amador de Busnel ) , with 19 faults to 23 each for Chile , Great Britain and the U. S. Jumping in pairs the next evening , the French team was charged a fault , when Captain Durand and Captain Pierre Clave were a step out of alignment at one barrier , but even this left them a lead of 3 points over the U. S. , whose score was perfect . The margin grew no larger on the third night of the show when Swedes , Canadians , Irish and Americans negotiated the course of nine jumps perfectly , and the Frenchmen , jumping last , did likewise . To them was then awarded the High Score Challenge Trophy for a total of 19 faults to 23 for the U. S. , 34 for Canada . French Captain Clave later carried off the individual honors.                     