@@487381

IT HAS BEEN A FIRE-BREATHING WEEK ALL over Europe and the Far East , with Goring shouting threats at Russia , Litvinov hurling defiance back at Germany , Japan and China exchanging insulting civilities over Suiyuan , and even Eden and Blum caught up in the contagion and putting steel into their usually diplomatic language . In every country the Foreign Office has taken on a martial air and the War Department has swollen until it occupies the entire government . Boasts about the size of the air forces sound like stock-market quotations before the 1929 crash , and man-power is measured in astronomical figures . The world is sliding down the runway to war . PRESIDENT ROOSEVELT IS DOING HIS BEST TO peddle peace in this war-beset world . At the height of his triumph and prestige , Mr. Roosevelt has been given a popular reception at Buenos Aires that recalls the pathetic eagerness with which the European peasants and workers acclaimed President Wilson after the Armistice . We trust that the sequel in this case will not be equally unhappy . We go to press several @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a chance to call for a consultative pact , by which the United States and the Latin American countries would get together on their attitude toward a threatened war in the Americas or Europe . He has a chance to get common agreement on neutrality pacts by which war credits would not be extended to European nations at war and war materials would be embargoed . Since the Americas contain much of the oil , tin , copper , and manganese that the war-makers will need , and the meat , wheat , and coffee on which their populations will have to exist , they are in a strategic position to check the war madness in Europe . What makes us rather skeptical is the fact that the American countries have their full share of the tendencies toward fascist barbarism which are sending Europe to destruction . In the short run , however , the pan-American conference may do something to postpone the conflict or temper it when it comes . THE WAR MAP OF SPAIN CHANGES EVEN AS the correspondents put their dispatches on the wires . Towns move from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ waver . The headlines of the past week tell a staccato story of the slow improvement in the government 's position . From November 27 to December 1 the heads in the New York Times , somewhat abbreviated , have run as follows : Rebels Attack Foes on Madrid Flank ; Insurgents Appear to Realize Capital Must Be Taken Street by Street if at All . New Army Driving on Rear of Rebels ; Reinforced Spanish Leftists Claim Two Villages Taken Southwest of Toledo . Loyalists Aim at Oviedo ; Rebel Losses Declared Huge as Miners Drive on Northern City ; Defeat of Foe in South Announced , but Rightists Clear Talavera Region . Drive on Capital of Rebels Made by Leftists ; Loyalists Extend Gains ; Reported 45 Miles from Burgos ; New Advance Made Near Oviedo ; Other Successes Noted . New Battle Outside Madrid ; Rebel Thrust Checked . Meanwhile , to the embarrassment and annoyance of Great Britain and France , the Spanish government has demanded that the Council of the League of Nations meet " to examine the situation " created by the recognition of Franco @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ There is no denying that this demand forces an issue that the powers  --  fasciSt and otherwise  --  have sought to avoid . They will probably still manage to do so . But the so-called democratic states will not exorcise the acts or the intentions of the fascist bloc merely by averting their eyes . * IT IS NO ACCIDENT THAT THE AMERICAN Federation of Labor convention in Tampa pinned up a record of reaction that will stand for some time . The effective progressive forces had been suspended for insisting on organizing the unorganized , and though the delegates from state federations and federal and national unions put up an honorable fight , they were hopelessly outnumbered . The convention indorsed legislation for a thirty-hour week but shelved proposals in favor of a constitutional amendment ; it rejected proposals for the formation of a labor party ; it refused to allow a duly accredited representative of the Spanish trade-union movement to address the delegates ; it refused to consider boycotting Hearst , but voted to boycott a union label . With respect to intra-federation questions , it did everything possible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ C. I. 0 . suspensions , outlawed the East Coast seamen 's strike , and moved to set up a maritime department designed to be a rival to Bridges 's Maritime Federation . It moved to restrict the freedom of federal unions , state federations , and central labor unions . These bodies are sensitive to rank-and-file sentiment and therefore tend to be " radical . " Apparently the " radicalism " of the Seattle Central Labor Council in backing the strike on the P. I. was the immediate cause of the proposal to restrict freedom of resolution in local labor bodies . Another reason is that they tend to be sympathetic to the C. I. 0 . In general the A. F. of L. at Tampa gave the impression of crawling into a hole and pulling the hole in after it . * DEVELOPMENTS IN LABOR PARTY POLITICS IN this country are none too reassuring . The decision of the Socialist executive committee to join a national farmer-labor party was an excellent first step . But the approaches The NATION made by the Socialist Party of New York to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ repulsed . The press reports that the executive committee of the American Labor Party has decided not to admit Socialists or Communists either as parties or as individuals except on condition of the dissolution of their parties . If that decision is maintained it may spell disaster for the whole American labor-political movement . Party organizations built up through years of effort can not be expected to scrap themselves overnight . The executive committee of the American Labor Party will soon have to make definite decisions as to the party structure and organization . Since what happens in New York may have a formative influence upon the labor-political movement in the rest of the country , the committee is faced with a heavy responsibility . It must discharge that responsibility without rancor to former opponents and with a clear eye for building a broad labor-party base throughout the country . This is a problem of immense difficulty and will be discussed more fully in an editorial in next week 's Nation . Meanwhile we must say that if the trade unions show themselves incapable of statesmanship , they will not only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ signed their own death warrants as trade unions . * THE NATION HAS BEEN MANEUVERED INTO A position somewhat like that of the Light Brigade . Cannon to left of us , of short range but great explosive capacity , have trained a barrage on our recent editorial on the methods used in the Moscow trial . This editorial , detonates the New Masses , proved that The Nation is either plain dumb or a tool of the Trotskyites , " an organ of a band of counter-revolutionary conspirators and assassins . " The volleys and thunders on the right  --  showering grape-shot over our editorial on Joseph Shaplen 's reporting of the C. I. 0 . ? A. F. of L. fight in the New York Timer  --  emanate from the New Leader , organ of the Socialist Old Guard . Not only were we unfair to Mr. Shaplen , according to the New Leader , but our editorial was scarcely distinguishable from those appearing in the Communist Daily Worker , which wants a split in the labor movement . Either the New Masses or the New Leader must be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assassins , enemies of the Soviet Union , and Communists all at once . The cross-fire from left and right , however , fails to daunt or confuse us . We shall proceed as usual through the Valley of Death , firm in the knowledge that although our adversaries can not both be right , both can be  --  and are  --  wrong . * CHINA IS THE BEST NEWS OF THE WEEK . After four years of turning aside wrath with soft answers , it has suddenly turned and stood its ground . The capture of Pailingmiao , headquarters of Prince Teh , the Japanese-supported ruler of Inner Mongolia , is its first victory since the Nineteenth Route Army 's heroic stand at Shanghai in 1932 . The invasion of Suiyuan province by Mongolian and Manchoukuoan troops acting as a stalking horse for the Kwantung army was a further step in the march of December 5 , 1936 Japanese expansion . Already in control of eastern Chahar , the Japanese hoped to push westward until their power extended over all of Inner Mongolia . Thus a Japanese wedge would have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from Soviet Russia , since Outer Mongolia , is a Soviet province in all but name . Rudely shocked out of its complacent arrogance by the loss of Pailingmiao , Japan , which had denied that it was concerned in the Suiyuan fighting , threatened to throw the full force of the Kwantung army against the Suiynanese . In another burst of bravery , China answered that it would permit no interference nor suffer the loss of another inch of territory and even hinted that it might itself take the offensive and push the invaders back into eastern Chahar . Two factors make the Mongolian situation crucial . Chiang Kai-shek has a more unified China behind him , and is master of more arms , territory , and public confidence than at any other time since he came to power . On the other hand , Japan can not retreat from its policy of expansion . Suiyuan is the focus of issues greater than the fate of Inner Mongolia . SAINT AND STATESMAN , RESPECTIVELY , ARE the recipients of the Nobel peace prizes for 1935 and 1936 . Carl Von @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a Nazi concentration camp and a Nazi prison , announced that he hoped in his speech of acceptance to testify anew to his pacifist faith . Carlos Saavedra Lamas , Foreign Minister of Argentina , who won the peace prize for 1936 , is a quite different figure from the frail , indomitable German . For a number of years Senor Lamas has been active in the unification of the South American countries against war and has sought to establish on a firm basis the friendship of these countries with the United States . He was the author and instigator of the anti-war pact signed by thirteen American nations including the United States , as well as of the inter-American non-aggression pact of 1933 ; he , organized mediation by six neutral nations in the Chaco war . As presiding officer this year of the Assembly of the League of Nations , Senor Lamas made an unsuccessful attempt to strengthen and reform the League 's machinery for peace . Encouraged by the Nobel prize , Senor Lamas may be expected to continue his work of fortifying peace in the Americas . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ November 23 , before he had a chance to rebuild the family fortunes . A legend has been built around the Van Sweringens . They were the classic artists of the holding-company device ; starting with about two million dollars they pyramided it into a vast railroad empire with assets of three billion . The picture of their holdings will be found crisscrossing the pages of many a treatise on the new arts of corporation finance . In a functional society their ingenuity and single-purposed drive might have been turned to better uses than to win and lose ( on paper ) a railroad empire . It is symbolic that Oris P. Van Sweringen should have died in harness  --  he was riding in his own private car on his own railroad ; and even 647 more that he should have died in the thick of a Congressional investigation  --  just as Senator Wheeler 's committee was to penetrate the labyrinth of his business structure . The Van Sweringen properties , the key to which lay in the options to purchase the common stock of the Mid-America Corporation , which holds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tie . And since it was the determination of the brothers that held their roads together , the Van Sweringen railroads are no longer likely to figure as a unit in the four-system consolidationplans that have been proposed for the Eastern territory . Thus ends the short-lived Van Sweringen dynasty  --  from shoestring to shoestring in a generation . - PEONAGE IN ARKANSAS RECEIVED A SEVERE legal blow on November 25 when Paul D. Peacher , town marshal of Earle , Arkansas , was sentenced in a federal court to two years in prison and a fine of $3,500 for violating the anti-slavery statute . Peacher was accused and convicted of falsely arresting a group of Negroes on charges of vagrancy , merely because they were " loafing " on the street at the time , and forcing them to work out their sentences on his farm . Peacher 's attorney , Mr. Lamb , said in summing up that the charges against his client were the result of politics . " There had to be an investigation , " he said , " with the Southern Tenant Farmers ' Union @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the election coming on . " Mr. Lamb also said , complainingly , that he had thought " when the election was over , this lawsuit would be allowed to die out . " The S. T. F. U. will no doubt gladly acknowledge its part in the affair , but there are at least two indications that the investigation was an election demonstration . Mr. Peacher was spared the prison sentence and released on bond ; the commission appointed by Governor Futrell in the heat of the campaign , when he promised an investigation of farm tenancy right after the election , announced a date for its first session and then canceled the meeting . Attorney General Cummings made sure that the Peacher trial was competently and fairly handled by sending a special representative to the scene . This blow at backwoods dictatorship is to be followed by further attempts to enforce the Bill of Rights by the Workers ' Defense League , if it can raise the necessary funds . AS THE DAWN WAS BREAKING ONE MORNING in Albany last May a lone and energetic gentleman was scurrying between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and save the country . It was Senator McNaboe gathering votes for an appropriation to investigate " communistic and subversive activities in schools and colleges . " In the closing minutes of the session the Senator got his appropriation of $15,000 ( cut from $150,000 ) , and he got his committee of three Democrats and three Republicans all set to hold their collective finger in the hole and save the dike from the roaring waters of communism . Public hearings in the inquiry were scheduled for late in October , but on the very morning ? they were to have opened , an indefinite postponement was announced . Now Senator McNaboe says he will dispense with them altogether and open cold at Albany with his report to the legislature on February 15 . In the meantime he is conducting a one-sided public hearing by slinging charges at all the nearest targets , as in his fulminations against Cornell University , the Civil Liberties Union , and the Teachers ' Union . No doubt taxpayers need some comic relief , but $15,000 is a lot of money to spend just to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ * SIR BASIL ZAHAROFF DIED IN MONTE CARLO on November 27 . Newspaper obituary notices remind us that he was a man of mystery ; that he was born a poor boy ; that he had more power than a king . Actually the " mystery " was a convenient cloak , purchasable only by a man of great wealth , for the unscrupulous manipulation of men and governments . Sir Basil 's power resided largely in his money , which he left behind him . If he had virtues , we do not know them . His deeds are writ in gunpowder ; they have made their little flash and their transient detonation . For a while we shall probably hear the echo , in romantic novels , in the histories of our era . In time even the echo will die away . * FOR THE SECOND CONSECUTIVE WEEK THE Nation appears without a Madrid dispatch from Louis Fischer . In that time no message of any sort has come from Mr. Fischer ; and it is probable that he is no longer in Madrid . We earnestly hope @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ heard from him . Meanwhile we are making every effort , through the Spanish Ministry of War , to find out our correspondent 's whereabouts and assure ourselves and our readers of his safety . Bigness and the Chain Stores R EPRESENTATIVE WRIGHT PATMAN 'S article in last week 's Nation , defending his antiprice-discrimination measure , raised a set of issues that cut deeply at the basic structure of our industrial life . Many business men have regarded the Patman Act as the modern embodiment of the Antichrist , because it interferes with their setting their own prices . But the act must be seen historically not as an isolated measure  --  whether devil or angel  --  but as part of the third phase of the American handling of the problem of bigness in business . The first phase , after the supine laissez faire experience of the nineteenth century , was the Sherman anti-trust ? ) legislation of 1890 , with its attendant trust-busting . The second was the Federal Trade Commission legislation of 1914 , intermittently enforced and aiming chiefly at publicity of accounts and the maintenance of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ NRA legislaThe NATION tion of 1933 , and established the principle of the self-regulation of industry , the maintenance of price levels within it , and its internal conformity to some established principle of uniformity and discipline . The dissolution of the NRA left this third phase incomplete and left those sections of industry which had relied upon the NRA stranded and anxious for something to replace it . They saw the Patman Act and grasped for it eagerly . How did it happen to be so handy ? The fact was that the inadequacy of the existing Federal Trade Commission and anti-trust machinery for combating price discrimination had for some time been recognized . What made it the more glaring was the enormous growth of chain stores and mail-order houses This had been going on through the entire decade of the 1920 's , and was accentuated after 1929 when the depression made every saved penny loom more important than ever . The chains were obviously crowding the independent merchants out of business  --  in groceries , meats , dry goods , clothing , variety goods , drugs , confectionery @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , over the entire range of the daily staples of life . And with every step in the growth of the power of the chains , the protest against them grew in volume and intensity . Hostility in the local communities soon was translated into hostile legislation in the state capitals . The most obvious device was the discriminatory tax , exempting the single store and steeply graduated with the size of the chain or the volume of sales . But here the legislatures were reckoning without the Supreme Court , which invalidated the tax measures . Nothing was left but direct regulatory action by Congress . It was the last Hoover Congress that called for an investigation of chain-store activities by the Federal Trade Commission . The investigation took three years and cost the government a very considerable sum . It produced thirty-three factual reports on every phase of chain-store costs , wages , profits , prices , operation , and financial structure , along with a final report containing the commission 's conclusions . While carefully done , cautiously phrased , and hemmed around with qualifications , these reports @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . They brought considerable evidence to indicate that the price spread between the chains and the independents was a broad one , that its sources lay in lower costs extracted from manufacturers , lower wages , and unethical and discriminatory practices , as well as in operation economies . On the basis of such a report it was not difficult to get Congressional action . The facts were there ; the sentiment from the constituencies was there , a powerful lobby was there in the form of retail merchants ' associations , wholesale grocers ' and druggists ' associations , and trade associations of all sorts ; finally , a leader was there ? Representative Wright Patman of Texas  --  with energy and tenacity , equipped with a Bryanesque populist doctrine of unusual persuasiveness , and a veteran of the lobby technique through his successful championing of the veterans ' bonus . The combination of fact , sentiment , lobby , and leader was irresistible ; the collapse of the NRA made the moment a strategic one ; and the Robinson-Patman Act was the result . With such a history it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ antagonisms , and should in the end December 5 , 1936 be ambiguous . In its form it supplants and supplements various sections of the Clayton Act of 1914 . In its procedure it works through the Federal Trade Commission and grants that body greater powers than it has thus far exercised . In its intent it aims at chain stores and mail-order houses . In its structure it is cast in such general terms that it affects cooperatives as well , and may even limit severely the day-to-day activities of business . Its general / consequence is clear . By prohibiting price discriminations , rebates , and unwarranted discounts it introduces a price rigidity into an economic structure that has on the whole had a good deal of price flexibility . It throws a lifeline to the wholesalers and other middlemen , who were on the way to becoming as extinct a race as the Indians or the bison , and might like them have ended up secure only when embossed on our coins . But above all , it gives the independent storekeeper another chance at survival in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ results will prove palatable or otherwise depending on one 's economic interests and the resulting economic philosophy one has . Our own concern is chiefly on three scores : the interests of the consumer , the interests of the worker , and the revolt against bigness in business . That the chain stores sold at lower prices than the independents is admitted by both sides . Where the quarrel lies is in the explanation of this price margin . The chains claim that it arises from cutting down middlemen costs and from large-scale buying and operating economies . The independents claim that it arises , first , from the whip hand that the chains have over the manufacturers , forcing them to cut their wage payments and profit margins , and , second , from underpaying and sweating their own labor . If action had to be taken , the statistical analyses in the Federal Trade Commission reports were probably as good as any to base that action on . But a critical examination of those figures does not always leave us with clear-cut conclusions , and the later census figures @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have to pay for the Patman Act in the form of higher prices . Whether he will get all or part of that differential back in higher wages and greater community prosperity is problematic . Ultimately the justification of the Patman Act will have to be found in broad social rather than in specifically economic terms . This raises the final question of bigness in business . The nineteenth century believed in free competition , unhinN dered and unaided by government . That faith has vanished before the onslaught of the giant corporation and the machine process . The whole set-up of industry is now hostile to competition : we have to legislate it into existence , and the Patman Act is part of that legislative effort . Here is the paradox that strikes at the heart of our whole system of a controlled capitalism . We depend on the profit motive to organize industry , but we set bounds to it by extra-pecuniary considerations which are of course foreign to business men 's minds . We personalize the hostile forces in what is probably the most impersonal economic structure the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ profit system we fight the chain store , the public-utility magnate , the investment banker , who have learned all too well the lessons of the profit system . There is the school of thought , led by Justice Brandeis ( see his vigorous dissent in the Liggett chain-store tax case ) , which feels that bigness in business under capitalism is developing a lopsided human race , specialized only to take in money , and that even in such terms it has outgrown our capacities to control it . For the men at the top , it calls for more capacities than they can muster ; for the men at the bottom , it provides them with no chance to use the capacities they may have With this view we tend to agree . But a close examination of the Patman attempt to break up the big chain structures leads us to feel that the remedy does not really reach the disease . The road to control would seem to lie not in seeking to enforce competition but in socializing industry . The Fascist Front WITH the report that Italy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conquests , the final steps in consolidating a four-power fascist united front have now been taken . In the past fortnight the fascist international program has developed with bewildering rapidity . Before the world could grasp the full implications of the Ciano-Hitler agreement over Austria , the two great fascist powers announced their open support of the Spanish rebels . Scarcely a week later Ambassador von Ribbentrop signed an " anti-Communist " pact with Japan which is generally believed to involve a secret military alliance directed against the Soviet Union . The Italian-Japanese accord closes the last gap in the fascist front . While these official announcements have only confirmed agreements long known to exist , they are bound to have far-reaching effects . The fascist powers have thrown away the last pretense of legality ; they stand brazenly defiant of all the laws and conventions which have hitherto been acknowledged by civilized nations . There can be neither moral nor legal justification for the recognition of the Spanish insurgents . The rebels had risen against a government which had just received an overwhelming popular mandate at the polls . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ successful de facto regime . But fascists need no justifications ; they merely act . Similarly , the Italian-Japanese agreement is a clear defiance of the League of Nations , of which Italy is still a member . In recognizing the illegal seizures of Manchuria and Ethiopia it declares that force is superior to law . As long as these alliances were secret and the glorification of force camouflaged by a sham legality , the democratic states could find pretexts for refusing to face reality . This is no longer possible . The fascist powers have come out flatly against law and have sanctioned aggression . No country desiring peace can ignore the challenge . Even groups which have been unbending in their hatred of communism have begun to recognize that fascism is the greatest immediate threat to world peace . The apparent unanimity with which this conclusion has been reached by responsible conservatives in both Great Britain and the United States is at least partly accounted for by the bad timing of the German-Japanese anti-Communist pact . While mildly skeptical , the Anglo-Saxon world has been impressed by the new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for a bi-cameral legislature and direct election of high officials are essential elements in democratic procedure as it is understood in this country and England . Nor can it be said that the new constitution is merely a political gesture calculated to win the sympathy of the democratic countries in the Soviets ' hour of peril . Not only has it actually been in the process of drafting for many months ; it is the logical outcome of economic and social forces that have been at work for years . Fundamentally , as Stalin pointed out , the new constitution is a recognition of the disappearance of the class antagonisms which have overshadowed Russian life for decades . Other evidences of bad timing and bad strategy may be found in the fact that the fascist powers offer their new threat to British and French interests just when those countries were seeking to close their eyes to the Nazi menace and accommodate themselves to the faits accomplis in Europe . That even the Germans recognize their blunder is evidenced by the fact that their press has broken out in a rash of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ affair . But this has not prevented Britain and France from strengthening their military ties and adopting a more aggressive tone . As for America , the entrance of Japan into the scheme of fascist power must make a vast difference in our foreign policy . However Russia may be feared by the capitalist powers in Europe , it is Japan and not Russia that is feared here , both by our military groups and by certain sections of our population . Germany could not have chosen a more effective way of alienating whatever American sympathy may have existed for its plans . If the announcement of the new fascist international does not bring the world closer to war , it will be because the dictators have overreached themselves . The solid phalanx of fascist powers is dangerous only as long as it is directed against one or two powers . The fascist dream of empire does not involve a crusade against all benighted countries simultaneously . Both the Tanaka Memorial and Hitler 's " Mein Kampf " envisage a gradual program in which the desired regions are picked off one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ increasingly difficult . France , surrounded on three sides , is likely to strengthen rather than abandon its agreement with the Soviet Union . Great Britain has the choice of surrendering all influence in Europe , the Mediterranean , and the Far East or of strengthening its ties with the anti-fascist powers . Even the United States , because of the growing Japanese threat in the Far East , is drawn closer to Great Britain and the Soviet Union . Alliances breed counter-alliances , and the necessity for mutual defense can reconcile , temporarily at least , even the deepest antagonisms . Although there are disquieting reports from the Soviet-Manchurian border , the first real test of the fascists ' new policy will probably come in Spain . Since the rebels have virtually no navy , it is evident that the threatened rebel blockade of Barcelona will be carried out , if at all , by Italian and German vessels , assisted by fascist airplanes . The NATION Such intervention would be a gross infringement of the League Covenant as well as a violation of the Pact of Paris . Inaction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ League but seriously impair French , British , and Soviet interests in the Mediterranean . No one can predict with any certainty what would happen in case such a blockade were actually imposed . If irritation could lead to a determined effort to resurrect the League , there might still be hope of establishing a mechanism for keeping the fascist powers in check . But if , as is more likely , it leads only to an intensification of the armament race , we may expect war within a comparatively short period . Battling r 7 - 1,7- 4 for the I VA W RILE the government and the private interests wrangle and bicker over the vexed problems of power distribution in the Tennessee Valley , the consumers themselves have suddenly emerged as an organized factor in the situation  --  one that may produce startling results for both sides . A conference of municipalities , called by the Chattanooga Electric Power Board and attended by delegates from some 160 towns and cities in five states , is at this moment meeting in Chattanooga to consider the power problem as it affects the electricity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ organization to represent their interests in the future . The idea of the conference grew out of the power-pool negotiations at the White House in September . The results of that meeting were regarded with skepticism by most of the public-power leaders in the Valley , particularly the decision to extend for three months the " hands-off " agreement between the TVA and the Commonwealth and Southern . That decision hit Chattanooga especially hard . Early in September , just before the White House conference , the TVA and the City of Chattanooga seemed to be on the verge of concluding a power contract after six months of negotiation . The city had , in fact , signed the contract , and the document had been returned to Knoxville for the signature of A. E. Morgan , chairman of the Authority . But he delayed signing , without giving any adequate reason . Then the news of the power-pool proposal broke . The local power board went to Knoxville and agreed , after talking with Dr. Morgan and David E. Lilienthal , power director of the TVA , to wait until @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ far from happy about the situation . Although convinced that Lilienthal was in sympathy with them and opposed to the truce with the C. and S. , they felt that Morgan was hostile . At a meeting with Lilienthal held immediately after the Knoxville conference the idea of a meeting of municipalities was born . Whatever may be the effect of the present conference on the TVA , one thing is certain : the public-power leaders in the Valley are backing Lilienthal in his differences with Morgan and will fight any power-pool plan that would sacrifice the TVA rate schedule or suppress municipal distribution systems . 