@@491559

DURING Franklin D. Roosevelt 's first Administration the New Deal was looked upon and hated , or embraced , as an economic phenomenon . It was the body economic arid not the body politic that was being operated on . If anything untoward was happening to the body politic , it was good Democratic strategy to conceal the fact . The political consequences of the New Deal , to be sure , were much written about and warned against . But the President and Mr. Farley were far too effective peacemakers to allow those consequences to be made an issue . They were not an issue in the last election , even after the defection of such notable Democrats as Alfred E. Smith and John W. Davis , and the silence of such others as Newton D. Baker and Owen D. Young . The average American voter wanted economic salvation . The average Democratic politician wanted to win . The President and his program brought those two desires into happy union , and the result was a landslide . But the union was one of convenience , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under way to snake certain that it does not endure . Those whose first article of faith is the Democratic Party are ready to ease out the economic salvationists and their plans of salvation , and restore the inoffensive Democracy with which they were familiar in the traditional era before Mr. Roosevelt . Those , on the other hand , whose political passions are centered wholly on economic issues have no particular devotion to the Democratic Party , save in so far as they can use it as the vehicle for their liberalism . The issue , therefore , is to determine whether the Democratic Party is to be the Democratic Party as it has always been or whether it is now to become the liberal party . Party history and a powerful coterie of party leaders are on the side of a return to tradition . The legislative record of the New Deal and  --  so they hope  --  the President are on the side of the liberals . The result of the conflict that is brewing will certainly determine the choice of the Democratic candidate in 1940 , seriously @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even more important , have a direct bearing upon the long-time fate of the Roosevelt philosophy and program . To understand the attitude of the traditional Democrat in this controversy , it is necessary to remember the constituency of the Democratic Party and the position to which , for many decades , it has been committed . In any normal political season , the composition of the Democratic Party is easily definable . It has two chief elements in it . The first is Southern , with the twelve states of the Solid South , whose sure-fire electoral votes have been enough to keep Democratic hopes alive in even the most hopelessly Republican years . In these and the somewhat-less-Democratic states of the border , the Democratic tradition has its roots in the slavery issue , the Civil War and reconstruction . Nowhere else is American politics so undilutedly Bourbon and so unashamedly reactionary . The Democratic Machine T HE second major element of Democratic strength comes from the cities of the Northeast . The men who run the machines which garner these city votes are not driven by their devotion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , not because of the issues but because of the spoils . Save where the spoils system is involved , it is a part of their strength that they stand for nothing in particular . Their aim is to deliver the vote  --  which they do . On the surface , at least , no two political groups could be further apart than these city machines and the Solid South . The background of the first is industrial and proletarian . The background of the second is agricultural and aristocratic . The Southern politician still uses oratory on his constituents and puts his faith in principles  --  generally with a strong Scriptural flavoring . The city politician has long since substituted a card file and a system of rewards and punishments for oratory , and looks upon principles as the luxury of those who are not obligated to make polities pay . When it comes to practical polities , however , they both talk the same language . In the preaching and the practice of party regularity , they are blood brothers . A straight ticket means the same thing in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is as much to be shunned or coerced in the one place as in the other . In both places , unquestioning party obedience is enforced with the same rigidity . Any development which makes that enforcement more difficult is looked upon as a threat to the strength of these organizations , and , sooner or later , is certain to feel the weight of their combined opposition . It has been chiefly from those two sources  --  the South and the Northeast  --  that the Democrats have recruited their strength . It has been the South , however , which , in national politics , has provided the party with its dominant point of view , The major interest of the city machines has been local  --  that is , city and state affairs . Their organizations and their leadership have been geared to operate in that area . They have been content to leave the party 's national policies very largely in the hands of the Southern Democrats . Thus , until the advent of Mr. Roosevelt , it was Jack Garner , or Joe Robinson , or Pat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the party on national affairs . The point of view which was fastened upon the party by the Democrats of the South was , to put . it mildly , conservative . It was a conservatism that had its roots in a firm devotion to the principle of States ' rights  --  a principle that gave ample ground from which to oppose all manner of liberalizing and regulatory economic legislation . It was a conservatism that had as its background the quasi-feudal system that prevails in many parts of the South . It was a conservatism , too , that was acutely conscious of the enlarged economic . opportunities which the continuance of that system seemed to promise , in view of the increasing number of industrialists who , seeking escape from the consequences of liberal economic legislation in the Northern states , were moving their plants South . States ' - rights conservatism had begun to pay . The wheel-horse Democratic leaders saw to it that no national commitments were fastened on the party which would threaten the dividends . . R New Political Philosophy IT IS true that the Republican @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of conservatism and that , on almost all really fundamental issues , there was no important difference between Republicans and Democrats . The Democrats , of course , were in the opposition . For that reason , they were obliged , now and again , to give some evidence of disagreement . But the opposition was not very authentic . I do not recall that , between the World War and Mr. Roosevelt , the effective liberals in Congress had a single Southern Democrat among them . The effective liberals were such undependable partisans as George Norris , Burton K. Wheeler and Robert M. La Follette , all nominal Republicans . The late Sen. Thomas J. Walsh , of Montana , was a liberal and a Democrat . But no one will maintain , I think , that Senator Walsh 's position was representative of any considerable number of his party associates from the South . In fact , the point of view of these intransigent senators was no more abhorrent to the Republicans than to the Southern Democrats . These conservative Democrats , who had begun to accept their dominance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ permanent , have suffered no end of inner torment during these last four , presumably triumphant , Democratic years . It has been plain to them that Mr. Roosevelt had very little in common with either their philosophy or their program . George Norris and Bob La Follette were more congenial to his mind than Jack Garner or Joe Robinson . The President scrupulously observed the political amenities of the party . But he persistently did violence to what had been its political and economic position . From the traditional Democratic point of view , both the origin and the administration of the President 's program have been alien . The policies he initiated were a direct blow at the States ' - rights conservatism of the Democracy of the South . The manner in which those policies have been administered is an equally serious threat to the system of rigid party regularity by which the Democratic organizations in both the South and the Northeast built up and maintained their strength . The platform on which Mr. Roosevelt was elected in 1932 departed in many particulars from the conventional Democratic platforms of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ platform . Mr. Roosevelt 's 1932 campaign , however , went far beyond the platform . It was a New Deal campaign . In it he confessed an economic point of view and outlined a program of economic reform which the stalwarts at the Chicago convention never intended and probably would not have endorsed . But they did not complain  --  not openly . The party , of ter so many lean years , appeared to be on the road to victory . Party unity had to be preserved , and was . Those who sufficiently understood what Mr. Roosevelt was driving at to be alarmed , doubtless comforted themselves with the thought that a candidate on campaign was a very different person from a President in office . In this they reckoned without two facts  --  one of which should have been a warning to them . They failed , first of all , to appraise Mr. Roosevelt correctly . Their estimate of him at Chicago was of a man with a vote-getting name and personality who had served two terms as governor of a state whose electoral votes were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ convention procedure , they had taken time to dig a bit into his record , both in the New York Senate and as governor , they would have found adequate basis for the misgivings which , too late , materialized , They would have found that the economic liberalism which cropped out in the New Deal was not something assumed for campaign purposes . Mr. Roosevelt had consistently stood with the liberals ever since , as a. youthful state senator , he took the lead in the fight against the traction interests . They would have been warned by the independence of a Democrat who once boasted that , in thirty years of voting , he had split his ticket every year save one , and whose political strength in his own state was derived  --  in part , at least  --  from the readiness with which he took issue with the state and , particularly , the New York City Democratic machines . There was very little in his record to please either the States ' - rights conservatives or the apostles of party regularity . The Ides of March B @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nominated . He flew to Chicago to accept the nomination . The delegates cheered what they called his courage  --  meaning chiefly by that his untraditional personal appearance and his declaration against prohibition . It was not until they were safely home again and the Roosevelt campaign well under way that they awoke to the unpleasant discovery of how much more Mr. Roosevelt had declared for in his acceptance speech than repeal , and how , as this campaign unfolded , he was committing them and their party to a point of view which , if it was not exactly new , was certainly not Democratic as the dominant party leaders understood and defined it . But this discovery , as I have said , did not injure the party 's unity . No Democrats of importance " took a walk . " Those who had their doubts continued to bank heartily ou " the sobering effects of the presidency " and , sensing victory , went along with the candidate . Before Mr. Roosevelt 's first inauguration , however , another fact appeared to upset the calculations of those who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Now Deal only a campaign slogan . By the fourth of March , 1933 , the economic crisis had grown so acute that even the most hesitant of the party 's conservatives agreed as to the need for drastic action . Mr. Roosevelt acted  --  drastically and with dispatch . Because everyone was badly frightened , both Congress and the country declared a moratorium on criticism . In the NRA , the AAA and a long list of other measures , the New Deal was made the law of the land . Under the protection of the emergency , liberalism was intrenehed . Some of Mr. Roosevelt 's critics believe that if there had been no emergency , there would have been no New Deal . That conclusion , again , is a result of an inadequate appraisal of Mr. Roosevelt . I know him well enough to be sure that , in some form or other , all the permanent ( Continued on Page 34 ) 34 " She reminds me  --  she reminds me of your Aunt . Lora . Yes , she 's very like what Lora was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some moments without speaking , and this stare , at first incredulous , gradually became blank . His uncle , unaware , still seemed wholly preoccupied with the saddening past . Then a big young hand was placed upon an elderly stooping shoulder and Tom spoke decisively : " Tell Aunt Lora I wo n't be home for dinner , Uncle Carey . I may be out quite late . " Carey finished a long reverie in the garden , then went stoopingly into the house and delivered his message . Lora was delighted . " You 'd said everything I told you to first ? " she asked , and then , when he 'd gloomily inclined his head , " He 's gone to Julie 's ! " she THE SATURDflY cried . " Did n't I tell you it 'd all work out just beautifully ? " She had to change her opinion about this later in the evening . Roraday was bringing wood for the library fire , where Mr. and Mrs. Speed sat at spiritless backgammon , when Mrs. Toorns came flurrying by him and spoke @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " You got a pretty tough surprise coming to you , madam ! I called up Mr. and Mrs. Meigs ' house to tell Mr. Tom you 'd send your own car after him any time he telephoned , on account he did n't take his own , but not to hurry , and all so on . He was n't there . No , ma'am ! Not at Meigs ' , madam ! " Lora stared . " Then he must have taken Julie out to ? " " No , madam ! So I called up Doctor and Mrs. Norman Hand 's house , and EVENING POST he 'd been there to dinner and still was , and answered me himself and said be was feeling so strong he did n't know when he 'd be home , and did n't want any car , and wanted to walk anyway , because he felt like singing real loud to himself all over the streets ! Yes , dearie , at Doctor Norman Hand 's and ? " Mrs. Toorns interrupted herself to rush forward . The backgammon board went @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lora rose and began to wail at her husband . He defended himself sullenly . " I did tell him ! I told him everything you said . I told him " But de-fense helped him little . Lora , had to be assisted from the room , the first stage of a vociferous journey to the chaise longue in the rose-and-gray bedroom . Roraday deposited his wood upon the library fire , set a brass screen to Pobruary 60.4811 guard against sparks , and timed his re- turn to the broad hall to give him a view of the fluctuant group proceeding toward the stairway . " No ! No ! You sha n't ! " The swaying Lora clung to her husband 's powerful arm , as he would have detached himself at the foot of the stairs . " You 're not going back to the library ; I 'm going to have this out with you ! You botched it somehow ; I might have known you would . You come on ! " Then , as he obeyed , she looked back and called shrilly , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Send him straight to my room , no matter how late he comes in . " She began to mount the stairs , sobbing : " He ca n't  --  ca n't treat me like this ! He ca n't ! He ca n't ! " " Hell he ca n't , " Roraday thought . " He ai n't your husband . He do n't have to keep pears in this house . " WHOM PZLZYT ZS EY ? ( Continued irons Page 11 ) legislation which was passed in his first Administration was always on his agenda . The measures which were enacted during 1933 and 1934 were not only his program for recovery . They were an expression of his economic philosophy . The fact of the emergency influenced the shaping of the legislation , just as that fact speeded its passage . But in none of these measures was the President in the position of a man who is obliged , by the exigencies of a situation , to endorse a course of procedure of which , at heart , he does not approve . On the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accomplishment of policies which he had always stood for . And even with the aid of the emergency , his first four years in office have not , by any means , completed the economic reforms which he believes to be desirable . But the significant fact here is that the liberal legislation of Mr. Roosevelt 's first Administration did not reflect the point of view of the party 's leaders . It reflected the point of view of Franklin D. Roosevelt and of a strange circle of counselors , who , whatever else they were , were certainly not acceptable Democrats . The party leaders complained that they were called in only when it was necessary to have their signatures at the bottom of the page to make the document legal . The seriousness of the crisis probably was a good excuse for some reasonable measure of nonpartisanship . But the President carried nonpartisanship far beyond that point . He carried it , in fact , beyond politics altogether . That was resented almost as much by the Republicans as by the Democrats . Mr. Roosevelt 's advisers  --  the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ records , as they appeared to the party leaders , were not of a sort to inspire confidence in the " soundness " of their advice or to give comfort to those who believed that the maintenance of the party organization must be the first concern of the politician . Some of them were experts , most of them had brains , few of them were out to get anything for themselves . But all of them had a zeal for the job and a scorn for the political consequences . Perhaps the measures which constitute the New Deal would never have been passed if President Roosevelt had followed the customary political procedure and confined his consultations to the party leaders and such political laymen as the party leaders would have approved of . He did not follow that procedure . If the Democrats on Capitol Hill have any pride in the New Deal , it is certainly not the pride of authorship . Its authorship goes back to the President himself , and to the assortment of political hybrids with which he was surrounded . How little regard these advisers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ confide in them is illustrated by the way much of the New Deal legislation was prepared for passage . It happens that Congress has a staff of experts whose business it is to draft bills for passage . The senator , or the representative , or the Government agency , with a legislative idea , merely turns the idea over to the drafting department , and it comes out in a form proper for presentation to the House or the Senate . The New Dealers , however , were unwilling to subject their legislative proposals to this operation . Since the ideas , in large part , were theirs , they refused to allow anyone but themselves to prepare the measures for presentation to Congress . Their young lawyers , therefore , undertook to do the drafting . In many instances , as the members of Congress will testify , they did a very good job . In some instances , they botched it badly . But in either case , the legislators did not like it .. The Heyday of the Brain Trust Moreover , the administration of the New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ down the line , whenever the administration of a pa ? - ticular measure has involved New Deal objectives , administrative authority has been kept out of the hands of the Democratic politicians and given to individuals whose qualifications , whatever they were , were not political . The first two years of Mr. Roosevelt 's first Administration were the heyday of the Brain Trust  --  of many Brain Trusts . While Ray Moley and Rex Tugwell and Adolf Berle , rank outsiders and a bit cocky , hovered around the White House , lesser Moleys and Tugwells and Berles moved into the various departments and sat next to the places of authority . Washington was aswarm with strange people  --  young men who smoked pipes and rolled up their sleeves to make America over , and young women who smoked cigarettes at . their office desks , discussed economic trends in their boardinghouses , were cynical of all that had gone before and starry-eyed about all that was about to be . Nothing like this had ever before been seen , in the history of American politics . And whatever @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Washington or the Democratic Party had understood and practiced it . In the higher administrative posts , the situation , from the standpoint of the party leaders , has been just . as bad . The New Deal for agriculture has been administered by Henry A. Wallace , a Republican who was a liberal rather than a partisan . The New Deal for industry and labor was entrusted to Gen. Hugh S. . Johnson , who may he a Democrat , but whose partisanship is notable chiefly because of his friendship for Bernard Baruch . After General Johnson came Donald R. Rich-berg , a Progressive Chicago labor lawyer , who , prior to his association with the present Administration , is not known to have ever lifted a finger on behalf of the Democracy . The New Deal for the unemployed has been in the hands of Harry Hopkins and Harold Ickes . Mr. Hopkins had been a social worker in New York City . Mr. Ickes , a Theodore Roosevelt Progressive , has been a supporter of many political lost causes in Chicago  --  all of them aimed to embarrass @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New Deal for Wall Street , the chairmanship of the Securities and Exchange Commission , was first committed to Joseph P. Kennedy , a man with Wall Street experience , who would not , however , have qualified as the Wall Street candidate for the job . At present , the SEC is presided over by James Landis , a Frankfurter lawyer . The New Deal for the Tennessee Valley , the Tennessee Valley Authority , is jointly administered by David Lilienthal , Dr. Arthur E. Morgan and Dr. Harcourt A. Morgan . The first was a liberal Illinois lawyer formerly associated with Mr. Richberg ; the second an engineer and former president . of Antioch College ; the third formerly president of the University of Tennessee . The New Deal for the aged and for tomorrow 's unemployed , provided for under the Social Security Act , is in the hands of John G. Winant , a former Republican governor of New Hampshire , who was notably out of step with the leadership of both his own and the Democratic Party . Only in the Reconstruction Finance Corporation , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ controlled by an entirely acceptable Democrat . There Jesse Jones , appointed first by Mr. Hoover , still carries on . But he is surrounded by young and liberal intellectuals who are an adequate foil for his political orthodoxy . Thus the liberals , having intrenched their ideas in the New Deal legislation , were found intrenched in the administration of that legislation . This was a. threat both to the conservatism of the Solid South and to the integrity of the party machines in both the South and the Northeast , where , in the matter of jobs as well as of voting , the enforcement of party regularity has always been the primary consideration . Soft  --  Pedaling a Party The resulting condition of internal unhappiness was not helped any by the conduct of the last campaign . Nationally , every reasonable effort was made to make it clear that that campaign was not , essentially , a party undertaking . Party propaganda was carefully kept out of all campaign literature . Except for the campaign handbook , prepared for local party workers , there was scarcely any reference @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ party , in all the innumerable folders , leaflets and pamphlets produced by Charlie Michel-son 's publicity department . When it came to the costly business of radio campaigning , the most frequently featured speakers were not the well-known party orators . It is true that on one occasion six Democratic governors were put on the air in a single broadcast . But they were chosen , not because they were Democrats , but because , like Mr. Landon , they were governors . The hardest-hitting radio campaigner of them all was Harold Ickes , with Gen. I-high Johnson a close second . The vice-presidential candidate , Mr. Gariier , was heard but once ; the Senate leader , Mr. Robinson , not . much more than that . Mr. Homer Cummings , the Attorney General , was a former chairman of the Democratic National Committee . He cut no figure at all . Mr. Farley , reversing his earlier tactics and observing those of John ( Continued on Page 371 ( Continued from Page 34 ) Hamilton , lapsed into a silence early in the campaign which was hardly broken @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Piesident himself mentioned the party by name more than three times in the entire campaign . He did not mention the Republican Party at all or refer to the Republican candidate by name . On one occasion he visited Democratic national headquarters in New York City . On another occasion he summoned a large . group of party wheel horses to Hyde Park for a consultation which was as much social as political . Aside from those two gestures and the fact that his opening campaign speech was made at . the New York State Democratic convention , he did his campaigning , not as a Democrat but as a New Deal liberal , fighting not for party success but for a cause . There was more to this departure from conventional partisan practice than appeared in the content of the President 's speeches . In Minnesota , Mr. Roosevelt threw his support . to the Farmer-Labor ticket , and the Democrats were eliminated altogether . In Wisconsin , his aid and comfort were extended to the La Follette Progressive Party rather than to the regular Democratic candidates , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ brought about the reelection of Sen. George Norris and the upset of the well-laid plans of Arthur Mullen 's Omaha Tammany . In Massachusetts , although Governor Curley , aspiring to the Senate , sought desperately to attach himself to the Roosevelt band wagon , the President carefully avoided anything which might have been construed as a Curley indorsement  --  a fact which was immediately interpreted as a Curley repudiation . In New York City , while M r Farley labored to keep Tammany in line , the President looked with favor upon the political activities of the American Labor Party , which were certainly a potential threat to Tammany . As far as the Solid South was concerned , trouble was laid up for the party by the open and unprecedented Democratic drive to win the support of the Northern Negroes . Reluctance In the Ranks Certainly no Democratic campaign had ever before been conducted like this . It no more reflected the traditional Democratic ideas of electioneering than the origin and administration of the New Deal reflected its traditional ideas of government . The old-line Democrats went along with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a Democratic label . The liberals went along with the Democratic Party because it bore a New Deal label . Neither was particularly happy in the company of the other . The old-line Democrats looked upon the liberals as interlopers . The liberals looked upon the old-line Democrats as opportunists . For election purposes , since they both wanted to win , they managed to get along together . The product of their union was the November landslide . It is exceedingly improbable that they can be held together long enough to produce another  --  either in 19:38 or in 1940 . The Democratic Party may win in both elections . It has the momentum . Moreover , it still has Mr. Roosevelt . Mr. Parley , who built and ran the machinery of the 1936 victory , believes that there has been a , permanent shift in the party alignment of the nation 's voters , and that the Democrats have at last become the majority party . He confidently looks forward to fifty years of Democratic , fatness , with the Republicans as undernourished as the Democrats were during @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon the greatly increased Democratic , registration in every Northern state , and particularly in such important . states RS Pennsylvania , California , Illinois and Massachusetts . But it leaves out of account the rapidly emerging issue as to what and whose the Democratic Party is to be ; whether it is to he Mr. Roosevelt 's kind of a Democratic party , with his kind of leaders , or whether it is to be once more the Democratic Party of the pre-Roosevelt period , with the pre-Roosevelt leaders back in the saddle . The determination of that issue is likely to have far more to do with the party 's vote in 1940 than the increase in Democratic registration . The Engineer of Restoration The old-line leaders of the party that one meets in Washington and elsewhere are pretty sure of themselves . They believe that they can safely begin at once the work of dismantling the New Deal and demobilizing the New Dealers . They are convinced that by 1940 that job can be well on toward completion , and the Democratic Party made again a party in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even Al Smith and Jim Reed and John W. Davis will feel perfectly at home . In the long run , they would rather lose with that kind of a Democracy than win with any other . They understand it . They know how to run it . Up to 1932 , they did run it . Moreover , that kind of Democracy expresses their most-'cherished economic and political convictions  --  which the liberal Democracy of the New Deal certainly does not do . It seems probable that the engineer of this movement of restoration will be the Vice-President , Mr. Garner . During the last four years , Mr. Garner has gone along with the New Deal like " a good soldier " ? if a somewhat silent one . He will continue , doubtless , to be silent .. But . his soldiering has already taken a more active turn . His return to Washington in mid-November was ostensibly because the President was beyond the territorial limits of the United . States and the Government at Washington needed a head . It is not believed , however , that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political Washington knew that the Vice-President was back on the job , and even before he took a hand on behalf of Sam Rayburn in the fight . for party leadership in the House , it was agreed in the Capitol that this session of Congress would witness the political reemergence of John Garner . Mr. Garner is altogether too shrewd a politician  --  he is matched only by the President himself  --  to allow any fanfare to mark his renewed activities . But the hopes of the old-order Democrats are nonetheless pinned on him . They regard him , not as a candidate but as the one man who can set the 1940 party stage for a candidate to their liking  --  Paul McNutt or Harry Byrd or Bennett Clark . Meanwhile , he can reassemble the pre-Roosevelt congressional machine and get it going again . Mr. Garner has undertaken this job with relish . His list of appointments is longer than ever before . He sees everybody of importance to the party , and almost everybody of importance wants to see him . He is left out of no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to consult with him with increasing frequency . He still retires at 9:30 every night , but during the day , the presidency of the Senate being an easily shifted responsibility , he has opportunity for hours of uninterrupted counseling with elder statesmen from far and near who desire to have done with political and economic heresies and wish to return to the comfortable orthodoxy of other , quieter times . This does not mean that there will be any break with the White House . The present strategy is not to oppose the President but to take him into camp . That will not be easy . But it is being counted on that the President , with a record of reform back of him and with the prospect of four years of undisturbed prosperity ahead , will be content to follow a more traditional course and to accept the help of more conventional advisers . Up to a certain point , I think that this hope is well founded . Mr. Roosevelt , in both his personal and his political relationships , is a man of peace . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ campaign . He will be the first . to welcome any erring Democrats back into the party fold . I think he will be particularly solicitous for those who did not stray , even though they were not particularly happy to remain . The present-session of Congress is likely to be a protracted love feast between the President and the party 's veteran leaders at . the Capitol . If trouble comes , it will be from the newer members , who were elected as liberals rather than as Democrats , and who are more concerned for their " cause " than for the party . After the Battle There is thus a possibility that the President , having been primarily a- liberal during his first Administration , may be content to be merely a Democrat . during his second . That would not only please the conservative Democrats . It would please a great many other influential people , in the party and out of it . Some of the most influential of these people are long-time personal friends of the President . They were certainly not pleased with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them gave of their time and money to keep him from a second . But since the election , and with , perhaps , a bit too much osteutation , they have put all that behind them . In certain circles of big business and high finance where there were hymns of hate , there are now only paeans of praise . Undoubtedly , the President welcomes these overtures . He does not like to be at outs with anybody  --  and particularly be does not like to- be at outs with old friends . He would much rather co-operate than crack down . And it . is safe to say that , with the air suddenly charged with the spirit of co-operation , he will co-operate in the hope that the animosities which were aroused in his first Administration can be avoided in his second Administration . The liberals , however , see a catch in this . They know that it will be difficult for the President to resist these gestures of good will . And they are highly suspicious of the sources from which many of the gestures @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . On the contrary , there is a widespread feeling among those with whom I have talked that here is another shrewd conservative move to get into the President 's good graces , on the part of men who are as much opposed as ever to his program , and who , having publicly voiced their good will and won the President 's confidence , will be in a position to charge him with bad faith and class hatred if he fails to take their advice . At any rate , the feeling is apparent among many New Dealers in Washington that the New Deal is washed up ; that there will now be an end to further liberal legislation and a return to conservatism . It is this which is largely responsible for the considerable exodus of New Dealers which is already under way . That does not happen to be the reason why Rex Tugwell left his post as ' Under Secretary of Agriculture . But it is the reason why a number of other liberals in lesser posts have left , and why a larger number of those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ jump to . But whether what these individuals see is the handwriting on the wall or not , it is true , strangely enough , that since the overwhelming endorsement of the President 's liberal policies in the November election , some of the fire has departed from the New Deal and something of a spirit of defeatism has settled down on the New Dealers . I have found that this is the case among the first as well as among the second and third string administrators . The issue involved in all this is , of course , wholly up to the President to decide . The size of his victory has left him with few debts to pay  --  either to the liberals or to the old-line Democrats . He is free to choose to extend his liberalism and further intreneh the liberals or , content with things as they are , quietly to put the New Deal away in lavender and restore the old-line Democrats to power . The Standardbearer in /940 But despite the apparent rapprochement between Mr. Roosevelt and the Old Guard , I do not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the New Dealers . The President likes to get along with people . But he is as much aware as anyone of the fact that he can not continue indefinitely to get along with all the people who right now are on friendly terms with him , or trying to be . The same Chief Executive  --  however much he has the genius for friendship  --  can not permanently satisfy both John L. Lewis and the National Association of Manufacturers . The present honeymoon may last three months , or six months , or a year . But when it comes to an end  --  as it will before the 1938 congressional elections  --  Mr. Roosevelt will be found to have chosen to stand with the liberals . He does not like the company of the Old Guard . He does not share their point of view . He likes the company of the liberals . They talk his language . The things they are out to do are generally things that he approves of . In the end , he will line up with them , not because they have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is negligible  --  but because , as I have already pointed out , the President , at heart , is a liberal . It is commonly conceded that Mr. Roosevelt will be in a position to name the 1940 Democratic candidate . At present , the two men most frequently mentioned for his favor are George Earle , governor of Pennsylvania , and Henry Wallace , the Secretary of Agriculture ; Governor Earle 's term expires in January , 1939 ? at which time the Pennsylvania Democratic organization hopes to win for him the Senate seat now held by James J. Davis . Both Governor Earle and Secretary Wallace are convinced liberals . Governor Earle is a political newcomer , but he has the very great advantage of support from the highly organized and eminently successful Pennsylvania machine of Sen. Joseph F. Guffey . The governor would probably be the better campaigner of the two . Mr. Wallace has the advantage of strong support from the farm belt . He has uo organization backing to speak of . But he has the confidence of the President as few other men have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ serious student of government among the President 's chief administrators . There are many Washington observers who believe that his lack of spectacular qualities , personally and on the platform , will be an asset to him . And the blessing of the President would doubtless more than offset the initial political advantages of Governor Earle . Political Forecast The nomination of either candidate , however , would mean the defeat and , probably , the political extinction of the Old Guard Democrats . It . would mean the perpetuation of the economic liberalism begun under Mr. Roosevelt and the further intrenchment of economic liberals of the type whom he has favored . The Democratic Party , in that case , would admittedly be the liberal party . Just how long such a party could hold the Solid South is difficult to forecast . Certainly they could not be held permanently , for the Democratic Party of the Solid South is anything but liberal . It is likely that this defection would be more than offset by the increased liberal strength in the cities of the North and in the Western @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ party 's strength of a majority of the Northern Negro vote . At any rate , Mr. Roosevelt 's first Administration and his campaign for re-election combined to set the stage for such a political realignment . I believe that the stage was set deliberately , and not by chance . The President is too adept at the business of politics to have been unaware of the consequences to the party of the course he has pursued . Ho is convinced that the two-party system is meaningless unless there is some fundamental difference in the philosophy and the aims of the two parties . He does not believe that the Republican Party will ever be anything other than the conservative party . He believes that the Democratic Party  --  despite the conservatism of the Solid South  --  can become genuinely a liberal party . I believe it is his aim to make it that , even though , in the process , the party suffers a temporary weakening . He knows that economic liberalism of the sort which is incorporated in the New Deal will not be safe for long if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a Democratic Party with the pre-Roosevelt leadership and the pre-Roosevelt point of view . I am sure that he does not propose to leave it there . Because he believes in that kind of economic liberalism , his influence will be exerted to develop is new , if still , nominally , a Democratic , Party that is fit to be its custodian .                     