@@487881

T HE Drifter 's young friends are discovering America . They have spent their first thirty years , or perhaps somewhat less , in the caverns of New York City . When they took a particularly long trip it was to the end of the subway line , where they found themselves at the Zoo . In the summer , they went to the shore of Long Island Sound , with other urbanites like themselves , or they simply stayed in town because " New York is such fun in the summer . " Or merely because they did not know anywhere else to go . ( Lest it appear that all the Drifter 's friends- are members of the upper middle class , he hastens to say that plenty of them remain in New York for financial reasons ! ) But all of them had one thing in common : the country made them uncomfortable . Too quiet , they said , too big , too full of animals and plants . And of course the members of the human race who lived elsewhere than in New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because it was obvious that anybody who could live in town would . Look at the ad-vantages ! O NE by one these poor blinking city owls ai e taking trips . Some of them go down to the coalfields of Penn- sylvania and West Virginia ; some of them get into an old car and drive to the Coast ; some of them tour New England , stopping not at the large hotels in the big towns but at the frame dwellings with a " Tourists " sign out on the front lawn . Some of them are even going South and are struggling with that foreign country below the Mason and Dixon line that no Northerner ever quite understands . And when they return to the metropolis they throw out their hands and shout their discoveries . " America is a wonderful country ! " they cry . " I learned to talk to garage men ; garage men are the most interesting people in the world ! " " America is so big and so grand ; such variety , such wisdom , such geography , such human @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ T O the Drifter , whose discovery of the grandeur of America came much earlier , these simple-hearted enthusiasms would grow a little tiresome if he were not generally grateful for the spread of human knowledge in whatever direction it manifests itself . Let New York discover the hinterland if it will . Like the man biting the dog , this is news of the first water . And if enough New Yorkers learn to talk to garage men , perhaps the garage men , in turn , will learn that New Yorkers are n't so bad either . The race of brash , boasting , and cocksure humans which is popularly thought to inhabit Manhattan does not really live there at all . Get one of them in a corner and treat him kindly and he turns out to be rather a decent fellow . And contrary to popular superstition , New York is a feverish and unsatisfying place to visit but quite a nice place to live in , where almost everybody minds his own business and where Live and Let Live might very well be inscribed on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not a separate country but an indigenous and rather unsurprising part of the United States . And the United States is not a foreign country either , but that native land to which New Yorkers , whether they like it or not , belong . The Drifter is glad that more and more New Yorkers are learning to like it . THE DRIFTER Correspondence Miss Dawson Is Fired TO THE EDITORS OF THE NATION : The discharge of Miss Sidonia Dawson , an experienced relief worker , from her position as supervisory aide at Precinct 18 , Manhattan , of the Home Relief Bureau , is not only an issue in relief circles but one that is of importance to the people of the entire city , for it affects the whole relationship between the Home Relief Bureau staff and the 200,000 families on relief . The facts , briefly stated , are these : On Thursday , September 27 , a group of unemployed called on the Home Relief Bureau at 519 West Forty-fourth Street and asked to see the supervisor , Miss Florence Elsey , to ask her to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , met the delegation , asked them to wait , and then went for the supervisor . While Mr. Harmartuk was gone , a group of policemen led by Patrolman Gottlieb , local officer stationed at the bureau , charged the group waiting inside the bureau offices . They seized the spokesman of the gioup , twenty-year-old Barney Oster , and began to beat him unmercifully . Miss Dawson , a supervisory aide standing nearby , called on the police to stop . This courageous protest of Miss Dawson 's against police brutality was followed the next day by a statement distributed within the precinct by the Grievance Committee of the Home Relief Bureau Employees ' Association , voicing their emphatic protest against this unprovoked police attack . The statement further suggested that if the supervisor was responsible for the calling of the police , she be removed , and a complete investigation of this action be made . Later a meeting , at which Miss Dawson spoke , was held in front of Home Relief Director Corsi 's office protesting against the police attack in Precinct 18 . On Thursday @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ letter of notification signed by Mildred Gordon , assistant director , Borough of Manhattan , of the Home Relief Bureau , which stated that Miss Dawson , an admittedly competent worker , was discharged " because of activities inside and outside of the precinct . " Miss Dawson has been working in the bureau for almost three years , and not even the administration can attack her work on grounds of incompetency . Her subordinates are now demanding her reinstatement . This discharge of Miss Dawson , an active member of the Home Relief Bureau Employees ' Association , is , we submit , a shameless indorsement of police brutality and foreshadows other attacks on the organization of the employees . It is , furthermore , an attack on the constitutional rights of the association . For these reasons the association is determinedly waging a campaign for the reinstatement of Miss Dawson . New York , October 10 B. L. RIBACK , president , Home Relief Bureau Employees ' Association . Mr. Hodson Explains TO THE EDITORS OF THE NATION : The letter of October 10 signed by B. L. Riback @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , raises two questions , which I will deal with separately . 1 . It asserts that Miss Sidonia Dawson was discharged because she had protested against alleged police brutality on September 27 , and it implies further that her dismissal was influenced because of her membership in the Home Relief Bureau Employees ' Association . Neither of these statements is true . She was discharged because of her deliberate misrepresentation of the facts in regard to the disturbance of September 27 , in a public speech on the street in front of the offices of the Home Relief Bureau . This administration has taken a liberal and sympathetic attitude toward its employees and others who wish to make complaint or criticisms . There are proper channels within the organization through which the suggestions of the employees are received and acted upon . It is obviously destructive of the morale of the entire organization to have our employees , especially those in an executive position , calling mass-meetings on public streets to denounce those who are charged with the legal responsibility for carrying on the relief program . It is even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . 2 . Now as to the events that occurred at the Home Relief Bureau precinct on September 27 . The facts as reported to me by the officials of the Home Relief Bureau and by the police are as follows : A group of fifteen members of an unemployed council came to the precinct and insisted upon seeing the supervisor . She was busy at the time of their arrival with a very serious matter which needed immediate adjustment . The supervisor sent word to this protesting group of fifteen that she would attend to the matter which they had in mind as soon as she had finished the work in hand . The group refused to wait and rushed up the stairs into the reception room , creating great disorder . Patrolman Gottlieb , who is referred to in the communication , made every effort to persuade them against the violent tactics which they were pursuing , but without result . They refused to desist and reinforcements had to be called from . the nearest police precinct . Three additional policemen came , and again an effort was made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ refused . Thereupon the policemen , without any display of force other than what was necessary , attempted to push the group back . At this point Barney Oster , who is referred to in the communication as being twenty years of age but who is in reality twenty-five , struck the officer in the face with his clenched fist . Up to this point no one of the policemen had struck a blow either with his fist or with any instrument . From that time on a general melee resulted and blows were struck on both sides , but no serious physical damage was done to anyone . This department has consistently taken the position that the Police Department should not exercise any more force than is necessary to preserve order and never should attack citizens who come to protest . However , if the great mass of unemployed people in this city are to receive attention , the work of the Home Relief bureaus must be carried on in an orderly and peaceable way . It is obvious that when the police are called upon to preserve order they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Protestants insist upon that method of procedure . This is exactly what happened on September 27 and it is typical of other incidents in which certain protesting groups have deliberately resorted to force in order to create a general disturbance . The great mass of the unemployed on the Home Relief Bureau rolls are conscious of the fact that we are doing everything in our power to provide for them as intelligently and humanely as possible . A small minority are intent upon creating disorder at every possible turn . The actions of this group from time to time compel us to use force in order to enable our staff to carry on their work and to be free of the threats and intimidation which are hurled at them by these irresponsible persons . WILLIAM HoDsoN , Commissioner New York , October 13                     