@@487421

EVENTS of the pat week in Europe suggest that the Berlin-Rome axis , while far from broken , has become slightly buckled ; so that the two ends no longer rotate in strict unison . The demonstration of the Italian deputies demanding Tunis , Corsica , and Savoy , followed by the intensive press campaign against France , must be read as a sign of Mussolini 's anxiety lest his Munich services go quite unrewarded . It was his method of serving notice that the new Roman Empire was not prepared to stagnate while the Third Reich went forward triumphantly . Despite all the uproar nobody seems to have been terribly impressed . The German government gave no open countenance to the Italian agitation and proceeded to sign its Matte de convenance with France unperturbed . The French showed their resentment but did not take the Roman threats over seriously . Mr. Chamberlain , naturally , accepted the explanation that the outburst was " unofficial " but reminded Mussolini that the recently signed Anglo-Italian agreement provided for the maintenance of the status quo in the Mediterranean . Italy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ challenging French and British interests , and can not risk starting a war unless absolutely assured of German support . This means that Mussolini must accommodate himself to the plans of Hitler , who has several possible moves open before he need provoke a direct clash with the Western powers . Under these circumstances it is net surprising that the Italian uproar is being damped down and the demands on France represented as no more than the prelude to a deal from which minor concessions , such as a reduction in the Suez Canal tolls , are expected . Germany 's reluctance to underwrite Italian ambitions in a big way can easily be explained by developments in Eastern Europe . After Munich the Nazi government appeared to hesitate about its next theater of operations . Should it push hardest against the East or the West ? A colonial kite sent up to test British and French reactions produced rather disappointing results , and the disgust of England at the Jewish pogrom suggested that too hard a push in that direction might deprive the Reich of the ? invaluable services of Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ripening nicely in the Danube valley , there were indications that the harvest ought not to be delayed too long . Possibly King Carol , by his ruthless adaptation of Nazi methods , has already interfered with the schedule . The Frankfurter Zeitung has stated that Codreanu had given the signal for an outbreak shortly before he died , like better men before him , " while attempting to escape . " The subsequent fury of the Nazi press suggests that this fatality interfered with plans rather seriously . But if Rumania is proving recalcitrant , other projects are shaping smoothly . The Nazification of Memel is practically complete , and together with Danzig it can be assimilated at any opportune moment . Preparatory moves toward the " liberation " of the Ukraine are developing with the obedient cooperation of Czechoslovakia . Prague is becoming a center for irredentist propaganda , and Ruthenia is reported to be full of German officers and engineers surveying its possibilities as a jumping-off point . The gravity of these movements is best measured by their repercussions in Warsaw . Rapidly the Poles are being pushed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for years to avoid . Either they must accept the overlordship of Germany and assist its eastern drive or they must ally themselves with Russia . With these irons heating nicely , it is hardly surprising that Germany should have no fire to spare for boiling Mussolini 's pot , or that the axis should show signs of strain . But this does not mean that a break is near . The Duce can not afford to renounce his partner in crime . He can only wait patiently for a chance to blackmail him . Cultures in Exile T HE springs of culture run deep and are not easily dried up . But the plight of the refugee cultures of our time must have the aid of the civilizations that remain free if they are to survive , as ends in themselves and as powerful instruments for the eventual liberation of the German and Italian peoples . During the past five years the great Goebbels , disappointed novelist and political gangster , has brought the arts within Germany down to his own level , It was the Nazi hope , no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ republic , diverted from its native course , would sink without a trace in alien fields . Instead , there grew up in Europe a considerable exile press with German markets in Austria , Switzerland , Holland , and Czechoslovakia . As a result , German literature in exile , comprising as it does the major German talents of this century , has been able to maintain itself ; it stands today as the German culture despite five years of exile ; it has become not less but , if anything , more vital ; and the creative mechanism being what it is , the very tragedy of exile , acting as a new infusion , may well produce a refugee literature that will be one of the important contributions of our age . The same might be said of Italian literature , with interesting variations . In an article in The Nation in April , 1937 , entitled Rhetoric  --  or Life , Ignazio Saone pointed out that modern Italian literature , because of its bondage , long antedating the fascist regime , in an upper-class , cap-and-motley tradition , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ come alive it must cross the frontier between rhetoric and living art . " For an Italian writer , " December 17 , 1938 he concluded , " that means going to prison or into exile . It means something else : . . . changing class . " Silone long ago crossed the frontier . And the vitality of his own work in exile bears out his thesis . Yet though he writes in Italian it is the last language in which his books appear  --  a fact which poses sharply the problem here under discussion . Many a writer in exile has become the loyal citizen of another country whose language and life he wishes to adopt as his own . Yet all the more he feels an obligation to keep his native language alive against the time when the fascist night shall end . And on that score he faces a serious problem in the curtailment of the audience without which he can not function . Italian exiles have been confronted from the first with this problem ; and today German writers find their markets seriously reduced by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this , as of most problems today , lies with America , since it has a German- and Italian-speaking population more than sufficient to provide the audiences without which cultures must die . As far as German literature is concerned , various projects are already under way which deserve support . The American Guild for the Defense of German Cultural Freedom , formed some years ago , has subsidized the work of exiled authors and scholars . It has sponsored a prize for the best German book written in exile , and some two hundred manuscripts are now being read . More recently a German-American Writers ' Association has been formed , affiliated with the P. E. N. Club , which , aside from its purpose of preserving the forms and language of German culture , also seeks to combat Nazi propaganda . To that end it has now inaugurated a correspondence service available to the 120 German-American newspapers whose limited means makes them easy prey for Nazi propaganda both open and disguised . The association likewise plans to furnish speakers and material for German radio broadcasts . On another front @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( 114 Fifth Avenue , New York ) is organizing a book club for the publication and distribution in cheap editions not only of original ? German books but of other works in German translation . With a few thousand members such a book club could support itself and insure an audience for German- writers in exile . And we may be sure that this literature will find its way into Germany as well . Such a book club should find many subscribers among German-speaking Americans and among students and teachers . For various reasons , among them the more spectacular brutality of the Hitler regime , projects in aid of German refugees have been rather widely organized . But similar projects should be undertaken for the preservation of Italian culture . In this connection we are glad to report that the proceeds of a forthcoming public dinner in 653 honor of G. A. Borgese , author of " Goliath , " are to be used for the founding of a monthly publication News from Italy , designed to combat Italian fascist propaganda in this country . The project is sponsored @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ascoli , and others . We wish it all success , if only because dissemination of the truth about European fascism functions also as a defense of American democracy . It is perhaps needless to point out that a flowering of the literature of any language within our borders can only enrich our own culture , which has drawn much of its character and strength from successive waves of European influence and immigration . Moreover , the streams of German and Italian culture must eventually flow back into their native lands . If during their exile they have taken sustenance from and infused fresh elements into the American and French and English air , we shall all have come closer to that truly international culture which must one day make of fascism only another dark episode in the history of the human spirit . The Nine Rejuvenated T HE Supreme Court has accepted with straight face a doctrine it would have dismissed two years ago as too far-fetched to be taken seriously . The decision of the Supreme Court in the Consolidated Edison case is a measure of how much our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the courage to use " the birchrod in the cupboard " on judges as well as on utilities . In May , 1935 , the Supreme Court did not think working conditions in the bituminous-coal industry of sufficient interstate importance to warrant federal regulation under the commerce clause . But in the Consolidated Edison case a - purely intrastate utility is brought under the National Labor Relations Act on the tenuous ground that it also supplies electricity to several interstate railroads , steamship docks , post offices , and an airport . The court might almost as easily have held that the Brothers Schechter came under federal authority because they sold some of their chickens to Pullman diners . It is easy for us to understand , though we enjoy , the bewilderment of Justices Butler and McReynolds in their dissent . The old gray Constitution ai n't what she used to be . The Consolidated Edison decision is one of the greatest victories labor has won in the courts , and-careful - examination of its full text shows that the fears stirred by the first news reports and voiced in our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can force one of the greatest corporations in the country to reinstate six workers discharged for union activity and to pay them some $15,000 in back wages , cheers are in order . It is true that on one point the Supreme Court reversed the X54 National Labor Relations Board . It did not void the contracts by which Consolidated Edison hoped to prevent the C. I. 0 . from unionizing its men , despite the scandalous circumstances surrounding those agreements . Evidence showed that the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers took over the company unions , officials and all ; that the contracts were signed before it had organized the employees ; that foremen acted as " organizers " ; that the I. B. E. W. contract was entered into as the lesser of two evils . But the court 's refusal to uphold the board on the contracts rests upon procedural grounds and does not deny the board the right to bring in similar findings in the future . The difference between the attitude of the majority and that of Justices Reed and Black , who felt that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a common-sense view of these contracts and a view more concerned with legal niceties . But the difference is hardly important , since the court specified that the contracts could not be regarded as exclusive . The existence of the contracts does not bar the C. I. 0 . from organizing or the NLRB from holding an election . It happens that the contracts expired with the court decision . We deplore only the fact that the court in this opinion has done what it always does with regulatory statutes  --  it has rewritten them to widen judicial revision of , their administration . The Wagner Act says that the board 's findings shall be final if there is evidence to support them . The court held that there must be " substantial evidence . " This means that judges in the future can review the facts as well as the law . Utility regulation has been hopelessly entangled in litigation by this sort of judicial review . We hope that will not prove to be the case in the administration of the NLRB . Death of a Fighter BY FREDA @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Paul Y. Anderson 's death filled just three lines of the ship 's newspaper , but it was enough to shatter the illusion of peace and detachment that hangs over a ship in tropical waters . No details came with the announcement ; I know only the fact . But for me , as for every member of The Nation 's staff , that fact has the force of a blow . Paul Anderson has been a part of bur journalistic life for so many years that his death seems like the death of a part of the paper as well as of an old friend . From his first contribution in the days shortly after the Teapot Dome investigation to his latest attacks on the Dies committee and his analysis of the election , he gave/The Nation a combination of fact and insight and incisive phrasing that no other correspondent has equaled . The NATION Paul Anderson was largely responsible for the investigation that opened the Teapot Dome scandal and the other operations of the Ohio Gang some fifteen years ago ; a year and a half ago he plumbed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ show what actually happened and just how it had been concealed . He was as important an ally of the La Follette committee as he had been of the Walsh committee  --  a fact-finding agency in his own person . This does n't mean that Paul Anderson was incapable of being hoodwinked . His pleasure in uncompromising speech , his contempt for official smugness more than once led him after false gods . Both Hugh Johnson and Huey Long captured his imagination . Boldness and toughness and a willingness to cut through red tape and get things done  --  these qualities appealed to a similar streak in Paul Anderson . He had an abiding admiration for John L. Lewis , based , with better reason , on similar qualities . But his deepest loyalty and affection were given to those who combined daring and political conscience with a reflective and philosophical wisdom , such men as George W. Norris and the two Senators La Follette  --  old Bob and young Bob . These men remained a sort of touchstone of value for him , no matter where his momentary enthusiasms might @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ emotionally and professionally . He was a high-hearted fighter , sometimes truculent and provocative , always courageous . He was a ruthless analyst , ' ready to follow the facts even to ends unpleasant to himself or his friends . He was , above all , a reporter who believed that his job was to tell the story  --  and that the story included events and their meaning as well . His last year , after he went to the St. Louis Star-Times , was in many ways a rewarding one . The Post-Dispatch , which he had served since 1914 , had fallen from its high position as the chief crusading newspaper of the Middle West , and Paul Anderson left it in sorrow and discouragement , taking with him an unchanging admiration for Oliver K. Bovard , the " greatest managing editor . " His article in The Nation of August 13 , 1938 , when Bovard resigned from the Post-Dispatch , is as fine a tribute as one newspaperman ever paid another . But the Star-Times not only offered him freedom to write as he saw ; its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cooperation . His work in The Nation gave him the chance for analysis and opinion and a warmly responsive public . These meant much to him , and it is a satisfaction to know that he had them . But the fact of his death is not made more bearable by such minor consolations . More than ever the country needs journalists who stand for an open , free expression that defies every hint of control . Paul Anderson  --  breezy , pugnacious , penetrating , irreverent  --  was the epitome of the spirit in American journalism that must against all hazards be preserved . He died too soon . 