@@487880

excess profits , gasoline , and beer , and certain nuisance taxes . These were retained , except for the dividends tax and miscellaneous nuisance taxes , with some revisions in the Revenue Act of 1934 . Receipts from taxes , although insufficient to balance the budget , are promising . The new taxes , together with liquor and processing taxes , the increase in rates , and the tendency toward business improvement , brought a rise in revenue from about two billion dollars in 1933 to more than three billions in 1934 . Receipts from the income tax increased , but the greatest gains came from the miscellaneous internal-revenue taxes and from the processing tax on farm products . The Revenue Act of 1934 was primarily an attempt to meet the long-neglected question of tax avoidance . The right to file consolidated corporation returns was limited . Exemption was denied to religious or educational organizations which spend large sums on propaganda . A new method of dealing with capital gains and losses was introduced . The rates of the estate tax were increased . Income-tax rates were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ structure was changed . The new measures to reduce tax avoidance offer , however , so many technical difficulties in enforcement that a large amount of taxes will probably be avoided for years . It is probable that the government could have raised rates still higher and obtained still larger receipts , particularly from the income and surtaxes . It is unfortunate that such heavy reliance was placed on internal-revenue taxes , which , through price changes , shift the burden to lower incomes . As for tax avoidance , earlier action on this score , as well as on unjustifiable forms of tax exemption , would have yielded some of the receipts the government now needs . The exemption of government bonds from the surtax has been criticized for years . Its effect is to permit the wealthy to avoid payment of surtax rates by investment in federal securities , thereby defeating the purpose of progressive taxation , and to promote concentration of debt holdings . The wealthiest taxpayers are the ones who gain most . Moreover , the Treasury ordinarily loses more in revenue than it gains through the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the increase in the debt combined with the increase in the rates of surtaxes will make the government 's losses from this source even more serious in the future . The increases in tax rates have not brought us very far toward the tax levels of Great Britain , France , and other Western nations . It is possible for the United States to support a much higher tax burden , and if the Administration is sincere in its efforts to spread purchasing power it should face the necessity for higher and more progressive taxes . The increase in commodity prices is apparently passing the processing tax on to the consumer , while the farmer gains little in the way of increased prices for his crops . It is futile to argue that the tax system can be a powerful agency of social control when realities show that it can not . Business and banking will not permit the tax system to be such an instrument . Too great changes in the direction of progressive taxation , assuming that they were politically feasible , would be neutralized by tax avoidance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the best we can expect is a more balanced tax structure , one well adapted to different levels of income , so that it would not discourage saving or reduce purchasing power . This would be in part achieved through somewhat higher income-tax rates and the maintenance of these rates after the depression ends , so that receipts from this source can be used to pay off part of the debt . But it would scarcely be more than a neutral influence in the flux of economic forces . Great increases in the public debt are associated with rising prices . It has therefore been urged recently that higher taxes be levied in order to reduce the amount of public borrowing and thus avoid , to that extent , the danger of inflation . But so far the public debt has apparently not been responsible for any considerable inflation , and it is erroneous to expect that its increase , taken by itself , will cause inflation . It would have such an effect only if the expenditures for which the debt was incurred passed into general circulation and constituted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ An analysis of the expenditures has shown us that a great part of them were for the purpose of salvaging debts . To the extent that this occurred , the increase in expenditures has not caused and will not be likely in the near future to cause any serious inflation . But if liquidation of these debts begins , it may put government loans into circulation and thus increase the active purchasing media . Thus the extent to which increased expenditures will cause inflation depends in part upon whether or not widespread foreclosure of these debts occurs before business revives . Expenditures made for other purposes have not as yet so increased purchasing power as to cause a marked rise in prices . It is possible , of course , that if the depression continues much longer the government will find it difficult to float from four to eight billions more of public debt without resorting to its war practices . In that case banks and individuals will be encouraged to borrow to purchase government bonds , and these bonds will be used as collateral for such loans . In this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the result that a considerable rise in prices may take place . It may be granted therefore that if the government continues large expenditures , it would be advisable for it to increase taxes to some extent if it wishes to avoid this sort of inflation . One great danger that lurks in the public debt relates to stock-market speculation . Prior to the depression the existence of a large public debt , with its credit potentialities , encouraged the inflation of stock values . Adequate banking laws could reduce this danger . But it should be remembered that one of the best weapons against stock inflation is an increase in the level of taxation upon the return of prosperity and the devotion of large surpluses to debt retirement . A popular method of emphasizing the burden of the present government debt is to point out that it has now exceeded the post-war high point . The burden is not , however , unduly heavy . England is now supporting a much higher debt , relative to its wealth and population , than is the United States . The inhibiting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is of more immediate concern . Not only do the large debt holdings by banks seem to restrict lending to private business , but they build up in the assets of the banks a very rigid form of loans which could not be liquidated rapidly without embarrassing the government . Banking theorists who believe that one of the great weaknesses of the American banking system lies in the lack of liquidity of bank loans see here one of the more rigid elements in the banks ' assets . It is possible that the government should make a definite effort , in case it finds it necessary to borrow further , to go to the people and obtain a wide distribution of debt holdings , thus relieving the banks of the necessity of tying up their assets in government bonds . There have been numerous warnings that more borrowing will induce a declining government bond market or will force the Treasury to borrow at extremely high rates of interest . Last spring the government faced the problem of refinancing about one billion dollars of the Fourth Liberty Loan , bearing 4% per @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ refunding has been accomplished at lower rates of interest . The limit is apparently not yet reached ; there has been no marked or consistent tendency for the price of government bonds to fall . During the same period the Treasury has been alert to the dangers of an excessive amount of floating debt , and has been converting its short-term into intermediate debt . In view of the enormous maturities of old debt which fell due after the present Administration took office , the Treasury 's management of its borrowing program has on the whole been successful . It is possible that if a strong movement against public borrowing had developed in the past two years the tendency would have been to place taxes on low incomes , as has been done frequently by the - States . Whether or not this would have been desirable depends , of course , upon one 's theories of the causes of depressions . But certainly to place high taxes on low incomes would be inconsistent with the theory of the Administration that the depression is due in part to maldistribution of purchasing power @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contain sound practice for the future  --  the reduction of appropriations for RFC loans to business , and the reduction of the floating debt . When more prosperous times return , nothing should hinder the effort to retire the debt as soon as the budget is balanced . Tax rates and the degree of progression in the tax system should be increased . Finally , two great sources of lost taxes  --  tax exemption and tax avoidance -- -have not yet been adequately dealt with by Congress . This is the third of a series of ten articles on taxation , planned and edited by Professor Paul Studenski . The fourth , State Finance , by M. Slade Kendrick , will appear next week.                     