@@221414

At the White House luncheon table one day last week Anna Eleanor Roosevelt Roosevelt faced a plain , rather grim little woman who spoke only Russian . Officially the two were equals . The guest was young Paulina Semionova Zhemchuzhina , wife of President Molotov of the Council of People 's Commissars of the U. S. S. R. , a position technically but by no means actually outranking Joseph Stalin 's rank of Secretary-General of the Communist Party . Furthermore , Mme Molotov is herself founder and head of the Soviet cosmetics trust , Tezhe , which last year turned back to the State a profit of $84,000,000 . Mrs. Roosevelt 's admiration for businesswomen made Mme Molotov fittingly the first wife of a Big Red ever to be received at the White House . <P> The Soviet Cosmetics Queen was , however , in the U. S. on business , traveling under the incognito of Olga Karpovskaya . Up to 1934 her cosmetics were unfashionable in bread-hungry Russia , and Moscow newsorgans sharply ridiculed the cosmetics trust without mentioning the fact that its head was wife of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mme Molotov used no cosmetics herself , dressed in knitted caps , dark suits and belted raincoats . Last week , Joseph Stalin 's views on Fun-for-the-Masses having been changed by better times , Mme Molotov could cheerfully tell U. S. newshawks through an interpreter : " No , I will not have to buy American cosmetics . I have brought quite enough pure Russian cosmetics to last me until I get back to Moscow . " <P> Before and after her luncheon at the White House , the Cosmetics Queen visited U. S. cosmetics factories with a view to buying some $100,000 worth of factory equipment . The traveling belts on which the jars of powder and perfume rode from worker to worker , floor to floor , particularly fascinated her . " Our women , " she said , " can afford to pay as much for cosmetics as American women . Even our men are shaving more regularly and taking up the use of toilet water . "                     