@@487321

DEAR MR . THOMAS : In common with many of your coworkers you must be astonished at the small percentage of the total vote you received in the recent election . I am certain also that you are not prepared to accept as a satisfactory reason the statement that " liberals and others seeking a change turned to the anticipated immediate relief which the Roosevelt candidacy offered as against the long stretch which socialism involved . " It seems to me that you are now called upon to put in practice one of two alternatives . You will either have to continue in the harness of a dogmatic socialism , under the control of a somewhat obsolete leadership and blind to inevitable changes in party name and construction , or you will have to lead a real third-party movement unencumbered by the handicaps which the Socialist Party labors under today . In all this there is no reflection on the truths which socialism embodies , or on the many fine men and women who have devoted their lives to this cause . I am merely trying to say @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it or not , we must realize that the word socialism is still frequently confused with an alien philosophy of government which includes everything from atheism to the nationalization of women , and that this misconception is so solidly ingrained in the minds of millions of our people that even you , with your unprecedented audiences and personal magnetism , are unable to rise above it . You will recall that this was the real issue between yourself and the other party leaders at Milwaukee . For years many of us who have looked upon the two major parties as separate wings of the same bird of prey have argued that there are millions of laborers , farmers , and even small merchants who would rally to a new party if it were sufficiently divorced from socialism as they understand it . The fact that their understanding of socialism was a mistaken one did not help in the last campaign and it will not help in the future . The orthodox group which dominates the party in this country today is as much blinded to realities as are those who confuse @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ imagine that refusal to yield party control is a manifestation of their true faith . In this respect they are like religious leaders who see religion losing ground because of their refusal to amend outworn and impossible tenets . In truth , the party leaders in this attitude are as dogmatic and fanatical as many religious leaders . The question is this : Do you wish to secure a Socialist program by any other name , whose benefits will be as real , or do you wish to cling to a name and to a party control which is in the hands of men who simply will not ' budge and who insist that if they wait long enough the mountain will come to Mohammed ? Surely the amazingly small vote you received in this unparalleled economic emergency is the final answer to those who insist that they will not change the name , the appeal , the control , or remove a dot or dash from the platform . Are we to continue to labor for some mythical " pie in the sky " until all misunderstandings have been cleared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that we have something to sell and that it must be sold from the consumers ' ( voters ' ) point of view ? Or are we to insist that we will not budge or change a single iota and " jest wait and wait " ? You will find millions of followers if you will take the Socialist program , strip it bare of the verbiage it has gathered through the ages , and offer it to the people in language they understand and approve . If this is betrayal , let those who are living in the dead past make the most of it . GABRIEL HEATTER among our people could hardly be reached by a mere change in the Socialist name . Look at the facts . This is the worst depression in American history . Fear and discontent are almost universal . Certainly they are universal among the masses of workers and farmers . Almost as widespread as the discontent is a cynical disbelief in both of the old parties and in politicians generally . The amount of talk of the probable necessity for violent action in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wholly by election returns . On a rainy day shortly before the election Communists in Chicago contributed a larger contingent to a hunger march than the total vote they mustered at the polls in Cook County . In such a revolutionary situation it was not merely or chiefly the Socialist vote which was smaller than one would expect . The Communist vote increased little over that of 1928 . It will probably not exceed 75,000 for the whole country . Mr. Heater would say that is because Communists are stamped more plainly than Socialists with the errors of which he complains . I should say that in part the Communist failure was due to a very stupid type of campaigning which consisted largely in circulating outside and sometimes inside our meetings slanderous attacks on socialism and Socialists , such as the statement : " Norman Thomas believes in lynching . " Yet the explanation must go deeper than this . There were all sorts of groups of American radicals and progressives who carefully eschewed ' the words socialist and socialism . They had programs or panaceas ranging all the way from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a watered-down socialism to " Coin " Harvey 's latest financial panacea . The times seemed ripe for them . Neither Socialists nor Communists had the strength , even if they had the desire , to keep them out of the political picture . Yet not one of these groups made any impression on the electorate . Father Cox , who began by declaring that the man who voted either old-party ticket this year " deserved sympathy neither from God nor man , " ended by delivering whatever strength he had to Governor Roosevelt before election day . The L. I. P. A. indorsed the Socialist ticket for the duration of this campaign , ati indorsement which I appreciated but which I found of little effect in any city except Columbus , Ohio , where there was an active and politically useful L. I. P. A. group . It was the only one of significance that I remember in months of campaigning . Did this collapse of minor parties mean that , as in 1896 , their ideas had captured one of the major parties ? By no means . Never @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the outs offer so little as Governor Roosevelt . He won . Progressives come very cheap in modern America . All that they wanted to know this year was that Governor Roosevelt was not President Hoover . They put cotton in their ears and blinders on their eyes to keep from knowing his record or his program . He was able with impunity to spend the last two or three weeks of his campaign in a satisfactory demonstration to Wall Street that he was entirely safe . Witness his support by Vincent Astor , Owen D. Young , John J. Raskob , and others . Contrast that with the Bryan record in 1896 to see how far Americans have retrogressed in their political demands in time of crisis . Against this the St. Louis Post-Dispatch editorially advances the argument that weak as the Socialist Party is , Socialist measures are always winning because the party , or life itself , somehow manages to force them on one or both of the old parties . There is much truth in that statement , but these indirect gains of socialism are achieved too partially @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people swept on toward the downfall of a social order . The moral of this story certainly is more than the failure of the Socialist name to appeal to the American people . Indeed , on the positive side , if space permitted , I could quote conversations and letters in support of the statement that this year socialism as socialism commanded new and widespread interest and aroused little of the old antagonism . Voters in Milwaukee , Reading , Bridgeport , and New York are little terrified of a name in voting for municipal candidates . This widespread interest is the first step in the movement toward socialism which is the one hope of America . Nor is my position weakened by reflection on the La Follette campaign of 1924 , which my friends often invite me to consider . That year there was ' no such overwhelming anger against the party in power as this year , and there was resentment among farmers and workers against the Democrats , some of it because Smith was not nominated , some because McAdoo lost . In this mood a temporary coalition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a labor party . The fact that after polling almost five million votes that coalition fell apart like a rope of sand is of itself proof that under exceptionally favorable circumstances the avoidance of the Socialist philosophy and the Socialist name got a large vote at the price of complete impermanence even of protest , to say nothing of constructive policy . After 1924 the Socialist movement had the courage to keep going . The Progressive movement quit the national field . This observation leads me to an argument of far greater weight than the size of the vote . Fifty million Frenchmen , Englishmen , or even Americans can be wrong . The failure of the workers of America to respond to socialism does not mean that something less frank and drastic will save us in this hour when the capitalistic era draws near its end . It is our tragedy that at a time when the march of events demanded something much more than the old La Follette or George W. Norris progressivism , the masses of voters stampeded to something infinitely less . Are we therefore to abandon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ helps to keep that philosophy and its economic and international implications steadily in mind ? Remember that we have not anything like as many years for slow change as it seemed in 1924 that we should have . If we are to escape catastrophe or a fascism which is in itself disaster we must get intelligent and effective action both at home and abroad in a very few years . There are no signs whatever of any such degree of automatic economic recovery as would give capitalism any marked reprieve through a return of prosperity . The situation demands planning . But purpose must precede plan . Neither manual nor white-collar workers can ' be aroused and united by a mere pragmatic program . Nothing great has ever been done in history until the demands latent in economic development have found interpretation ' in a loyalty , a vision , a philosophy to stir the hearts of men . Without the philosophy of the Declaration of Independence thirteen quarreling colonies could never have become a nation . An adequate philosophy is what we need above all else in America , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Socialism says definitely : We can only master the machine age by collective ownership of all natural resources and of the principal means of production and distribution and their operation for use and not profit . We seek a world-wide federation of cooperative commonwealths . On the basis of this philosophy we Socialists have gone farther in working out practical programs than anyone else . It is at once a source of encouragement and discouragement to remember that we stated concretely a program which many ignored but no one seriously challenged on the intellectual side in the whole campaign . I do not believe that the mass of workers will continue to ignore our program . The predestined failure of the Democratic Party with its amazingly incompatible elements North and South , East and West ; the certainty that out of Mr. Roosevelt 's vaulting ambition and shrewd political sense no adequate statesmanship can be born  --  witness his stand in the matter of the foreign debts  --  give us high hope that the interest in socialism already expressed in America may be carried into action . I do not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ absolutely requires a party with a Socialist name or that there is no chance for any genuine Socialist movement outside of the present Socialist Party . I do believe that there are more advantages than disadvantages in keeping the Socialist name , and a far better chance to build into great strength a Socialist Party which has emerged from the election with a sound and encouraging organization and spirit in almost every State in the Union , than to build out of nothing but vague longings a more effective Socialist Party under some new name . A mass movement among the farmers and workers , now not even on the horizon , or the failure of the Socialist Party to utilize its present opportunities and to build on the foundations it laid in this campaign and in the years before , might create a situation that now does not exist . Certainly the Socialist Party is faced with important questions of tactics , organization , and the nature of its appeal to the working class  --  questions , let me add , not fairly to be understood from Mr. Heatter 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ confidence which would be increased if our sideline critics of the left and of the right would accept our invitation , honestly offered , and come inside our movement to help us build in critical hours . It is not primarily our " dogmatism " which deters them . Usually it is a hidden but powerful class interest . This is true even of sympathetic " liberals . " I have reason to suspect that some of our critics who talk glibly about the working masses in America and their failure to understand the truth , or the Socialists ' failure to reach them , belong to organizations like the L. I. P. A. because they dislike practical contact with those same working masses , and unconsciously avoid the contacts that the Socialist Party affords . I do not say this in any spirit of recrimination . The crisis before us is too vast for that . It is a crisis which forces us to face two questions : First , do the philosophy and the program of socialism show us the way out ? Second , if so , how @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effective ? How shall we arouse the solidarity of a working class which so far has failed to assert that solidarity even in time of crisis ? Believing as I do that socialism and only socialism is the hope of the world , I am solely concerned with the second question , and I am very little interested in those who would tell me that we might win greater seeming success at the price of sacrificing the philosophy and program in which alone is hope . On the contrary , the supreme necessity for those of us who would escape dictatorship and catastrophic violence is a new birth of intelligent audacity in the Socialist appeal and the Socialist organization the world over . NORMAN THOMAS                     