@@491955

T HE present world-wide anti-Jewish movement , brewed in Germany for the past twenty years , and now boiling over into other countries as remote from Germany as Japan , is rapidly assuming an importance to the people of the United States which may not be generally suspected . It has finally become clear that anti-Semitism , as developed by the German National Socialist Party , is not merely a manifestation of hooliganism and brutality and senseless race prejudice . It has become also a deliberate , systematic policy , aimed at definite objectives . As such , the policy of anti-Semitism has been adopted not only by the present rulers of Germany but also by several other countries as well . It has become an instrument of policy for these countries , with every indication of permanence . Seen in this light , anti-Semitism merits the closest study of Americans , since there is a strong possibility that it may soon gravely affect our own foreign policy , if it has not already done so . It may already be drawing us , almost without our being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , just as it has already involved Great Britain , France and other countries , which would prefer to have nothing to do with it . There are two manners of approach to this important question . One is emotional , coming from the heart . The other is intellectual , coming from the head . In America , we have thus far stuck largely to the emotional approach . Our hearts have been profoundly moved and our sense of decency outraged by the barbarous persecution of thousands of helpless men , women and children . Many of us have become so indignant that we are in a mood to do something  --  anything  --  to retaliate against bullies and brutes . That has been our way in America  --  to react strongly to outrages in other parts of the world , as well as in our own country . There are some Americans still living who can remember the violent indignation aroused in our country by the savage and prolonged pogroms against Jews in Russia in 1881 , when murderous rioters and incendiary fanatics swept through 167 towns and villages @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and children . Americans who remember our indignation then can perhaps remember also that it served only to arouse the resentment of the Czar 's ministers . The result was the notorious May laws , which may be described as the inspiration and foundation for the body of anti-Semitic legislation recently worked out in Germany , and now spreading rapidly to other countries . Those nineteenth-century laws in Russia , as several historians have pointed out , transformed anti-Semitism into an important factor not only in the domestic politics of European countries but also in international power politics . The events in Russia of that period appear to be echoed to a surprising extent in the events which have arisen from German anti-Semitism in our own times . History shows us that the international implications of anti-Semitic agitation are likely to be much too far-reaching to be approached in a superficial or purely emotional manner . Secretary of the Interior Harold L. Ickes declared during the height of the pogroms in Germany , that it was necessary to go back nineteen hundred years , to the Roman practice of throwing Christians @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Such oratorical outbursts may draw easy applause , but history indicates that such outbursts usually are not only inadequate but may actually be harmful , if they blind those concerned from working out a clear analysis of all the implications of a movement which is not based upon emotion but on cold , calculated policy Anti-Semitism , both as a senseless prejudice and as an instrument in the hands of unscrupulous politicians , has existed for centuries  --  even before our Christian era . It has been used time and again in many parts of the world to help along a flock of nefarious schemes . Adolf Hitler did n't introduce anti-Semitism into Germany . He has merely utilized prejudices instinct in Germany for generations and which have been bolstered up by shoals of so-called philosophers , English and French as well as German . But it does seem probable that Hitler and his associates have developed the ancient and dishonorable device of anti-Semitism into a more formidable and more far-reaching instrument of policy , both domestic and foreign , than any other ruling group has ever done before . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regions , Nazi politicians have kept several anti-Semitic balls in the air anti-Semitism from a national into an international movement . The first development was the conversion to anti-Semitism of the Italian dictator , Benito Mussolini . The second was the publicly announced conversion of the Japanese . Most observers have failed to understand these developments and have underestimated their effects . In fal , many commentators found the Japanese action comic , because there are no Jews in Japan . But the objective of Japan 's anti-Semitism is not in the least funny . Early in 1938 , Signor Mussolini suddenly announeed that his government had decided to apply many of the anti-Jewish measures worked out in Germany . In making this announcement , the Italian dictator completely reversed himself . On more than one occasion since he rose to power he had ridiculed German race theories and anti-Semitism . As late as 1932 , in an interview with Emil Ludwig , he had declared : " Anti-Semitism does not exist in Italy . Italian Jews have always behaved well as citizens and fought bravely as soldiers . They occupy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in banks . " Later on in the interview , Mussolini asked Ludwig : " How do you explain anti-Semitism ? " And Ludwig replied : " Every time things are had for the Germans , they blame the Jews . Ann at the present time , things are particularly bad for the Germans . " Mussolini exclaimed : " Ah-ha ! The scapegoat ! " The explanation appeared to satisfy him . And yet , six years later , although he had meantime given no intimation that he had changed his These commentators are just beginning to realize that Mussolini 's conversion to anti-Semitism was a great deal more than a gestu  --  e to placate his friend , Adolf Hitler . At last , after years of thinking about the matter , Mussolini had suddenly figured out the full extent of the uses to which the device of anti-Semitism could he put . Once he had seen the light , Mussolini became very enthusiastic indeed about anti-Semitism . If he had intended to utilize the scheme merely as a gesture of sympathy with German Nazis , he would hardly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ phases of anti-Semitism which can appeal equally to Hitler 's Nazis and Mussolini 's Fascists ? What are the motives which induced the Japanese recently to announce solemnly that they , too , have accepted the principles of anti-Semitism ? I believe we can now answer these questions with considerable confidence . In the contemporary game of power polities , three powerful " have-not " nations  --  Germany , Italy and Japan  --  have banded together in a loose alliance against three powerful " have " nations  --  Great Britain , France and Soviet Russia . Although the latter are no longer allied , they have been maneuvered , partly by circumstances and partly by their own actions , into a position which groups them together as " defenders of the Jews . " They have not officially or even voluntarily adopted any such common policy , and their pro-Jew sentiments have been and are being deliberately exaggerated by their simultaneously , so that the eye has to be quicker than the hand to keep track of them all . In addition to fanatical religious persecution for its own sake , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in process of development , and which are likely to become considerably more important before long to the people of the American continents as well as to those of Europe and Asia . The first of these concerns the use of anti-Semitism as a weapon in the contemporary game of power politics . The second is the use already made of anti-Semitism as a revolutionary economic stratagem in Germany , which may later be extended elsewhere . The third concerns the effects of the policy of anti-Semitism upon the migration of peoples and the whole refugee problem . During the year 1938 two developments occurred which greatly advanced the transformation of Naziopinions on this subject , Signor Iilussoliui adopted anti-Semitism in forms almost as severe as those worked out in Germany . Political observers naturally tried to figure out what he was up to . Even Mussolini 's enemies agree that he is no fool . And few observers believed that Mussolini had been converted to the Nazi brand of anti-Semitism without some very practical object in view . Judging by subsequent events , most so-called experts went wide of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ action proved he had lost , all vestiges of independence and had become a " prisoner of Hitler . " They pointed out that the Fascists could n't hope to get much profit out of anti-Semitism , because Italy did n't have many Jews , and those she had were n't very rich . The Nazis , they said , could keep going for some time by mulcting their Jews , especially after they had acquired Austria . Rut not so , Mussolini . antagonists . Italy and . Japan , following in the footsteps of Germany , are using anti-Semitism as one weapon in the struggle for a larger share of the earth 's surface . To Mussolini , anti-Semitism is proving most useful as a weapon against British interests in the Mediterranean . It took the Duce some years to recognize his opportunity . He had set himself up as champion of the Arab world , trying thus to undermine British prestige among the Arab peoples , who form influential groups in many Mediterranean countries . Britain 's difficulties in Palestine , which Mussolini is accused of helping to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as champions of Jews and enemies of Arabs . But Mussolini waited until 1938 to make the next logical step  --  namely , the adoption of anti-Semitism as a national and international policy . Clever its he is and deeply interested as he was in the subject , Mussolini apparently never fully realized until 1938 the full extent of the predicament into which Britain had fallen as a result of the Arab-Jewish conflict in Palestine , whose consequences had repercussions in almost all the Southern Mediterranean countries . Britain , through its mandate in Palestine and its sponsorship of the Zionist movement there , had undertaken permanent obligations to international Jewry which she could not repudiate without serious repercussions in the United States and elsewhere . Here was a golden opportunity which no such opportunist as Mussolini would readily pass up . The Duce had committed himself to an AngloItalian agreement which promised , among other things , not to conduct anti-British propaganda among the Arabs . The subtle mind of Mussolini must have been highly amused by the situation . He could instruct his broadcasting stations to abandon their anti-British @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of his agreement . And then he could turn around and adopt anti-Semitism as a permanent policy . He needed only to say , as the Germans had been saying for years , " Italy is anti-Jewish . " That violated no Anglo-Italian agreement . That involved no propaganda among j Arabs . But in practice it served as the most effective kind of propaganda among all those countries and groups which dislike the British because they are pictured as defenders of the Jews . The trail of anti-Semitism in power politics next leads us to Eastern Europe , where Germany has been encouraging anti-Jewish movements for several years . Berlin did not initiate such sentiments , because they have existed in several Eastern European countries even longer than they have in Germany . But Berlin boosted them along for purposes of her own . In Eastern Europe we also find one explanation for the conversion both of Mussolini and of the Japanese to the anti-Jewish creed . Japan , Italy and Germany , each for purposes of its own , is making use of anti-Semitism in Eastern Europe today . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their new anti-Semitic code only in Eastern Europe . Being men of one-track minds , Japanese rulers are concentrating their full attention now upon strengthening their position in China . But Japanese leaders realized , sooner than some other statesmen , that the fate of Eastern Asia is closely related to events in Europe . The most formidable obstacle to Japanese control of China  --  aside from the Chinese themselves  --  is Soviet Russia . The Russians , in spite of their own internal difficulties , have managed to keep up an underground war against the Japanese forces in China , playing an active part in the Chinese guerrilla movement , which threatens even yet to wear down by slow degrees the Japanese conquerors . Japanese armies stand face to face with Soviet armies along the borders of EVENING POST ( Continued from Page 32 ) Manchuria , Outer Mongolia and Korea . And Japanese agents also are active in European countries along Russia 's western borders . They are doing what can he done to encourage movements designed to break up European Russia , including the movement for an independent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up anti-Soviet feeling in most of the countries of Eastern Europe . German Nazis have carried on for two decades their campaign against " Jewish Bolshevism . " They have deliberately exaggerated and distorted the importance of Jews in the Soviet regime . I lived and worked in Russia for four years , from 1933 through 1037 , and know from personal observation that Jews are not today especially prominent in the administration of that country . But the Nazis , and their friends in other countries , have successfully plastered upon the Soviet government a reputation of being Jewish . And Japanese agents , working among anti-Semitic groups in Eastern Europe to assist various anti-Soviet movements , finally realized , like Mussolini , that they could make better progress if their government were definitely committed to a policy of Jew-baiting . The German Nazis were the first to realize that anti-Semitism might be used as an effective rallying cry throughout the Balkans in the drive for leadership in a new type of Pan-Slavic movement . Before the war , PanSlavism was a political movement of some importance in Europe . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its influence among the other Slav races in Eastern Europe and in the Balkans . Then the Russian revolution left this movement without leadership . Some Bolshevik theorists once played with the notion of combining old Pan-Slav ideas with current Bolshevik schemes for world revolution . But that fantastic project never made much progress . The Slavic Bond March : 8 , 1059 line of military defenses . It stood also as a bulwark against the advance of just such ideas as anti-Semitism . That bulwark was smashed by the Munich settlement . Today , in every one of the parts into which Czechoslovakia has been broken up , vigorous anti-Jewish movements have sprouted , along with Nazi and Fascist movements . None of the governments in what once was Czechoslovakia can do anything about these movements now , because today these governments are one and all under Germany 's thumb . They are scarcely more independent of Germany than the various puppet governments in Manchuria and North China are independent of Japan . Czechoslovakia , which until last September stood as a sturdy barrier against the advance into Central and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ today has become a forcing ground for the very ideas which it previously resisted . The Sleeping Lion The present rulers of Great Britain and France seem to he curiously indifferent to such by-products as this of their Munich agreement .. The British Prime Minister , Neville Chamberlain , professes to be well pleased with the course of events in Central Europe since the Munich settlement . He declared last December twentieth in the House of Commons : " Once again I should like to repeat my conviction that the foreign policy of His Majesty 's Government during the last eighteen months has been right all along . ( Hear , hear . ) If I had to live those eighteen months over again , I would not change it by one jot . ( Cheers . ) " Yet anyone familiar with Central and Eastern Europe today must be aware that the foreign policy which the British Prime Minister so vigorously defends has permitted the destruction of the only government in Central Europe which always resisted anti-Semitism in all its forms . And it may be doubted , even from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ statesmen can afford to ignore or belittle any development which strengthens anti-Semitism , because anti-Semitism is being turned against British interests in several parts of the world with ever-increasing effectiveness . In addition to this use of anti-Semitism in world politics , Germany 's cruel attack on the Jews has an economic purpose . The most startling , yet very plausible , explanation of this that I have heard was suggested to me by one of the best-informed American observers in Europe , a friend of mine who happened to be in Vienna at the time of the Ansehittss in March , 1938 . This man was thoroughly familiar with Germany and with Austria , both before and since the World War . He thought he knew everything there was to know about National Socialism and also about German and Austrian pre-Nazi anti-Semitism . He also was familiar , from firsthand experience , with Russian Bolshevism . When the Anschluss occurred and German Nazis took over Vienna , this observer stayed on , in the thick of all the unpleasant business . He had ninny Austrian and German friends , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ me , some months later , that one day during this period a great light dawned upon him . The Nazi lenders who took over in Austria , he explained , wore members of ( Continu  --  d from Poe* 34 ) the so-called left wing of the party , which is headed by Doctor Goebbels , the Propaganda Minister , and Heinrich . Himmler , chief of the secret police . The extremists were , therefore , in full control in Austria to an extent which had never been true in Germany itself . My friend is convinced that the Nazi measures applied in Austria during the weeks and months which followed the Anschluss represented the program which this same extremist group would apply everywhere if they were not somewhat held in cheek by other factions in the Nazi Party and also such non-party elements as the German army . What was this program ? What was the idea which struck the American observer so forcibly during this period ? The idea was that Nazi-ism , in its extreme form , is actually another form of Bolshevism . The Nazis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what they really are fighting is Jewish capitalism . They know , as well as anyone else , that the Jews have Cared almost as badly in Soviet Russia as they have in Nazi Germany . The Bolsheviks did not attack their . Jews because they were Jews , but the effects have been the same . They attacked well-to-do Jews because they owned property , and poor Jews because they were religious . And that is precisely what happened in Austria after the Anschlu.ss , if my friend 's interpretation is correct . Nazi leaders organized widespread attacks on Jews , not as symbols of Bolshevism but as symbols of property and religion . At that moment it became more clear than ever before that Nazi extremists actually are revolutionaries , in a somewhat perverted form . Their shouts about . Jewish Bolshevism were just a disguise . They were really aiming at , Jewish capitalism , and every other kind of capitalism , and at the Jewish religion , and every other kind of religion . They were using anti-Semitism , consciously or unconsciously , as the basis of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pogroms In the year which has passed since the A /Ischia-vs , the theory developed by this American observer in Vienna has become even more plausible . The same tactics which were applied then in Austria were extended last autumn  --  when Nazi extremists got another opportunity  --  to every part of Germany . The Jewish pogroms , it is important to observe , served not only to dislodge the Jews but to undermine the institutions of private property and religion in Germany and Austria . German and Austrian Jews owned a considerable share of that property . Because Jews figured so largely in retail trade , their tangible property served conveniently as a symbol to the Nazi extremists . When Nazi revolutionary-minded youths were encouraged to smash Jewish shops and Jewish synagogues , the action was something more than mere hooliganism . It diminished respect for private property and religious organizations  --  and that , of course , is one of the primary purposes of Bolshevism . In Berlin last autumn a German woman told me what happened to her brother , the Aryan owner of a small retail store @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and had refused to join the Labor Front , a Nazi organize-I Lion into which all storekeepers were being regimented . Having a shrewd mind , he observed that those who joined the Labor Front lost most of their independence , and were at the same time compelled to pay dearly for membership . At the height of the pogrom , a Labor Front representative came to him , and asked : Are you an Aryan ? " He answered : " Of course , " and was then told : " Then you had better join the Labor Front immediately , or I can not answer for the consequences . " The situation was obvious . If the storekeeper had remained stubban , his shop would have been smashed " by mistake . " The practice is very similar to that used in some American cities by racketeering labor unions . Naturally , the little storekeeper joined the Labor Front . He could n't stand out against the whole machinery of government , which was in the hands of these all-powerful racketeers . His experience , repeated on a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anti-Semitism has been put . The Causes of Anti  --  Semitism Germany , Italy and Japan  --  each for its own purposes  --  are playing upon the anti-Semitic sentiments of Eastern European peoples . But they did not create these sentiments , which are always latent in that part of the world , breaking out periodically in violent disturbances . What causes anti-Semitism in Eastern Europe ? Are the Jews themselves responsible for arousing the hostility of other groups ? Are they guilty of all those sins with which they are charged by anti-Semitic groups in all parts of the world ? In Eastern Europe , anti-Semitism appears to be largely a question of overcrowding . There is simply not room in many of these countries for all the population , and other population groups , therefore , turn against the helpless Jewish minorities . For that matter , other minorities also endure discriminations . In this atmosphere , it is easy to inspire anti Semitic agitation . The United States and other American nations were immensely helpful , in the half century following our Civil War , in relieving the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we welcomed millions of immigrants , , Jews and others . But we are no longer able to receive as much of this surplus population as we once did . It is , therefore , being bottled up . In this connection , Soviet Russia 's anomalous position has been surprisingly overlooked by most observers . Several European countries are trying to force the emigration of millions of their Jewish population . The American continents can no longer receive immigrants in great numbers . The world is looking here , there and everywhere for places of settlement . Yet Soviet Russia is rarely , if ever , suggested . Soviet Russia , as our own Communists are always proudly pointing out , covers one seventh of the earth 's surface , and possesses more unsettled arable land than any other country today . The Bolsheviks do not discriminate against Jews , as such . Their persecutions are concentrated instead upon classes and upon heretics of one kind and another , such as Trotsk-yists , Bukharinites , and other dissenting sects from their own fanatical creed . One might suppose that unhappy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " What is actually the ease ? Statistics are not available , but it is safe to say that Russia has not received even one 38 THE SATURDAY EVENING POST March ; a , test . thousand Jews from Europe during the past year , in spite of the fact that Moscow claims that it has not and can not have unemployment under its soviet form of government . During this same period the United States , with its millions of unemployed , has accepted thousands of Jewish immigrants every month . Soviet Russia was not even represented at a conference convened by President Roosevelt last summer in Evian , France , for the purpose of discovering ways and means for settling unwanted Jews from Germany . But thirty-two other nations acknowledged responsibility for this problem , and set up a permanent committee in London , which has since been looking for places of settlement . I attended the Evian conference , and it was clear to all newspaper correspondents from the outset that President Roosevelt 's advisers on the Jewish question either had not themselves understood or had not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the refugee problem . The British and French representatives understood those implications . They knew that large areas for Jewish settlement could be found only in their respective empires or in South America . They foresaw that if the principle of large-scale settlement for Jews from Germany was accepted , then other Eastern European countries , such as Poland and Rumania , would immediately demand to be relieved of their surplus Jewish populations . The situation in Eastern Europe has become more serious since the Evian conference . The Munich settlement , which so greatly strengthened German influence east of the Rhine , has given an impetus to anti-Semitism all through this area . The new government of Czechoslovakia , completely at the mercy of Berlin , was forced in December to impose anti-Semitic laws , which have the immediate result of creating additional Jewish refugees . Millions of Jews in Poland , in Rumania , in Hungary and in all Balkan and Baltic countries fare increased persecution and discrimination as German Nazi influence extends . The Part of Wisdom The anti-Semitic movement has thus become a world-wide movement , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being pulled by unscrupulous politicians in a mariner unhappily familiar to students of history for at least two millenniums . The emotions of the American people have become involved by German anti-Semitic outrages to an extent probably unequaled for generations . Unfortunately , this wholesome spontaneous fury of our people is capable of being used by persons whose heads are stronger than their hearts . We can see , now , that anti-Semitism has become a permanent and deliberate instrument of domestic and foreign policy of several of the most powerful countries in the world . We can observe that this instrument is being wielded with deadly effect in the knockdown and drag-out fight for redivision of the earth 's surface which now is in progress . It seems therefore to be the part of wisdom for our people and our Government to stop , look and listen before committing ourselves to a definite policy which may line us up , before we know it , with one set of European powers against another set . It may become our duty or our interest to enter into some such combination , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of such action . Let us suppose , for example , that the intergovernmental committee on settlement of Jews from Germany , which has been set up in London upon President Roosevelt 's initiative , should agree to arrange the settlement of several thousand Jews in one of the former German colonies on the west coast of Africa which is now under British mandate . In such case , it may be assumed that American money would be generously contributed , and American sympathy would he heavily involved . These colonies already have become a particular bone of contention between Germany and Great Britain . British strategists insist that these colonies can not be returned to Germany without materially weakening the British naval position . Our own American naval strategists also have publicly declared that we have an interest in preventing Germany from recovering her former Western African colonies , because she could there establish airplane and naval buses which would bring her two thousand miles closer to South America , in which she has already shown intense interest . Jimerica 's Course If Jews are settled in the former German @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , will our Government and our people not have been drawn insensibly into a virtual guaranty of British sovereignty in this territory ? Would it be possible for us , as decent human beings , to tolerate in future the surrender of such Jewish settlements to a violently anti-Jewish government ? The example serves to show how complicated the world situation has become today , and how innocent sympathy for the victims of barbarous racial intolerance might lead Americans into closer relationships with certain European powers than they might voluntarily assume if the matter were put to them upon a less emotional basis . We are living in a world of flux , and hard thinking seems to be more useful than emotional outbursts in adjusting ourselves to new world relationships . Naturally , this does n't mean that Americans need to yield by one small fraction of an international law the full legitimate rights of any of our citizens , Jewish or otherwise , in Germany or in any other country . It does n't mean that any of us who feel like it ca n't yell our heads off @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  including our own country . We always have done just that , and I hope we always shall . It also does n't mean that we should fail to play our full part in helping to solve the tremendous humanitarian problems created by anti-Semitism 's reactions upon millions of unfortunate Jews . But the whole anti-Semitic movement , as I have tried to indicate in this article , is extremely complicated and runs through the whole warp and woof of international relations today . Its study suggests how important it is that our Government , especially at this historical moment , should devote the closest attention to the full implications of every move which it makes in the field of foreign policy ; and that we , as American citizens , should not be diverted by our legitimate emotions from keeping a close eye on our Government . Being democrats , we still can do that to some purpose .                     