@@143327

Merry-Go-Round of 1938 ( Universal ) . If it had no other virtues to speak of , this skedaddling musicomedy would be worth mentioning for one fact alone : it brings to a wider audience Comic Bert Lahr 's theory that only a barytone can chop a tree . It has other virtues as well : Jimmy Savo , exquisite pantomimist whose film career was nearly blighted two years ago by a luckless appearance in Ben Hecht 's &; Charles MacArthur 's haphazard Once in a Blue Moon ; Billy House , fleshy Mr. Bones of old-time minstrelsy ; addlepated Comedienne Alice Brady ; Mischa Auer , well cast as a lean and bony swami . Foster Fathers Savo , Lahr , House and Auer combine their comic efforts in cementing the romance of their theatre-born ward ( Joy Hodges ) and Scion John King . Since this scheme merely involves hoodwinking Alice Brady it turns out to be not too difficult . Comics Auer and Savo dabble in the occult . House impersonates an English noblewoman , in his spare moments trains Fall Guy Lahr for a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Best shots : Mummer Savo bestowing an imaginary wedding present with all the airy panoply of pantomime ; Swami Auer winning Wrestler Lahr 's bout for him with levitation 's artful aid ; Barytone Lahr 's " Song of the Woodman " ( " What do we chop when we chop a tre-e-e ? Buckets for the well , poles for American Tel. and Tel . . . . The better mouse trap , the movie mag , the mast to hoist our country 's flag . . . that 's what we chop when we cha-ha-ha-hop a tree " ) . Submarine D-1 ( Warner Brothers ) . Behind an array of such box-office buoys as sailors named Butch , Sock and Lucky ( Pat O'Brien , Wayne Morris , Frank Mc-Hugh ) , Warner Brothers demonstrate the advances that have been made in undersea safety since the disasters that befell the S-4 and S-51* in the last decade . <P> Heretofore when the cinema has chosen subsea subjects , it has usually focused on a stricken boat on the seafloor , has peered in at anguished men gasping for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ looks more sweaty than sweat ) . The undersea mishap that climaxes Submarine D-1 is taken in a reassuringly even stride . Under the unruffled direction of Lieut . Commander Matthews ( George Brent ) , everything goes like clockwork . In the equalizing chamber the crew stands chattering about horseraces and San Diego girls while water creeps up to their waists , submerges the lower end of the tubular escape hatch . Presently the hatch cover is raised , a line attached to a cork buoy shoots upward to the surface and the men don " escape lungs , " resembling hot-water bags . Then with clips holding their noses and mouthpieces gripped between their teeth , the crew in alphabetical order follow the escape line by easy stages to the surface .                     