@@153174

GONE WITH THE WIND - Margaret Mitchell-Macmillan ( $3 ) . <P> Unlike other cities of the Old South , Atlanta , Ga . was a modern industrial community from the start . Staked out just one hundred years ago as a railroad terminal , it soon grew until four important lines crossed there . Its commercial activity had few attractions to Southerners who were trained to the slower pace of plantations , while its pushing , aggressive , competitive life made it distasteful to the leisured aristocrats of Savannah or Charleston . But as an island of industrialism in the drowsy sea of Southern society , Atlanta attracted dissatisfied spirits who were fed up with the old order and wanted change even before the Civil War , became a vast manufacturing centre on which the whole South depended when the War finally broke . And when Sherman captured it the Confederacy was lost . <P> Last week readers had an opportunity to learn about Atlanta 's history in an imposing first novel chosen by the Book-of-the-Month Club for July . The work of a young Atlanta newspaperwoman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than its extreme length . In its 1,037 pages Margaret Mitchell has pictured pre-Civil War plantation life , the disintegration of Southern society during the War , the siege of Atlanta , the chaos of Reconstruction , the emergence of industrialism with its high-pressure rivalries , employment problems , money standards , as the plantation system gave way ; the persistence of older traditions within the new order that was growing up . Born in Atlanta , Author Mitchell has lived there all her " thirty-odd " years , been a feature writer on the Atlanta Journal , is the wife of the advertising manager of Georgia Power Co . She worked on Gone With the Wind for seven years . When a publisher 's representative cried to see the manuscript she told him that she was merely " playing around with the idea of doing a novel some time or other " and then showed him a first draft of Gone With the Wind that stood almost shoulder-high.                     