@@493668

Japan 's Manchurian Blunder WHAT DOES Japan stand to gain economically as a result of her Manchurian adventure ? Will she find in the control Manchuria an early solution to her most pressing anionic problems ? There is a widely entertained belief that she will , but an analysis of the prospects leads to a contrary conclusion . The most serious economic problem confronting Japan , and the one from which many of the others follow , is the so-called " population problem . " Japan proper occupies an area slightly less than that of the state of California , and only about one-sixth of the land is arable . On this relatively small plot of ground , she is at present supporting a population in excess of sixty-six and one-half millions ? over half the population of the United States ? and faces the necessity of having to support even a larger number in the near future , or to provide the means of settling them outside the country . Certain decelerating forces , such as fewer and later marriages , will very definitely prevent Japan from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The " million a year " increases will not continue for long . Competent students of the subject believe that Japan will never have as many as 100 million people , and that it is likely that she will strike a plateau at not much over 80 millions . Most of the increase will take place during the next decade or two , and during this period Japan must face a great strain in providing necessities and employment for her people . She must take care of at least 9 millions more by 1945 , and meanwhile provide employment for 400,000 or more additional workers annually . The time element is of obvious importance , since the needs of population must be provided as it expands . Food , raw materials and markets which the distant future may hold in store ? no matter in what abundance ? will not provide for an existing population . A second important economic problem which confronts Japan is that of selling goods and services to foreigners to pay for purchases from abroad . Japan has usually found it impossible to export enough goods @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a few years in recent times , and not since 1918 , has she had a so-called " favorable " balance of trade . Her principal imports during recent years have been raw cotton , machinery , wool , iron and steel , umber , peas , beans , bean cake , wheat , coal , mmonium sulphate , mineral oil , sugar and rub-bet Japan is dependent on imports for her entire supply of cotton , wool , rubber , aluminum and nickel ; for over 90 percent of her steel ; and for over 75 percent of her iron ore , lead , zinc , tin , oil , hemp , dyes and chemicals . The bulk of her importsconsists of basic necessities . To cut down on the consumption of these would seriously injure her people and hamper her industries . Several of Japan 's most important export industries are wholly or partly dependent on imported raw materials . In recent years Japan has been buying more goods than she has been selling ; and while she has been rendering services to a greater value than she has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ balance her aggregate current expenditures abroad against her current income from abroad . She must find some way of increasing her sales of goods and services to foreigners in relation to her consumption of goods and services from them . Neither her international capital position nor her ability to export treasure will permit otherwise . Although her population and trade problems are the most acute , Japan ? is-faced with other serious and closely related economic problems as well . These consist or grow out of unemployment , budgetary difficulties , currency and banking problems , burdensome and maldistributed taxation , agrarian discontent and a host of others which are plaguing the entire world . Will Japan 's more intimate and agreeable relations with Manchuria enable her to solve these major economic problems to any appreciable extent ? What have they accomplished to date ? Immediately following the outbreak of hostilities in September , 1931 , there was fanned into full flame an anti-Japanese boycott of unprecedented proportions and effectiveness . Japanese steamship lines , banks , manufacturers and mercantile houses were forced either to suspend or limit operations in China @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dominate business . Industry and commerce in Japan were likewise upset . Japan 's international credit rating was lowered , her gold-dollar bonds dropping in New York by almost 50 percent within the first eight months of the conflict . These bonds have recovered considerably , but despite this , Japan 's credit abroad remains so bad that she can not borrow except at ruinous rates . This is particularly significant as Japan has never repudiated a foreign financial obligation , a record second to none in the world . Within three months after the outbreak of hostilities , Japan was forced to abandon the gold standard . The yen then began to drop until it had depreciated to about 40 percent of its former gold value , a position from which it has not recovered . Even though Japan had not embarked on her con. tinental adventure , she probably would have been forced to follow Great Britain in abandoning the gold standard . It is doubtful , however , that the yen would have dropped so far as it has , had it not been for her military operations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the internal and external difficulties growing out of the extremely low value of the yen are to be traced to Japan 's military activities in China . The extreme depression of the yen has imposed heavy burdens on Japan in paying for her imports and in meeting the charges on her foreign loans . To an extent it has stimulated exports , but this has not been an unmixed blessing , in view of the general ? but not always well founded ? charges of " dumping " lodged against her . This is serious , for many of her best customers , China , India , Egypt , Malaysia and sections of Africa , for example , are beginning to restrict imports of Japanese goods . That Japan has not suffered more from her depreciated yen , is due only to the cushioning effects of the depreciated pound and dollar . As to the costs of Japan 's military operations in China , reliable figures are not available ? if for no other reason than that the operations have not yet ceased . It is scarcely to be doubted , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " have exceeded what she has made in Manchuria to date . Hostilities created a boom in the war industries and certain others , and the depression of the yen gave a belated impetus to export industries and industry in general and served even later to check imports . With the boom in industry there was a lessening of unemployment and a possible temporary check to the spread of the ever-present and highly contagious " dangerous thoughts . " Depreciation of the yen brought some agrarian relief , but much less than enough to satisfy the tax-ridden and debt-burdened peasants . The creation of Manchukuo provided a number of lucrative posts for Japanese in the new state , though it is doubtful that the new government will need or can afford a much larger Japanese personnel to direct its destinies . The new state has given the Japanese the rights to own and lease land and to exploit the resources of the country . These are rights that the Japanese feel ? and with some justice ? they were entitled to exercise by virtue of certain treaties with China that former @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ present Manchukuo government has practically promised to accept its creator 's interpretation of any and all Japanese treaty claims in Manchuria , and this may be reckoned the most important achievement growing out of the new state 's establishment . Significant as this gain unquestion ? ably is , its importance is solving Japan 's economic problems has been greatly overestimated . From the opening of hostilities in September , 1931 , to the present , Japan has undergone many , hardships and her people have made many sacrii feces . These have been offset in part by certain gains , but without question , the aggregate of losses during this period has more than offset the aggre ? gate of gains . I doubt that any Japanese would dispute this , But if the sacrifices to date have not yet brow commensurate returns , what promise is there that they will in the future ? Will Manchuria solve ' Japan 's population problem ? Fire , can she do it by providing a direct outlet for mass Japanese emigration ? Students of the problem think not , there is such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ worth while to offer the objections . The most frequently advanced are : i . The Japanese are not accustomed to mass emigr tion . For about two and one-half centuries prior to 1868 , Japan was a closed country and its inhabitants were forbidden to leave . The Japanese have no tr tion of emigration , and there are now fewer than one million subjects living abroad . This argument is not particularly compelling , for if the Japanese were wel come in foreign countries where they could make a decent living they would emigrate ? lack of tradition notwithstanding . 2 . The Japanese are not accustomed to the variety of crops or the types of cultivation in vogue in Manchuria . Instead of intensive cultivation , and heavy irrigation and fertilization on small plots that return a high yield , the Japanese colonist must cultivate ex. tensively in Manchuria , get along without irrigation and fertilization and be satisfied with low yields . This again is not an overserious objection and would not prevent Japanese colonization . 3 . Another argument frequently advanced is that the Manchurian climate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ per se is not the vital objection , but rather the large additional costs which it imposes for clothing , shelter and fuel . There is abundance of evidence to show that the Japanese can withstand the cold as well as other peoples if they are properly clothed , housed and fed . The rigors of Manchuria are objectionable , not for the reasons ordinarily , ascribed , but rather because of their economic implications . 4 . There is , however , one valid reason why Japanese can not hope to settle Manchuria in large numbers . Their standard of living is too high in comparison with their efficiency to permit any large-scale competition with the Chinese settlers already there . ' While the difference in their standards may often be exaggerated , it is marked nevertheless . Opportunities will exist in Manchuria for Japanese professional and " white collar " men in limited numbers , but not for ordinary workers or farmers . Without financial assistance from their government , no large number of Japanese settlers can hope to compete with the Chinese already in Manchuria . Subsidizing settlers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is pinched now , how much more will she be pinched if she burdens herself with gifts to emigrants ? None of the subsidized-settlement schemes is planned on a scale to take care of more than a small fraction of Japan 's annual increases . The yearly gains are in the hundreds thousands , - whereas the wildest subsidized-emigra , 4 tion schemes deal in the tens of thousands , and more sane in terms of thousands . Even if it 1 granted that tens of thousands of Japanese CO be settled in Manchuria annually . economical 6,1 1933 otherwise ? would it not yet he obvious that ManIthuria is no solution to Japan 's population problem in so far as emigration is concerned ? If Manchuria can not solve Japan 's population problem by absorbing settlers , can she do it by providing Japan with food , raw materials and markets necessary for a greater industrialization of the islands ? If the expansion of Japanese industry and commerce is to rest on sound economic grounds , Japan must be able to deal with Manchukuo on terms equal to or better than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . If the terms are not so good , Japan loses ; if they are not better , she can not take care of the larger numbers at the present standard of living . Further , it is only by bettering the terms of her international commerce that she can solve her trade problem of bal. ancing exports and imports . During recent years , Japan 's imports from Manchuria have amounted to only about 7 TA percent of her total imports , and her exports to Manchuria to only a little over 8 percent of her total exports . Japan has far more important suppliers and customers outside Manchuria than she has within it and she can ill afford to antagonize them even for the sake of considerable gain in Manchuria . To date Japan 's only important agricultural import from Manchuria has been the soya bean , used for food and forage , but chiefly for fertilizer . On account of the inroads now being made by chemical fertilizers , Japan 's aggregate imports of soya beans are likely to decrease . Her imports of maize , kao. hang @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ long as the Japanese prefer rice , their only important " breadstuff . " Manchuria at present raises little rice , but if necessary could raise considerable amounts , though heavy expenditures for irrigation would first be required . For the time being Japan is self-sufficient in the matter of rice . In time to come Manchuria may supply Japan with wheat , but at present Manchuria is a net importer of wheat in the form of flour and must become self-sufficient before she can supply Japan . Manchuria may likewise supply Japan with cotton and wool , but at present their production is poor in quality and meager in output ; only wool shows real promise . Manchurian mineral resources are often described in such glowing terms that many people suppose these will one day make Japan independent of the rest of the world for her supplies of at least coal , oil and iron . Manchuria possesses an abundance of coal , but she lacks the coking coal of which Japan stands in need . Manchuria can supply Japan ? with ordinary varieties of coal , and at lower @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first the opposition of powerful Japanese mining interests must be overcome . Manchuria can likewise supply apan with limited amounts of oil . There is no free oil in Manchuria and so extraction will have to be from shale , a process generally regarded as uneconomical at present . Barring unanticipated technological improvements , Japan can never hope to meether oil requirements from Manchuria at other than prohibitive costs . Manchuria contains large deposits of iron ore , but with negligible exceptions they are of such poor quality that , in the opinion of competent authorities , they will not be able to support an economically sound iron and steel industry of any substantial proportions . One outstanding authority states that there are millions of tons of similar ore in the Lake Superior region which we do not even reckon among our reserves . In the matter of market expansion , Manchuria will be of only limited importance for some time . Manchuria 's chief imports from Japan in recent years have been cotton piece goods , machinery , iron and steel , wheat flour , clothing , miscellaneous piece goods @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ variety of miscellaneous manufactures and foodstuffs . If Manchuria is to be allowed to develop rationally , she may buy fewer of these goods from Japan . If cotton production should succeed , Manchuria might fabricate her own piece goods , and the same holds true in varying degree for other commodities . In fact , unless Japan interferes too seriously , Manchuria may evolve an economy that will threaten rather than complement Japan 's . Should Japan attempt to " plan " Manchuria 's economy so as to keep it in a colonial status ? the increasing number of Manchukuo state monopolies create this suspicion ? she may invite embarrassing opposition from the passively hostile Chinese populace and even certain Japanese . At the moment , Japanese-Manchukuo trade is exceptionally brisk , but the basis does not promise to endure . Japan is expending and investing heavily in Manchukuo ; her highly depreciated yen is giving her an advantage over domestic and foreign competition ; and the reciprocal trade restrictions between China and Manchukuo are playing in her favor . Once she discontinues making these expenditures , which she can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Manchukuo 's economy is adjusted to new local conditions , the present basis for this unusual trade will disappear . For some time to come Manchuria will be of only slight assistance in solving Japan 's population and trade problems . There is no prospect whatsoever for mass emigration ; and Manchurian resources do not give promise of early or great Japanese industrial and trade expansion along economic lines . Further , Japan 's manner of gaining control of Manchuria has injured her trade opportunities and credit standing in certain important areas ; and the costs of gaining this control have seriously threatened her financial stability . With a more judicious handling of her Manchurian problem , Japan was destined to gain much of what she will obtain in Manchuria , and in so far as net economic gain is concerned , she could easily and might wisely have spared herself the cost of the entire venture . She ' nay get more out of Manchuria economically than she otherwise would have , but this possible gain has been bought too dearly . 