@@469581

ONE night last faIl the Morro Castle burned . A hundred and twenty-five persons , more or less , lost their lives . For days newspapers were filled with accounts of the tragedy . And while we shuddered over the Morro Castle , the great majority of us remained quite unaware that on that very day we killed more people with our automobiles than perished at sea . And that the very next day , we did it again . In these deaths by motor cars , there was no news . If anyone should wish to look upon a person who will kill one of his fellows before twelve months are out he need only halt and look at the drivers of the first seven hundred automobiles that pass . If the street is a busy one this will require only hail an hour . Last year there was one automobile fatality for each six hundred and fifty cars on the road . Nine years ago , there was only one death for each eleven hundred cars . It was not until 1906 , ten years after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Census Bureau considered motor vehicle deaths sufficiently numerous to warrant their separate classification . In 1906 the Census mortality statistics showed only one hundred and eighty-three automobile victims . But the number leaped upward . Eight years later it had risen to four thousand . In another decade , it stood at nineteen thousand . Ten years later-1934 ? it passed thirty-five thousand , and the rate of gain was such as to indicate more than forty thousand this year . Almost a thousand men and women and children in each of the summer weeks ! Nor is this all . Not only are deaths increasing , but the rate of increase is itself rising . In 1934 five thousand more persons were killed than in 1933 . No previous year had ever shown an increase approaching this . Until 1927 there was one hopeful aspect of this mounting tide of death . Until that year automobile fatalities had increased less rapidly than automobile registrations . Until that year we could feel that the increase in deaths was a natural result of the increase in automobile use . But from a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been strongly the other way . Since then automobile registrations in the United States have increased about eleven per cent . Automobile fatalities have increased fifty-five per cent . And the rate of increase is now greater than it ever was before . II The term automobile " accident " is usually a misnomer . Accident denotes a chance happening , something largely uncontrollable . What we call an automobile accident seldom falls in this class . Only about four or five out of each hundred deaths are due to defects in the roadway , to tire blowouts , breakages of steering mechanisms , or other unforeseeable vehicular mishaps . These four or five per cent are true accidents . But when a hurrying driver pulls round a large truck on a curve , and too late finds another car dashing head on into him , that is not a matter of chance so much as of foolishness . When a hurrying pedestrian crosses a street in the middle of a block and steps from behind a parked car into the path of a moving one , that again is not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a deliberate , tempting of fate . When a motorist drives on a wet pavement at the same speed that would have been safe on a dry day , or drives rapidly with brakes known to be defective , and is unable to cope with some unexpected condition , that again is not an accident . It is a deliberate taking of an unwarranted chance . Nine-tenths of these miscalled " accidents " are of this nature . They do not merely happen ; they are definitely caused . They occur on good roads , in good weather and without extenuating circumstances . Almost always they are the natural consequences of the faulty acts of those involved in them . Prevent the faulty act , and prevention of the accident should automatically follow . The essential step is prevention of the faulty act . We have recognized this for a Iong time , and have made tremendous efforts to prevent acts that lead to accidents . The tripling of automobile deaths in the last fifteen years is a severe indictment of these efforts . But indictments alone are not always conclusive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ different degrees of intensity in different regions ; perhaps the accident increases have occurred where prevention has been lacking . The efforts , moreover , have been of widely differing kinds . It may be that closer study of the things we have attempted will show some brilliant , isolated successes amid general failure . Experiences ofthe past may point the way to a course of action for the future . These efforts have followed three broad lines : engineering improvements to roads and vehicles , education , and legal control . Fifteen years ago it might have been thought that much benefit would result from an effort to make driving safer from an engineering standpoint . And when we consider the roads of 1920 , with their sudden twists and turns , humps and hollows , their soft shoulders , obstructed vision at curves and intersections , their narrow bridges ; when we consider the motor car of that day , with its high center of gravity , two-wheel brakes , imperfect tires , there seems to have been much room for improvements that would mean greater safety . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ straightened , and smoothed ; obstructions to vision have been removed ; warning signs have been erected ; curves have been banked ; roadway widths have been increased ; bridge approaches have been bettered and bridges widened ; the worst grade-crossings have been eliminated ; lights and stop signs have been erected . The motor car also has been improved . It has been given greater stability ; tires have been made safer ; unshatterable glass has been installed ; automatic windshield-wipers have been invented and made mandatory , as have rear-view mirrors ; headlights have been improved ; four-wheel brakes have become universal . Both the roadway and the car have been made vastly safer ? for operation at any given speed . But here lies the joker . This great amount of engineering effort has had two aims , to increase the safety of travel and to increase its speed . Unfortunately these aims are inconsistent with each other . As we increase speed we decrease safety ? and the decrease in safety must always be greater than the increase in speed . If this great improvement of roads @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should have been clearly shown in our rural accident trend . The great improvement in our highway facilities has occurred in the open country . The advances in motor car design and manufacture affect performance on the open road much more than on city streets . The changes in travel that have resulted from these engineering efforts have been much more pronounced in country than in city . If they have conduced to safety , comparison of the rural and urban accident trends should evidence that fact . In the past ten years automobile deaths on city streets have increased one third . Deaths on rural highways have more than doubled . Moreover , during these years increase in urban automobile registrations has been considerably greater than increase in rural registrations . Granted that the average city car is driven more miles on country roads now than formerly , it is also driven more miles on city streets . There is no reason to believe that the percentage of increase in travel on country roads has been anywhere near four times what the percentage of increase on city streets has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our roads and vehicles has increased , and speeds have risen proportionately , accidents have surged upward . We may say then that engineering advances have brought about certain benefits , but that increased safety is not among them . Instead , the improvements of the engineer , taken in conjunction with the characteristics of the motorist , simply make more difficult the problem of reducing the number of accidents . Whenever the engineer devises something that might make travel safer we use it instead tomake travel faster . Our mechanical equipment is already far in advance of our ability to use it wisely . Accidents increase simply because too large a proportion of highway users are too indifferent to highway hazards . To overcome this indifference , to compel the safer driving of automobiles , has been the aim of efforts at accident prevention through more stringent legal control . What have these efforts been , and to what extent have they succeeded ? III The principal development in the attempts to decrease highway accidents through legal control has been what is known as the " driver 's license law @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before issuance of a license , requires the motorist to report to the State any accidents in which he is involved , and reserves the right to revoke his license . It is a logical form of highway control , simple of operation , and trifling in cost . The high hopes held for it are reflected in the fact that in recent years there has been almost a stampede of States to enact such legislation . Have such laws measured up to ex-pectations ? The fact has already been noted that accident trends are different in rural and urban areas . Many different influences bear on the accident situation in our cities . In rural areas , however , the case is simpler . In such areas , broadly speaking , the State motor vehicle law provides the only form of accident control . Without such a law the rural countryside is practically without means of regulating in any way the actions of motorists on its highways . The surest way then to reach a conclusion as to the value of regulation of motorists by State law is to compare @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have such regulation and those that have not . New York State has required the licensing of motor-vehicle operators since 1925 , and has required the reporting of all accidents that result in personal injury , whether fatal or nonfatal . The study of the tabulations of these accident data brings to light many facts regarding accident occurrence in a State with one of the best-drawn laws for the regulation of motorists . New York State has seven cities of 100,000 population or over . In the rest of the State are many small towns ; but the area is essentially rural in the sense that automobile operation is subject to little control except that derived from the State motor-vehicle law . Consequently , consideration of accidents in this region will furnish us with a good idea of the success with which the law has worked . In 1926 automobile deaths from accidents in rural New York numbered 946 . In 1934 they had risen to 1,570 . This is a sixty-six per cent increase in deaths . During these years automobile registrations in rural New York increased only about twenty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ registrations . As proof of the efficacy of the law , this evidence leaves something to be desired . The test of the law , however , is not whether it did or did not allow an increase in deaths , but whether a greater or less increase would have occurred without the law . It is impossible , of course , to say positively , but we can probably come close to the right answer by comparing what did happen in rural New York during the existence of the license law with what happened in some region without the license law , but otherwise comparable . There are nine States that have no cities with as many as 100,000 inhabitants and for which the number of automobile deaths in 1926 is known . These nine rural States , scattered through the South and West , are , therefore , comparable to the rural part of New York State . No one of these States requires the licensing of motor-vehicle operators or has statutes at all comparable to the New York motor-vehicle law . During the same years , 1926 to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 35 per cent ? about half the increase in rural New York . Changes in automobile registrations during these years were unfavorable to New York , however , and ought fairly to be taken into account in making the comparison . When this is done it is found that deaths per thousand automobiles in use increased at almost exactly the same rate in the rural States without license laws as in the rural part of New York State . The license law in New York State appears to have had no helpful influence . An examination of accident trends in many other license-law States leads one to the same conclusion . The States with license laws , considered as a group , have had a smaller increase in automobile fatalities than the States without such laws . This naturally suggests a beneficial influence of the law . The actual explanation is quite different however . It has been noted that urban accidents have been relatively static in recent years while rural accidents have increased . This has been true in States with license laws and in States without them . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are States that have heavy urban populations ? States like New York , Massachusetts , New Jersey . In such States rural accidents are in the minority , and a large increase in rural accidents is obscured by the relatively static urban accidents . Urban accidents largely determine the rate of accident increase for the entire State . Consequently , the total accident increase is less than in some rural State , where the increase in rural accidents determines the accident increase . And the States without license laws are almost entirely rural States . That the accident experience of our is clearly shown by comparing Massachusetts and Rhode Island with New Hampshire and Vermont . Massachusetts and Rhode Island have the largest proportion of urban inhabitants of any of the United States . New Hampshire and Vermont both have more rural than urban dwellers and are the only predominantly rural States that have the standard type of license law . All four have very similar license laws . If such laws control accident occurrence , all four States should show about the same accident trends . Actually , however , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New Hampshire and Vermont as in their neighboring urban States . Sound as the license law appears in principle , it can not be said that as a means of controlling accidents it has been a great success . If every State in the union were to enact such a law this year , so far as the past is an index of the future , the effect on the number of automobile fatalities in the years ahead would not be striking . IV Engineering improvements have greatly accelerated fatality increases . Legal regulation of motorists has been neutral in its results . Our educational efforts remain to be evaluated . These efforts are directed toward the motor-vehicle operator , and toward the pedestrian . They include the varied activities of the local safety councils of many cities : the placing of safety posters , organization of safety patrols among school children , contact withpolice departments and courts to see that they are on the job , the sponsoring of safety contests among commercial drivers . They include a great deal of newspaper publicity , from the Bureau of the Census @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ included four great national conferences sponsored by the United States Department of Commerce to co-ordinate the efforts of all those persons interested in automobile-accident prevention . They include the efforts that many , if not most , owners of large fleets of trucks make to reduce their transportation costs by impressing on drivers the fact that accidents cost their employers money and may cost themselves their jobs . This great amount of effort has been largely concentrated in the cities . City-accident statistics should enable us to appraise its results . The fact that strikes us first in these statistics is the great difference in accident trends between city and country . As we consider cities of larger and larger size , it becomes more pronounced . From 1926 to 1934 , percentage increases in automobile deaths have been as follows : Rural United States ( area outside of cities of 10,000 population and over ) 90 Cities of 10,000 population and over .. 35 Cities of 100,000 population and over . 12 There is some uncertainty about the increase in automobile registrations in these different areas during the period in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of /00,000 population and over was somewhere near 20 or 25 per cent . In our larger cities , then , automobile deaths during the last decade have been increasing only one-half or one-third as fast as registrations . Here at last is a gleam of light in the accident situation . Evidently at /east some of the efforts being made to restrain city accidents are bearing fruit . A little further investigation of urban fatality trends shows a second striking fact . The reason that deaths from automobile accidents in cities have not been increasing more rapidly is this : Deaths of pedestrians ( and these still form a considerable majority of city deaths ) are either static or actually declining ; deaths of motorists , on the other hand , are still increasing rapidly . The following summation from Cleveland , Philadelphia , and St. Louis is typical of the situation that exists in most of the large cities of the country , and it makes very clear the divergence in the deaths of pedestrians and of motorists . If we examine these pedestrian deaths more closely we find @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been increasing quite rapidly ; deaths of child pedestrians have decreased still more rapidly . In the three cities mentioned deaths of adult pedestrians increased by 45 per cent from 1926 to 1934 ; child-pedestrian deaths decreased by 60 per cent . This is true of the country at large . In New York State the number of child pedestrians killed in 1934 was 32 per cent less than in 1926 . Deaths of adult pedestrians , however , had risen by 65 per cent , and deaths resulting from accidents that involved only motorists had increased 110 per cent . Our children are learning to take care of themselves , and such decreases as we find in our accident totals we owe to that fact . This is the only logical explanation . The figures offer no evidence that motorists are driving more safely , even in cities , than they did ten years ago . If they are , why has the rate at which they are killing one another increased twice as rapidly as urban registrations have increased ? Why have deaths of adult pedestrians increased out of all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ likely that motorists are simultaneously driving with more care for the safety of children and with much less regard for themselves . Nor is it likely that adult pedestrians have been growing so much more reckless as not only to nullify the effect of safer automobile operation but also to increase so greatly the number of their own deaths . One hypothesis , however , does fit the facts . Even in cities motorists have been driving less safely . Children , with the benefit of extensive and increasing efforts to teach them care in their use of the streets , with increasing provision of safe play areas , are learning to meet the growing automobile hazard with steadily increasing success . Adults , with minds more rigid and habits more firmly fixed , are less successful in their adaptation to a growing hazard . If we accept this hypothesis we have to face this fact : That whatever may be the causes of such decreases in automobile fatalities as have occurred , the cause has not been an increase in the safety with which automobiles are driven . Our educational @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ legal regulation , have failed to reach the great mass of motor vehicle operators . From this threefold failure has come the tripling of automobile deaths in the last fifteen years . This is the situation that must be realistically and honestly faced if the success that has so far eluded us is to crown our future efforts . V If accidents are to be successfully prevented we must know who cause them , and why . The view has sometimes been advanced that the majority of automobile accidents are due to a very small minority of drivers ? to persons who enjoy thrills , who like to take chances , or to persons who are physically or mentally incompetent to drive safely . Evidence to support this view is lacking , however . State motor-vehicle department records do not show an abnormal number of " repeaters . " Most of the motorists involved in accidents are persons who have never been involved before . There are undoubtedly a few drivers on the highways who are so reckless or so incompetent that they ought to be taken off and kept off @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are due to persons who do not depart widely from average in their driving performance . Fully fifty per cent of the persons who drive ? and probably a good many more than this ? occasionally do needlessly dangerous things . They sometimes drive too fast for conditions they are likely to encounter , get on to the wrong side of the road , pass other vehicles where they should not . Usually these comparatively infrequent and momentary departures from safe practices have no bad consequences . When we are careless , the other fellow is watchful . But occasionally both drivers are careless or reckless simultaneously , and then an accident results . Not all accidents are caused in this way . Sometimes one party to an accident departs so very far and so suddenly from safe practices that no amount of vigilance or caution of the other party can prevent a collision . But usually , when an accident occurs , both parties contribute to the catastrophe . And more often than not , the motorists involved in accidents are persons whose standard of safety in driving is not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Read for a few days the newspaper accounts of accidents in your locality and see if they do not accord with the above hypothesis . As I write this I pick up my local paper and see that over the past week-end three automobile deaths occurred in my community . In one , a car backed out of a driveway into the path of a rapidly passing car . In the second , an early morning driver , fiddling with his windshield wiper in a squall of rain , without slowing down sufficiently as he did so , ran into a milk wagon and killed the person on the seat beside him . In the third , a driver skidded off a slippery curve and crashed into a tree . Different as these three accidents were in objective causes , they were alike in that each of them was entirely avoidable , and that all three resulted from just such things as all of us are apt occasionally to do . Here is no evidence of a special accident-producing type . This is true of most accidents . Each one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the persons whom he encounters . The indignation we feel when someone takes our right-of-way is matched only by the rapidity with which we forget the minor infractions of the rules of safe driving which we ourselves commit . There are few of us who can say truthfully at the end of a full day 's driving that we have done nothing whatever that was unsafe . Perhaps we were irked at the exasperating driving of some car ahead of us and overtook it on a hill or curve where the result might have been serious had a car appeared from the opposite direction . Perhaps it was some view or roadside sign that distracted our attention to a degree that might have been disastrous had a child dashed in front of us . Perhaps we even " ran " a light , relying on the waiting cars to continue to wait until we were out of their way . Almost all of us are habituated to taking such little chances occasionally . The instances when this chance-taking does not work out successfully get into the papers as accidents . A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two things . Either we must correct this almost universal tendency to indulge in occasional dangerous practices or else we must reduce our speeds of travel so the consequences of such practices can be avoided or minimized . Otherwise accidents will continue at present or higher levels . The simple thing would be to reduce our speeds of travel . If our average speeds were to be halved ( not merely our maximum speed ; for frequently conditions are such that thirty miles an hour is more dangerous than fifty miles an hour would be elsewhere ) a great saving in lives would result . But such a general reduction in speeds is out of the question . Our present speeds have been developed in response to a demand which still exists . Even now the highway department of one of our States is designing roads for speeds of ninety and a hundred miles an hour . A certain manufacturer is selling motor cars for public highway use each of which carries a certificate that it has been driven at more than a hundred miles an hour . Any reductions in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of present or higher speeds . The problem is not to reduce speeds but to lead the motoring public to use high speeds with more intelligence and discrimination . VI Every automobile accident ? except those few that really are accidents in the proper sense of the word ? has an objective and a subjective cause . The principal objective cause of accidents is too great speed for the conditions encountered . Other objective causes are many , and from the standpoint of accident prevention arc comparatively unimportant . The specific incorrect act that preceded the collision is of much less interest than the state of mind that made that act possible . It is the subjective cause of accidents that needs to be understood . From the subjective standpoint we have collisions because there is no sufficiently compelling incentive not to have them . If the incentive existed we could drive in such a way that accidents on the open road ? where they have so rapidly increased ? would almost disappear . If every one who drove were to become determined that he would drive in such a way @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he would not have one . If some Mussolini were to decree that anyone involved in an accident should automatically and permanently be debarred from ever driving again , accidents would simply cease . There is no possibility of such a decree , nor would it he desirable . Elimination of all accidents would necessitate an unbearable restriction of traffic . The point I am making is that accidents are subject to our control . Their elimination is merely a matter of the creation of a sufficient incentive not to have them . The existing incentives to safe driving ( aside from a very meager altruism ) are ( 1 ) the fear of financial loss to ourselves , ( 2 ) the fear of injury to our persons , ( 3 ) the fear of legal punishment . Why have these incentives been so inadequate ? Financial loss may be of two sorts ? that arising from damage to one 's own person or property and that arising from damage to the person or property of others . If one has enough financial responsibility to make him fear the second @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ carrying liability insurance . If he has no financial responsibility , he has no fear of such loss . So here is no incentive to safe driving . As for damage to the motorist 's own property , collisions with pedestrians ? which cause the majority of all automobile deaths ? practically never result in any such damage . In these ways , fear of financial loss is largely nullified . What of the fear of injury to one 's person ? Even though striking a pedestrian practically never results in injury to the motorist , striking another car sometimes does . One might think that this would provide a strong deterrent to reckless and careless driving . It evidently does not , and the reason is not far to seek . The average motorist knows in a general way that it is only the very exceptional accident that causes any serious personal injury to a motorist involved in it . Of the collisions between automobiles , perhaps one in ten causes personal injury . And of the personal injuries that are caused , nine out of ten are slight . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chances , odds of one hundred to one are good for a bet at any time . Penologists tell us that so long as punishment for crime is unlikely , severity of the punishment is not much of a deterrent . If the chances are strongly enough against our being caught , we give little thought to what may happen to us in the unlikely event that we arc . This same psychology enters into our driving . The chances are very strongly against our being injured seriously . Consequently the fear of being injured is not measurably present in our minds . If every collision carried with it the certainty of injury to the drivers involved , we should all drive very differently . To grasp the point , imagine how careful you would be if carrying some high explosive in your car . The remaining incentive to careful driving is the fear of legal punishment . We can not delegate this punishment , as we delegate to an insurance company the risk of financial loss . But practically there is as little fear of such punishment as there is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Legal punishment for highway offenses is rare at best , and is more apt to follow the infraction of some parking regulation than the killing or injuring of someone . This seems a rather strong statement , but it is a well considered one . I live in an old New England State where law is supposedly reverenced and enforced . Nevertheless , in the last year for which records are as yet complete , automobiles killed one hundred and two persons in my county and the coroner held someone criminally responsible for only nine of the ninety accidents . That is , in only ten per cent of these accidents did the coroner suggest to the courts that they investigate the culpability of the person who did the killing . Our present theory seems to be that one enters the public road at his own risk . In nine out of ten of the above cases the unfortunate occurrence was considered to be merely unfortunate . The heirs of the departed could sue if they thought it worth while , and perhaps the insurance company would pay . But no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ killing . If this was true of fatal accidents , how much truer it was of non-fatal ones . If the occurrence of serious injuries from accidents is relatively rare , the occurrence of punishment for accidents is rarer still . And so long as the chance of punishment is very slight the fear of punishment is bound to be almost non-existent . The steady increase in automobile accidents shows the inadequacy of existing incentives to safe driving . If accidents are to be decreased these incentives must become adequate . If they are to become adequate , they must be strengthened in some way . It is not worth while to ccinsider strengthening our altruism . That would require a basic change in human nature . An equally great change would have to be wrought before the fear of personal injury could be made to operate effectively . This cuts the possibilities to two : a greater fear of financial loss and a greater fear of legal punishment . The abolition of liability insurance would increase the fear of financial loss so far as those who now carry such insurance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the majority of motor vehicle operators ; for only a minority carry insurance . The present trend is not toward the elimination of insurance but in the opposite direction ? toward making it compulsory for all automobile owners . Whether or not this trend is best , it will probably continue . In any event the elimination of liability insurance would not touch the irresponsible person , who ought to be most stringently controlled because he is the person who gives rise to the greatest hardship when he causes an accident . This narrows the field to one possibility . Automobile accidents will not be checked except by implanting in the great body of motorists a realization that hazardous driving will almost certainly be followed by legal punishment . We can spend additional millions of dollars in eliminating grade crossings , lighting highways , and making other improvements that we hope will reduce collisions . They will have the effect of speeding up traffic and will leave the accident situation practically unchanged , if they do not make it worse . We can carry our education of pedestrians still farther . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in collisions with pedestrians that will counterbalance the existing rapid increase in accidents that involve no persons but motorists . The choice lies clear before us : We can continue to let our accidents increase or we can check them by increasing the certainty of punishment for careless and reckless operation of our auto mobiles . These are the alternatives . I am inclined to think that the former course of action is the one we shall continue to pursue ; but let us consider the possibilities of the latter . First , however , let us consider the reasons why , under our present legal set-up , an accident is so rarely followed by punishment of those who cause it . When an accident occurs , if anyone is to be brought to trial in the criminal courts charges must be preferred against him by someone . Generally , no police official is witness to a collision . If one of the drivers is drunk , or has no license , or otherwise provides definite evidence that he has violated some law , he is likely to be arrested and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Usually when a collision occurs the question of whether it resulted from chance or from some infraction of law by one or another party to the accident must rest on the testimony of witnesses to the happening . There must be a " complaining witness . " Who is that witness to be ? In collisions with pedestrians the pedestrian is either injured or killed . In the latter case he is no good as a witness . In the former case ? unfortunately perhaps but inevitably ? he is more interested in safeguarding his own welfare than in defending the public safety . He is more zealous to collect damages than to secure the punishment of the person who struck him . He rarely insists on criminal action . In the case of a collision between two automobiles each driver knows that he was in some part responsible for what happened or he fears that facts may be twisted to make it appear that he was . Therefore , he is either glad to let the matter drop entirely or he , like the pedestrian , confines his interest to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to him than does the punishment of an offender . So he rarely prefers charges . We may deprecate this attitude as much as we will , but it exists and will continue to exist . This situation makes it very difficult to prosecute effectively those responsible for accidents . A second consideration adds to the difficulty . If charges of law violation are made as the sequel to an accident , something has been started that is likely to be long drawn out before a conviction results . If the penalty is large enough to be irksome , the accused gets a lawyer , and the lawyer gets an extension of time . This can be done again and again . Before the matter actually comes to trial , witnesses ' memories are blunted and uncertain , and the case is stale and dead . Conviction would be unlikely and the case is not worth the effort of prosecuting it ; so it is nolled . These are the reasons why it is exceptional for an accident to be followed by an actual trial in the criminal courts . Under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than usually alarming , sporadic agitation sometimes brings temporary results . For a brief while prosecutors may be stimulated to a vigorous prosecution of those who cause accidents . But this condition is always temporary . The obstacles are too great for permanence . Only a far-reaching change could make our legal procedure effective in preventing the kind of driving from which collisions grow . What sort of change could be made ? Suppose that your chauffeur is driving your car and it is smashed up . What do you do ? You call on him to explain what happened , to show that he was not to blame . The very fact of his having been in an accident raises doubts as to his conduct . The burden of dispelling those doubts rests on him . If he can not satisfy you that he was not guilty of reckless driving he may lose his job . The burden of proof is on him . If he clears himself , well and good . If he fails to convince you of his freedom from blame one of two things may happen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he was at fault ; or if there is doubt in your mind , you may give him a suspended sentence ? continue him in your employ with a warning . Suppose that we were willing to subject our own selves to the procedure which we would think it perfectly natural to apply to an employee . Suppose we were to empower our courts to say : " Here is this collision . It was a serious thing , carrying the potentiality of death even though death may not actually have resulted . The probability is that it was caused by some fault or faults of you who were involved in it . Therefore , the likelihood is that it should be followed by punishment of one or both of you . In the unlikely event that the collision was not due to fault but to something unforeseeable , like the breakage of a steering mechanism , that fact ought not to be hard to establish . But it is up to you drivers . If no blame in the matter attaches to you , go ahead and show why not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would appropriately be resorted to . Their would be occasional accidents where testimony was flatly conflicting and could neither be discredited nor reconciled ; cases in which one could not establish his innocence , but could raise a strong presumption of it . In such cases no actual punishment need be meted out . But in the majority of cases the fault would definitely attach to one or more of the participants in the accident , and punishment would appropriately be applied to them . The essential difference between this philosophy and the present unphilosophical state of affairs is that the normal consequence of an accident would be punishment . And this is an essential difference . The certainly of punishment , more than its severity is the thing that makes punishment effective . If accidents were to be habitually fol'lowed by punishment we should soon develop a different attitude towards them . VIII It is certainly within the power of society to adopt this position with respect to accidents . The motor-vehicle laws of many States , instead of fixing a maximum speed limit , provide that speed in excess @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reckless driving . Reckless driving is of course a violation of law . Here , evidently , the burden of proof is placed on the individual who drives in excess of that speed . The State can charge him with reckless driving and can punish him unless he is able to show that under the circumstances the speed he was using was not reckless . It would be an even more logical application of the same principle to make participation in an accident ? where almost certainly one party , and frequently both , are guilty of faulty acts ? prima facie evidence of recklessness . Two objections may be urged against this procedure . Occasionally an innocent person would be subjected to the inconvenience of having to establish his innocence or , in rare cases , might not be able to do so . But it must not be forgotten that the day has long passed when a highway accident was the private concern of those involved in it . The community now carries much of the cost of collisions and , therefore , has a right to insist on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the proposed practice would occasionally inflict on an individual would be much less than that which the present system inflicts on the community . The second objection is that the proposal would not secure the desired results . If it did not , the failure would spring from one of two causes : that convictions would not follow accidents , or that improvement in driving would not follow convictions . The reasons why convictions do not now follow violations of traffic laws have been mentioned . The first is the difficulty of getting someone to push charges of law violation ; the second , the practice of postponing cases . The proposed procedure would be free of both these objections . Under it no complaining witness would be needed ? the placing of the charge would be automatic . The proposed procedure would also do away with the incentive to postpone the trial of cases . The accused would not , as now , be innocent until proved guilty ; he would be guilty until proved innocent . To establish his innocence he would need the testimony of witnesses with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ witness who could not remember , could not be sure what had happened , would be of little help . His failure to remember would no more establish innocence than it now establishes guilt . There seems every reason to believe that if the suggested procedure were adopted accidents would habitually lead to punishment . Would this punishment lead to better driving ? It seems safe to answer yes on the basis of existing facts . Motor-vehicle operators fall into two broad classes : drivers of commercial vehicles and drivers of private cars . The driver of the private car has all the incentives to careful driving that have been enumerated . A considerable proportion of commercial drivers have , in addition , the fear of losing their jobs as the result of being in an accident . The commercial driver knows that if he gets into a jam , no matter how indifferent the public authorities may be , his employer may feel differently . This will be especially true if his employer is one of that considerable number of fleet owners whose liability-insurance rate is determined by their own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not insurance is carried , the owner does not wholly avoid the cost of a collision . In recent years employers have been impressing on their drivers the undesirability of accidents . This practice has not been universal , but it has been general enough to show results . Let us return to the New York accident figures . During these years it is true that there was a 31 per cent increase in private passenger-car registrations , as compared with practically no change in commercial registrations . But even so the number of private passenger cars involved in fatal accidents rose two and a third times as fast as registrations rose , while the number of commercial cars decreased . Commercial-car operation became safer as passenger-car operation became more dangerous . No changes in the speeds of the two types of vehicles account for this divergence in hazard . On the contrary , truck speeds have certainly increased since 1926 by a greater percentage than passenger-car speeds have . In 1926 there were still many slow-moving , solid-tired trucks , which have now almost entirely disappeared . Long-distance express hauling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ changes have been greatly in favor of the private passenger car . Accident changes have been greatly in favor of the commercial car . This can mean only one thing : Commercial cars are now being driven more carefully and more safely than they were a few years ago . The New York figures are not alone in showing this fact . They confirm an earlier study made by the National Safety Council . This study was based on accident reports from States and cities with a combined population of 56 millions ? one-half the population of the country . The analysis showed that while the number of trucks involved in fatal accidents was 8 per cent less in 1932 than in 1927 , the number of private passenger cars so involved had increased by 38 per cent . Automobile registration figures for this half of the country are not available ; but for the country as a whole truck registrations increased 11 per cent during these years and passenger-car registrations only 3 per cent . Commercial drivers showed an actual decrease in fatal accidents , coupled with some increase in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ increases in both speeds and registrations , private passenger cars showed five times as great an increase in fatal accidents . Where there has been a direct incentive not to have accidents ? a direct penalty attached to having an accident ? accidents have decreased . The choice stands clear before us . We can continue to have highway accidents at the present or an increased rate or we can eliminate a large proportion of them by providing certainty of punisinnent for causing them . But this is the choice . Let us clearly understand that fact .                     