@@468704

IT IS hardly an exaggeration to say that no other living person could have achieved the personal success which was Ramsay MacDonald 's on his official trip to the United States . There are perhaps Frenchmen as eloquent who could repeat the achievements of Rene Viviani during the War ; but their inability to speak English would make it impossible for them to reach more than a fraction of the millions who read , heard , and understood MacDonald . There are other Englishmen , like Gilbert Murray , who would indubitably win the regard of all who heard them . But MacDonald 's superb personal presence , his wonderful speaking voice , his downrightness , his frankness , his depth of feeling , and above all , his sincerity , form a combination which moved his audiences to an extraordinary 1 degree . This was true of ordinary business men who usually are not interested in visitors from abroad , and it was especially true of one great audience which included many former diplomats , lawyers of great distinction and equal cynicism , and men of affairs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the business of the world . It seemed to me that in nearly thirty-three years of attending public functions I had never seen men of this type listen as intently or admit as freely that the speaker had reached the wellsprings of their emotions . To those of us who knew MacDonald in the dark and dreary days of the War and the making of the peace of Versailles there was a romance about his arrival 1 in this country as Prime Minister of Great Britain which exceeds anything of the kind that we have ever experienced . Not that his case is without precedent . Sir Henry C , amphell-Bannerman opposed the Boer War and became very unpopular , yet within three years thereafter was Prime Minister . Lloyd George during the same war had to escape in a policeman 's uniform from one mob ? from the Birmingham Town Hall ? and he also became Prime Minister . Profound as were the passions engendered by the Boer War , they were naturally equalled by those aroused by the World War . Ramsay MacDonald was in 1914 a conspicuous figure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ left wing of the Laborites . He was offered a most important place in the inner circle of the Coalition Cabinet if he would go along . He refused . He opposed his country 's going into the War and said so on the floor of the House of Commons . Replying to Sir Edward Grey , he declared that , " There has been no crime committed by statesmen of this character without statesmen appealing to their nation 's honor . We fought the Crimean War because of our honor . We rushed to South Africa because of our honor . The Right Honorable Gentleman is appealing to us to-day because of our honor . " He added that whatever might be said about him and his party he and it would say and continue to say " that this country ought to have remained neutral because in the deepest parts of our hearts we believe that that was right and that that alone was consistent with the honor of the country . . . . " Moreover , MacDonald spoke and wrote against the War while it was going @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wife of the present Chancellor of the Exchequer , who during the four years of strife made five hundred speeches against it ( only a few meetings being interrupted ) ? but sufficiently to let everyone know where he stood . His former Parliamentary associates stood aloof from him ; the jingo press denounced him . The Government sent a beautiful agent provocateur to try to trap him into communicating with the enemy ; he was easily defeated for reelection to the House of Commons in the " Hang the Kaiser " election . So he arrived in Paris early in January , 1919 , as an itinerant journalist , eager to earn the few pounds he could while observing the formulating of the peace . Few of the British peace delegation would speak with him . It was only at Berne , late in January , at the meeting of the Second Internationale , that he had a chance to show his stature , and to state how he thought the peace should be made . I wrote from there at the time that : " The rather noisy hall @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only the instinctive tribute to his superb presence , but an appreciation of his steadfast opposition to the War , maintained at so great a cost , " and that he spoke " with great force and real eloquence . " Yet as late as 1922 he probably could not have obtained permission to enter the United States , for here he was considered a dangerous alien , a Socialist , and pacifist . Certainly , as we saw his situation in Pans in the winter of 1919 , no one could have been so mad as to prophesy that MacDonald had any political future whatsoever , much less that , within three years of the meeting of the Peace Conference , he would be leader of His Majesty 's Opposition and within five years would be chosen the first Labor Prime Minister of Great Britain , without in the least degree recanting his political beliefsor abandoning his peace views . No portrayal by a novelist of a similar career would carry conviction of its possibility . Now the important fact for Americans in this amazing rise to the highest office @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the man charged with standing aside when his country was in mortal peril , is that it could occur in Great Britain , and probably in other countries , but that it could not take place in the United States . To a remarkable degree MacDonald 's case invites a comparison between American and British political institutions , their comparative flexibility , and the relative opportunity they give to the political dissenter , to the holder of unpopular views , who is ahead of his times , to enter political life , to retain his position if he wins a place in the congress , to make his influence felt after he is there , and to take a prominent part in the government of his country . The advantages are , it is plain , largely- , if not wholly , on the side of the British system . Thus the intending candidate for Parliament does not have to stand in the district in which he lives , as is the ease usually in this country , where few have ever ? like Congressman La Guardia to-day ? lived in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to go hat in hand to a party boss for permission to run ; nor does anybody ask him how large the cheek will be which he intends to contribute to the party 's funds ? not merely in campaign times , but annually . He can look over the entire political map of Great Britain , choose the most likely district in which to offer himself and , if he has the means , can set up his candidacy as an independent all by himself . If he is allied with a party he must , of course , present himself to the party 's committee in that district and be " adopted " by it ; that is , he must show that he has parts and promise if he is new to the political world and that he is IF RAMSAY MACDONALD WERE AN AMERICAN 335 of good character . After that the road is clear . Sometimes the candidate deliberately chooses a district , as did Malcolm MacDonald , the son of Ramsay , in which the odds are heavily against him and settles down to years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have to promise jobs , any more than if elected he has to busy himself with distributing seeds or free government films , or doing departmental errands for his constituents . He must convince the voters that he has something to offer in the way of ideas and leadership , and even then he must often wait until there is a ground swell in favor of his party . Once he is elected and takes his seat , it depends entirely upon himself as to how rapidly he can progress . He speaks in the greatest forum in the world . If he has talent , ability , and something to say , he can at once obtain an attentive hearing , not only from those in front of him but in the press . A single brilliant speech is certain to impress his personality upon the leaders of his party whether they form the ministry or the opposition . Pitt the younger entered Parliament at twenty-one and was Chancellor of the Exchequer at twenty-three . Charles James Fox was elected to Parliament at twenty . He was a powerful figure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ left Oxford at twenty-two , entered Parliament at twenty-three , and was an important member of Sir Robert Peel 's government at twenty-six . Winston Churchill entered Parliament at twenty-six ; his ability compelled his inclusion in a government six years later . Ramsay MacDonald had only to be returned to Parliament to be in a position to exercise great influence both as an individual and as a party official or leader . Whether a man is hated or liked , trusted or distrusted , he is listened to there if he is not a boresome " dinner bell " and has really something to say . He won a difficult seat from the Conservatives in 1922 . Mr. MacDonald was , of course , extremely fortunate in retaking his place asleader of the Independent Labor Party . But the point is that he was in a position after his reelection to impress his powers upon the Parliament and the Party . If there were those who had doubts about his availability when he first became Prime Minister , and still others who revolted against his leadership when his ministry fell @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in June , 1929 , there was greater unanimity of support for him in his own party than ever before . He had again stood the test of the House of Commons ; he had had nearly five years more of almost daily opportunity to demonstrate his character and abilities at close range . There is no deceiving people under these circumstances . Beyond doubt Winston Churchill is one of the two or three ablest men in Parliament ; many think him the ablest debater . Yet I can hardly find anyone who believes that he will ever become Prime Minister . If he does it will only be because his party can produce no one else . He is far abler than Stanley Baldwin ; but men who have wintered and summered with him in Parliament do not feel that his character or his stability is such that it will be possible for him to head the Conservative Party . Yet he has had the same opportunity to win the highest rank that was MacDonald 's . A career in the Commons is a fair and open contest for reputation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his failure upon party bonds , or the rules of the House of Commons , or restrictions due to procedure , or anything else . It is his own fault . It is true that a new and prejudiced Prime Minister may fail to choose for a ministerial office some talented and deserving person who has really earned it . That does not vitiate the statement that there is no fairer forum for a public career in all the world than St. Stephen 's . How different is the situation on this side of the Atlantic ! An American Ramsay MacDonald with a similar war record would never again have been given a Democratic or Republican party nomination for the House of Representatives . The case of the Socialist Congressman Victor Berger , who was reelected after having been sentenced to prison for twenty years for obstructing the War , was an exception which proved the rule , and so does the record of Senator La Follette . They were both elected in a State which deeply resented the War ; in another commonwealth in which there were only a few @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any more than could Miss Jeanette Rankin . Senator George W. Norris voted against the War , it is true , and then convinced Nebraska that he had been true to his conscience , and that he had helped to carry on the struggle after it began . Yet his , too , was an exceptional geographical situation . The fact remains that whoever offends against party regularity either in peacetime or wartime is pretty sure to find himself forever without the breastworks , just as Congressman La Guardia was once compelled to run independently in order to return to Congress and gradually make peace with his party leaders . For this the domination of the parties by their bosses is largely responsible , as it is for the decadence of the quality of the Representatives from all sections . Throughout several decades no Republican from New York City could have a Congressional career who did not do the will of Thomas C. Platt . No Democratic Congressman from Manhattan Island can seek reelection to-day if he has offended the leaders of Tammany Hall , especially if he has failed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Congressman of some parts who admitted to rue that he yearly sent a check to Boss Murphy for twice the amount of his annual salary as a Representative . No new aspirant for Congressional honors from New York City can hope for nomination to-day if he does not obtain the consent of a partyboss ? the Socialists have not been able to retain the district which once sent Meyer London to Washington . This fact alone is , I think , responsible for the extraordinary decline in the character and ability of the men who represent in Congress the Manhattan portion of the greatest city in America . Here are the present Representatives : Samuel Dickstein , Christopher D. Sullivan , William I. Sirovich , John J. Boylan , John J. O'Connor , John P. Carew , Sol Bloom , Fiorello H. La Guardia , Royal II . Weller , Anthony J. Griffin ? together with an able woman , Mrs. Ruth Pratt . Of these , only Mr. La Guardia , by reason of his recent candidacy for Mayor , is known to all the city , though he has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that his soul was his own . The rest of the list is proof positive that in Manhattan men of parts , of independence , of self-respect will not consider a Congressional career , at least not through the dominant parties . What a contrast it would be to compare with this list a similar group of men who represent the city of London through the three British parties ! As it is , the New Yorker of integrity and independence who desires parliamentary honors is practically as barred from a Congressional career as if he were residing in American Samoa or in the Philippines . What is true of New York City is true also of Boston , Chicago , Philadelphia , and our other important cities , and of many rural districts . The local party machine is almost everywhere the enemy of an efficient House and permits no representation worthy of that institution and the country save in exceptional instances . Let us suppose , however , that an American Fox or Gladstone did by accident enter the House . What would be the chances for him to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Who are the few Congressmen whose names are known to the country at large ? They are without exception old party hacks who have risen to eminence largely IF RAMSAY MACDONALD WERE AN AMERICAN 337 by legislative longevity . Take Speaker Longworth . He has been a regular of regulars . Entering Congress by favor of a corrupt boss , he has represented a safe district ever since 1903 , with the exception of two years . He served inconspicuously until , because of his longevity , he was in a position to aspire to the Speakership . Take the majority and minority leaders . They hold their positions similarly because of their length of service . No one will maintain that such legislators as Gilbert N. Haugen of Iowa and Louis T. McFadden of Pennsylvania are conspicuous because of their brilliant abilities ; nor is John Q. Tilson of Connecticut a man of exceptional oratorical or intellectual ability . Yet they are all-powerful factors in the management of the House and of some of its committees . Our young Fox or Gladstone would probably find himself addressing empty benches @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he made a sensational attack upon some person or some group . He might enunciate the soundest sentiments with true and brilliant eloquence . This would advance his personal fortunes not at all . The leaders would compliment him , but his progress would be no faster . He could not aspire to a Cabinet position , at least not until he was nearly fifty and had reached the chairmanship of some important committee . Even then he would find that his claim to a secretaryship rested upon his having been a personal friend of a new President or his being a political power in a pivotal section . The Congressmen who have entered the Cabinet since George von L. Meyer became Roosevelt 's Secretary of the Navy could be counted on the fingers of one 's hands . Thus the Congressional aspirant usually finds that Cabinet honors go to distinguished men not in political life , like Charles E. Hughes , or to undistinguished persons in private or business life , or to politicians pure and simple ? or rather often impure and extremely complex in their relationships . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sense a career leadingtoward a place in the administration of our country , yet practically every member of Parliament aspires to a corresponding goal ; a few , like Richard Cobden , persistently decline high office . For this difference several things are now responsible , whatever may have been the case in the earlier days of the Republic . The first is the committee system . Volumes have been written tracing the development of the committee . If there is a good deal to be said for it as a means of getting Congressmen to work , of expediting business , and preparing legislation , it has , none the less , played a great part in reducing the House to its present state , which is such that our chief parliamentary reporters , the special Washington correspondents , rarely if ever take the trouble to look in on the House while it is at work . If a budding Demosthenes would usually go unheard there , a Ramsay MacDonald who came back after a defeat for his pacifism would also find himself assigned to the lenst worth-while committee . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Victor Berger could obtain no more important assignment than to the committees on Enrolled Bills , Invalid Pensions , Public Lands , and War Claims . Let a new member win the ill will of the Steering Committee , and he may find himself assigned for years to the Committee on World War Veterans Legislation , or to Insular Affairs or Flood Control . Another special cause for the decline of the House as a debating body and an avenue to national fame is , curiously enough , something that the unthinking regard as one of its desirable features ? the limitation of debate and the complete control of its procedure by the little clique of party leaders who dominate the House . Our young Demosthenes might inveigh against this all he pleased . It would get him nowhere , for the House wears its shackles gladly . It is quite content to pass such a bill as the present lengthy tariff bill after only three or four days of debate and then to see the offspring of its Ways and Means Cornmittee torn to pieces in the Senate . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not : at least it prevents public abuse of the House for being as talkative as the Senate . But the net result is that the Senate is the only real debating body left in this country ; it is the only forum in which a new member can make his influence felt ; from which a single speech can carry widely over the country ; in which wrongs can be aired and necessary official inquiries started . It is the only body which puts the fear of punishment and retribution into the hearts of office holders in high places . It is , moreover , altogether significant that when Vice-President Dawes sought to change the rules of the Senate in order to limit debate , the best men in the corps of Washington correspondents were emphatically against him . They insisted that gag rules there would reduce the Senate to the level of the House , which is now just a machine to register the will of the leaders of the majority party When the House was physically made over a few years ago by the removal of the desks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ semi-circular benches , it was fondly hoped that the House would regain its position as a debating body . These expectations have not been realized . The House does not develop great debaters . Its virile members aspire to the Senate or , after a while , go back to private life because they tire of waiting for dead men 's shoes , and are too independent to be guilty of that complete subservience which is the surest way , when coupled with constant reelection , to party leadership . Can anyone claim that the House of Representatives offers a tithe of the chances for distinction of those which present themselves in the House of Commons ? Finally , it must be pointed out that our Congress is far more affected by sectional issues and considerations than is the House of Commons . Despite the differences between Scotch and Welsh and English and Irish , the Commons , especially since the settlement of the Irish question , is far more harmonious than our Senate . There is nothing in England to compare with the clash of interests between our manufacturing East @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that an American can espy which suggests the creation of blocs . But this sectionalism has always had a profound effect upon the development of our House and upon the careers of ambitious members . That the Senate does offer more of an opportunity to a newcomer and to the political dissenter ? once he arrives there ? is obvious . But how difficult it is to win an election to the Senate if one is in rebellion against the established party order ! There are obviously few States in which it is possible ; usually they are small and in the Middle West . The high hopes once held that Oregon , Washington , and California would be highly progressive have gradually faded away . It seems as if the descendants of the pioneers had not inherited the spirit of hardihood and independence which marked their ancestors ; a reactionary-immigration from the East has also played its part . It is , of course , true that the Senatorial primaries make it possible ' for a man of ability with the necessary friends , or means , to fight his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ example of this . He campaigned long and vigorously , won a seat , was defeated , came back again . But there also the fact is that his State is Iowa , an agricultural community . What chance would he have had to win in Mr. J. Henry Rorabeck 's Connecticut , or the Maine of the Power Trust , or New York ? If a young and unfettered Senator does find his way into the Senate , his position much more nearly resembles that of a Ramsay MacDonald in Parliament . Take the younger La Follette , for example . It depends entirely upon himself how far he will go in the Senate . He won his reelection on his merits and showed himself a cool and able campaigner . He has the respect and regard IF RAMSAY MACDONALD WERE AN AMERICAN 339 of all his colleagues , he is improving the quality of his speeches , and continually demonstrates the increasing wisdom of his judgments . He is not , however , really eloquent ; nor does the passion for justice as yet burn so fiercely within him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the lack of schooling necessary for the statesman and from inability to cut himself wholly loose from party bonds and shibboleths , like the tariff , and to let his political future go hang if need be . The other younger Progressives are in much the same situation . Ramsay MacDonald , as I have pointed out , had a party behind him when he reentered Parliament . These men have none . They win not because of the party machines , but because they are what they are , and because they champion some mild measures of reform , or insist that the farmer shall get his share of the Treasury swag which is paid out to the beneficiaries of our tariff system . Unlike Mr. MacDonald , our Senate dissenters , except Mr. Borah , whom it is increasingly hard to classify as a Progressive , have played no role in our foreign affairs ? partly because of the committee system again ; partly because their constituents , being inland , rural people , are little , if at all , interested in foreign policy ; partly because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are , the country may well thank fortune for them . One has only to consider the complete , dull regularity which would prevail in Washington were there not a handful of nonconformists in the Senate , to appreciate their worth whatever their shortcomings . But for them Congress would to-day be a mere device for recording a President 's wishes whenever he had a majority ? something that the Founders of the Republic certainly never desired of the Congress . IV When we consider the road to the highest office in the United States and that which leads to the Prime Ministry in England , the comparison between the two systems becomes all the more striking . Thus the King had no hesitation whatsoever in sending for Ramsay MacDonald in 1924 despite his war record and his pacifism . He was quite ready to intrust to him the conduct of the army and navy and the foreign affairs of his country . MacDonald himself was chosen within his party to Iead it by a general consensus of opinion that he was best fitted to lead . Thus he stepped directly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the gift of his nation . In this country the varying procedure of choosing a President is familiar . Certainly no pacifist with MacDonald 's record could aspire to the White House . The lightning strikes curiously . When Warren G. Harding was picked in a room on the fifteenth floor of a Chicago hotel in the dead of night by certain Senators and representatives of big business , he was certainly not selected because of a successful career as a Senator . In that august body he had not made one speech worth the printing . Had Mr. Harding lived , Mr. Coolidge would never have reached the Presidency . It can hardly be maintained that his career in Massachusetts entitled him to our highest honor . Mr. Hoover 's case is somewhat different in that he had an international reputation . Yet it is an indisputable fact that he won the nomination only by the most persistent pursuit of it . coupled with the activities of an extremely well-equipped press bureau , and also because there happened to be no outstanding candidate on whom the opposition could unite against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , I can testify that there was little enthusiasm for the man himself , and that most of the influential delegates would have been delighted had someone else been selected . When it came to the campaign , some ten millions of dollars had to be gathered to put Mr. Hoover into the White House ; and we now know that one of the contributions to that campaign was the sum of a million dollars from the manufacturers of Pennsylvania raised by the industry and ability of one Joseph R. Grundy , a fact which can hardly please Mr. Hoover to-day as he views the damage done by Mr. Grundy to the pending tariff bill . There are those who believe that William E. Borah could have forced his own nomination for the Presidency had he , when at the height of his prestige as a Progressive , really cut loose , thrown down the gage of battle to the Old Guard leaders , and declared himself the leader of the liberal forces . In 19 ' 23 he apparently seriously considered this , for he made a Fourth of July @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attacking both the political parties as recreant to their trust . But something invariably prevents his taking the vital plunge . He has never bolted , not even when Roosevelt ran ; and all Washington observers are agreed that his inability to see anything through to the bitter end has steadily handicapped his progress , has denied him the leadership of the Progressive group which should be his , and has made his opponents certain that they have his measure . As I write , he has shown more disposition to accept the responsibility for an opposition leadership in the matter of the tariff bill than in any previous contest . But even if such a man commanded , like Theodore Roosevelt in 1912 , large campaign funds and a great personal following , he would still be a long way from winning a regular nomination or being elected . His very independence would rouse the regulars and make them take the field against him . How fortunate by contrast is the British Prime Minister ! All he has to do is to win his own seat in Parliament and make @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ provided his party wins . It is true that the British parties also have to raise campaign funds ; but had one of them wished to take money from interested sources comparable to the associates of Mr. Grundy , its leaders might have found themselves face to face with an extremely rigid corrupt-practices act . As it was , the Labor Party 's reliance was chiefly upon the unpaid enthusiasm and devotion of the young party workers who gave their time , their labor , and often their money without thought of personal reward . A ten-million-dollar campaign fund would seem impossible in England , though political rewards , titles , etc. , have been known , precisely as with us , to be bestowed on the magnates who send large checks to campaign funds . The American politician is among the most timid of men . Usually very vulnerable himself , he searches the record of the party candidate ; if there is the slightest taint of irregularity upon it that candidate is dropped . This extends , of course , to many other subjects than issues of peace and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States than in England . A man of strong agnostic views with us would have to suppress those views entirely or renounce any political aspirations ? witness the career of Robert G. Ingersoll . Again , with the glorious exceptions of John Quincy Adams and Grover Cleveland , when an American President lays down that office he is supposed to be finished and shelved for the remainder of his days . Cleveland became President a second time after four years out of office . John Quincy Adams is the only one who was willing to go back into Congress , where he labored for seventeen years . In the days when the House was a debating body and a man could make his mark in it , he constantly plunged the House into the most exciting debates and stirred the whole country . One single remark of his caused three days of the most violent debate and discussion , all of which would never have taken place had his opponents permitted him to finish what he was saying ! Colonel Roosevelt is also , in a way , an exception @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ RAMSAY MACDONALD WERE AN AMERICAN 341 A British Prime Minister goes back to Parliament as a matter of course and stays there , whether he does or does not again become Prime Minister , until he no longer has the health to carry on or until he transfers to the House of Lords . With the English the career of statesmanship is usually a career for life . The action of the three members of the recent Baldwin Government who retired from politics and went into business after the defeat of their party last May has called forth wide comment in the British press , both for the unusual character of the act and for what it connotes in relation to Great Britain 's changing political life . So far , however , incidents like this only emphasize the high standards which still control . V In one other aspect the British governmental machinery is far superior to our own , and that is in the ability of a Government when defeated or seeking reelection after the expiration of a Parliament to get a single issue before the country . Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ election which turned upon the question of protection . His government fell because of the Zinovieff letter ; the " Hang the Kaiser " election hinged upon the War issues , and so forth . True , the British Labor Party has an elaborate philosophy behind it ? indeed , the whole Socialistic creed ; its supporters are well aware of its general program and seek to propagate the faith . But in the last contest Mr. Baldwin was defeated because of his Government 's record in foreign affairs , and because of a general feeling that it was narrow , stupid , and inept rather than because of the Labor Party 's program . If no single issue seemed from this side of the water to stand out , there can be no question that great numbers of those who swung to Labor did so directly because of dissatisfaction with the Conservative mishandling of foreign affairs . With us , our parties take the field encumbered by large platforms made up of dozens of planks on all sorts of questions . Of this the Bull Moose platform of 1912 is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for social legislation . That was , however , largely ignored ; the fight was waged over Mr. Roosevelt 's personality , his disloyalty to the Republican Party , and the most radical plank in his platform , which was the recall of judges . There were forty-four planks in the La Follette platform ; those his enemies seized upon particularly were the proposed curbing of the Supreme Court and the government ownership of railroads . Looking back over a long period of years , it can truthfully be said that not since 1896 has there been a Presidential campaign really devoted to a single issue . The first Bryan candidacy revolved about the question of free silver . Should Ramsay MacDonald fall in Parliament because of the disarmament plans which may result from the coming five-power conference in London , he would he able to ask the voters ' approval of that policy alone . It is practically impossible in this country to bring forward one dominating issue , unless it should be possible again to put the tariff to the front , as Cleveland did in 1888 . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the people regarding our imperialism in the Caribbean and the Philippines , but the issue was hidden by a multitude of other questions . Similarly , it is impossible to obtain a clear-cut vote on the restriction of immigration , the question of a large fleet , our entry into the League of Nations , prohibition , etc . The only hope seems to be the establishment of a national referendum as urged by Bryan , Wilson , and others . But no party , or politician , is advocating that to-day . There remains the question of tolerance . I stood for a time near Ramsay MacDonald at a King 's Garden Party at Buckingham Palace in 1926 . There were many glowering looks cast at him . I heard some people muttering angrily about " that man 's presence " and his attire . The Conservative die-hards indubitably still feel that England is going to the dogs because a Socialist is Prime Minister . Many doubtless still recall his war record and hold it up to scorn . But in the main the British public lives and lets live @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have another try at helping England in her present distress , owing to the great unemployment and the depression of industry . In part this is due to greater tolerance than is to be found in America , in part to a realization that when the Labor Party was last in power the King was not exiled , nor the landed gentry beheaded , nor their estates and the Bank of England sequestered . In other words , the English democracy is evolving naturally and non-violently ; and the British voters know it . In MacDonald 's case he has , of course , made things much easier for himself and his party by his own personal charm and his clear demonstration that in his oratory , his broad vision , his power . and his leadership he clearly measures up to ? where he does not surpaas ? the high standards of British statesmen in the past . It is not easy to believe that the American people is at bottom less tolerant . The difficulty is that it is so much harder in this huge country of ours for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ public and to obtain the opportunities he needs to tell the people just what his ideas and desires are and to defend any radical positions . The English voter is much more eager to hear both sides of a campaign and he insists upon his historic right to take part in a meeting by questioning and heckling the speaker , whereas the interruption of a public meeting in the United States is usually considered a sensational newspaper story . Nor is it as hard in England to obtain publicity for the unpopular side , though in both countries the extremely conservative dailies are always ready to try to kill EL new issue or new leaders by ignoring them . It stands to reason , however , that the British public is less inclined to follow its press than is ours . How else is it possible to explain the rise of the Labor Party and of Ramsay MacDonald , so recently hated , despised , and dubbed a " traitor , " when in all England labor has had the unqualified support of only one daily newspaper ? the Daily Herald @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the United States . Finally , the lesson of Ramsay MacDonald for America is the old one that he who dares to be true to his principles and himself may count upon eventual recognition and reward if he can make himself heard , and if his principles arc wise and " fortressed in conscience . " MacDonald spoke as a true prophet on that fateful third of August , 1914 , when he said solemnly and with deep emotion : " I have been through this before and 1906 the victory of the Liberals and pro-Boers under Campbell-Bannerman came as part recompense . It will come again . We are going to go through it all again . " His election as Prime Minister in 1914 was more important in the history of Great Britain than the events of 1906 . Once more can it be exclaimed with Lowell :                     