@@470000

ROUT a quarter of a century ago a professor of sociology , whose name has escaped me , made an attempt to classify the various subdivisions in the history of mankind according to the outstanding characteristic of each . As I remember it , the list ran something like this : the Old Stone Age , the New Stone Age , the Bronze Age , and the Iron Age , which in turn he subdivided into Ancient History , the Dark Ages , the Renaissance , the Industrial Revolution ; and coming then face to face with the present condition of man on the planet , he characterized this as the " Age of Nervous Tension . " Since that time life has , in some ways , become much worse . The great war and the great depression have added their quota to the unhappiness of mankind . Nationalism is rampant all over the earth , a colossal armament race is in progress , and the coming of the next cataclysm appears to be only a question of time . The life of the individual citizen in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Some months ago in a discussion of the problems of living in the 20th century T was surprised to catch myself defending the thesis that life in these United States was generally more satisfactory back in the horse-and-buggy days than it is now . Since that time Ralph Adams Cram has seriously questioned whether civilization has gone too far ; Dr. Alexis Carrel has spoken his piece in favor of turning the clock back , and there is evidence that Adolph Hitler is actually trying to do this . In theory this question must remain in suspense until we have learned to measure not only the emotional values of the present but those of the past , and the survival values of the two periods as well . In practice a few men are trying to recapture the past in toto . They want their own big moments back , and their retrogression is a symbol of the predicament in which men find themselves to-day . For the mind of man has created a dazzling world of bright light and swift movement and flashing communications in which the man of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ home . The measure of his failure is to be found in his political and social ineptitude , in his overcrowded asylums and prisons , and in his increasing susceptibility to nervous breakdowns , marital discord , homosexuality , and suicide . It was the custom to explain away most of these on the ground that we were only just becoming aware of circumstances which had always existed , until an explorer , J. G. Le Van , returned recently from the wilds of South America to report that the natives , albeit so superstitious that they abandoned him to make his own way out of the wilderness , were quite free of insanity and that they could recall only three cases of suicide in one hundred years . Margaret Meade , reporting on the young girls of Samoa , where life is likewise simple and natural , gives us a comparable picture . Both peoples are free of the emotional stresses of civilization . Many writers have commented on the rarity of crime in primitive society . Crime is a concomitant of the elaborate private-property system of civilization . During @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , grown weary of the stresses , have bethought themselves of Robinson Crusoe and sought peace on desert islands and in the simple life of the far corners of the earth , particularly the South Sea Islands , where nature produces in abundance and life can be maintained in comparative ease , without the strife and worry which are the accompaniments of human existence in the industrial paradises . Yet the compelling fact remains that most of the people of the United States and western Europe , where the symptoms of feverish industrialism are most severe , actually live in far greater comfort and security than did their forbears during the great majority of man 's years on this earth . It must be noted , moreover , that those who retire from the struggle and write the books about the joys of life on the faraway islands do not go quite native . They take with them a pretty complete store of that knowledge of subjugating nature which our ancestors during the painful process of civilization have doggedly wrested from an obscure and unfriendly environment . They are free of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most of his existence as a mammal , and they protect themselves from the mosquitoes by netting which has its own history of exploitation and drudgery in the cotton mills . They know how to avoid contamination , and in some measure how to control the worst forms of lower life . If there are powerful wild animals or dangerous men in the neighborhood they do not hesitate to protect themselves with gunpowder , one of the fruits of the very civilized science of chemistry . Here then is our dilemma . Although civilization is becoming increasingly hard to live with , we can not escape to the islands without benefit of its tools , medicines , and mosquito nets . We must also note that few people have yet tried raising children on a desert island . It is of course possible that our civilization has begun to run afoul of the law of diminishing returns . We may have reached a point beyond which the cost in neuroses , breakdowns , insanity , crimes , riots , and wars tends to become more than the compensating benefits of civilization @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ question whether it might not have been better to halt it in the horse-and-buggy age . There is other evidence that our civilization has already passed its optimum . It is already producing all the food , shelter , clothing , transportation , and communication that the people who have money can pay for . We have been looking for more than seven years for a new industry which might bring work and prosperity to the unemployed without finding so much as a clue to what it might be . I do not think there is any to come . The people with money have no more wants . Our job to-day is not to build the machine civilization higher but to broaden it so that more people may share in its benefits . Only so perhaps can we make it again show a profit , so to speak , in the greatest good for the greatest number . In any event this generation and the next one must live with our present state of affairs , or something very much like it , for better or for worse . Can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political potentiality that is essential if our mechanical development is to continue ? I believe that the answer is " Yes . " I can not tell you just how to prepare for the future , but I believe I can state the problem . I can not quote any authorities because , although the symptoms and mechanisms employed are the common property of modern psychology , their application to this problem is based upon my own observation and experience as an amateur . II By way of bringing the terminology up to date I should like to revise the professor 's description of the present day , and consider this as the Age of Schizophrenia . It used to be called Dementia Praecox . You may take your choice of nomenclature . The name was changed to schizophrenia because this word more accurately describes the splitting apart of the emotional from the intellectual life . I quote notes issued by the University of Chicago in which it is described as " a disease in which the patient gradually separates himself from reality , building up his own dream world . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cranks and queer personalities we have known were probably mild schizophrenic cases . " The great problem of human organization to-day is thus to bring the emotional life of its citizens to some agreement with the intellectual and industrial achievements of the period . The more psychology learns about the nervous processes of the peoples of western Europe and America the more evident it becomes that , while man has learned to write zero to the nth power , and has constructed a colossal industrial system which can perform more miracles than he knows how to ask for , his emotional processes have not changed in the past two thousand years , and probably not since Pithecanthropus Erectus was buried under a Javan landslide in the Pleistocene epoch . This discrepancy arises because of the simple fact that , while the purely mental processes of mankind can reach out to infinity , his emotional processes remain chained to day before yesterday . The intellectual life grows simply and easily . It makes such use of the lessons of the past that , once engineering has a toe-hold , it can go @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ radios , and maybe television . Astronomers glibly measure remote spaces of the heavens in figures that we can not comprehend . Einstein has revised Newton 's calculations and given us curved space and relativity . Certain Vienna physicians , Breuer , Freud , and others , and their successors , have given us a kindred key to the understanding of the chaotic emotions of man . Under the spur of their brilliant revelations psychologists have discovered thatemotions are habit patterns . I do not know who first said so in so many words . The baby 's love for his mother , the lump that rises in a boy 's throat when his dog dies , the girl 's thrill when she gets a new dress , the skilled craftsman 's pride in his work , the movie queen 's vanity of her person , the fullness of security that wells up in our breasts when we sing the " Star Spangled Banner , " even the overwhelming consummation of the one and only love ? all are habit patterns . The psychoanalyst 's great contribution has been the knowledge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ environment , and subject to guidance and adjustment . Some of these habit patterns travel wellworn trails . The emotions of fear and of comfort are known to practically all animals . The feeling of security in the group goes far down into the animal kingdom . The mother 's love for her offspring is common to all the mammals . It is the sine qua non of the continuity of the species . Some of these emotions arc so seemingly spontaneous that they were believed to be instincts until it was demonstrated experimentally that they were not . The young ewe is quite likely to disown her first lamb unless closely watched . She is a far better mother to the second . Pigeons hatched and reared by foster parents of another species will mate only with members of their adopted species . They refuse to recognize their own . In the normal Life of the group the pattern is perpetuated in the environment , and reappears in little altered form , generation after generation . The habit of love is found in many of the anthropoids and some of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ does in the human race , and be subject to the same variations . Some animals and birds mate for life and appear thoroughly contented in wedlock , while others are appallingly fickle . It may be that these are the egocentrics , who have the habit of falling in love rather than the habit of loving . With the exception of the emotions of aesthetic appreciation , which are refinements of the emotion of social security , all of our familiar emotional habit patterns go far hack into the history of mankind , and all of them remain essentially primitive to this day . Once formed , they dominate the life of the individual and remain always highly resistant to change . Ease of habit formation is inherent in the normal animal mechanism and has a definite survival value . The orderly conscious life is otherwise impossible . All skills , of whatever nature , are physical habits , The individual who can not acquire useful habits has scant chance of reproducing himself . On the other hand , the persistence of habit patterns is of questionable survival value . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ change established habits . Men and women to-day destroy themselves to satisfy their emotional habits , some by the slow poison of dissolute living and some by premeditated suicide . Every habit pattern thus becomes a cultural lag in itself . With this in view let us consider the predicament of the child born into the swift and changeable life of the 20th century . Good food , good shelter , and the company of fellow-men and women who are polite , if not altogether friendly , and the means of moving from place to place and communicating with his fellows are the most that any civilization can offer a man . In fact , assuming that our own civilization is the highest ever achieved in this respect , we must , nevertheless , recognize that it is quite unable to provide these for all citizens of the most enlightened nations of the world to-day ? not even for all those who are ( by the most modern , depression-tested standards ) willing to work . Having these , or the expectancy of them , any well-organized man should be able @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eventually be demonstrated that most of the permanent charges upon society ? the men who wo n't work ? are suffering rather from maladjustment to their environment than fromcongenital shortcomings . Even if the funds were available now , psychiatry could do little with these , for lack of jobs which they are qualified to fill . Only when we have jobs to offer can we determine who among them arc ill , how ill , and how curable . At present the primary concern of psychiatrists is with men who are doing normal work , or who did until they were invalided by specific neuroses . These include many who gain their primary needs easily , by the most desirable forms of work , and some who may live in ease and comfort without working at all . Why do these men and women , who have least occasion for doing so , worry themselves sick in such numbers as to constitute a problem throughout the civilized world ? Any child ought to be able to do better than that . As a matter of fact , it has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in particular , conduct themselves more rationally and adjust themselves to their environment more readily than do their elders . Leaders of higher education in America have already sufficiently denounced the lower education because children have begun to lose their clear-eyed directness before they reach high school . Here I think we are at the source of all the emotional problems of civilization . The Bible says that if you train up a child in the way he should go he will not depart from it in the years of his life , Habits are easy to form but hard to break or to alter . The very young child is forming his habit patterns for the first time . He enjoys it . There is abundant evidence that he finds a genuine satisfaction in taking part in the life of his family . One of his first habits is tuning in with his group . He soon acquires other habits which may throw him out of tune . In so far as there is a struggle , however , it is a comparatively minor one between his desires and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he is a baby the chances are that he has his own way rather too much of the time . As he becomes a child he must learn to dress himself , pick up his playthings , and observe an increasing number of rules . His troubles are likely to start in earnest about the time he begins to play with other children in the neighborhood , each likewise accustomed to have his own way . At the same time he is likely to discover that certain social habits of his group are an insult to his intelligence . These are hangovers from a past which is foreign to him and are ( as he correctly observes ) not very well suited to the modern world . He may note that table manners are slightly idiotic in certain details ; that his father and mother do not always agree on what is right and wrong ; and that both vary with time and with the weather . He learns that there are some questions which may be asked and some which may not , for no good reason . With this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of life ; but perplexed by these contradictions , he seldom observes it . The first handicap has been placed on his intelligence . ( Probably only Havelock Ellis , many of whose works have never been published in his native country , knows how far society is capable of pushing that handicap . ) The child is concurrently busied with adjustment to his fellows , who come from homes with somewhat different sets of cherished absurdities . His established habit patterns are challenged at home and abroad . The painful process of growing up is in full swing . School brings a new set of acquaintances and more taboos . He must accommodate himself to the teacher 's way of doing things . Surrounded on all sides by unreasoned anachronisms , he successfully evades some of them only to discover that he has a conscience . For the rest of his unnatural life he is at war on two fronts ? with society and with himself . The acquisition of these new habit patterns would he far easier but for the fact that each time a new habit is acquired @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him , must be taken out by the roots and destroyed , or so modified as to have lost its familiar emotional character . Each time he has to change a habit pattern there is conflict within himself . Whichever way he moves he is never quite sure whether it was right or wrong . One of the hitherto eternal verities has failed him . If his playmates are rough his habitual conception of his rights is violated . In the inward struggle of adjustment some measure of his social assurance is lost . He may compensate for this new uncertainty by putting on a bolder and more aggressive front . More serious conflicts arise when there is a discrepancy between the teachings of his school and those of his home . It was in the effort to avoid these that the legislators of Tennessee once passed a law against the teaching of the theory of evolution in that State and so brought Clarence Darrow down on their heads . There is probably a case for the legislators . Bryan missed it because he was too intent on destroying the devil @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ off . Education must , of necessity , be a gradual process . Prerequisites are demanded by all universities because it has been learned by experience that long jumps always make trouble . When a man who has been thoroughly schooled in Genesis is suddenly confronted by Darwin schizophrenia is almost his only salvation . Less dramatic conflicts are bad enough . We all know the people who can never depend on their arithmetic . Some of them can learn everything but mathematics . That 's a sure sign of an emotional block . For mathematics is the simplest and least subject to error of all mental processes . Except in its exalted imaginative projections , where Oswald Spengler loved to dwell , it is almost entirely without emotional aspects . In most instances the fear of arithmetic probably began with the impatience of the parent or teacher with a child who was slow or awkward in so manifestly simple an exercise . In his fear the child took refuge in the theory that his failure was congenital . It 's a good story and he sticks to it . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which is probably the most powerful of all habit patterns , and respected accordingly . Had he not been required thus to defend himself he would probably have learned his arithmetic with little effort . All evidence in education is that unless there is some conflict with emotional habit patterns normally intelligent human beings can learn no end of facts with ease . This is somewhat in contradiction to H. L. Mencken 's thesis that the average man finds reality intolerable and scurries from it to find succor and comfort in the incantations of metaphysicians . The truth lies in a distinction between kinds of reality . Some realities are kindly and familiar , some are simply neutral , and unhappily some are strange and fearful . Anyone can name them . It is in the last group that we find the consciousness of death , the fear of failure , the loneliness , and the disappointments which keep the clergy and the psychiatrists busy . Every new discovery which threatens to change the social order strikes terror in the heart of man . It threatens his established habits and his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whose passion is great enough to block out the fear of newness , seems to escape . Thus immersed in the painstaking study of natural phenomena , Darwin seems to have had no conception of the panic he was spreading in the Western world . For most of us the fear blocks out the science , with the result that our learning proceeds in a very lopsided fashion like the mythical " sidehill gouger " of the old West who could travel only in circles around the hills because his legs on one side were shorter than those on the other . Our education tends to become a process of personal selection . We accept those facts which do not conflict with our preconceived notions of what ought to be . The rest of the knowledge goes in one ear and out the other , not because there is nothing between them to stop it , but because the brain , terrorized by the emotions , is on a sit-down strike against that particular bit of information . The older the child grows the more serious this inner division becomes . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strains and stresses , finds him facing a new and still more severe set of taboos . His entrance into college or into the working world brings a new complement of regulations to which his habits must be made to conform . Marriage brings still another , and the births of his children ( who promptly relegate him to second place in the household ) demand one more series of adjustments . Small wonder that by the time the average man has reached middle age he is tired of the endless process of taking himself to pieces , and becomes a conservative in a futile effort to avoid further change . It is quite logical that after seventy he should become a downright reactionary , and that if he lives much longer he should slip back into a second childhood and so at last escape the harassing restraints which civilized life has heaped upon him . Thus as the years go by most men and worn en become more or less afflicted with schizophrenia . Their minds grow without friction or serious effort , while their emotional development is retarded by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ continuous working agreement between their own urges and the pressures of society , they wind up in a halfhearted compromise between Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde . The spirit is willing but the flesh is weak , and the emotions are strong . The individual who must keep up with the 20th century finds himself still further handicapped by the confused and changing aspects of the mores themselves . Periodically he is under the necessity of changing his attitude and his reactions toward a certain social factor ; but to what ? A dozen churches point the only way to God . Against these , many of his friends hold that this God is nothing but a figment of man 's imagination , to comfort him in his ignorance and fear . One friend urges him to drink of spirituous liquors , while another holds that with the first sip he shall begin the descent to depravity . The stirrings of sex awake within him . Among his friends and even among his family there are two definite attitudes . One is that life and women should be taken while they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , to be experienced only within the holy bonds of matrimony . These bonds of matrimony too have lost their uniformity . One group of young people tries , with more or less success , to follow the pattern of home and children established by their ancestors . If they do they must stifle in their hearts the questions raised by the presence , perhaps next door , of another couple in which both husband and wife are permanently at work , and living as gaily as they may on their joint income , with children put out of the picture by the new science of birth control . Thus the average man goes through life handicapped by a widening gap between his intellect and his emotions . While his knowledge and his ability to use it quite naturally increase , his emotions quite as naturally persist in the infant state . Only by tearing one habit pattern after another loose from its moorings and painfully jacking it up to his ever-rising intellectual level , can he hope to achieve that internal harmony which is happiness so far as we are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this effort becomes ever more difficult . He has more adjustments to make and less energy to make them with . The younger generation , for all its own problems , is always a jump ahead of him . In the end he gives up the struggle and tries with his last strength to halt the devastating process of change . This , I think , accounts for those mystifying changes of front to which distinguished men are liable in their later years . The farther they go intellectually , the greater the effort required to keep themselves in adjustment . If the disharmony becomes too great they can recover a bal. ance only by reversing themselves . Until man has learned to keep himself better attuned to the changing process of life the social value of longer life is open to serious question . Thus far , society has grown only by generations , and that is not fast enough to keep abreast of changing conditions . if the lives of the present generation were to be increased as much as ten years that would be a calamity for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ general , not specifically to the members of the Supreme Court . There are of course exceptions in both places . We are concerned here with the political ineptitude which characterizes our people as a whole , and which is far more dangerous than any judicial tyranny . An alert , informed , and socially adjusted populace need have no fear of dictators , either judicial or executive . The ancient axiom of political science , that every government is representative of the people it governs , still holds . As I write this the people of Spain appear to be demonstrating that , even though it must fight its own army , a people can have the government it wants if it knows what it wants . In so far as age makes men conservative I believe that this may be taken as an indication of what we may call fatigue of adjustment . Tired of forever modernizing themselves , they seek to escape the necessity by putting an end to the changes . In a sense their attitude may be taken as a well-organized and more or less effective @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ neurotic who has collapsed early in life . In the present rapidly changing social order we seem to be reaping an excessive crop of neurotics . Perhaps we are also rearing an excessive number of premature conservatives who will later join with the normal conservatives of advanced years , in the effort to force the social order into those patterns of the recent past which they have found most congenial , and seek to freeze it there . In this I think we have a clue to the mystery of the aging and death of the civilizations of the past , and to certain political phenomena which to-day threaten the peace of the world . The civilization of Rome lived on in the outposts of the East long after the empire had crumbled . It survived to be brought back , in large part , by the Renaissance . To the people who preserved it , this civilization was a comparatively new experience . Possibly they were able to save it because it had not yet worn them out as it had exhausted the Romans themselves . In his Decline of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Europe are already suffering from this fatigue . The reactionary tendencies of the aged are plainly manifest in some of them . Fascism frankly sets out to recapture the vanished glories of the Roman Empire . The Nazis will be satisfied with nothing more modern than Teuton mythology . The upper classes of other European nations look on with imperfectly concealed envy . In the United States we are choosing sides for a kindred class struggle . IV As a specific example of this emotional lag I use my own bad habit of jealousy . In addition to being the one with which I am most familiar , it is further apropos because it was in an effort to domesticate this antiquated passion that I acquired the information here set forth . Since it gave me no serious trouble until I was in middle life , I am not sure whether I acquired it at the birth of my next younger brother or whether I took it on as a part of the ancient and honorable code of the gentleman which has changed but little since the time of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one of those outworn social attitudes which still command great respect in the courts and other refuges of the past . It has been recognized as a menace to human happiness , at least ever since Robert Browning wrote " My Last Duchess . " It takes an annual toll of thousands of lives in murder and suicide . It breaks up thousands of homes and poisons thousands of others . It destroys friendships and vitiates that co-operation which is essential to the further progress of this civilization . Bertrand Russell and other leaders of modern thought have pointed out that in our present highly integrated social order with its growing knowledge of biology , its tendency toward the emancipation of women , and the changing status of the family as an economic and political unit , jealousy has no logical place , even in love . Havelock Ellis has given us a conception of an ideal society in which the relationships of any two individuals are the concern of themselves alone except when children are born of the union . Most men would enjoy such freedom if only they could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ daily lives , however , the hell of our fathers is good enough for us . Knowing full well its dangers , we still cherish jealousy as one of the cornerstones of our personal and national honor , handing it down from father to son as a part of our emotional mores . It is our proudest antisocial possession . Intellectually I repudiate it . I realize , even at my worst moments , that I am making a dismal failure at the simple business of living my own life . It is at the same time a selfish denial of the validity of another personality , a serious offense in an age which claims freedom as its watchword . It is the more absurd because I am definitely less sinned against than sinning . Unhappily this intellectual attitude is still far from my emotional habit patterns . Nor have I any assurance that I shall ever quite bring them together . Because I know what it is and temper its expression , I manage to keep it pretty well concealed from the world at large , at an excessive cost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the discovery of my fear ; for that is what jealousy is . At the time I am powerless either to redirect the impulse or to reason it away . Fear yields but slowly to reason . Five years ago it might take me days to wear it out . Now I usually accomplish it in a few hours . At the end of the seizure my affection for the usually innocent subject is toned down . I am unconsciously protecting myself against a similar outbreak . I ca n't take it Sometimes I seem to recover fully . At others I discover that my infantile unconscious lower self has merely put it away for another occasion . I can call myself no end of names on this score , but that does not cure my infirmity . Here is schizophrenia at work . Every man who ever holds his temper knows the sensation . He can feel his intellect and his emotions pulling in opposite directions . In retrospect he may reconcile them . That is some progress . His next anger may not be quite so hard to restrain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up with his intellect unless his intellect backs up . Embarrassments , practical jokes , taxes , and stoplights add their quota of stilling restraint . Since it is futile to struggle against them we must adjust . If we could give free vent to every emotional urge we should not have schizophrenia . We should not be civilized either . We may , however , be too much civilized in certain particulars . I know why I am jealous . It is because my security lies so much in personal relationships . I can get along without much money , but 1 must have companionship . Other men have their own forms of security which they defend with even greater savagery . The men who suffer with a lust for money or a lust for power are more dangerous than the jealous ones because they operate on a larger scale . Our fears are kindred . We share a horror of having to stand on our own feet and face the facts of life unsupported . By one means or another we contrive to make our families , or our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our armies stand between us and the great darkness which ever surrounds the little spot of light and warmth within which we live the present moment . In great crises we summon our full strength and face death with equanimity . Almost never do we face life that way . V As I have indicated before , the Fascists who are so busy restoring day before yesterday are apparently victims of this childish habit pattern . Schizophrenia is the malady of dictators . Dictators govern nations of people who have been too long subjected to emotional urges which have had no normal outlet . The Fascist ' and the Nazis are taking advantage of the errors of the authors of the Treaty of Versailles . In turn they may be sowing an even greater whirlwind for themselves . There is also evidence in the other nations of Europe , and in America , that civilization can not proceed much farther until we have learned to mitigate this schizophrenia with which every civilized person is in some measure afflicted . Our best minds appear to be most subject to this malady because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ordinary ones . We are sacrificing too many of our leaders . In our grave need of wiser guidance we can not afford to take this loss . Since millions of our citizens stilt live out their lives in comparative serenity we can hardly consider these emotional casualties as inevitable . If we are to reduce the number , the first step is to find out how the serene ones have kept in balance . Have they managed to avoid the worst strains of civilization or have they learned to adjust to them , and how ? This will be the function of the psychiatrist and the educator . The next step in the development of civilization is up to them . The place to begin any social development is with the children . It is easier to avoid schizophrenia than to cure it . Our growing citizens may fairly demand this of us because they will have need of their best energies if they are ever to bring order out of the state of affairs we are bequeathing to them . Let us , to the best of our uncertain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which they will some day have to change .                     