@@141446

From the moment last month when President Roosevelt leaned back in his study chair at a Hyde Park Press conference and , with a sly squint , added Kansas to the list of States whose Governors he was inviting to confer with him on Drought in Des Moines , everyone , including Alf Landon , knew that the Republican Presidential Nominee was on a spot . First off , there was the matter of the reception which Des Moines , swollen by State Fair visitors , would give the Governor of Kansas as compared with the one they would give the President of the U. S. Be sides the President 's official superiority , there would be a direct and dramatic contrast between the personalities of the op posing candidates , and all sides had conceded from the first that colorless Alf Landon could never hope to compete in crowd appeal with magnetic Franklin Roosevelt . And suppose the President should choose to end the meeting with a joint commitment on Drought policy ? Nominee Landon would then have two choices : i ) to concur in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ New Deal ; or 2 ) to balk at Drought relief and thereby lose countless thousands of farm votes . <P> On the bright side , the Democratic nominee had given the Republican nominee and his advisers plenty of time to plan their strategy . No major battle was ever more anxiously rehearsed and mapped . Last week while President Roosevelt was detouring on his Drought trip to attend the funeral of Secretary of War Dern in Salt Lake City , the Topeka general staff made its first move . Republicans have been mum as possible on their nominee 's record of New Deal cooperation , but now the attention of the Press was called to the fact that in June 1934 Governor Landon had sent President Roosevelt a letter suggesting for the Kansas and Arkansas River watersheds a major phase of the Drought program which the President was now sponsoring . The Kansas Governor had proposed Federal and State co-operation for water conservation and flood control by means of ponds , reservoirs , lakes and levees . Furthermore , during a White House visit in 1933 , he had suggested @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it was established that , whatever the appearances at Des Moines , Alf Landon had long since been out in front with Drought ideas of his own . <P> Major item of Topeka strategy was to avoid any hint of political competition at Des Moines by having the Republican nominee , like tripping royalty , preserve throughout the day his incognito of Governor of Kansas . To that end it was arranged that he should go to Des Moines , not in the special train of a Presidential candidate but by automobile along an unannounced route . He would be accompanied not by political advisers but by four Kansas agricultural experts . Slipping into Des Moines unobtrusively , he would motor to the State Capitol just as if he were any other of the seven attending Governors . While in the city he would resolutely shun any encounter which might possibly be construed as political . And as soon as dinner was over , he would scurry back to Topeka.                     