@@486531

MR . HOOVER should not complain too much or too outspokenly if Congress takes advantage of his weakness and maladroitness to bother him . In his annual message he said that the time had not yet come for constructive treatment of the business depression , thus making it clear that he was still , more than a year after the stock-market crash , thinking in terms of relief , but now he is worried at the apparent purpose of Congress to appropriate twice as much as he has asked for drought relief . The House leaders failed to get the two-thirds ' , majority necessary to suspend the rules and cut the Senate 's $60,000,000 to the $30,000,000 demanded by the President . His ill-judged censure of Congress for " playing politics with human misery " naturally aroused bitter feeling on Capitol Hill , but his reported agreement to keep step with the regulars may save him from the censure of the La Follette resolution . The decision of the Senate conferees to allow a separate vote on the Robinson amendment indicates fresh trouble for the President in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the $118,000,000 emergency construction fund left in his hands . The manifest lack of confidence in his judgment and political leadership is matched by opposition to some of his appointments . Enough has been brought outabout Frank R. McNinch , a nominee for the Federal Power Commission , to show that he has no fitness for the place . His confirmation , however , seems to depend a good deal upon the attitude of Cameron Morrison , who succeeds the late Senator Overman of North Carolina , and Morrison 's position is complicated by the fact that his colleague , Senator Simmons , whose term expires March 4 , is supporting McNinch , while Senator-elect Bailey , who defeated Simmons , is strongly apposed to confirmation . HE BANK OF UNITED STATES , with sixty offices , $160,000,000 of deposits , and 400,000 depositors , was the largest bank in this country , and perhaps in the world , ever to suspend payments ; yet its closing on December 11 had comparatively little adverse effect on the security markets or on general public confidence . There are several reasons for this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when compared , for example , with large banks in 1907 , the institution was not of the first rank in either size or influence among the banks of today . Again , the most drastic deflation of security markets in our history had already occurred ; and this had resulted in an equally drastic contraction of brokers ' loans , so that nearly all New York banks that had themselves adhered to sound business practice , and the Federal Reserve System as a whole , are in an extraordinarily strong position . Finally , confidence was engendered by the immediate action of twenty-three Clearing House banks in offering to make loans to depositors in the closed institution up to 50 per cent of their net balances at 5 per cent . It remains now for the New York State Banking Department to make a thorough investigation of the causes of the closed bank 's difficulties . One aspect of the incident calls for special comment . There are good grounds for believing that several New York newspapers knew of the run on the suspended bank the day before it was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of them . deliberately " played down " the news of the closing itself . All this was no doubt done with'the laudable purpose of preventing any wide unsettlement of public confidence . Such suppression , however , is not only unfair to most of a bank 's depositors , but when it comes to the knowledge of the public , as it inevitably does , its effect is rather to undermine confidence than to maintain it . VOLUNTARY INSURANCE SCHEMES instituted by employers are entirely inadequate to protect wage-earners against the losses of unemployment . This fact is strikingly brought out in a report just made public by the Industrial Relations Counselors , Inc. , which numbers among its directors Owen D. Young , Cyrus McCormick , Jr. , and John D. Rockefeller III . According to this report , there were in effect in 1928 seventy-two such systems covering 107,000 workers , less than one-half of 1 per cent of our wage-earners . The movement has been somewhat extended since that date , the great General Electric plan , for example , having been introduced during the past year @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hundred is covered at the present time , and there is no reason for hoping that such plans will ever be extended to more than a small fraction of our workers . To oppose compulsory insurance because of a preference for voluntary private protection , therefore , is to urge that the great body of workers remain unprotected . Without indorsing this position , the Industrial Relations Counselors declare : " Both as regards relief of the unemployed workers ' distress and counteracting the inevitable reaction of unemployment upon business , the need for more adequate protection against the hazard of unemployment can not be gainsaid . " THE WORLD SUGAR CONFERENCE illustrates both the ? necessity and the difficulty of international control of basic-commodity production . With a world sugar output of about 27,000,000 tons in 1929-30 , stocks on hand are estimated at the vastly excessive figure of 4,200,000 tons , and consumption in the present year has fallen not less than 1,000,000 tons below that of last year . The world price of about a cent and a third a pound is declared to be below the cost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cuban industry , largely American-owned , even with its 20 per cent tariff preference in our market , is in a critical position . A Cuban-American committee , headed by Thomas L. Chadbourne , after great difficulty negotiated an agreement with the Dutch Sugar Trust for the limitation of Cuban and Javanese exports and the gradual disposal of existing surplus stocks over a period of five years , the plan being predicated on a reduction of the existing overproduction . The scene then shifted from Amsterdam to Brussels , where it became necessary to secure a corresponding undertaking from the European beet-sugar producers , who were asked to cut their exports by 15 per cent next year . Beet-growing is an important branch of Continental agriculture . Germany , Czecho-Slovakia , and Poland , the great exporting countries , with surpluses already on hand and with exporters in a very trying position , naturally fought hard against restriction of their exports . It is difficulties of this kind that surround every effort at international control of production in periods of depression . Nor are those difficulties at an end when an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ see that the agreement is carried out . In the final outcome at Brussels , the Germans alone refused to agree to the reduction of exports demanded , declaring that the necessity of meeting reparation payments and private obligations abroad made it impossible for them to cut exports as required . The conference broke up amid much feeling , but there is still hope that the Germans in view of the desperate condition of the industry , ' may come to terms within the next thirty days . ONE OF THE MOST DISCOURAGING features of the present difficult situation in Germany is the apparent reawakening of the military spirit . Baron von Schoenaich , himself once a militarist but now an ardent pacifist , discusses in another section of The Nation ' one aspect of this recrudescence , showing the new form militarism has taken . More disturbing is the frankly militant attitude taken by an ever larger section of the German population , and also the secrecy which surrounds the expenditure of huge sums of money by the Ministry of Defense . It was popular feeling and nothing else that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the Western Front . " In this connection the New York Times correspondent in Berlin suggested that " the mad scramble to prevent the dark side of war becoming known has at least some connection with the clearly growing and spreading desire to keep the idea of some kind of a war of liberation fresh and popular . " As for the Defense Ministry 's activities , M. Franklin-Bouillon recently charged in the French Chamber of Deputies that the German Ministry was spending considerable sums in clandestine preparations for war , including the training of German aviators in Russia . Far from being challenged in Germany , his speech was not even reported in the German press . We can readily understand the feeling of hopelessness most Germans are now experiencing , and we can see no way of stopping this feeling from being translated into a demand for militant action except by Europe 's honestly disarming itself as Germany is disarmed , and by easing the reparations pressure , which would require American cooperation . PILSUDSKI has turned his new weapon , that of terrorism , upon the Polish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Galicia and of his political followers in Upper Silesia wiped out the last vestige of that sympathy which liberals throughout the world had had for partitioned Poland before the war . However , even before he set out to suppress the Ruthenian and German minorities by terrorism , his swing toward reaction had become all too apparent . He has now gone completely over to the extreme right . He wants to rule without even the semblance of democratic or parliamentary assistance . It was toward this end that the opposition press was silenced , opposition tickets barred , and opposition candidates imprisoned in the recent elections . Despite these tactics a minority opposed to Pilsudski won seals in the Sejm and the Senate . This minority the dictator is now seeking to gag or eliminate altogether by abolishing parliamentary immunity . Seven of the minority members are still held in the fortress of Brest-Litovsk , where , according to other members lately released from this prison , the victorious but imprisoned candidates were subjected to torture by various means . Europe can ill afford a revolution in Poland at this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but that is what may come unless some way is found of checking the aimless and unnecessary activities of the Pilsudski dictatorship . D ESPITE THE OPTIMISM of the State Department in Washington and the confidence assumed by President Machado , all is not well , politically speaking , in Cuba . It can no longer be doubted that , to quote the London Economist , there is serious and widespread opposition to " the dictator whose function it has been to maintain in Cuba that state of affairs which meets the requirements of the United States . " With the increase in rioting and disorders throughout the republic Machado has again suspended the constitutional guaranties and has reinstituted censorship of the press . The internal situation is frankly rotten , and it seems clear that a majority of Cubans are openly opposed to the dictatorship , but we nevertheless doubt that this opposition can overthrow the present regime . Machado maintains a formidable army . Its officers have been trained in Europe and the United States and it is equipped with the most modern implements of warfare . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , -a minute and strategic study of every corner of the island . The republic is crossed with highways and railroads to concentrate military forces . No untrained rebel army , no matter how enthusiastic , could hope to win against this imposing military organization . So long as Machado finds the financial means of keeping his army obedient it is not likely that a rebellion will succeed . D OMINION STATUS , very limited , is predicted for India as a result of the Round Table Conference , the limitations to consist in continuation of British control over the Indian army , India  --  s foreign relations , and , most important , her finances . Just what would be left to be called dominion status might not be quite clear to a citizen , say , of Canada , though any diehard Tory might have an answer . The Indian delegates are willing , it is reported , to concede control for a specified time over foreign relations and the army , but they have refused so far to agree to British control of finances , contending logically enough @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it be called a dominion or a crown colony . On the other hand , it is felt that Parliament will not consent to desert British investments . Apparently the Nationalist boycott , though it has virtually paralyzed business in Bombay , has not yet demonstrated to British investors the obvious fact that ultimate protection of their interests lies not with any British Parliament but with the Indian people . Within the Indian delegation the Hindus , the Moslems , and the Sikhs have not yet reached a working decision in the matter of legislative representation in any new governmental set-up . The problem is , of course , a very serious one , but in the long view it is one that India must work out for herself . T HE UNITED STATES still maintains its shameful position at the tail end of civilized countries in the matter of the maternal mortality rate . Beginning with Denmark , which has a death-rate of 2.2 per thousand live births , we proceed down the line past Italy with 2.6 , Japan with 2.8 , Czecho-Slovakia with 3.6 , Esthonia with 4.1 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ way to the United States ignominiously at the bottom , with a rate of 6.5 . Although this is an average for the forty-eight States , many of them show a maternal death-rate far in excess of that figure . The Southern States are the worst culprits : Florida had in 1928 a rate of 10.1 , Georgia of 10.7 , Louisiana of 11.4 , and South Carolina of 10.9 . The best record we can show is Iowa , with 4.8 , in the same class with northern Ireland and only a little better than such " backward " countries as Lithuania and Chile . No satisfactory explanation of our comparatively large maternal death-rate has ever been offered . More prenatal and postnatal care is suggested as a remedy , but surely Italy and Japan and the South European countries do not specialize in scientific medical attention during pregnancy . It is worth noting , however , that in 4,726 cases cared for by approved nursing methods by the Maternity Center Association of New York the death-rate for mothers was reduced to 2.2 . Neither these figures nor the figures @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They should be given wide publicity . T HAT CONDESCENDING PHRASE " the woman 's record " has had its status magnificently lifted by Miss Ruth Nichols , who beat the time of Charles A. Lindbergh , no less , when she flew from Los Angeles to Roosevelt Field in 13 hours and 22 seconds of flying time . In flying at least , so far as we know , women are under no handicaps that do not apply to men . Moreover , quite aside from the feminist fervor here displayed , the term is confusing . Often the real record is not even given in the accounts of women aviators . In the present instance , it was necessary to read several lines of the story  --  and get over that " woman 's record " ? before one knew that Miss Nichols had beaten Lindbergh and was second only to Hawks . The news writers were careful to point out , of course , that Miss Nichols , unlike her men competitors , spent a night at Wichita en route . But they also admitted that while Hawks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conditions through balmy skies , Miss Nichols picked one of the worst months in the year for her trip and encountered most of the known kinds of weather , good and bad . Miss Nichols has certainly vindicated the " woman 's record . " Now it ought to be abolished . One record is enough for both sexes . And we imagine that women flyers would the first to agree , including Miss Nichols , who modestly declared that the speed of her plane was the most important factor in her achievement . O UR FAVORITE PHYSICIST , mathematician , public nTan , and Visitor to These Shores is Professor Albert Einstein . In appearance he is delightful ; his manners , either with interviewers or with the Mayor of this city , are perfection ; he can crack a joke , even if it is in German ; and he knows all about the theory of relativity , which does not , however , prejudice our judgment one way or the other . This affection for Professor Einstein is of long standing , but when he talks about peace @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are two ways , he declared in an address before the New History Society on December 14 , of abolishing war : The first , which has already been practiced in many countries , is to refuse military duty in time of war . Real pacifists should practice this in times of peace-as well . In countries where there is compulsory military service this can be done . In countries where there is no conscription , however , the pacifist can only publicly declare that he will refuse any military duty in time of war , and it should be the mission of pacifists to recruit people from all over the world for this . ... If only 2 per cent of the men liable for war service were to refuse , there would not be enough jails in the world to take care of them . His second suggestion was the establishment of an international war-resisters fund , to which pacifists all over the world should contribute . Both proposals go to the heart of the matter , and if more persons of an eminence comparable to Professor Einstein 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to remove the curse of humankind . We warn our German guest , however , that he had better not try to become a citizen of the United States . For his sentiments would be most unpopular with our naturalization authorities .                     