@@487323

THAT HITLER HAS AGAIN lost the opportunity to head a German coalition Cabinet offered to him by President von Hindenburg is excellent news . His wavering , his vacillation , and his failure to take this chance to become Chancellor must certainly hurt him further with his follow-ers . He has persistently boasted that he was his party , on one occasion saying : " My will is law for the party , and with the possible exception of Russia and Italy there is no political organization anywhere which is so completely an-swerable to its leader . " Yet when confronted by the offer made by Hindenburg this bold dictator , instead of deciding immediately for himself and his party , spent day after day consulting with this associate and that deputy , only to con-dude that , after all , the conditions laid down by Hindenburg were too onerous . No Napoleon here  --  just a confused and weak demagogue in the process of being deflated . He now declares that he will be Chancellor within four months . Perhaps . But he has told his army @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ na one . Meanwhile , the indications are that the octogenarian , President will now authorize another Presidential Cabinet and Chancellor to hold on during a " winter vacation . " That is not to be welcomed , for it is after all but a dictatorship thinly veiled . None the less , it seems to us much to be preferred to giving the chancellorship to Hitler . THE TREATY OF NON-AGGRESSION which has just been concluded between France and Soviet Russia constitutes without question a major contribution to the peace of Europe . Russia first proposed the pact in 1928 , but the final agreement was delayed until now because of the complexity of the political and diplomatic problems involved . Disputes between the two countries are to be settled only by peaceful means , each signatory agreeing that under no circumstances will it resort to arms against the other either singly or in concert with other Powers . Each country also promises to refrain from all activity designed or tending to promote propaganda against the political or social institutions of the other . The fourth article of the treaty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Allies resorted to after the 1917 revolution . The treaty represents an important victory for Russia . Similar agreements have been signed with Poland , Finland , Esthonia , and Latvia . It may now definitely be hoped that Rumania will decide to follow France 's lead . In that event Russia will have reason to feel genuinely secure on its western frontiers . But the treaty is also of great importance for France . The Communist press can no longer sincerely accuse France of seeking to head a new war of intervention against Soviet Russia . Moreover , whether or not Rumania enters into a similar arrangement with Moscow , France need not now have any real fear of being dragged into a war arising from local disputes between any of its eastern allies and Russia . T HE MILITARISTS OF JAPAN seem determined to drive that country into bankruptcy . They have forced upon the government the largest budget in Japan 's history . " Swollen by the extraordinary demands of the army and the navy , chiefly in connection with Manchuria , " to quote the Associated Press @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ $447,800,000 . But this tells only half the tale . The budget provides for revenues estimated at only $268,400,000 . The prospective deficit will be met , or so the Cabinet hopes , by floating new bond issues . Japan will simply be courting disaster if it insists on increasing its already tremendous national debt . The present low value of the yen shows what immense financial difficulties Japan is facing even without this added burden . Incidentally , the fall of the yen began with the occupation of Manchuria . It is today being quoted at 20 cents , or approximately 40 per cent of its par value . The bankers , business men , and newspapers have been virtually unanimous in warning the militarists against increasing the military items in the budget . The president of the Japan Chamber of Commerce asserted that the present policy was leading the country toward currency inflation and economic collapse . But the army and navy leaders have paid not the slightest heed to these warnings . ANDREW W. MELLON expressed himself in a Thanksgiving Day speech in London as being thankful that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and upheaval " in this country . He said that the people of the United States had " weathered the storm remarkably well . " On the same day several hundred thousand destitute people in New York City also gave thanks , but of another kind . The charitable organizations had made a special effort to see that every needy person in the city was given a holiday meal . On that day at least the destitute unemployed did not have to go hungry . It is true that there has been no great or violent social upheaval in the United States . Nevertheless , there has been considerable violence . Only recently Minneapolis and Cleveland witnessed serious hunger riots on the same day , and similar disturbances have taken place within the last few months in Chicago , St. Louis , and elsewhere . There is perhaps no suggestion of a dramatic upheaval in the increase in malnutrition among school children , but it can hardly be doubted that notwithstanding its lack of dramatic quality this factor constitutes a real menace to our social structure . Since 1930 the number @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has increased more than 33 per cent . " We know , " said Dr. S. W. Wynne , the Commissioner of Health , " that most , if not all , of the increase in malnutrition since 1929 is due to actual poverty . " Hunger riots on the one hand and undernourishment on the other will continue to take their unnecessary toll until adequate relief is provided for the unemployed . T HAT ADMIRABLE PERSON , General Pelham D. Glassford , has announced that henceforth he will devote his brilliant abilities to going to the rescue of the homeless , workless army of boys now wandering over the United States , certain to become a menace to themselves and to peace and order . He estimates their number at no less than one million and it will surely increase if the depression continues . One million ? Why , that is exactly the number of those boys who only five or six years ago were running wild in Soviet Russia . Our newspapers were then full of articles about them , asserting that their existence was beyond doubt complete @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the whole Soviet experiment . Presto , change ! Everybody now admits that the wild boys of Russia exist no more . They have been gathered up , and placed in institutions or put to work . Today it is the great and prosperous United States , so vastly superior , as Herbert Hoover has constantly reminded us , to all the rest of the world in the perfection of its capitalist system , which has a million boys roving from town to village to city to hamlet . It is , indeed , a situation to warrant the greatest concern lest this army of uneducated and ill-nourished youth swell the ranks of gangsters and criminals of all kind . General Glassford has found a task worthy of his abilities . We wish him all success in it . T HE FARMERS ARE TRYING by various means to call the attention of the country to their grave plight . The " farm holiday " program having failed , as it was bound to , some are now marching upon Washington to demand that Congress help them . A more arresting picture @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being published by the Department of Agriculture . These show that the total gross income from agriculture fell from$11,950,000,000 in 1929 to $5,240,000,000 in 1932 , a decrease of approximately 56 per cent . The reduction in net income was proportionately greater , for the fixed charges the farmer must meet remained virtually unchanged , the only important exception being noted in the rent paid by tenant farmers . Estimates of farm expenditures in 1932 are not yet available , but farm expenses in the period from 1929 to 1931 fell only $1:810,000,000 , according to the Bureau of Agricultural Economics , while gross income decreased $4,995 , - OnO , GOU in the same period . After meeting all his operating expenses , including taxes and interest , the average farmer in 1929 had $847 available to pay for his own hire , to buy new equipment , to cover depreciation charges and the interest on his investment , and to buy clothing and other necessities for himself and his family ; in 1931 he had only $342 available for these purposes . This year the margin will be much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to their native lands only because they have in one way or another expressed their dissatisfaction with existing economic conditions . The courts , as in the case of Nels C. Kjar , a resident of Chicago who was recently sent ' back to Denmark , have aided the immigration authorities in ridding the country of these " undesirable aliens " by misinterpreting or ignoring the Constitution . In the Kjar case the federal court drew a very neat distinction when it declared that because he is an alien , Kjar " has not the right of revolution against the United States . " Presumably that right is reserved for bona fide citizens . Nels Kjar is , of course , a member of the Communist Party , but he was deported primarily ' because of his activity in urging the unemployed to demand more adequate relief . That this was the real reason is also suggested by the intensive efforts of the immigration authorities in Chicago and elsewhere to obtain the names of all aliens receiving relief . The relief agencies in Illinois can not legally divulge these names , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ modification of the law . " I shudder to think , " he said , " what will become of us if we have to feed and house all these people for another fall and winter after this one , and if some of them can be taken back to their homelands , the county authorities owe a duty to the taxpayers to see that it is done . " Misguided nationalism could go no farther than this . JUST AS THE CASE was going to trial , the government suit against the members of the great radio-patent combination was settled by the companies ' agreeing to a decree being entered , without , , however , admitting the truth of the government 's allegations , and with the government conceding that the decree would not be considered as proof that the companies had violated the Sherman Anti-Trust Law . This is the most decisive step taken in enforcing the law since the packers ' decree in 1920 and the breaking up of the original Standard Oil Company in 1911 . This outcome is the more interesting because it was precisely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Attorney-General , gave to this combination a " letter of immunity . " Not until Senator Couzens brought about an investigation of the trust by the Senate Interstate Commerce Committee was the Department of Justice moved to act . Set up in 1922 , the combination undertook in the spring of 1927 to exact a patent royalty of per cent of his gross receipts from every radio manufacturer , who in addition was compelled to buy all his tubes from the trust and pay a minimum annual royalty of $100,000 . This meant that a manufacturer with a business of less than $1,250,000 was automatically debarred from the radio business . To combat this intolerable situation the Radio Protective Association was formed and fought the case through . HERE IS A SMALL post-election story that seems to us to conceal a rather large charge of political dynamite : Toward the end of October a country school in Connecticut inserted an advertisement for domestic help in the daily newspaper of a nearby industrial town . The school , like other schools , is hard pressed for funds ; the wages offered were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the nearby town at five o'clock in the afternoon ; and at 5:01 an application for one of the jobs was received over the school telephone . By ten o'clock the same night sixty-five applicants had telephoned , eager to do the work at the wages offered . Several weeks paased . Election day came and went . One or two of the workers hired through the original advertisement proved to be unsatisfactory and the names and addresses of the rejected applicants were dug out of the school files . One by one these unemployed domestic workers were called up and asked if they still wanted work . Every one made the same answer , which was to this effect if not in these exact words : " No , I have n't got another job . Sure I want work . But I wo n't work for the wages you offered . Not since election . Things are going to be different now and wages are going to go up . " The school is still short of funds ; it is also short of help and is likely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ town are sitting tight waiting for Franklin D. Roosevelt and the Democratic Party to raise their wages . WHEN THE SCOTTSBORO BOYS , convicted of assault , were given another chance by the decision of the United States Supreme Court , The Nation welcomed 1 a , the verdict as offering the opportunity of " a new trial under different circumstances from those surrounding the original one , when an atmosphere of hostility and race prejudice made a fair trial impossible . " For this position we are attacked by a representative of the International Labor Defense , who asserts in another column of this issue that our statement serves as an " objective aid to the legal lynchers " and that the Supreme Court decision " becomes a set of instructions to the lower courts on how legally to lynch the Scottsboro boys . . . without violating the Constitution . " This seems to us violent nonsense . We believe now , as we did when the decision was first announced , that the Supreme Court reversal will act as a check on the lower courts and tend to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up for retrial . The editorial referred to was written before the grounds for reversal had been published . For this reason we made no mention of the failure of the court to deal with any of the claims put forward in the appeal except the single one of denial of counsel . This evasion by the court of two fundamental points  --  that the trial was unfair and that qualified Negroes were excluded from the jury  --  is attacked by Morris L. Ernst in his " Dissenting Opinion " on page 559 of this issue ; and we support his objections without , however , accepting his conclusion that as a result the reversal was merely " an empty , meaningless victory . " After all , the right to present an adequate defense  --  to be represented by counsel and to have an opportunity to prepare for trial  --  is equally fundamental , not a mere technicality , and is for the first time definitely established in our constitutional law by the Supreme Court 's decision . T HE COMING RETIREMENT of President Lowell , long expected , marks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years . If it can not be said to compare in achievement with that of President Eliot , it will be remembered for Mr. Lowell 's commitment of Harvard to the " house " plan and for his magnificent stand for free speech . and academic freedom . Many of his mistakes are mitigated by this championship of what is by all odds the most important matter in university life . If one shudders at the horrible superficiality , inefficiency , and falsity of Mr. Lowell 's report on the Sacco-Vanzetti case , one must none the less remember with gratitude that he stood by Professor Miinsterberg during the insanity of the World War , and later protected Harold Laski from those conservatives and reactionaries who demanded that he be ousted because he sided with the Boston police in their famous strike , which had such a notable and unearned effect upon the career of Galvin Coolidge . To President Lowell the group of liberal professors in the Harvard Law School is also deeply indebted . Other college presidents would have found it hard to be patient if a single professor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of dollars which Felix Frankfurter 's continuance in the Law School cost Harvard during its endowment campaign . While other college heads prated about Lehrfreiheit and then , like Nicholas Murray Butler , drove men out in war time who dared to stick by their faiths , President Lowell practiced what he preached . RARELY DOES A STATE have so modest , so devoted , and so useful a citizen as Massachusetts had for many years in the late Dr. Henry P. Walcott . Twice acting-president of Harvard , of which he was the oldest alumnus at his death , he was for twenty-seven years an able member of its upper governing body , the Fellows , and one of President Eliot 's warmest and ablest supporters . But his activities were never restricted to his university , or to the Massachusetts General Hospital , of which , as chairman of its Board of Trustees , he was for a long period the guiding spirit . Beyond that he gave years to the Massachusetts State Board of Health and the Metropolitan Water and Sewerage Board . Indeed , he was prominent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ For fifty years he wrote partionv of the annual reports of the State Board of Health of Mauschusetts . In 1912 he presided over the fifteenth International Congress on Hygiene and Demography , held in Washington . Men of this type are to be found in the United States not in decreasing but increasing numbers  --  though none finer than Dr. Walcott . The trouble is that their work , being quietly constructive and the reverse of spectacular , rarely finds recognition in print . We have in mind espedally the battalions of self-sacrificing scientists in the employ of the federal government who perform most valuable service , sometimes better recognized and understood abroad than at home  --  often for beggarly pay .                     